14 August 2021||Kabul,||More Afghan cities fall as Taliban near Kabul||The Taliban seized more major cities on Friday as they raced to take full control of Afghanistan and inched closer to Kabul, with the U.S. and Britain deploying thousands of troops to evacuate their citizens from the capital. The evacuation orders came as the Taliban took control of Kandahar — the nation’s second-biggest city — in the insurgency’s heartland, leaving only Kabul, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad and pockets of other territories in government hands. The Taliban also captured the capital of Logar province, just 50 km from Kabul, with a local lawmaker saying the insurgents were in complete control of Pul-e-Alam city. Earlier on Friday, officials and residents in Kandahar said government forces had withdrawn en masse to a military facility outside the southern city. “Kandahar is completely conquered. The Mujahideen reached Martyrs’ Square,” a Taliban spokesman tweeted, referring to a city landmark. Hours later, the Taliban said they had also taken control of Lashkar Gah, the capital of neighbouring Helmand province. A security source confirmed the fall of the city, saying that the Afghan military and government officials had evacuated Lashkar Gah after striking a local ceasefire deal with the militants. The government has now effectively lost most of the country following an eight-day blitz into urban centres by the Taliban that has also stunned Kabul’s American backers. Civilian footprint Meanwhile, Washington and London announced plans late on Thursday to pull out their Embassy staff and citizens from the capital. “We are further reducing our civilian footprint in Kabul in light of the evolving security situation,” U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters, while noting that the Embassy would remain open. “This is not abandonment. This is not an evacuation. This is not the wholesale withdrawal.” The Pentagon said 3,000 U.S. troops would be deployed to Kabul within the next 24 to 48 hours, underscoring that they would not be used to launch attacks against the Taliban. The insurgents have taken over more than a dozen provincial capitals in the past week and encircled the biggest city in the north, the traditional anti-Taliban bastion of Mazar-i-Sharif, which is now one of the few holdouts remaining. As the rout unravelled, three days of meetings between key international players on Afghanistan ended in Qatar without significant progress Thursday. In a joint statement, the international community, including the United States, Pakistan, the European Union, and China, said they would not recognise any government in Afghanistan “imposed through the use of military force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-afghan-cities-fall-as-taliban-near-kabul/article35906552.ece
14 August 2021||Belagavi,||‘Give ministerial berths to Ganigas’||Members of the Belagavi District Ganiga Samaj demanded that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai induct at least one member from the Ganiga community into his Cabinet. “We have long been supporters of the BJP. But it seems Mr. Bommai has betrayed the trust our community placed on the party,” samaj president Ramappa Utagi said in Belagavi on Friday. He demanded that Member of Legislative Council Laxman Savadi be made a Minister in the State and Member of Parliament from Bagalkot P.C. Gaddigoudar be made a Union Minister. “There are around 60 lakh Ganiga community members in the State and around 3 lakh of them are in Belagavi district. We are in sizeable numbers in eight-10 Lok Sabha seats and we can influence the poll results. The BJP should be sensitive to our demands,’’ he said. He urged the party national leadership to consider the selfless service of Mr. Savadi and his family members during the lockdown and floods. Mr. Savadi has also worked tirelessly to ensure the victory of party nominees in the byelections in North Karnataka and in the general elections in some constituencies in Maharashtra. This should be rewarded, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-ministerial-berths-to-ganigas/article35906719.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Kamath is claiming credit for city’s Jalasiri project: Lobo||The former Congress MLA J.R. Lobo said here on Friday that Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath from the BJP is now claiming credit for the Jalasiri Drinking Water Project sanctioned to the city during the Congress regime in 2016-17. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Lobo, who had represented the same constituency, wondered about Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai launching the Rs. 792.42-crore project at a meeting in the city on Thursday. The project works commenced two years ago. The laying of 190 km of 1,400 km pipeline network has been completed. The construction of nine overhead tanks is in progress. Bills worth Rs. 200 crore have been paid. “Then, where is the question of launching the project now?” Mr. Lobo asked. The former MLA said that Mr. Kamath has told media that the project was launched by the Chief Minister on Thursday. The former MLA said that the project is not a new one to be launched by the Chief Minister. Mr. Kamath is misleading people by projecting it as new. Mr. Lobo, who was MLA from May 2013 to May 2018, said that though the project was sanctioned in 2016-17, it was awarded in 2019. It was due to delay in the land acquisition which took about one-and-half years. There was a clause that the project should be launched only after acquiring the land required for building the facilities. Mr. Lobo said that the project has been aimed at supplying round-the-clock drinking water to the city till 2035. If the objective is to be achieved, water in the Thumbe vented dam will have to be stored up to seven metres high. If water level in the dam is to be raised, about 100 acres of farm land will be submerged. It requires Rs. 120 crore for paying compensation to farmers whose land will be submerged. “Now, I challenge Mr. Kamath to get Rs. 120 crore required for the purpose,” he said.  The former MLA says that the project launched by the Chief Minister is not a new one||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kamath-is-claiming-credit-for-citys-jalasiri-project-lobo/article35907067.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Petrol to cost Rs. 3 less in Tamil Nadu||In a major announcement, the DMK government in Tamil Nadu on Friday announced a tax cut of Rs. 3 per litre on petrol. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan made the announcement while presenting the revised budget for 2021-22 on the floor of the Assembly here. The tax cut, effective Friday midnight, will result in a loss of revenue of Rs. 1,160 crore a year to the State exchequer. Maiden budget speech “Tamil Nadu has 2.63 crore two wheelers. This has become the most popular mode of transport for the working poor. They keenly feel the pinch of the rising cost of petrol. The Chief Minister [M.K. Stalin] keenly feels the pain of the working poor and the middle class,” Mr. Rajan said in his maiden budget speech and hoped the cut would provide a major relief to the working class. Centre blamed Contending that the Union government was solely responsible for the increase in the cost of the fuel, Mr. Rajan underlined: “Nowhere is this dilution of the spirit of federalism more apparent than in the taxation of petrol and diesel at the pump. The overall Union levies on petrol were increased from Rs. 10.39 per litre in May 2014 to Rs. 32.90 per litre today.” The State government also announced a waiver of loans to the tune of Rs. 2,756 crore due from self-help groups to the cooperative credit societies. “The government will work out a suitable mechanism to infuse equity into the cooperative credit structure to ensure that the lending capacity of cooperatives is not affected,” he said. On the proposal for the payment of Rs. 1,000 every month to women heads of households, Mr. Rajan said: “To ensure that the payment of basic entitlement income is targeted to the genuinely poor, the government in consultation with experts is formulating guidelines on the criteria by which eligible households will be identified for this scheme.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petrol-to-cost-rs-3-less-in-tamil-nadu/article35906559.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||GVMC to impose penalty on EPDCL for indiscriminate felling of trees||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to impose hefty penalty against the Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) for indiscriminately cutting down trees as part of maintenance of power supply lines. This was decided by the GVMC here on Friday after avenue revenue trees in a half-a-kilometre stretch were reportedly chopped down indiscriminately, without following any norms or obtaining prior permission from the civic body, between the Fourth Town Police Station and Kancharapalem. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that the civic body would impose penalty for not only cutting down the trees, but also for not lifting the axed branches. “We have also informed about it to the Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of the EPDCL,” she said. According to M. Damodar Rao, Assistant Director of Horticulture Department, GVMC, the APEPDCL workers could have pruned the branches at the top of the trees, if they were creating obstruction to high-tension wires. “But what is the necessity to chop off the trees? Even some saplings were also removed,” he said. Many of the trees were old ones, which have survived many cyclones, he added. This is for the second time in less than a month some amount of green cover was destroyed in the city. Earlier, around 200 metres of green cover was destroyed by the Engineering Department of the GVMC near Arilova. Meanwhile, environmentalists have expressed concern over damaging the green cover and sought protection of trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gvmc-to-impose-fine-on-epdcl-for-indiscriminate-felling-of-trees/article35906905.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Rs. 5.04-crore ‘challan scam’ unearthed||Officials of the Registration and Stamps Department conducted raids on sub-registrar offices (SROs) in the State on Friday, on the alleged multi-crore challan scam. The officials identified that Rs. 5.04 crore was allegedly swindled (loss caused to the government by the accused) in 17 offices in the State in the last few months. The Registration and Stamps Department officials suspended five officers and booked cases against the document writers and other staff allegedly involved in the scam. The accused reportedly changed the figures on the challans and paid less amount to the government. The staff and the document writers allegedly submitted forged challans and documents with tampered amount and reportedly misappropriated the amount, the investigation officers said. Krishna Range Deputy Inspector-General (DIG), Registration and Stamps Department, A. Ravindranath said that about Rs. 3.70 crore fraud was unearthed in Mandavalli, Gunadala, Patamata and Naidigama sub-registrar offices. “We noticed that Rs. 2.2 crore fraud was unearthed in Mandavalli SRO, 73 lakh in Patamata and Rs. 22 lakh in Gunadala offices, and the raids are continuing.,” Mr. Ravindranath said. In Kadapa, the accused allegedly resorted to Rs. 1.08 crore fraud by submitting forged challans, signatures and challan numbers, the officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-504-crore-challan-scam-unearthed/article35906557.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Oppn. unrelenting, boycotts House again||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition boycotted the Assembly proceedings for the second day in a row on Friday, demanding that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan break his silence on the 'disclosures' against him in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. Outside the House, UDF MLAs organised a ''wall against corruption,'' terming the decision not to discuss the charges against Mr. Vijayan inside the House undemocratic. The Opposition and the people of the State were anxiously waiting for the Chief Minister’s explanation, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said. In protest mode Opposition members went into protest mode as soon as the House convened for the question hour at 9 a.m. on August 13. The denial of permission by Speaker M.B. Rajesh to move an adjournment motion on the issue on August 12 amounted to a violation of the precedents of the House, Mr. Satheesan said, adding there was impropriety in the House convening without discussing the allegations against the Chief Minister. Moreover, the procedures for denying leave to discuss topics that are sub judice are clearly laid out. “This would mean that we would have to wait until a court verdict is out to discuss topics,” Mr. Satheesan said. Earlier, the protests began as soon as the House convened for the question hour and the Speaker invited Minister for SC/ST Welfare K. Radhakrishnan to reply to questions. UDF MLAs shouted slogans and displayed a banner demanding a clarification from the Chief Minister. On his part, the Speaker explained that the matter had been disposed of on August 12 itself and urged the Opposition members not to disrupt the question hour. He reminded them that banners are not permitted inside the House. Some 20 minutes into the protests, Mr. Satheesan announced that the Opposition was boycotting the day's proceedings. On Thursday, the Opposition members had staged a mock sitting outside the Assembly after the Speaker denied them leave to move an adjournment motion to discuss the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-boycotts-kerala-assembly-again/article35906798.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Greater Chennai Police may be bifurcated||With the city witnessing an exponential growth and threat perceptions increasing for vital installations, the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Police is likely to be redrawn. A Suburban Police Commissionerate may be created with its headquarters in St. Thomas Mount, according to police sources. An announcement on the bifurcation with details of manpower/infrastructure and fund allocation is expected soon, the sources said on Friday. The coverage The Greater Chennai Police covers about 130 police stations spread across 12 police districts with a strength of more than 20,000 police personnel. The Police Commissionerate was first bifurcated by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government, led by the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, by creating the Chennai Suburban Police in 2008. In 2011, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government, headed by the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, merged the two Commissionerates restoring unified command. Besides the three police districts of St. Thomas Mount, Ambattur and Madhavaram, the proposed Suburban Commissionerate might see creation of two new police districts in Poonamalee and Tambaram, the sources said. Some of the vital installations that came under the security cover of the erstwhile Suburban Commissionerate included the Chennai Airport, Officers Training Academy of the Indian Army and the Air Force Station, Tambaram. According to senior police officials, the creation of the Suburban Commissionerate is necessitated by the fact that inter-State/district borders and peripheral areas were considered a safe haven for anti-social elements to form a base and operate in the city. Before it was merged with the Greater Chennai Police, the then Suburban Commissionerate had three Commissioners in the rank of Inspector-General of Police — S.R Jangid, Rajesh Das and Karan Singha. Sources said the government was considering posting an Additional Director-General of Police rank officer. “Suburban Commissionerate, as in major cities like Mumbai (Navi Mumbai and Thane) and Hyderabad (Cyberabad), would help in a more focused management of security parameters such as VVIP movement, vehicle checks and access control measures,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/greater-chennai-police-may-be-bifurcated/article35906968.ece
14 August 2021||Kolkata,||W.B. removes HS council head for ‘communal profiling’||A few weeks after a row erupted over alleged communal profiling of a higher secondary topper, the West Bengal government on Friday removed Mahua Das, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE). Chiranjeev Bhattacharya, Pro Vice Chancellor of Jadavpur University, has been appointed as the new president of the WBCHSE. While announcing the results of WBCHSE on July 22, Ms. Das mentioned the topper’s religion several times during the press conference. Rumana Sultana, a student of Kandi Raja Manindra Chandra Girls High School from Murshidabad, secured 499 out of 500 marks. The development triggered protests in academic circles and several outfits took to the streets demanding that Ms. Das be suspended. Some Ministers described the remarks made by Ms. Das as “unwarranted”. Official data show that of the 7.77 lakh students enrolled for the exams, 4.29 lakh (50.5%) were girls. After the results were announced, many of the roughly 20,000 students who could not pass the exam, staged protests across the State, blocked roads, and even vandalised schools. The State decided to take a ‘sympathetic’ view and results of most of the unsuccessful students were reviewed and they qualified the exams. Examinations could not be held this year due to the pandemic and students were evaluated on the basis of marks obtained in the previous exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wb-removes-hs-council-head-for-communal-profiling/article35906763.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,||Head Constable abuses, slaps aged man in viral video clip, transferred||A head constable attached to the Aranthangi station has been transferred after a video clip of him allegedly abusing and slapping an aged person during inquiry went viral in the social media. The incident occurred on August 10 during the course of the inquiry that was conducted by Head Constable Murugan. Police sources said Arumugam of Rathinakottai near Aranthangi had lodged a complaint in connection with a land dispute between him and Radhakrishnan who is said to be the relative of the former and from the same village. Radhakrishnan was called for inquiry on the basis of the complaint. During the inquiry, a verbal duel broke out and the head constable allegedly abused Radhakrishnan and slapped him. The incident which was captured on video went viral in the social media. The head constable was transferred from Aranthangi station to the Armed Reserve following the incident. Further inquiry against the head constable was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/head-constable-transferred/article35906636.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Will address PSC rank list-vacancies mismatch: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Friday that the gaping mismatch between the limited number of vacancies and the high number of job aspirants who figured on Public Service Commission rank lists routinely had precipitated confusions and distress among a section of the youth. Replying to a submission on a recent agitation by PSC rank holders in front of the Secretariat, Mr. Vijayan said the government had tasked the Dineshan commission with suggesting means to rectify the anomaly. Ideally, the PSC rank list should balance the openings available in the government. A limited number of jobs and a jumbo rank list could fuel disappointment and unrest, he said. The PSC included at least five times more than the openings available while drawing up the rank list based on public test performance. Reservation norms The PSC also followed the reservation norms in giving advice memos to selected candidates. Hence, the government could not provide placement to all persons on a PSC rank list. However, it could accommodate a maximum number of eligible candidates in government posts by ensuring that department heads reported vacancies in time to the PSC. The government had put an online system for departments to report vacancies arising from retirement and promotion in real time to the PSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-address-psc-rank-list-issue-says-kerala-cm/article35906516.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Assessment system for Class X, II PU to be overhauled||The government, which found itself on the back foot while evaluating Class X and pre-university (PU) students when the examination schedule was disrupted due to the pandemic, has decided to overhaul the assessment system. While students from Classes I to X will have four formative assessments and one summative assessment, II PU students will be evaluated every quarter of the academic year. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education will hold multiple assessments early all through the academic year for II PU students. Marks obtained in the tests and examinations will be considered in the final assessment if the board examination has to be cancelled this academic year (2021-2022) as well. B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, told The Hindu that this system would ensure continuous assessment so that a student’s performance could be evaluated easily. “The past academic year was very difficult for students as regular assessments were not held. A committee was formed to decide how II PU students would be evaluated as the examination was cancelled,” he said. Director, Department of Pre-University Education, R. Snehal said that a class test would be held after the first and third term, while a midterm examination would be conducted at the end of the second term. In addition, students would have to complete assignments and projects. According to a department official, these assessments will be conducted along the lines of the board examination, but the modalities have yet to be finalised. “Students will have to take them seriously and prepare rigorously,” he said. Continuous assessment Students in Classes I to X will have four formative assessments and one summative assessment for the current academic year. In the past, two summative assessments were held. The hope is that regular assessments will improve learning outcomes. With pre-university colleges and schools set to reopen on August 23, schools are already preparing to conduct the first term test. School principals and teachers, while acknowledging the need for a continuous evaluation process, are worried about how they will be conducted along the lines of board examinations should there be a surge in COVID-19 cases. Supreeth B.R., secretary of Oxford Group of Institutions, Nagarbhavi and Ullal, said that introducing changes for II PU students was apt, but doing the same for SSLC students may create havoc and confusion as both students and teachers were not trained in this method. “The department is trying to adopt the National Education Policy which prioritises regular assessments. But doing this in a hurry will defeat the purpose of it,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said a lot would depend on how the pandemic pans out and if schools would remain open for the rest of the academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assessment-system-for-class-x-ii-pu-to-be-overhauled/article35906573.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Industry’s practices are against national interest’||An unprovoked 19-minute tirade by Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday, asserting that the business practices of Indian industry went against national interests, has left India Inc CEOs baffled, with Mr. Goyal repeatedly singling out the 153-year-old Tata group in comments that he said came straight from his heart. After the Minister’s remarks at the annual meet of the Confederation of India Industry stirred up a hornets’ nest in higher echelons of the government, the CII was asked to pull down the video from its YouTube channel. An edited version was uploaded on Thursday night but this was also blocked by Friday evening. Calling out Tata Sons’ president for infrastructure, defence and aerospace, Banmali Agrawala, Mr. Goyal expressed deep anguish that Tata Sons had opposed rules to help consumers framed by his Ministry. “Me, Myself, My company — We all need to go beyond this approach,” said Mr. Goyal, who also holds charge of the Ministries of Textiles and Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. “ Kya aapke jaisi company, ek do aapne shaayad koi videshi company kharid li … Uska importance zyaada ho gaya, desh-hit kam ho gaya ? (A company like yours, maybe you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance is greater than national interest?” Mr Goyal remarked, adding that he had conveyed the same message to ‘Chandra’ (Tata group chairman N. Chandrasekharan). The Tata group declined to comment on the Minister’s remarks. Queries to CII had also not elicited a response at the time of going to press. The Hindu has a recording of Mr Goyal’s remarks. While government officials conveying their priorities to business leaders isn’t unusual, Thursday’s episode is perhaps unprecedented as specific attendees were questioned on their business practices. Industry leaders were particularly flummoxed as Mr Goyal’s remarks, indicating a troubling lack of faith, came just a day after the PM assured industry of complete support and urged them to take more risks and invest in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industrys-practices-are-against-national-interest/article35906561.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||House is for debate, not political battles: Venkaiah||Political battles should not be fought on the “table of the House”, Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu said in an informal interaction on Friday, two days after the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, was passed in the Rajya Sabha amid fierce protests from the Opposition members, who had a tussle with the marshals deployed in the chamber. On August 10 when the Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on “the agricultural problems and solutions”, some Opposition members, demanding a discussion on the Pegasus cyberattack and a repeal of the farm laws, climbed atop the reporter’s table placed right in front of the Chair. Similar scenes were repeated the next day, when the government, despite demands from the Opposition to send the Insurance Bill to a select committee, pushed to pass the legislation. To prevent Opposition members from climbing on to the table, 42 marshals were deployed. “Legislatures are meant for debate and discussion and outside political battles should not be fought on the table of the House,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/house-is-for-debate-not-political-battles-venkaiah/article35907123.ece
14 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Advocate held for throwing kerosene on police officer||An advocate who reportedly splashed kerosene over an Assistant Commissioner of Police during a demolition drive against illegal structures at Super Market in Dharwad has been arrested. The incident happened on Thursday and the Dharwad Town Police have arrested advocate M.M. Chowdhary on the charge of obstructing a government officer from performing her duties. The arrest has been made based on a complaint filed by Assistant Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation M.B. Sabarad. Mr. Chowdhary is representing shop-keepers of Super Market and the incident happened after the municipal authorities entered the Super Market to carry out the demolition under police protection. The advocate started arguing with the authorities and when the authorities did not listen to him on stopping the drive, he reportedly brought a can of kerosene and poured it over himself threatening that he would immolate himself. When Assistant Commissioner of Police Anusha, who was leading the police force, tried to stop him, Mr. Chowdhary reportedly splashed kerosene over her, the sources said. Subsequently, the police personnel on the spot took him into custody. Later, following a complaint from Mr. Sabarad, he was arrested. Meanwhile, a video clip of Mr. Chowdhary arguing with the police and municipal officials after he reportedly splashed kerosene over Ms. Anusha has gone viral on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/advocate-held-for-throwing-kerosene-on-police-officer/article35906720.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||House meant for debate, not political battles, says Venkaiah||Political battles should not be fought on the “table of the House”, Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu said in an informal interaction on Friday, two days after the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, was passed in the Rajya Sabha amid fierce protests from the Opposition members, who had a tussle with the marshals deployed in the chamber. On August 10 when the Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on “the agricultural problems and solutions”, some Opposition members, demanding a discussion on the Pegasus cyberattack and a repeal of the farm laws, climbed atop the reporter’s table placed right in front of the Chair.  Similar scenes were repeated the next day, when the government, despite demands from the Opposition to send the Insurance Bill to a select committee, pushed to pass the legislation. To prevent Opposition members from climbing on to the table, 42 marshals were deployed. “Legislatures are meant for debate and discussion and outside political battles should not be fought on the Table of the House,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/house-is-for-debate-not-political-battles-venkaiah/article35906560.ece
14 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Banks told to lend without inhibition||Stating that RRBs are playing a significant role in rural development, Executive Director of Canara Bank Brij Mohan Sharma on Friday told bankers to lend loans without any inhibition to leverage the living standards of people living below poverty line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/banks-told-to-lend-without-inhibition/article35906722.ece
14 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Assembly passes cow protection Bill||The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, seeking to regulate the slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle, was passed in the Assembly on Friday. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had tabled the Bill in the House on July 12. Exemptions may be granted for certain religious occasions, said Mr. Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-assembly-passes-cow-protection-bill/article35906764.ece
14 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Three held for assaulting Muslim man get bail||Three persons accused of assaulting a Muslim man and forcing him to chant ' Jai Shri Ram ', were released on bail less than a day after they were arrested, Kanpur police said on Friday. Soon after the arrest, a mob of Bajrang Dal members had staged a protest demanding their release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-held-for-assaulting-muslim-man-get-bail/article35906765.ece
14 August 2021||PATNA,||Ganga in spate in many Bihar districts||The swollen Ganga inundated many places from Buxar to Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district of Bihar on Friday and threatened to flood the State capital, Patna. Thousands of people have been shifted from flooded areas to relief camps set up by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ganga-in-spate-in-many-bihar-districts/article35906766.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,||Mysuru-Chennai flight connectivity revived||Air link between Mysuru and Chennai was revived on Friday after a brief hiatus, shoring up connectivity between the two cities. Though TruJet used to operate between the two cities it was discontinued though the originating air passenger traffic between the two cities was high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-chennai-flight-connectivity-revived/article35906816.ece
14 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Assembly passes cow protection Bill||The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, seeking to regulate the slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle, was passed in the Assembly on Friday. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had tabled the Bill in the House on July 12. Exemptions may be granted for certain religious occasions, said Mr. Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-assembly-passes-cow-protection-bill/article35907006.ece
14 August 2021||PATNA,||Ganga in spate in many Bihar districts||The swollen Ganga inundated many places from Buxar to Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district of Bihar on Friday and threatened to flood the State capital, Patna. Thousands of people have been shifted from flooded areas to relief camps set up by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ganga-in-spate-in-many-bihar-districts/article35907007.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghan students at JNU fear going back home||Students from Afghanistan who are nearing completion of their courses at Jawaharlal Nehru University are a troubled lot as they fear going back to their country, which is currently embroiled in violent insurgency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghan-students-at-jnu-fear-going-back-home/article35907008.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Day train restored||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) has finally relented to public demand while announcing resumption of services of the Yeshwantpur-Karwar- Yeshwantpur Tri-weekly Special (day) Express between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/day-train-restored/article35907070.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||More plastic items to be banned||Come July next year, the manufacture of a range of plastic products will be banned. These include earbuds with plastic sticks, plastic flags, ice-cream sticks, thermocol for decoration, plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons and knives, straws, trays, wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners less than 100 microns, and stirrers. The Environment Ministry on Friday notified the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, which prohibit specific single-use plastic items which have “low utility and high littering potential” by 2022. Plastic packaging waste is not yet covered under the phase-out of single-use plastic items. The Ministry informed the Rajya Sabha in July its proposal to phase out some categories of single-use plastic by 2022. A draft outlining the way forward was issued in March and involved amending the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. Currently the rules prohibit manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of carry bags and plastic sheets less than 50 microns in thickness in the country. There is a ban on sachets using plastic material used for storing, packing or selling gutkha, tobacco and pan masala. At the fourth United Nations Environment Assembly in 2019, India piloted a resolution on addressing pollution caused by single-use plastic products. The Ministry, in a note on Friday, said the waste management infrastructure in the States and the Union Territories was being strengthened through the Swachh Bharat Mission. They had been “requested” for setting up of a special task force for elimination of single-use plastic and effective implementation of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. A national-level task force had also been constituted by the Ministry for taking coordinated efforts to eliminate identified single-use plastic items and effective implementation of the waste management rules, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-plastic-items-to-be-banned/article35906546.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Aligning with ISF was a mistake: CPI(M)||In an analysis of its defeat in the West Bengal Assembly election, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Central Committee has conceded that it had been a mistake to align with the newly formed Indian Secular Front (ISF). Despite “the secular nature of programme and candidates fielded, emphasising on candidates from marginalised sections could not completely erase the image of it being a Muslim minority outfit,” the party noted. This is the first time in Independent India that no Communist party candidate was elected to the Bengal Assembly. The Central Committee is the highest decision-making body of the CPI(M). Following its meeting held from August 6 to 8, the party prepared a report with a detailed analysis of the Assembly elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry. The committee indicted the West Bengal unit of the party for the formation of the Sanjukta Morcha — a third front comprising the Left parties, the Congress, and the Indian Secular Front, newly formed by Furfura Sharif patron Abbas Siddiqui. The party said: “The Central Committee had decided that the party can have electoral adjustments with others to maximise the pooling of anti-BJP, anti-TMC (Trinamool Congress) votes. But during the course of the campaign the seat adjustments with the Congress Party and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) were projected under the terminology of Sanjukta Morcha as a United Front calling for an alternative government. This was wrong and not in consonance with the CC understanding,” the party said. This third front, it noted, was not cohesive since the Congress had largely disowned the ISF. “Irrespective of the secular nature of its programme and candidates fielded, emphasising on candidates from marginalised sections could not completely erase the image of it being a Muslim minority outfit. Both the factors affected the cohesiveness of this electoral understanding,” it noted. Understanding can stay While Sanjkuta Morcha, it said, cannot be a permanent structure in the forthcoming Assembly byelections or local body elections, an electoral understanding with the anti-Trinamool, anti-BJP secular forces can continue. The CC said that the review of these results could not be a one-time exercise but had to be a continuous, serious, self-critical introspection. The defeat of the BJP, though, does offer solace. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau, in an analysis soon after the results on May 2, had concluded that polarisation between the Trinamool and the BJP was the main reason for the Left’s defeat in the State. The CC warned that the BJP’s emergence as the main Opposition party in Bengal was “a dangerous signal for the future”. The CPI(M) contested 138 seats and got 4.73% of the votes. The Sanjukta Morcha secured 9.9% of the votes. Of this, the Left Front got 5.6% of the votes, the Congress got 2.3%, and the ISF got 1.38%. The Left Front’s vote share declined by 21.5% compared with the 2016 share. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Left front polled 7.4% of the vote, which fell to 5.6% in the Assembly election. The CC noted with dismay that though there had been a decline in the party’s mass base since 2008, the Left Front had successfully organised big struggles, mobilising large numbers of people. The CC asked, “Brigade rallies with the participation of more than 10 lakh people were also organised. Yet the question remains why such mobilisations and actions have not translated into better electoral results or reverse the trend of the decline in our mass base.” The party has blamed this on a sharp right-ward shift in West Bengal, where the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, it said, had expanded rapidly. The party also conceded that it had overestimated the anti-incumbency against the Trinamool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aligning-with-isf-was-a-mistake-cpim/article35906281.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Intranasal vaccine gets nod for phase 2/3 trials||Bharat Biotech’s BBV154 intranasal vaccine has become the first of its kind to receive the regulatory approval for phase 2/3 trials, according to a release issued by the Ministry of Science and Technology on Friday. “This is the first of its kind COVID-19 jab to undergo human clinical trials in India. BBV154 is an intranasal replication-deficient chimpanzee adenovirus SARS-CoV-2 vectored vaccine. The company has in-licensed technology from Washington University in St. Louis, USA,” said the release. The development of the vaccine was supported by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and its PSU, Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), the release stated. As per information released by the Ministry, phase 1 clinical trial has been completed. “The company reports that the doses of the vaccine administered to healthy volunteers in the Phase I clinical trial, has been well tolerated. Previously, the vaccine was found to be safe, immunogenic and well tolerated in the pre-clinical toxicity studies. The vaccine was able to elicit high level of neutralising antibodies in animal studies,” noted the release.  Safety, efficacy Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT and Chairperson, BIRAC, said the department, through Mission COVID Suraksha, was committed to developing safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/intranasal-vaccine-gets-nod-for-phase-23-trials/article35906294.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pak. Minister’s comment absurd’||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s most recent comments on the incident at Dasu hydel power project is “absurd”, India said on Friday. The comments from the Official Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs came in response to Mr. Qureshi’s allegation that the incident, in which nine Chinese citizens were among the casualties, was carried out by Afghan and Indian intelligence operatives. “We have seen reports on the absurd comments made by Foreign Minister of Pakistan on the incident in Dasu. This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicentre of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists,” said Arindam Bagchi. The incident took place on July 14 when a bus travelling near the Dasu hydroelectricity project in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa of Pakistan fell into a gorge allegedly after an explosion. Mr. Qureshi argued that there was a suicide bomber nearby who was used to carry out the operation. “We can clearly see the nexus of Afghanistan’s NDS and India’s RAW in planning and execution of the attack,” Mr. Qureshi was quoted as having said in The Dawn . Mr. Bagchi maintained that India had been in the “forefront” of global efforts against terrorism. “Such desperate attempts by Pakistan at peddling lies, propaganda, will therefore find few takers,” said Mr. Bagchi. China’s Foreign Ministry in a statement on Friday commended Pakistan’s investigation, but added the process was “still ongoing” and did not directly comment on the unsubstantiated Pakistani claims alleging Indian and Afghan involvement. The Foreign Ministry in Beijing posted a “question and answer” on its website on the investigations. The question alluded to the claims, saying the Pakistani government’s “updates” mentioned “the terrorist network the attacker is associated with has received support from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies”. That reference was subsequently repeated in several Chinese media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-ministers-comment-absurd/article35906267.ece
14 August 2021||SRINAGAR,||LeT militant killed in Kulgam||A militant holed up inside a multi-storey building since August 11 in south Kashmir’s Kulgam, was killed early on August 13. The police said the body of the militant was recovered. “The operation is over. A major tragedy has been averted ahead of Independence Day,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Traffic halted on the Srinagar-Jammu highway near Mir Bazaar in Kulgam would open shortly. “Intermittent firing continued throughout the night. In the early hours, one foreign militant, identified as Usman, affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba, was killed,” Mr. Kumar said. Earlier, there were reports of two militants hiding in the area. Two security personnel and two civilians were injured in the encounter. A shutdown was observed in Rajouri over a grenade attack on a BJP leader that left one child dead. Five family members of BJP leader, Jasbir Singh, were injured in the blast, which took place when they were having dinner on their lawn. One child died of his injuries in hospital, locals said. The shutdown, called by Sanatan Dharam Sabha, affected life in Rajouri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-militant-killed-in-kulgam/article35906270.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||AB-PMJAY gave Rs. 2,794 cr. for COVID treatment||Under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY), the Union government’s health insurance scheme, approximately 20.32 lakh COVID-19 tests and 7.08 lakh treatments were authorised from April 2020 to July 2021. The total value of the tests and treatment stood at Rs. 2,794 crore, a senior official told The Hindu . While several States had made testing and even treatment of COVID-19 free, the cover allowed beneficiaries to avail free testing and treatment across all empanelled hospitals — both public and private. “Besides this, State governments were provided with the flexibility of modifying the Ayushman packages as per the local requirements,” said the official. ‘Dynamic response’ The National Health Authority (NHA) is the nodal agency responsible for the nationwide roll-out and implementation of the AB PM-JAY scheme. It noted that the response towards COVID-19 had been dynamic, keeping pace with the spread of the disease. The prevalence of the disease had not followed a uniform pattern across States. “All Ayushman beneficiaries are eligible,” said the NHA in a statement while explaining that the NHA provided flexibility to States to deploy ways and means to ensure that beneficiaries availed free COVID-19 testing and treatment under the scheme. “The priority was to ensure that no beneficiary is denied entitlement to free testing and treatment under AB PM-JAY,” it added. Many State governments decided to make COVID-19 testing and treatment free under the scheme for all the residents. While some of them used the Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY ecosystem, including the IT platform, others also made it free but without recording the transaction on the NHA’s IT platform, the nodal agency said. Meanwhile, the Health Ministry on Friday noted that the Union Cabinet had approved a new scheme — India COVID-19 Emergency Response & Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II (ECRP-II package) — on July 8, 2021 amounting to Rs. 23,123 crore. “To fast-track the implementation of the ECRP-II, on July 22 this year, Rs. 1,827.80 crore was released to the stakeholders as 15% advance to undertake preparatory activities. Further, 35% funds are being released on Friday to the States and Union Territories, thus, making a total of 50% release of funds so as to ensure implementation of critical activities at the State and District levels to prepare the public healthcare systems in response to the evolving pandemic,” said the release. This scheme is a Centrally sponsored scheme with some Central sector components.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-20-lakh-covid-19-tests-under-ab-pm-jay/article35906296.ece
14 August 2021||PATNA,||Ganga in spate in many Bihar districts||The swollen Ganga inundated many places from Buxar to Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district of Bihar on Friday and threatened to flood the State capital, Patna. Thousands of people have been shifted from flooded areas to relief camps set up by the government. As many as 14 diara (riverine) areas from Maner to Mokama have been completely submerged, forcing people to migrate to safer places with their cattle. All the river banks in the State capital have been flooded. Water has been flowing above the danger mark, threatening to enter Patna. The water level is the highest at Digha and Gandhi ghats (banks). Water in the Punpun river has also been flowing above the danger mark at Sripalpur, but on Friday it showed a receding trend. Gandak, Kosi, Sone, Kamla and Bagmati rivers have been showing a rising trend in different parts of the State. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted widespread rain in the State till Saturday. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been making an aerial survey of the flooded areas in the past two days, along with government officials. On Friday, he visited areas in Saran and met protesting people at Muserpur. “Water level in the Ganga has been rising, and I have been visiting places with officials and engineers to take stock of the situation. I have asked officials to remain alert and provide relief to the affected people,” Mr. Kumar told presspersons on Friday. The Patna district administration has, meanwhile, set up 17 relief camps and four community kitchens on different river banks to provide relief and food. Food is being served round the clock to an average of a thousand people coming from the other side of the Ganga, said Nagendra Prasad and Manish Kumar, cooks at Digha ghat relief camp in Patna. Electric crematoriums on the river banks have also been inundated. “Those who have to perform funeral rites have to carry bodies and wood to the raised platforms,” said Vinod Kumar, who sells wood at the Gulabi ghat crematorium. Kalawati Devi and Nagendra Prasad came to Digha ghat in Patna on Friday from across the river. “We’ve come here with our cattle and expensive belongings. This time, the flood in the river is quite alarming,” they said as they disembarked from a country boat. Patna Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Agrawal said national and State disaster response forces had been pressed into service. “Hopefully, the rising waters may start receding in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ganga-in-spate-in-many-bihar-districts/article35906265.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Taliban gains complicate India’s options||Even by the most pessimistic prognoses of the situation, the fall of major Afghan cities and provinces to the Taliban has been swift, and the impact on India’s interests is coming clearly into focus. The first concern is for Indian diplomats, personnel and citizens based in Afghanistan, and over the past year, since it became clear that the U.S. troops would leave the country, India has pared down its diplomatic presence there. In April 2020, the government flew home all Indian staff at its missions in Herat and Jalalabad, given the security and COVID-19 concerns. In the past month, consulates in Kandahar and Mazar have been closed as well, and the Kabul Embassy, the only working mission, has issued stern advisories telling all Indian citizens they must take commercial flights out at the earliest. The External Affairs Ministry has said that it has already helped more than 383 members of the Hindu and Sikh community to “return” to India, and will provide assistance to any of these minorities. However, it is unclear, especially in light of the government’s push for the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) that does not include other persecuted Afghan citizens, whether India will welcome thousands of others, in the manner it did in the past. With the Taliban in power in much of Afghanistan, India has other concerns as well. One worry is that groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad could now have more ungoverned spaces to carry out attacks against India. The Taliban’s control will also mean a bigger hand for the Pakistani military and intelligence agencies to influence outcomes for the country, which will mandate a much smaller role for Indian development and infrastructure work that has won it goodwill over the past 20 years. In addition, trade through Afghanistan under a Taliban regime would be routed through Karachi and Gwadar, and the Indian investment in the Chabahar port, meant to circumvent Pakistan, may become unviable. In addition, there is the threat of growing radicalisation and space for pan-Islamic terror groups in India’s neighbourhood.  India has four options Given all these concerns, India has four options, none of which are easy, nor without repercussions. The first option is to stick to its principle of backing only a democratically-elected government in Kabul, and providing political and humanitarian support while that lasts. The second one would be to go further and supply the ANDSF with military supplies, including ammunition and air power, possibly via the Iranian route. In an interview to NDTV on Friday, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen threatened consequences for India if it did that, however. The third would be to accelerate contacts with the Taliban. However, this is unlikely to give India much leverage, given the Pakistan factor, as well as the fact that all regional and donor countries have already done so. Finally, India could simply wait and watch, until the chaos of conflict reveals a winning side, and weigh its options accordingly. This option seems expedient, but it also denies India relevance at the “high table” where Afghanistan’s future is being discussed, especially the “Troika-plus” grouping of special envoys of U.S.-Russia-China with Pakistan, that met again this week, while India was included in a group at Doha of more distant countries with a much lower stake in the future of Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taliban-gains-complicate-indias-options/article35906283.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul charges Twitter with interfering in political process||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Twitter of interfering in India’s political process and described the social media platform as a biased one. In his first video statement on Twitter blocking his account, Mr. Gandhi said Twitter only listened to the government. Last week, Twitter blocked his account after he posted the picture of the parents of a nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. “By shutting down my Twitter they are interfering in our political process. A company is making its business to define our politics. And as a politician I don’t like that,” Mr. Gandhi said in a two-minute video. It was not just an attack on him but the “democratic structure” of the country as it was denying the right to an opinion for his 19-20 million followers. “Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that’s not the case,” he stated. “It’s obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It’s a biased platform. It’s something that listens to what the government of the day says. As Indians, we have to ask the question: are we going to allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics for us?” he observed. ‘Dangerous thing’ Mr. Gandhi cautioned that “taking sides in a political contest will have repercussions for Twitter and could be a dangerous thing for investors”. Since its action against Mr. Gandhi last week, Twitter India has blocked thousands of handles associated with the Congress, including the official party handle and over two dozen senior leaders. In its defence, Twitter said they acted against Mr. Gandhi after receiving a complaint from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), which has pointed out that posting the picture of the parents of a victim is a violation of Indian law. However, the Congress said Twitter had “double standards” as a similar picture of parents was shared by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) on August 2. When The Hindu checked the timeline of the NCSC, the offending photograph from August 2 was removed but the account was functional and the last tweet from the verified handle was sent out at 11.50 a.m. on August 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-charges-twitter-with-interfering-in-political-process/article35906278.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||New museums on J&K, Buddha, freedom struggle||New museums on Jammu and Kashmir, Gautam Buddha, Indian armour and the freedom struggle are expected to be completed this year, according to the Culture Ministry. The museum on Jammu and Kashmir will be set up at a cost of Rs. 13 crore in the Capital, as per data provided with Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy’s reply to a question in the Lok Sabha on August 9. The museum was expected to be completed by December 31, 2021. “The museum on Jammu and Kashmir, first of its kind in India, captures the essence and spirit of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh as an integral part of the nation since ages as Bharat, Hindustan, India. The museum elaborates this by tracing the roots of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh since prehistoric times to the present day and telling unheard stories of the region and people which have been lost in the centuries of time,” the written reply stated. The Ministry was also working on five other museums to be set up this year, including a museum on Gautam Buddha, being established by the National Museum at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore by September 30. “The museum is being developed in a renovated century-old majestic building and spread over an area of about 15,000 square feet, surrounded by a lush green landscape. Seen through the masterpieces in the National Museum collection, the museum on Gautama Buddha focuses on the religious and traditional aspects of Buddhist heritage in India, forging a new outlook on its spread, development, and cultural synthesis over centuries,” the reply stated. A first of its kind museum on Buddha, the new museum would have over 200 objects from the 1st Century CE to 19th Century CE, including stone and bronze sculptures, terracotta heads and costumes. In addition, the Ministry was setting up a museum dedicated to the freedom struggle at a renovated barrack at the Red Fort. The museum would be completed by the end of 2021 at a cost of Rs. 13 crore, the Minister’s reply said. “The museum will narrate the story of the country’s freedom struggle in an interactive manner with more emphasis on the unheard stories of people’s participation in India’s freedom movement representing contribution of all regions,” the reply said. Another museum being developed at the Red Fort by end of October would showcase arms and armour of India through the ages . The Ministry is also in the process of setting up a museum dedicated to freedom fighters at the Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata, called ‘Biplobi Bharat’, in August, and the Prime Ministers’ Museum at the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library by October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-museums-on-jk-buddha-freedom-struggle/article35906262.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Value of Dalit life less than that of a cow for BJP, RSS: Congress||The value of a Dalit life is less than that of a cow in the eyes of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the Congress alleged on Friday. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate and Dalit Congress leader Udit Raj (a former Lok Sabha member of the BJP) questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah had been silent on incidents involving Dalit women and daughters. Referring to the incident in Delhi where a nine-year-old Dalit girl was raped and murdered, the Congress leader said, “RSS and BJP supporters didn’t go to Nangal village in the Delhi Cantonment area. “If a cow had been killed, thousands of them would have descended there. In the eyes of the BJP and RSS, the value of a Dalit life is less than a cow.” Ms. Shrinate argued strongly that the Congress was not in violation of Twitter’s own policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/value-of-dalit-life-less-than-that-of-a-cow-for-bjp-rss-congress/article35906274.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. allows GM soy meal import to support poultry industry||There was some relief for the beleaguered poultry industry this week with the Union government deciding to allow the import of crushed genetically modified (GM) soybean, which is a major ingredient of poultry feed. However, environmental activists have raised concerns about the permission given for something derived from a genetically modified plant to enter the human food chain, given that India’s regulatory system has yet to approve GM foods. The poultry industry has been crushed by multiple disasters over the last year and a half. In January 2020, a false rumour that COVID-19 could be spread by eating chicken meat led to a crash in demand. If the losses in both the broiler and layer sectors are included — that is, both meat and eggs — it amounted to Rs. 28,000 crore, according to All India Poultry Breeders Association chairman Bahadur Ali. A year later, avian flu cases led to another crash, followed by a crippling rise in the prices of poultry feed. “Poultry feed makes up 65% of the cost of production for the farmer. Soy meal [which is left over after oil is extracted from the bean] is the main protein ingredient in the feed, especially for broilers. Over the last three to four years, soy meal has been available at an average cost of Rs. 34 to 36/kg. This month, it shot up to Rs. 96/kg,” said Mr. Ali. The poultry industry has been lobbying for the import of soy meal to tide over domestic shortages and tame prices, but have been stymied by the grey area of regulation regarding genetically modified ingredients. On August 10, the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DAHD) notified the Customs Department that soy meal and oil cake from GM soy would be permitted for import. In a letter to the poultry breeders, the DAHD cited the Environment Ministry, saying it had no objection “since soya de-oiled and crushed cake did not contain any living organism”. The Coalition for a GM-Free India, which includes consumer rights groups and sustainable farming groups, termed the decision “highly objectionable and legally untenable”. It noted that the 1989 rules of the Environment Protection Act applied not just to GM organisms, but also products and substances thereof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-allows-gm-soy-meal-import-to-support-poultry-industry/article35906287.ece
14 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJD announces 27% seats for OBC candidates||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) government in Odisha on Friday announced that it would set aside at least 27% seats for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in the forthcoming panchayat elections. With the announcement, the BJD probably became first political party in the country to provide 27% reservation to OBCs in any election. The declaration came two days after a BJD Parliamentary delegation met Home Minister Amit Shah and demanded the undertaking of a caste-based census for identifying and enumerating the Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC) and OBCs. It had also emphasised on increasing of the reservation beyond the 50% ceiling by enacting a Central legislation. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, senior BJD Ministers Ranendra Pratap Swain and Arun Kumar Sahoo said, “The 27% reservation for OBC candidates will not be mandatory for the next panchayat election, but the party will also follow the reservation policy in future elections too.” “The political decision has been taken due to court restrictions and absence of central law,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjd-announces-27-seats-for-obc-candidates/article35906547.ece
14 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Three held for assaulting Muslim man get bail||Three persons accused of assaulting a Muslim man and forcing him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” were released on bail less than a day after they were arrested, the Kanpur police said on Friday. Soon after the arrest of Ajay, Rahul Kumar and Aman Gupta, a mob of Bajrang Dal members had staged a protest on Thursday night outside the local police station and demanded their release. The three were reportedly released from the police station itself, but more clarity on this was awaited from the Kanpur police. Earlier on Friday, Asim Arun, Commissioner of Police, Kanpur, said the three main accused were arrested after an investigation. Police had been deployed in the area where the incident took place amid fears of a communal flare-up. He said the situation was under control. Efforts were on to arrest the remaining accused, he said. “We will take every legal step to punish these people,” said the officer. Afsar Ahmad, an e-rickshaw driver, was paraded through a street, assaulted and allegedly forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” by a group of men, some of whom wore saffron scarves, on August 11. An FIR was lodged at the Barra police station against five named persons and eight to 10 unidentified persons for rioting, criminal intimidation and voluntarily causing hurt. A video of the incident was widely shared on social media. Mr. Ahmad was seen being heckled and assaulted. His young daughter was seen clinging to him as she pleads with the assailants to spare him. He was eventually seen being taken into a police vehicle. In his police complaint, Mr. Ahmad said he was driving his e-rickshaw around 3 p.m. on August 11 when the accused persons stopped him, beat him up and threatened to kill him and his family. He said the provocation was an old dispute with people living in the same locality near Ramgopal Chauraha. Quresha Begum, his relative, said the dispute started after the vehicle belonging to one of her sons accidentally brushed against the vehicle of a youth in the neighbourhood in July. In a statement, Raveena Tyagi, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Kanpur South, said Ms. Begum had lodged an FIR against Ramesh and his wife Rani Gautam on July 12 on charges of assault. Ms. Rani then got an FIR lodged against Saddam, Salman and Mukul under IPC Section 354 (whoever assaults or uses criminal force on any woman, intending to outrage or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby outrage her modesty), the police said. Mr. Ahmad is said to be a relative of the Muslim family involved in the dispute. As the investigation in both the cases was going on, Ms. Rani alleged that the accused were forcing her to convert. That allegation was also being probed, the police said. On August 11, some people gathered at Ramgopal Chauraha to hold a demonstration demanding action on this FIR. It was near the site of the protest that Mr. Ahmad was assaulted, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-for-assaulting-muslim-man-get-bail/article35906268.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Petrol to cost Rs. 3 less in Tamil Nadu||The scheme was intended for the “genuinely poor”, he said and pointed to the criticism and litigation that such a universal payment should not be made to the well-off and the salaried. The intention of the government is to provide this assistance to ‘home makers’, he said and added there was no need to change the name of the head of the household in ration cards on this account. In another announcement to implement a commitment made in its election manifesto, the DMK government enhanced the period of maternity leave from nine months to 12 months for women government employees with less than two surviving children with effect from July 1, 2021. “The lump sum grant from the Family Security Fund paid to the family of a government employee who dies while in service will be enhanced from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh,” the Minister announced. With the Minister’s announcement that the enhanced Dearness Allowance (DA) to government servants and to pensioners will be paid with an effect from April 1, 2022, the government indicated that the DA for them would not be revised this year. “Unlike in many other States, government servants in Tamil Nadu have been paid salaries in full and without any delay throughout the entire COVID-19 pandemic period. In many departments, government servants have served selflessly, often putting their own life to risk in this period. I am sure that they will appreciate the difficulty that the government will face in enhancing Dearness Allowance at this stage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-to-cost-rs-3-less-in-tamil-nadu/article35906271.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||House is for debate, not political battles: Venkaiah||Similar scenes were repeated the next day, when the government, despite demands from the Opposition to send the Insurance Bill to a select committee, pushed to pass the legislation. To prevent Opposition members from climbing on to the table, 42 marshals were deployed. “Legislatures are meant for debate and discussion and outside political battles should not be fought on the Table of the House,” he said.  As The Hindu has reported, the Bill was passed amid clashes between Opposition members and marshals. “Legislatures are meant for debate and discussion and outside political battles should not be fought on the Table of the House,” Mr. Naidu said. He also commented that it is the government’s prerogative to decide which Bill is sent to a Parliamentary Committee. Mr. Naidu said the Opposition and Treasury benches in the House are like his two eyes and are equal for him. “One cannot have proper vision if one eye is not functioning properly. For me, both government and Opposition are like my two eyes,” he said. Meanwhile, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has prepared a detailed chargesheet of the August 11 events indicting the Opposition. The Opposition on the other hand, had complained about the scale of deployment of security officers inside the chamber, comparing it to a “war-like” situation. The internal report states that additional security officials were rushed in to prevent MPs from causing any damage to the Chair and the Table of the House. When the Opposition MPs, the report said, “failed to breach the cordon of security officials [marshals] and their efforts to cause potential damage to the Chair/Table of the House went in vain, they started manhandling security officials”. The report names several Opposition members for tearing and throwing papers, pushing and shoving marshals. It goes on to accuse CPI (M) MP Elamaram Kareem of trying to strangle a marshal. “Elamaram Kareem manhandled and severely choked the neck of one male marshal and dragged him in order to break the security cordon,” the report claimed. The concerned marshal has also submitted a formal complaint. Mr. Naidu said action is being contemplated against some members and an appropriate view would be taken at the earliest. However, Mr. Kareem has written to Mr. Naidu demanding a probe into the attack on Opposition MPs on August 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-is-for-debate-not-political-battles-venkaiah/article35906272.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Industry’s practices are against national interest’||An edited version was uploaded on Thursday night but this was also blocked by Friday evening.Calling out Tata Sons’ president for infrastructure, defence and aerospace, Banmali Agrawala, Mr. Goyal expressed deep anguish that Tata Sons had opposed rules to help consumers framed by his Ministry. “Me, Myself, My company — We all need to go beyond this approach,” he said.  “ Kya aapke jaisi company, ek do aapne shaayad koi videshi company kharid li … Uska importance zyaada ho gaya, desh hith kam ho gaya ? (A company like yours, maybe you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance is greater than national interest?” Mr. Goyal said, adding that he had conveyed the same message to “Chandra” (Tata group chairman N. Chandrasekharan). The Tata group declined to comment on the Minister’s remarks. Queries to the CII did not elicit a response at the time of going to press. The Hindu has a recording of Mr. Goyal’s remarks. While government officials conveying their priorities to business leaders is not unusual, Thursday’s episode is perhaps unprecedented as specific attendees were questioned about their business practices with insinuations that they were not acting in the national interest. Industry leaders were flummoxed as Mr. Goyal’s remarks, indicating a troubling lack of faith, came just a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured industry of complete support and urged them to invest in the country. Questioning domestic businesses’ priorities and commitment towards India, Mr. Goyal even challenged Tata Steel to demonstrate if they can sell their products in Japan and Korea, arguing that companies in those countries are “nationalistic” and won’t buy imported steel. Indian industry, by contrast, would import even if it helped them save just 10 paise in the finished cost of goods, and then lobby to avoid the levy of anti-dumping duties on such imports, he asserted. “ Hum nationalistic spirit ki baat karte hain, to kai log humein media mein dakiyanoosi bolte hain, backward bulaate hain. Japan, Korea, mein koi backward nahi bulaata (When we talk of the nationalistic spirit, many in the media call us orthodox and backward. Nobody in Japan, Korea calls this backward).” These impromptu jibes came in response to innocuous ideas from a few CII members, including Mr. Agrawala who had simply broached the need for a greater emphasis on skilling the youth, and DCM Shriram chairman Ajay Shriram’s request to help smaller firms that have been hit harder by the pandemic. The Minister’s remarks on Tata Sons were presaged by the insinuation that Indian firms structure FDI transactions in a manner that violates the spirit of the rules. “I tell you all to rise above fanciful schemes…. the ways you are shown to structure transactions, add this caveat and put this structure. This is how the law can be broken, do this partnership that will be compliant of FDI rules… Lord knows where the spirit of the rules is, but somehow you squeeze it into the ambit of the rules,” he said. “At least you should resist the greed of these foreigners. You are welcome to do good, honest business. But in wrongdoings… when I read names that have entered partnerships with Falana Dhimkana (anyone and everyone ). ”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industrys-practices-are-against-national-interest/article35906273.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea seeks decision on reopening of schools||A Class 12 student from Delhi has moved the Supreme Court to direct the Union and State governments to stop vacillating and take a “holistic, equitable and speedy” decision on the reopening of schools that were closed due to the pandemic. The nearly two-year-long shutdown has affected students both physically and mentally, the petition said. Children from underprivileged families, who cannot afford the electronic paraphernalia required for online classes, have been deprived of their fundamental right to education. Many, under pressure from their families to make ends meet and with no regular physical classes, have slipped back into child labour, the petition added. “Issue a writ, order or direction, directing respondents [Union and State governments] to consider and take a time-bound decision in regard to the physical re-opening of schools in their respective areas, and conduct of offline teaching, which forms subject matter of the present petition,” Amar Prem Prakash said in his petition. “From whichever social prism or perspective, the relentless and never-ending deprivation of regular schooling and teaching in the congenial academic environment of an educational institution, is leaving an indelible mark on the psyche of the student community and is taking a heavy toll on their wellness and psychological mental framework, leading at times to depression and social reclusiveness,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-decision-on-reopening-of-schools/article35906297.ece
14 August 2021||Pune,||SII founder flays move to mix COVID-19 vaccines||Serum Institute of India (SII) founder Cyrus Poonawalla on Friday expressed strong disapproval of any move to mix COVID-19 vaccine doses. He stated that it was wrong to make “a cocktail of vaccines” by mixing Covishield and Covaxin. At the same time, Dr. Poonawalla qualified his remarks by stating that those who had taken the first dose of a particular vaccine and in the event of the unavailability of the second dose of the same vaccine, another vaccine could be administered as an alternative. “That said, the efficacy and the immunogenicity of the combination are dependent on the ongoing studies conducted by regulators,” he said in a statement. “It is very wrong to make a cocktail of vaccines. Such a mixing is not at all proven in field trials… In the event something goes wrong, there could be a blame game between the two vaccine makers, with each finding fault with the other’s vaccine,” he said earlier at an award function here. CMC to conduct study His remarks come on the heels of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) green-lighting a study to be conducted on the mixing of Covaxin and Covishield. The study will be conducted by the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, with a trial involving 300 healthy volunteers, Dr. V.K. Paul of the Niti Aayog had informed earlier this week. Dr. Poonawalla, who is the chairman and managing director of the Cyrus Poonwalla Group, which includes the SII, also criticised the Union government for its ban on exporting vaccines. At the same time, he commended the government for cutting through the bureaucratic red tape in securing permission for manufacturing vaccines, while recalling the onerous delay the vaccine industry had to face in the past during the “Permit Raj” era. Dr. Poonawalla further said Covishield would not be administered to children below 18 years, as it was dangerous. The SII founder was honoured with the prestigious ‘Lokmanya Tilak National Award 2021’ by the Lokmanya Tilak Smarak Trust in the presence of former Union Home Minister and Maharashtra Chief Minister Sushilkumar Shinde in the city’s Tilak Maharashtra Vidyapeeth. On the ban on vaccine exports, he said: “I think the export ban must be lifted as other countries in the world also need vaccines. To date, the Serum Institute has been providing vaccines to 170 countries around the world. But now, we have a situation where we cannot provide them with vaccines when needed. Advance money has also been taken from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-founder-flays-move-to-mix-covid-19-vaccines/article35906299.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Five types of wealth||When Mahabali wants to give Vamana the land the latter asks for, Sukracharya warns Bali. He says, “If you grant this Brahmachari what He seeks, you will lose everything — your kingdom, your wealth, your tejas. He can measure all the three worlds with three steps.” Sukracharya then speaks about daana, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Wealth should be divided into five types, says Sukracharya. One portion is to be set aside for dharma. One portion is for one’s own sreyas. One portion should be used to augment one’s current wealth. One portion is to be used to run everyday life. One portion is to be used to help relatives. There is a Sanskrit verse, which says wealth faces many challenges. A demand on money comes in the form of the need to give daana. If one gives daana, then one is saved from the other three demands on it. If you do not give daana, your wealth will be taxed by rulers and will get depleted. Or you could be robbed. So it is best to give to others, but even this must be within reasonable limits, and this is what Sukracharya points out to Mahabali. The Vedas compare this body to a tree. A tree bears flowers and fruits. But this is possible only if the tree is healthy. If the tree itself becomes shaky, then can it bear flowers or fruits? Likewise, only if a man is economically stable, he can help others. If he gives away everything, then he will become impoverished himself, and will be unable to help anyone. He who cannot help himself cannot help others. Keeping all this in mind, Sukracharya warns Mahabali. But Bali says, “I am Prahlada’s grandson. Not keeping my promise is a sin. Nothing can harm a person’s dharma, but his sins. And to lie is a sin. I have promised this Brahmachari whatever He asks for. How can I go back on my word?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-types-of-wealth/article35906284.ece
14 August 2021||Kolkata,||Mukul Roy’s faux pas embarrasses TMC||For the second time in the past week, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mukul Roy, who switched camp to the party from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the West Bengal Assembly election results, expressed his support to the BJP. Asked by journalists about the pending by polls in the State, Mr. Roy said that he would “win again from Krishnanagar on a BJP ticket”.  Mr. Roy’s son Subhranghshu Roy, described his father’s remarks as a “slip of tongue”. He also added that his father had been depressed after the death of his mother. “Only Mamata Banerjee can tell in which party Mukul Roy is. After all, it was in her presence that Mr. Roy joined the Trinamool Congress,” BJP leader in State Assembly Suvendu Adhikari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mukul-roys-faux-pas-embarrasses-tmc/article35906279.ece
14 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Policy reforms to attract investors to Rajasthan||Policy reforms launched in finance sector in Rajasthan are set to attract and benefit the potential investors, with the focus on the regions considered backward, where new industrial areas will be established to promote small and medium industries. The entrepreneurs will also get the benefit of one-stop shop scheme during the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has asked the officials to formulate plans for developing industrial areas in accordance with the local characteristics at the sub-division level through the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO). The industrial areas will help create employment opportunities for a large number of local residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policy-reforms-to-attract-investors-to-rajasthan/article35906767.ece
14 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam in talks to solve border disputes: CM||Assam has boundary dispute with Arunachal Pradesh at 1,200 places, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the 126-member State Assembly on Friday. He also said Mizoram’s insistence on economic activities for its people in the inter-State boundary forest despite an obligation to maintain status quo has stalled a tripartite agreement with the Centre. “We have started informal talks with the Arunachal government on the border issue. We have 12 areas of differences with Meghalaya but the dispute with Arunachal is at 1,200 places,” Dr. Sarma said. He said both States have overcome immaturity and are working on a solution on the basis of the communities occupying the disputed stretches. Cases on boundary disputes with Nagaland and Arunachal are in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-in-talks-to-solve-border-disputes-cm/article35906263.ece
14 August 2021||AGRA,||Honorary commissions for JCOs increase||The Union government has approved an increase in the number of Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO) in the Army for honorary commission to the rank of Lieutenant from 12 per 1,000 JCOs to 15 per 1,000 JCOs, the Army said on Friday. There are around one lakh JCOs. The Union government’s sanction letter for this has been issued, an officer said. Honorary commission is granted to JCOs on Independence Day and Republic Day in their last year of service as recognition of their exemplary service and contribution. JCOs form an important link between the Commissioned Officers and the Other Ranks in the Army. The ratio has been 12 per 1,000 JCOs since 1984. Combat free fall To mark the commencement of the celebrations marking the 75th year of Independence, 75 paratroopers conducted a combat free fall at the Para Brigade in Agra. The Para Brigade showcased its rapid response capability by a live demonstration of employment of infantry carriers, artillery guns, vehicle mounted anti-tank guided missiles and air defence missiles. In New Delhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launched a series of events as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. As part of the process of creating integrated theatre commands, the three recently created specialised agencies — the Special Operations Division (SOD), Cyber and Space agencies — need to be further strengthened and would be integrated into the tri-Service theatre commands that were proposed to be created, another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/honorary-commissions-for-jcos-increase/article35906266.ece
14 August 2021||Patna,||Caste census: Tejashwi writes to Modi||Opposition leader in the Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Friday wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on the State’s unanimous demand for a caste-based census. Mr. Yadav also expressed surprise over Mr. Modi’s lack of response to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s letter sent to him a week ago, seeking an appointment to discuss a caste-based census. “I have written to the Prime Minister to conduct a caste-based census as the Bihar Legislature had earlier unanimously passed this resolution twice. But I wonder that the Prime Minister did not even think of responding to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s letter seeking an appointment over the issue,” Mr. Yadav said. “If PM Modi will not listen to our demand, we will have no option except to sit in dharna, ” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caste-census-tejashwi-writes-to-modi/article35906275.ece
14 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Uddhav, Pawar to attend meeting called by Sonia||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar will attend the virtual meeting of Opposition leaders called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20, party leaders confirmed here on Friday. Sena leader Sanjay Raut told PTI that Mr. Thackeray will attend the meeting. NCP MP Supriya Sule confirmed that Mr. Pawar will be taking part. Congress is part of the Sena-led ruling coalition in Maharashtra, along with the Nationalist Congress Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-pawar-to-attend-meeting-called-by-sonia/article35906276.ece
14 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||63 rescued turtles return to Assam||Sixty-three endangered turtles rescued in Maharashtra reached their native habitat in Assam on Friday noon after an 18-hour flight. The turtles belong to five species, including the spotted pond turtle. According to Shailendra Singh, director of the Turtle Survival Alliance’s (TSA) India programme, the turtles were confiscated by the Pune Forest Division between 2019 and 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/63-rescued-turtles-return-to-assam/article35906285.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Drop from the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drop-from-the-sky/article35906292.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Time not ripe for fiscal consolidation’||The time is not yet ripe for fiscal consolidation, and deeper reforms will be undertaken as soon as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is overcome, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said on Friday. In his maiden budget speech, Mr. Rajan said deeper reforms would be undertaken to ensure that Tamil Nadu’s debt overhang was corrected without any delay. Tamil Nadu would be able to avail itself of 0.35% of the 0.5% of the GSDP additional borrowing allocation made for the power sector reforms, without compromising on the free supply of electricity to farmers, and fiscal deficit for 2021-22 at 4.33% of the GSDP would still be within the overall limit prescribed by the 15th Finance Commission. “However, this is not a situation that this government is satisfied with,” he said. The revenue deficit for 2021-22 is expected to go up from the unrealistic interim budget estimates of Rs. 41,417.30 crore to Rs. 58,692.68 crore in the revised budget estimates. “This increase is on account of the exceptional times that we find ourselves in and does not detract in the least from this government’s commitment to fiscal rectitude and consolidation in the coming years, so emphatically indicated in the White Paper,” he said. In the guise of boosting capital expenditure to provide economic stimulus during the COVID-19 pandemic, the AIADMK government had sanctioned several “half-baked and ill-thought-out” projects at the last minute, he said. “We have made a careful analysis of such projects. Only genuinely beneficial projects justified on the basis of a detailed cost-benefit analysis will be implemented.” The overall capital outlay for the revised budget estimates has been scaled down to Rs. 42,180.97 crore from the Rs. 43,170.61 crore provided in the interim budget estimates. “On this basis, the fiscal deficit for the financial year 2021-22 is estimated to be at Rs. 92,529.43 crore in the revised budget estimates.” The most critical reform that the State needed to undertake was to increase its tax-GSDP ratio. “The most significant finding in the White Paper is the deterioration of the tax-GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu by 3.02% from 8.48% in 2006-07 to just 5.46% in 2020-21. In current GSDP terms, this represents a loss of about Rs. 65,000 crore worth of revenue a year. This is the loss that has to be made up by the State,” Mr. Thiaga Rajan pointed out. The Minister announced that targeted actions would be taken against tax evasion based on advanced data analytics. “An effective Samadhan Scheme will be launched to clear the pending dues of Rs. 28,000 crore under the Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax and other legacy legislation.” The government has been forced to scale down the total revenue receipt estimates from Rs. 2,18,991.96 crore in the interim budget estimates to Rs. 2,02,495.89 crore in the revised budget estimates, he said. As against the interim budget estimates of Rs. 1,35,641.78 crore, the State’s Own Tax Revenue estimates in the revised budget estimates are expected to be Rs. 1,26,644.15 crore, he said. Non-tax revenue estimated at Rs. 14,139.01 crore in the revised budget estimates, which was marginally lower than the interim budget estimates, was on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, he contended. The total expenditure on the revenue account in the interim budget estimates was pegged at Rs. 2,60,409.26 crore. “Because of the sudden decision to increase the retirement age to 60, some savings have accrued to the budgeted revenue expenditure. On the other hand, this government has had to incur an additional total expenditure of Rs. 17,618.80 crore on COVID-19-related relief...,” he pointed out. In view of the additional provisions made for some important schemes in the revised budget estimates, “...the overall revenue expenditure is expected to be Rs. 2,61,188.57 crore.” he said. ( The copy of the Minister’s speech can be accessed here https://bit.ly/TNBudgetSpeech)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-not-ripe-for-fiscal-consolidation/article35906667.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Phase 1 of fintech city project to come up in Nandambakkam||A fintech city in Chennai will be developed in two phases at Nandambakkam and Kavanur, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan announced in the State Assembly on Friday. The first phase will be developed at Nandambakkam at an estimated cost of Rs. 165 crore. “Tamil Nadu has a huge potential in FinTech and a separate fintech policy will be released shortly,” he said while presenting the revised budget for 2021-22 in the House. A separate “fintech cell” will be formed in this regard, he said. New flyovers would be built at three places in Chennai city — at Ganesapuram subway, at the intersection of Konnur High Road — Strahans Road and at South Usman Road at an estimated cost of Rs. 335 crore. Kasimedu fishing harbour would be upgraded at Rs. 150 crore in association with Chennai Port Trust. The Integrated Storm Water Drain Network project in the Kosasthalaiyar River Basin assisted by the Asian Development Bank will be implemented and in the Budget Estimates for 2021-22, a provision of Rs. 87 crore has been made. Singara Chennai 2.0 will be launched with an emphasis on clean and green Chennai and Chennai will become a city without wall posters, Mr. Rajan said. The Chennai City Partnership Programme will be launched with assistance from the World Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank shortly, he said. Metro extension Services on the Kodambakkam to Poonamallee bypass section of the Metro Rail project will be commenced within four years by June 2025 and the entire Metro Rail Project Phase II will be completed by December 2026, he said. The government would speedily take up the extension of the Metro Rail project from Airport to Kilambakkam bus terminus via Tambaram. A feasibility report would be prepared for transmitting Krishna water through pipelines from Andhra Pradesh to the reservoirs of Chennai. Underground sewerage systems will be provided to all the added areas of Chennai city at a cost of Rs. 2,056 crore. The scheme to prevent flow of sewage into waterways in Chennai will be vigorously implemented at a cost of Rs. 2,371 crore. Tidel Park Expanding the Tidel Park model across the State, the government would establish Tidel Parks in Tier II and Tier III towns. In the first stage, these parks would be set up in Thoothukudi, Vellore, Tiruppur and at Thiruchitrambalam in Villupuram district (close to neighbouring Puducherry). Though the Centre announced the establishment of Defence Industrial Corridor connecting Hosur, Salem, Tiruchi and Coimbatore, the support of the Union government has been limited, he contended and said: “The State government will take this project forward with the establishment of a defence component manufacturing park in Coimbatore on 500 acres at a cost of Rs. 225 crore. This park is expected to attract investment of Rs. 3,500 crore.” SIPCOT parks New SIPCOT parks will be created in industrially backward districts such as Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar, Sivagangai, Villupuram, Namakkal, Theni and Nagapattinam, the Minister added.  Tamil Nadu has a huge potential in FinTech and a separate FinTech policy will be released shortly Palanivel Thiaga Rajan Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phase-1-of-fintech-city-project-to-come-up-in-nandambakkam/article35906972.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion for Independence Day fete||In view of the Independence Day celebrations to be held on Sunday at St. George Fort, the city traffic police have announced traffic diversions on Kamarajar Salai and other adjoining areas from 6 a.m. Kamarajar Salai from Labour Statue to RBI Subway on Rajaji Salai and Flag Staff Road will be closed. Only vehicles with car passes will be allowed. Vehicles coming on Kamarajar Salai and proceeding towards Parry’s Corner via Rajaji Salai should take Wallajah Road, Anna Salai, Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram and NFS (North Fort Side) Road. Vehicles coming on Rajaji Salai and proceeding towards Kamarajar Salai via Secretariat should take the route via Parry’s Corner, NFS Road, R.A. Mandram, Muthusamy Road, Muthusamy Bridge, Anna Salai and Wallajah Salai. The vehicles proceeding from Anna Salai towards Parry’s Corner and Kamarajar Salai via Flag Staff Road may take Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram, NFS Road to reach Parry’ Corner and Anna Salai and Wallajah Road. Entry with pass Invitees’ vehicles coming before 8.30 a.m. with red and purple passes should take Rajaji Salai and drop the invitees at Secretariat In gate and will be allowed to be parked inside the Secretariat. After 8.30 a.m., vehicles with red and purple passes will take the route via Labour Statue, Wallajah Road, Anna Statue, Anna Salai, Wallajah Point and enter St. George Fort. Vehicles with blue and pink passes coming before 8.30 a.m. should take Rajaji Salai, Flag Staff Road, Muthusamy Road, NFS Road, Parry’s Corner and RBI Subway to Secretariat Out Gate. After 8.30 a.m., vehicles with blue and pink passes will take Wallajah Road, Anna Statue, Anna Salai, Wallajah Point, Muthusamy Salai, NFS Road, Parry’s Corner and RBI subway to reach Secretariat Out Gate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-for-independence-day-fete/article35906983.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Budget announcements not adequate, say MSMEs||The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) feel that the announcements made in the maiden budget by Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan were not sufficient for the ailing sector. Whatever sops he announced were good but not sufficient to feed this industry which had been battered by natural calamities and the COVID-19 pandemic, said heads of various industrial estates. In his speech, the Finance Minister said the government recognised that access to credit from banks and Financial Institutions (FIs) was a critical issue. It would, therefore, launch a State-level credit guarantee scheme to enable more MSMEs, particularly micro enterprises, to access credit. He added that a digital data driven credit rating system for MSMEs would be established to enable FIs and new-age fintech companies to lend more to MSMEs based on their business potential. TAICO Bank would be repurposed to help MSMEs. Apart from this, the announcement to amend Registration Act to facilitate online registration of memorandum of documents without personal appearance would ease access to credit. Mr. Rajan also said the government would handhold MSMEs which wanted to raise equity capital from stock exchanges and the cost of listing up to Rs. 30 lakh would be borne by the government. The government, based on advice received from the Economic Advisory Council, would launch an innovative scheme wherein MSMEs and their creditors, would be facilitated to reach agreement on restructuring their liabilities through tripartite forums at the district level. On reaching agreement, such units would be linked to top-up loans by financial institutions with support from government credit guarantee. “The announcements are inadequate to recover the self-employed entrepreneurs who are not covered from Union government’s stimulus packages,” K.E.Raghunathan, convenor of Consortium of Indian Associations said. A section of MSME owners hoped that the government would come out with more announcements and incentives once the panel chaired by retired IAS N.Sundaradevan submitted its report. R. Selvam, secretary of Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, lauded the government’s plan to launch affordable rental housing complexes for MSME workers in Chennai and Coimbatore initially and later in other clusters. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association has welcomed the announcement regarding creation of a defence components’ manufacturing park in Coimbatore on 500 acres. The association commissioned a defence incubation centre.  Announcements are inadequate to recover the self-employed entrepreneurs who are not covered from the Union government’s stimulus packages K.E.RaghunathanConvenor of Consortium of Indian Associations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/budget-announcements-not-adequate-say-msmes/article35906987.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘I was not entirely happy, but refused to be overcome by fatigue’||As the DMK government completes 100 days in office, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin reflects back on the extremely challenging times in which his party assumed power. A pandemic was raging, and people had high expectations. Looking back, he says he is confident that his government has fulfilled the initial expectations of the people, and this pace would be sustained throughout. In an interview, he lists the issues that cropped up during the initial days and future challenges.  The DMK came to power after a gap of 10 years and the pandemic posed a challenge when you assumed office. What was your state of mind then? The pandemic had started a year before the DMK came to power. Even then, in the initial days, we functioned in a responsible manner as a ruling party would. Under the programme ‘ Ondrinaivom Vaa, ’ we distributed provisions and vegetables to people. We cooked food and distributed it to lakhs of people and extended financial assistance to auto drivers. The DMK came to power during the second wave of COVID-19 and when the number of new infections reached 30,000 per day. Now we have brought the situation under control. We have upgraded the infrastructure of the government to face any wave. I thank the people who had voted for the DMK with the hope that the party would protect the people of the State. When officials called on me after the election results indicated a victory for the DMK, I discussed with them the measures to control the spread. To tell the truth, I did not feel any great happiness that the party had captured power and that I had become the Chief Minister. The rapid spread of COVID-19 wiped the smile off my face. But I refused to be overcome by fatigue or hopelessness. I took it as an opportunity and a challenge to keep the faith reposed in the DMK by the people that it could save the State from the impact of the second wave. Official measures started seconds after we assumed office. The Chief Minister, the Health Minister, the Health Secretary, doctors, nurses and other medical professionals worked every second. Of course, it was a testing period, but I knew it could be overcome. We achieved it through our resolute action. It was possible because of the co-operation of doctors, nurses and front-line workers. They deserve praise. The second wave created another crisis. Shortage of vaccines, oxygen and beds caused a series of crises... We fully realised that the AIADMK government had put up only an empty show. They suppressed all the details about COVID-19. Medical equipment were bought for an exorbitant price. Even deaths were suppressed. The AIADMK government fooled itself and the people by believing that everything was right. When we assumed office, your questions remained a challenge to us. The government functioned on a war footing. A war room was created. We studied the requirements of people and inadequacy in the medical infrastructure and took immediate action. Beds were added and I personally visited new wards. We ensured that every hospital had adequate oxygen facilities. It was not just the Health Minister. The Industries Minister also joined our efforts and speeded up the work. Other departments also extended help. We quickly created infrastructure to get our quota of oxygen from the Union government, oxygen from other areas, manufacture oxygen and supply it to the required areas. We strove hard to get vaccines and ensured that they were not wasted. We broke the vaccine hesitancy among the people. Though the initial crisis posed a threat, we faced it and worked with the hope that we could protect the people and save Tamil Nadu. The functioning of your government has created an expectation among people in a short period of time that their problems would be addressed quickly. Can you sustain this? Definitely. That is why I am here. It is my only duty. I have taken a vow that I will attend to people’s issues immediately and find a solution. I am confident that I can sustain the integrated growth of the State. I have built an administration in which Ministers and officials have understood the responsibilities of the government and act accordingly. Some Ministers hold portfolios that have direct access to people and people know about their activities immediately. There are Ministers whose portfolios have an indirect connection with the development of the State and the welfare of people. Those departments also conduct meetings and discussions and perform efficiently. The contribution of the Economic Advisory Council for the Chief Minister and the State Development Policy Council is also important. Only these coordinated performances ensure smooth functioning of the administration. Our goal is people’s welfare and we will not deviate from it. Educational institutions remain closed. Though online learning continues, the pandemic has denied students the opportunity to play and interact with their classmates on the campus. Will you open schools and colleges as the infection rate has come down? You can also vaccinate the 18-25 age group easily in colleges, can’t you? The government is eliciting the opinion of doctors, educationists and parents to get an idea about the situation and based on their opinion, the government is keen on opening schools and colleges. When schools and colleges are opened, the government would make arrangements to vaccinate students. The government would also address the psychological problems faced by students because of their staying home for months. The government has come out with a White Paper on the State’s finances as promised in the DMK’s manifesto. Is there any plan to reduce or stop freebies? The White Paper is different from the DMK’s manifesto. It explains how the State’s finances reached a comatose state during the AIADMK rule. It destroyed finances by borrowing, more borrowing and paying interest for borrowings and borrowing to pay interest. The DMK had pointed this out even when it was in the Opposition. But the AIADMK denied it. Now we have proved it with evidence. We will not go back on our electoral promises in view of the financial crisis and we have said this in the White Paper. The DMK made promises for the welfare of people. We had studied the ways to fulfil the promises before making them. Instead of seeing them as freebies, we consider them as schemes to preserve and boost the livelihood. We are firm on fulfilling promises at the appropriate time. A separate budget for agriculture is to be presented. On the one hand there is a need to increase the agriculture production; on the other, wetlands and water sources are being destroyed. Do you have any special scheme to protect them? The DMK’s 10-year vision document stresses the need for increasing the cultivable area to 20 lakh hectares. A separate Budget is going to be presented, keeping this aspect in mind. The government has renamed the department, realising that agriculture is not land alone but includes the lives of farmers. There is a separate department for irrigation to preserve the water resources. We have taken into consideration climate change and the environment and created a department. We are evolving schemes to increase the State’s forest cover to 33% and those schemes will protect wetlands, water resources and natural wealth from looting. You have been fighting to get exemption from National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. Don’t you think there is a need to improve the curriculum of the common school system to simultaneously benefit students? Our government will function in the manner of the Kalaignar government that introduced reforms in the curriculum to suit the changing circumstances. The lessons and practicals will be designed accordingly. The syllabus of Tamil Nadu will improve the learning abilities \and will be on a par with other streams of schooling. Do not confuse NEET with the educational ability as they are different. NEET benefits students of a particular stream. It favours a student who is ready to spend lakhs to learn at coaching centres. It does not offer space for the poor and government school students. That is why we have said in the Budget that a unique education policy would be evolved. Though the State maintains standards when it comes to professional courses such as medical, agriculture, veterinary, fisheries and engineering, it cannot be said in the case of arts and science courses. Do you have any plan to set the trend right? Tamil Nadu is the State that created a separate department for higher education.Kalaignarcreated it 15 years ago. He was instrumental in setting up a central university in Tiruvarur. Steps will be taken to launch courses for in-depth research in art and science colleges in tune with the global requirements. Will the legislative council be revived? It should. It is the policy of the DMK government that democracy should be lively and there should be scholarly debates.  Though the initial crisis posed a threat, we faced it and worked with the hope that we could protect the people and save Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-was-not-entirely-happy-but-refused-to-be-overcome-by-fatigue/article35906650.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One more cluster in Sholinganallur||The Greater Chennai Corporation has identified a cluster with 23 COVID-19 cases in an apartment in Sholinganallur. A total of 398 samples were taken from residents for testing after two index cases were reported in the complex after the infected persons returned from a visit to the hospital in Adyar and a shop in Sowcarpet. Seventeen residents have been isolated at home. Five have been admitted in COVID Care Centre and one resident has been admitted in the hospital. Eleven residents, who tested positive, have been fully vaccinated. Four residents, who tested positive, have taken only one dose of vaccine. Eight residents have not been vaccinated. Six children have tested positive for SARS CoV-2 in the apartment. All of them have been isolated at home. The State government has asked the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner to do micro containment and intensify campaign on masks. In a message to Collectors and Corporation Commissioner, the State government has directed the officials to be strict in enforcing COVID-19 safety norms in public spaces. Officials said the “cases have not been coming down further after the relaxation” in Chennai and neighbouring three districts, Thanjavur and delta districts and Coimbatore and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-cluster-in-sholinganallur/article35906979.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fiscal deficit breaches 4% of GSDP||The revised Budget for 2021-22 estimated a fiscal deficit (the difference between total revenue and expenditure) of Rs. 92,529.43 crore, which amounts to 4.33% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), over and above the 4% ceiling permitted by the 15th Finance Commission for the States. The revised fiscal deficit is also wider than the Rs. 84,202.39 crore projected in the interim Budget. A State borrows to fund its fiscal deficit. The 15th Finance Commission has allowed the States to borrow up to 4% of their GSDP for FY22. However, it has allowed the States to borrow additional 0.5%, provided they undertake reforms in the power sector. And one of the reforms involves introduction of direct benefit transfer to all farmers. Now, Tamil Nadu has to undertake the reforms to go for the additional borrowing. “Even though this government (the DMK’s) opposes the use of Article 293(3) of the Constitution to place conditions on borrowings by the States, we have studied the detailed guidelines received from the Union government. We are confident that Tamil Nadu will be able to avail itself of 0.35% of the 0.5% of the additional borrowing allocation made for power sector reforms, without compromising on our core principle of free electricity supply to the farm sector,” Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said in his speech. On this basis, the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 at 4.33% of the GSDP would still be within the overall norms prescribed by the 15th Finance Commission, he said. “This [power sector reforms] will be critical to ensuring adequate financing sources for the size of the fiscal deficit that has been budgeted,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at the ratings firm ICRA Ltd. She said the revised revenue deficit accounted for over 60% of the budgeted fiscal deficit, a matter of concern. Revenue deficit is the difference between government’s revenue receipts and revenue expenditure and reflects that the government’s earnings are not adequate to meet day-to-day operational expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiscal-deficit-breaches-4-of-gsdp/article35906664.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,933 COVID-19 cases, 34 deaths||Though the overall number of COVID-19 cases saw a slight decline in the State, the daily cases once again surged over 100 in two more districts — Salem and Tiruppur — on Friday. A total of 1,933 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State.  When compared to the previous day figures, the number of cases dropped marginally in Coimbatore, Chennai, Erode and Chengalpattu — the districts that have continuously recorded over 100 cases. While 236 persons tested positive in Coimbatore, there were 211 cases in Chennai. Erode recorded 177 cases, compared with 183 on Thursday. In Thanjavur, 114 persons tested positive as against 102 the previous day. Chengalpattu recorded 108 cases. The cases have been fluctuating in both Salem and Tiruppur in the last few days. While Salem’s daily cases rose to 120 from 94 on Thursday, Tiruppur recorded 105 cases, compared with 83 the previous day. Dindigul, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Tirupattur and Virudhunagar districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. The State has so far recorded 25,84,969 cases. Another 34 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,462. Chennai and Coimbatore recorded five deaths each. There were nil fatalities in 21 districts. Among the deceased was a 21-year-old woman from Kancheepuram who had no co-morbidities. She tested positive on August 8, and was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Chennai, the next day. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on August 11. Another 1,887 persons were discharged after treatment. The State currently has 20,411 active cases. Samples tested In the last 24 hours, 1,59,564 samples were tested. So far, 3,94,85,640 samples have been tested. As many as 2,55,868 persons were inoculated on Friday. Of them, 1,50,876 persons were aged 18-44, taking the total coverage in this category to over one crore. So far, the overall coverage in the 18-44 age group in the State stood at 1,01,09,072. In the 45-59 age group, the coverage was 77,97,991, while a total of 41,18,361 senior citizens were vaccinated. So far, government vaccine centres have accounted for an overall coverage of 2,40,53,897, while the cumulative coverage of private centres from May 1 was 18,01,342.  Compared to the previous day, cases dropped marginally in Coimbatore, Chennai, Erode and Chengalpattu — the districts that have continuously recorded over 100 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1933-cases-34-deaths/article35906651.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor rejects VC search panel recommendation||The Raj Bhavan has informed the Registrar of Alagappa University, Karaikudi, that none of the names recommended by the Vice-Chancellor search panel to Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit was suitable for the post. Mr. Purohit has called for “fresh panel of three different names as per Section 13(1) of the Alagappa University Act, 1985, as amended in the Tamil Nadu Universities Law (Amendment) Act, 1992.” He has called for nominating a new V-C search committee with new members “at an early date.” In a communication to the University Registrar dated August 11, Anandrao V. Patil, secretary to the Governor, stated that none of the candidates was suitable for the post of Vice-Chancellor. “As per the proviso to Section 13 (1) of the Alagappa University Act, 1985, as amended in the Tamil Nadu Universities Law (Amendment) Act, 1992, honourable Governor-Chancellor has not approved of any of the persons in the panel recommended by the search committee as Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa University.” The V-C search panel comprised five members: Y. Satyanarayana, former V-C of Law University, Andhra Pradesh, who was the Governor’s nominee and chairman of the committee; M. Manivel, former head of Tamil Department, Madurai Kamaraj University, who was the government’s nominee; K. Meena, former V-C of Bharathidasan University, the senate nominee; P. Duraisamy, former V-C of the University of Madras; and S. Thangasamy, former V-C of Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University, both were syndicate nominees. According to the University website, as many as 162 candidates had applied for the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-rejects-vc-search-panel-recommendation/article35906680.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three special covers on GI products released||The Department of Posts released three special covers on Geographical Indication (GI) products of the State at an event held here on Friday to commemorate the 75th Independence Day. The special covers were on temple jewellery of Nagercoil, Nachiyarkoil Kuthuvilakku and Madurai Sungudi sari. B. Selvakumar, Tamil Nadu Circle Chief Postmaster General, released the special cover on Nachiyarkoil Kuthuvilakku and Venkatesh Bhat, chief executive officer, Accord Group of Hotels, received the first copy. Highlight The special cover on temple jewellery had been provided with a distinctive effect of golden foiling and tiny artificial stones had been affixed to highlight the significance of kemp and emerald stones. Similarly, the special cover on Nachiyarkoil Kuthuvilakku has golden acrylic lamps mould pasted on it. Sungidi sari The cover on the cotton fabric from Madurai, has an original, specially made piece of Sungidi sari in traditional colour. Sanjay Gandhi, Nodal Officer, GI Product of Tamil Nadu, and Veena R. Srinivas, Postmaster General (Mails and Business Development), attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-covers-on-gi-products-released/article35906694.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crop loan waiver, agricultural jewel loans put on hold||In view of several irregularities found in the implementation of the crop loan waiver and agricultural jewel loan schemes announced by the previous AIADMK government, the DMK government on Friday said detailed inquiries would be taken up in these schemes before they are implemented further. Presenting the revised Budget for 2021-22, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said: “Many irregularities have been found in the implementation of the crop loan waiver scheme. In certain districts, a suspiciously large amount of loans was disbursed just prior to the announcement of the scheme. In some cases, societies retained loan collections and disbursed them again, which amounts to evergreening of the portfolio.” There have been violations at the individual beneficiary level, including the disbursal of loans without crop details as per the adangal and loan sanction in excess of the cropped area or in excess of the approved scale of finance. At the co-operative-society level, some societies have disbursed loans without obtaining sanctions or without the release of cash credit from district co-operative credit banks. Quality issues In the case of agricultural jewel loans, it was found that jewellery was not valued properly and was short in weight or poor in quality. He said: “Writing off such loans amounts to rewarding wrongdoers. Hence, a detailed inquiry is required before the scheme is fully implemented.” Preliminary assessment has shown that the situation regarding jewel loans is similar. “Hence, a detailed assessment of the jewel loans disbursed is required before the waiver is taken up, so that eligible beneficiaries benefit and wrongdoers are not rewarded,” Mr. Rajan said. The previous AIADMK government had announced the crop loan waiver scheme. The Finance Minister said: “That government left us with the onerous legacy of meeting the cost of the scheme, estimated at Rs. 12,110.74 crore. In the revised Budget estimates 2021-22, a provision of Rs. 4,803.95 crore has been made for the crop loan waiver scheme.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-loan-waiver-agricultural-jewel-loans-put-on-hold/article35906661.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Top 6 shortlisted in BL quiz||The 18th edition of BusinessLine Cerebration 2021, one of the country’s premier corporate quiz championships, is back in a virtual format. After the preliminary online quizzing held between August 4 and 11, the top six from each of the six cities of Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi, have been shortlisted for the regional rounds. The preliminary online round had about 6,000 participants. For the regional Chennai round, six participants will battle it out and the winner will qualify for the grand finale on August 28. Participants selected for the Chennai regional round are Jayakanthan R. from TCS; Jaanu Surendran from Tenantcube; Anjana Jayalakshmi K.R., marketing consultant/ freelancer; Ramesh Natarajan from Freshworks; Pranav Hari from IIT Madras and Srivathsavan Sridhar, Servion Global Solutions. The contestants stand a chance to win the coveted intellectual title and a prize money worth up to Rs. 1.5 lakh. Quiz enthusiasts can login to witness the top six compete by registering at https://bit.ly/BLQUIZ21 or scan the QR Code. Union Bank of India is the title sponsor, the event is powered by CFA Institute along with ManageEngine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/top-6-shortlisted-in-bl-quiz/article35906986.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We walked out to highlight DMK’s failure to get NEET cancelled, says Palaniswami||Members of the main Opposition AIADMK walked out of the Assembly on Friday after the Speaker refused to allow Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami to speak. The AIADMK members boycotted the Budget speech of Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. Mr. Palaniswami said the walkout was meant to register his party’s protest against the DMK government’s failure to get the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) cancelled and the ruling party’s stand on other issues. Addressing journalists outside Kalaivanar Arangam, Mr. Palaniswami, with AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and other leaders by his side, accused Chief Minister M.K. Stalin of failure to keep the election promise of the cancellation of NEET, after having raised the issue relentlessly for the last three years. He said the White Paper on the State’s finances was the DMK government’s attempt at “self-publicity”. As for the welfare measures, the DMK government of 2006-11 had adopted the rice ration cards as the basis to identify beneficiaries of the free colour television set scheme. The AIADMK governments followed this norm during 2011-21. The White Paper mentioned all the information provided by the State Budgets that the AIADMK government had presented. It pointed out no “great shortcomings.” Mr. Panneerselvam said he would give an appropriate reply to the issues raised in the White Paper at an appropriate time. Mr. Palaniswami said the searches conducted by the DVAC on the premises of former Ministers M.R. Vijayabhaskar and S.P. Velumani and their associates were an act of political vendetta. Asked whether the AIADMK would boycott the entire session, Mr. Palaniswami replied that the party’s stand would be decided on the basis of the issues concerned. On the performance of the DMK government which completes 100 days in office on Saturday, he said it had inaugurated projects that were completed when the AIADMK was in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-walked-out-to-highlight-dmks-failure-to-get-neet-cancelled-says-palaniswami/article35906655.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Union Ministry writes to DGP on transgender activist’s plea||The Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has sought a report from the Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on the recent action taken against Gopi Shankar, the southern regional representative to the National Council for Transgender Persons, and others by the officials of the Chengalpattu district. In a letter on Thursday, the Ministry’s Secretary, Rajeev Kumar, has directed the DGP to inquire into the complaint filed by Mr. Shankar. Case filed The officials of the Chengalpattu district administration had reportedly filed a police case against Mr. Shankar and sealed the community kitchen where he had arranged a grievance meeting for transgenders in Mamallapuram on August 1. Mr. Shankar had alleged that a revenue official, along with the local police, citing unlawful assembly during the lockdown, abused him and others and had also shut down the community kitchen where food was being served. A senior official of the DGP office confirmed receipt of the letter.  Officials had sealed the community kitchen where he had arranged a grievance meeting for transgenders in Mamallapuram on August 1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministry-writes-to-dgp-on-transgender-activists-plea/article35906696.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More flood-prevention projects||The Water Resources Department (WRD) has started the process for signing an agreement with the World Bank for funding the first phase of comprehensive flood mitigation projects for city and suburban areas. On Friday, the project, under the Chennai City Partnership Programme, was featured as one of the announcements made in the State Budget tabled at the Assembly on Friday. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiagarajan said the programme would be launched soon with financial assistance from the World Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The government has redesigned some elements in the project after detailed discussions with the World Bank. It would focus on various aspects, including water security and resilience of Chennai, enhancing urban mobility and revitalising the Chennai Urban Metropolitan Transport Authority, he said. Sources in the WRD said 13 major projects had been proposed under the programme for results component to make the city resilient to flood and drought and create new storage capacity for the city's water supply. Once the projects are implemented, an additional water storage potential for nearly 3.3 tmc ft, would be created initially and this could be tapped to boost Chennai’s growing water needs. Besides helping alleviate the problem of flooding and benefitting 11 lakh people, the projects would aid in irrigation development. Moreover, groundwater recharge of nearly 3.7 tmc ft could be achieved. Some of the projects include restoration of Sriperumbudur tank with better storage capacity to reduce flood run off and supply 200 million litres a day (mld) to city and rejuvenation of Pillaipakkam tank to support transfer of Palar water to Chembarambakkam reservoir and provide 550 mld of water to the city. The department has proposed nearly 132 projects to be executed over the next few years that would create a new water storage potential of 11 tmc ft to supply to the city and its suburbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-flood-prevention-projects-on-the-anvil/article35906973.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Budget disappointing: AIADMK||The AIADMK on Friday termed the first Budget of the DMK government disappointing. D. Jayakumar, member of the party’s steering committee, said the Budget did not honour the DMK’s electoral promises such as the reversion of the old pension scheme for government staff, hike in the social security pension from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500, and the waiver of farm, jewellery and educational loans. The DMK “showered” the assurances for capturing power, but its Budget is a “huge let down” for the people, he said. At a meeting of legislators later, leaders impressed upon their colleagues to take part “actively” in the proceedings of the House. O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K Palaniswami, co-coordinator, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/budget-disappointing-aiadmk/article35906989.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to formulate its own education policy||The DMK government, which strongly opposed the National Education Policy of the Union government, on Friday announced that it would constitute an expert panel to formulate a distinct State education policy. “This government will appoint a high-level committee of educationists and experts to formulate a distinct State education policy for Tamil Nadu, in keeping with the historical legacy, present situation and future aspirations of the State,” Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said while presenting the revised Budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly. On the scheme to benefit Dalit and Adivasi students with a scholarship for Ph.D. courses, the government said it would be restructured and the scholarship amount enhanced to Rs. 1 lakh an annum to benefit more students. The State government will also establish the Tamil Nadu Siddha University, and Rs. 2 crore will be released initially for this purpose. A sustainable mining policy will be formulated to ensure that mining is carried out without affecting the environment and the ecology. A new policy for life sciences — research, development and manufacturing — will also be released. The government will also create a new slum resettlement and rehabilitation policy, in consultation with all stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-formulate-its-own-education-policy/article35906662.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wage employment scheme for urban poor||The DMK government will implement a wage employment scheme, on a pilot basis, to provide gainful employment to the urban poor by engaging them in the creation and maintenance of public assets such as parks, playgrounds, stormwater drains, roads and buildings and rejuvenation of waterbodies, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan announced on Friday. While presenting the revised Budget for 2021-22, he said, “This scheme will also be linked to various skills development programmes. An initial allocation of Rs. 100 crore has been made for this programme in the revised budget estimates.” The COVID-19 pandemic has severely affected the livelihood opportunities of the urban poor and their ability to look for alternate jobs. For the welfare of the differently abled persons, the government would introduce a direct subsidy payment mechanism for various types of rehabilitation devices and equipment to offer eligible persons a greater range of choice, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said. It would also launch the RIGHTS programme with assistance from the World Bank to cover early detection and prevention of disabilities, and for greater access to maintenance, rehabilitation and educational services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wage-employment-scheme-for-urban-poor/article35906665.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporates welcome Budget, call it balanced and ‘growth-oriented’||Industrialists and heads of chambers of commerce termed the Budget presented by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan balanced and growth-oriented. However, they said there could have been more announcements. “Investments announced in the Budget will comfortably propel the State’s GDP to double-digit growth, with greater focus on industrial infrastructure like fintech city, IT parks and SIPCOT complexes in tier II and III towns,” said C.K. Ranganathan, chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Southern Region. S. Chandrakumar, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu, said announcements like integration of 110 government services in the single-window system, increasing the State’s land bank size, creation of an industrial data base and three years’ exemption from inspections and clearances for new industrial units are in the right direction towards ensuring ease of doing business. “The government has clearly focused on growth, and it aims to leave no stone unturned to achieve the same. The strong emphasis on infrastructure and healthcare will give the requisite boost to the economy,” said Venu Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Motor Company. On behalf of the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI), its president Srivats Ram said the MSME guarantee fund that provides credit guarantee to banks and financial institutions for MSME loans is a welcome step. President of the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI) Ar.Rm. Arun recommended the restructuring of government debt as the possible starting point for the strategy to drive growth. G.S.K. Velu, chairman of FICCI, Tamil Nadu State Council and chairman and managing director of the Trivitron Group of Companies, said there could have been more announcements to support the ailing MSME sector, which has been severely hit by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporates-welcome-budget-call-it-balanced-and-growth-oriented/article35906977.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Select woman candidate for world deaf athletics championship: HC||The Madras High Court on Friday came to the rescue of a female athlete by directing All India Sports Council of the Deaf (AISCD) to permit her to participate in the fourth World Deaf Athletics Championship to be held at Lublin, Poland, between August 23 and 28. Impressed by her track record in national and State events, the court felt that, in all fairness, she should have been selected for the international championship. Justice R. Mahadevan also directed AISCD to report compliance with the court order by August 18. The interim orders were passed on a writ petition filed by the athlete M. Sameeha Barvin of Pattabhiram near here. Her counsel R. Prabhakaran said she was the only female athlete who was fully eligible to participate in the world championship, yet she was not selected citing technical reasons. He stated that the petitioner suffers from 90% loss of hearing. She also lost her ability to speak at the age of six. Nevertheless, the petitioner excelled in sports and had several firsts to her credit. She had so far won 11 gold medals, one silver and one bronze in national and State level competitions in high jump and long jump. Her aim was to participate in the world deaf athletics championship held every year. The AISCD had conducted a selection test, for participating in the championship, in New Delhi on July 22. Totally 12 candidates participated in the selection, 10 of them men and two were women. The petitioner cleared a distance of 5.5 meters, though the qualifying distance was only 4.25 meters, and stood eighth among all the participants and first among the two women. Though AISCD wanted to select 10 participants for the championship, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) accorded sanction only for five participants due to the pandemic and hence the petitioner’s name was dropped, the counsel said. Pointing out that all five selected athletes were men, he argued that it was unfair to not have selected even one woman for the international event. Finding force in his submissions, the judge wrote that the petitioner’s potential must be tapped and that her track record could not be brushed aside easily. “Admittedly, out of five selectees, none of the female athletes were selected… The petitioner ought to have been selected so that she could bring laurels to the country by participating the fourth world deaf athletics championship,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/select-female-candidate-for-world-deaf-athletics-championship-orders-hc/article35906890.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus will be on plugging leakages, says Finance Secretary||The Tamil Nadu government is focussed on plugging leakages in revenue collection, with the main focus likely on the Commercial Taxes and Registration Departments, as Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan looks to shore up the revenues. Finance Secretary S. Krishnan said the State’s revenue targets laid out in the revised budget for 2021-22 were likely to be achieved by plugging the leaks and enforcement. Mr. Krishnan said the revised budget came at a tough time when the COVID-19 pandemic led to revenue losses and increased expenditure. He said some of the decisions in the revised budget had been taken based on the necessities and the need to fulfil the electoral promises of the DMK. The revised budget, he said, would provide a roadmap for administration and delivery in the coming years and had several elements to administer government assets better. “Some revenue losses have happened naturally,” he said, adding that the Budget would show the way for generating revenue where issues had been identified. On the State’s Own Tax Revenues, he said there was a good growth in April and May, and they fell in June. “We are still awaiting the number for July. I am hopeful that the second wave is more or less contained, and economic activity should pick up. We can expect a significant growth in the second part of the year. It’s a year of uncertainty [owing to COVID-19],” he said. Explaining the rationale behind the reduction in tax on petrol and not on diesel, Mr. Krishnan said there were nearly 2.63 crore two-wheelers in the State, mostly used by the working class, the poor and the middle class. “The pattern of diesel usage has changed — mostly for buses and public transport. Owing to COVID-19, the use of public transport has come down. Increasingly, diesel consumption is being seen mainly in luxury vehicles,” he said. He said petrol and diesel contributed around Rs. 22,000-Rs. 23,000 crore to the State’s Own Tax Revenues every year, and the reduction of Rs. 3 per litre in the State tax on petrol would lead to a revenue loss of Rs. 1,160 crore for the full year. “We will offset this in due course,” he said.  Some of the decisions in the revised budget had been taken based on the necessities and the need to fulfil the electoral promises of the DMK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-will-be-on-plugging-leakages-finance-secretary/article35906892.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. asks hospitals to share info||The Greater Chennai Corporation has ordered private hospitals to share information with it about patients with SARS CoV-2 infection symptoms. According to a press release, the number of COVID-19 cases had increased in the past two days. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi had ordered private hospitals to share information about COVID-19 patients who were discharged before 12 days. Private hospitals were requested to send reports by email atgccpvthospitalreports @chennaicorporation. gov.in The Corporation had opened 18 COVID-19 care centres to admit such patients. The care centres had been opened at educational institutions in Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Perungudi, and Sholinganallur. Details about COVID-19 patients isolated at home may be given on phone: 044-26384520||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-asks-hospitals-to-share-info/article35906980.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK government reclaims temple properties worth Rs. 626 crore||In 100 days, the DMK government reclaimed temple properties worth Rs. 626 crore, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said on Friday. These properties that have been been cleared of encroachments comprise 187.91 acres of land, 161.70 grounds of vacant plots, 1,887.13 square foot area of buildings and 15.60 grounds of temple tank bunds, he said in his Budget speech. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the renovation of the cars, tanks and gardens of 100 temples would be taken up this year at a cost of Rs. 100 crore. Amenities for devotees would be upgraded at all temples, and non-hereditary trustees would be appointed to administer temples. Siddha college He said an additional corpus of Rs. 130 crore would be created and the interest thereof will be used to perform one-time puja at 12,959 temples that lacked their own resources. In line with the government’s desire to promote the ancient healing wisdom of Siddhars, a Siddha medical college would be opened by the Arulmigu Baladhandayuthapani Swamy Temple, Palani. Oduvar-Archaka training schools would be revived to create a trained pool of Oduvar and Archakas. Filling vacancies “To improve the religious and secular services at temples, a drive has been taken up for filling the vacancies. Master plans will be developed for 539 temples to conserve their rich heritage and enhance the devotees’ experience,” the Finance Minister added.  An additional corpus of Rs. 130 crore will be created and the interest thereof will be used to perform one-time puja at 12,959 temples that lacked their own resources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-govt-reclaims-temple-properties-worth-rs-626-crore/article35906695.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Century-old registration law set to be amended||The State government will amend the Registration Act, 1908, to provide relief to genuine property owners who have been the victims of registration of fraudulent and fake documents, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said in the Assembly on Friday. “The Registration Act, 1908, will be amended to empower the Inspector General of Registration to cancel such registrations. Criminal action will also be pursued in such cases,” Mr. Rajan said. A high-level committee will be constituted to study the situation on the ground and make recommendations on the mechanism to fix guideline value. “The online registration of documents like memorandum of deposit of title deeds and rental agreements will be enabled,” he said. The Minister also announced that the facility to view encumbrance certificates online would be extended for documents registered since January 1, 1950. Presently, only encumbrance certificates registered from January 1, 1975, can be viewed online. “The facility will be extended to documents registered after January 1, 1950, and as more records are digitised and indexed, the facility will be enabled for older documents too,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-amend-registration-act/article35906698.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 150 crore to improve facilities at Kasimedu||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Friday said the Kasimedu Fishing Harbour in the city will be upgraded at a cost of Rs. 150 crore. Fishermen had sought facilities, including additional lighting, concrete roads, compound wall, and renovation of dry dock to facilitate boat construction and repairs. The Minister said Rs. 433.97 crore had been allocated for construction of fishing harbours and 25 fish landing centres in the Revised Budget Estimates for 2021-22 and Rs. 143.46 crore was allocated for improvement to fish landing facilities. The overall allocation for the welfare of the fishermen in Tamil Nadu in the Revised Budget Estimates for 2021-22 was Rs. 1,149.79 crore. Fishing harbour schemes currently under implementation at Tarangambadi, Tiruvottiyur, Alagankuppam and Arcottuthurai would be expeditiously completed. Surveys would be taken to construct new fishing harbours at a cost of Rs. 6.25 crore at six locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-150-crore-to-improve-facilities-at-kasimedu/article35906970.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kelvikoothu’ to be held tomorrow||Vettiver Collective, a city-based voluntary group, will organise Kelvikoothu (Dirge for democracy), an event in honour of the late tribal rights activist, Father Stan Swamy, and other activists still in jail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, on August 15 at 6 p.m. The group, established to explore environmental justice and human rights issues, will host the event onYouTube /Vettiver Collective. It will be an event in honour of many others too who are fighting to ‘keep democracy alive’. “Independence Day is a reminder that democracy will survive only if citizens thwart the moves to curtail freedom,” said musician and activist T.M. Krishna. Kelvikoothu will involve satire through music and focus on the threat to democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kelvikoothu-to-be-held-tomorrow/article35906978.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||405 organ transplant patients benefited from CMCHIS||A total of 405 organ transplant patients have benefited from the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). Under CMCHIS, the government sanctioned up to Rs. 22 lakh for organ transplantation for patients in government and private hospitals, according to a press release by Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu (TRANSTAN) in line with the World Organ Donation Day observed on Friday. On the occasion, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian honoured families of organ donors and transplant surgeons. Tamil Nadu, which was the most active State in the deceased donor programme, was in the forefront in maximum organ utilisation in the country. From 2008 to August 10, 2021, the State had 1,422 deceased donors. A total of 5,131 major organs and 3,338 tissues were utilised so far, the release said. By donating the organs of a brain-dead person, the lives of eight persons can be saved. During COVID-19 (since March 2020), there were 52 deceased donors from the State and 21 other State case donors. A total of 247 organs were utilised during this period, the release said. Among others, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Member Secretary of TRANSTAN R. Kanthimathy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/405-transplant-patients-benefited-from-cmchis/article35906967.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One more held in Pollachi case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday arrested Arun Kumar (30), a native of Coimbatore, in connection with the Pollachi sexual assault case. According to sources in the agency, the role of the suspect was established during further course of investigation in the case. He was produced in a Mahila court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-held-in-pollachi-case/article35906999.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Women need not head house for aid’||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Friday said there was no need to change the name of the head of the household in ration cards to avail the monthly payment of Rs. 1,000 to homemakers. He said there was a mistaken perception that assistance would be provided only to female-headed households, and many were attempting to get their ration cards changed to show a female member as the household head. “Let me assure all of you that the intention of the government is to provide assistance to homemakers [ illatharasi ]. There is no need to change the name of the head of the household in ration cards,” the Finance Minister explained while presenting the Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-need-not-head-house-for-aid/article35906660.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allottees of K.P. Park flats protest||A section of people, led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), staged a demonstration at the Kesava Pillai Park (K.P. Park) in Pulianthope on Friday against Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board’s demand of Rs. 1.5 lakh from families for allotment of houses. These families were earlier residing at the TNSCB settlements at the same spot. They were told to vacate in 2018 as TNSCB wanted to demolish and build new tenements. G. Selva, secretary, Chennai Central district, CPI (M), said while the tenements were ready to be allotted to 864 families, the allottees were shocked when they were told to pay Rs. 1.5 lakh as their share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allottees-of-kp-park-flats-protest/article35906981.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prioritised syllabus for 2021-22 announced||The School Education Department has reduced the syllabus for the ongoing academic year and has prioritised 60-65% of the syllabus for students of Classes X, XI and XII who have to take up public exams at the end of the year. A government order from Principal Secretary Kakarla Usha said that considering the uncertainty in the reopening of schools and gap in normal classroom transactions, it would be challenging to cover the portions designed for an entire academic year. Schools in Tamil Nadu have remained shut since the start of the 2021-22 academic year and the State Council of Educational and Research Training (SCERT) has come out with prioritised content and optional content as was done in the last academic year, without compromising on learning outcomes. For Classes XI and XII, 60-65% of the syllabus has been prioritised and for Class X it is 61%. For Classes I to VIII , 50%-54% of the syllabus has been prioritised. Chosen topics Only the topics of the prioritised syllabus will be communicated to schools and exams will be conducted based on this. Students aspiring for any competitive exam have been advised to prepare by themselves as per the syllabus of the exams concerned. The G.O. said while a normal academic year has 210 working days of which 136 are instructional days, the lockdown in 2020-21 had meant students had very less actual teaching and learning days. Initiatives taken by the School Education Department during this period included developing video lessons and telecasting them through Kalvi TV. To address the learning loss from the previous academic year, the Commissioner of School Education has suggested conducting refresher courses or bridge courses for 45 to 50 days based on the availability of transactional periods when schools reopen. The department has also drawn up a tentative academic calendar with three different plans for the 2021-22 academic year, which has factored in instructional days and the bridge course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prioritised-syllabus-for-2021-22-announced/article35906697.ece
14 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened ahead of I-Day||Ahead of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, Coimbatore City Police stepped up vigil in the city to prevent any untoward incidents. Police sources said on Friday that 1,000 police personnel would be deployed in various locations, including the VOC Grounds, where the celebrations would take place on Sunday with District Collector G.S. Sameeran hoisting the national flag and inspecting the guard of honour. Security would also be tightened at public places such as places of worship and statues of political leaders, the sources said. Search operations With the Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police having ramped up security measures at the Coimbatore Railway Station, the city police personnel would also be involved in the search operations at the railway station on Saturday. On Friday, about 300 police personnel conducted rehearsals for the Independence Day parade in Coimbatore. The personnel from Coimbatore City Police and Home Guards (city and district) commenced the rehearsals at around 7 a.m. at the VOC Grounds, the police sources said. Tiruppur City Police would deploy about 650 police personnel as part of the security arrangements in Tiruppur, said police sources. The 75th Independence Day celebrations would take place at Chikkanna Government Arts College in the presence of Collector S. Vineeth. Tiruppur District Police would participate in the Independence Day parade on Sunday while the City Police would be involved in security arrangements, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-tightened-ahead-of-i-day/article35906993.ece
14 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. revokes anti-dumping duty on viscose fibre||The Union government on Thursday revoked the anti-dumping duty on viscose staple fibre originating in or exported from China and Indonesia. A notification issued by the Ministry of Finance on August 12 says, the government revokes anti-dumping duty on viscose staple fibre, excluding bamboo fibre, exported from China or Indonesia. The Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) recently recommended the withdrawal of anti-dumping duty on viscose staple fibre originating in or exported from Indonesia or China and are imported by India. The DGTR had studied the imports from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020. The injury analysis period covered 2017-2018, 2018-2019, and 2019-2020. Industry hails decision Indian textile industry on Friday welcomed the Government’s decision saying it would have an impact on prices of both, viscose fibre and yarn. While viscose fibre attracts 5% import duty besides anti-dumping duty, viscose yarn attracts only import duty. Import of viscose staple fibre attracted $0.103 to $0.512 of anti-dumping duty per kg for imports from countries such as Indonesia. Ashwin Chandran, chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association, said in a press release on Friday that the viscose staple fibre produced by a single indigenous manufacturer was very expensive. The deemed export price concept extended by the indigenous manufacturer greatly affected the powerloom and downstream sectors, as the industry is predominantly MSME and fragmented. MSME segments The anti-dumping duty on viscose fibre ranged between $ 0.103 per kg and $ 0.512 per kg. The removal of anti-dumping duty on VSF would greatly benefit the MSME segments. The viscose spinning segment was facing severe challenge due to duty free import of VSF spun yarn from the ASEAN countries though it benefited the powerloom and the downstream sectors. Over two lakh powerlooms in Tamil Nadu have migrated to VSF fabric production in the recent years and the duty removal would encourage the powerlooms in Tamil Nadu and other parts of the country to achieve an exponential growth rate. Fibre consumption T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said global consumption of man-made fibres was increasing rapidly and India’s domestic fibre consumption ratio at present was 65:35 between natural fibres and man-made fibres. However, it was the opposite with the rest of the world. The Government’s decision will align domestic VSF prices with global prices will make the entire Indian VSF textile value chain globally competitive and help boost production and exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-revokes-anti-dumping-duty-on-viscose-fibre/article35906714.ece
14 August 2021||COimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries welcome budget announcements||The budget announcements on Friday by Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan are expected to generate employment opportunities in Coimbatore region. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan said establishing a defence components manufacturing park in Coimbatore would generate direct and indirect employment to thousands of people here. A. Sakthivel, president of Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said various supports announced for MSME sector would help the units revive faster and provide large number of employment opportunities to the younger generation. According to Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, VAT Samadhan Scheme for resolving all the issues relating to VAT payment will bring relief to MSMEs. Processing outstanding payments from Public Sector Units through TReDS is a major step that will benefit the MSMEs. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, said the “balanced budget” met some of the long-pending demands of the region. The Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association said the amendment to the Business Facilitation Act to enable new industrial units to establish and operate for three years on self certification would spur start-ups and entrepreneurship. According to the Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association, construction of affordable housing for workers will benefit the industrial hub of Coimbatore. The Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association and the Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Tiny and Micro Enterpreneurs Association said while the budget had several welcome features, it did not speak about industrial estate for micro units here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-welcome-budget-announcements/article35906713.ece
14 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Celebrations to be streamed online||The district administration will stream online the Independence Day celebration to be held on Sunday. A release from Collector G.S. Sameeran said the administration would stream live the ceremony on its facebook page. This arrangements was in keeping with the COVID-19 safety guidelines being followed across the State. The administration would honour freedom fighters but not at the V.O.C. Park ground. The administration had tasked tahsildars to go to every freedom fighters’ house to honour them with shawls. Likewise, the administration had cancelled all cultural events involving school and college students. This year, the Collector would honour officers, doctors and frontline workers with certificates of appreciation for having worked to control the COVID-19 spread. The release said the Independence Day celebration would begin at 9.05 a.m. with Mr. Sameeran hoisting the tricolour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrations-to-be-streamed-online/article35906991.ece
14 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||World Organ Donation Day observed||Hospitals in Coimbatore organised various events on Friday to mark the World Organ Donation Day. Collector G.S. Sameeran and Dean of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital A. Nirmala participated in an event organised by Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital (KMCH) to felicitate organ donors titled ‘Life after Life’. The Collector said in a tweet that he felicitated the donors and the immediate relatives of donors during the event. Executive director of KMCH Arun N. Palaniswami presided. At Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, an awareness event on organ donation was organised by college students on Friday. Nearly 200 NSS and NCC volunteers from Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science pledged to become organ donors, a release said. Managing Trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust D. Lakshminarayanaswamy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-organ-donation-day-observed/article35906995.ece
14 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation fines shops||The Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday fined four shopkeepers for violating the COVID-19 lockdown restriction. A release said that during a routine drive to enforce the 5 p.m. deadline for shops, officials in West Zone found two hardware stores, a stationery shop and bakery open. The officials fined Rs. 2,000 each on the four shopkeepers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-fines-shops/article35906990.ece
14 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Joint campaign to mark I-Day||The Hindu and Coimbatore Regional Office of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) will carry out a joint campaign to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations. A release said 100 of special editions of The Hindu Young World would be issued free of cost for HPCL’s poWer and Turbo customers from 130 retail outlets in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris districts. This edition will include short stories on freedom leaders, quizzes and crosswords.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-campaign-to-mark-i-day/article35906998.ece
14 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen||Miscreants broke into a house at Kattoor here and allegedly stole gold jewellery weighing around 20 sovereigns on Thursday. According to the police, Jeshi Priscilla (26) received a call on Thursday from her mother-in-law, who claimed to have locked the house before leaving earlier in the day, that a break-in had occurred and the valuables were missing. The Kattoor police registered a case and efforts to trace the accused are on.Meanwhile, in an effort to prevent burglaries, the Coimbatore City Police announced two helplines – 94981 81213 and 81900 00100 – for the public to inform the police if they are out of station through phone calls and WhatsApp respectively. The police will monitor the houses upon receiving information during night patrolling, according to a statement. Held for raping minor in Tiruppur The Udumalpet All Women Police on Thursday arrested a 54-year-old man on charges of raping a 15-year-old girl. The police said the victim was found to be eight months pregnant, following which her mother lodged a complaint and the accused was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen/article35907002.ece
14 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Walk-in interview on August 16||Kendriya Vidyalaya (Meena Estate) has announced a walk-in interview for three posts – postgraduate teachers, trained graduate teachers and primary teachers – on August 16. The postgraduate teachers will be handling Mathematics, Chemistry and Commerce subjects while the trained graduate teachers will be handling Mathematics, Sanskrit and Social Science. The reporting time for the walk-in interview will be 8.30 a.m. on August 16 and the candidates shall visitwww.coimbatore.kvs.ac.infor further details, according to a press release issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walk-in-interview-on-august-16/article35907003.ece
14 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cake exhibition||A bakery organised a cake exhibition to improve awareness on COVID-19 safety protocol at Kavundampalayam on Friday. A release said ‘Yummy Cakes’ displayed specially designed cakes weighing about five kg each that urged wearing masks, washing hands and vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cake-exhibition/article35907004.ece
14 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Two persons held under Goondas Act||The Cuddalore police have detained two history-sheeters from neighbouring Puducherry, who were arrested on charges of hurling country-made bombs on a rival gang, under the provisions of the Goondas Act. The police had arrested six persons from Puducherry in connection with the clash at K.R. Chavadi near Malataaru in Reddichavadi on Jun 29. The clash was the result of a festering fallout between two gangs from Puducherry. The accused identified as B. Arunachalam, 23 and S. Vinayagam alias Vinayagamoorthy of Karikalambakkam in Puducherry were among the gang members who hurled country-made bombs on the rival gang. Acting on the recommendations of Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, Collector K. Balasubramaniam ordered their detention under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-held-under-goondas-act/article35906876.ece
14 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs one death, 72 new cases||Cuddalore district reported one more COVID-19 death and 72 new cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 61,364. A 75-year-old woman died of the disease, taking the toll to 822. The district saw 59,744 recoveries and 734 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 32 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 44,249. Kallakurichi district recorded 32 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 29,603.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-one-death-72-new-cases/article35906883.ece
14 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for female infanticide||A case of female infanticide has come to light, after a third born baby girl was poisoned to death by her own maternal grandmother at Mottupatty village in Dharmapuri. The child was born to Muthuvel and Thenmozhi a week ago at a private hospital here. According to the police, Thenmozhi had gone to her mother’s house with the new-born, while Muthuvel had left for a temple. On Wednesday, the baby was reported to have died under mysterious circumstances and buried in the backyard. Muthuvel was informed of the baby’s death. However, the village health nurse on suspicion over the death of the infant alerted Dharmapuri town police. Following this, the town police exhumed the body of the infant and sent it to the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital for autopsy. The autopsy revealed the cause of death as poison. Upon inquiry, it was found that Tenmozhi’s mother Uma had poisoned the baby as it was the third girl child born to the couple. Uma was arrested and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-female-infanticide-in-dharmapuri-village/article35906693.ece
14 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Impostor detained under Goondas Act||C. Vijayan, 41, of Kolathur, Chennai, who was arrested on August 2 by Pattiveeranpatti police after he posed as a police officer was detained under Goondas Act on Friday. Following recommendation from Dindigul Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan, Collector S. Visagan ordered his detention. The order was served on the accused, detained in Madurai Central Prisons. Police said that Vijayan had indulged in impersonation acts and cheated many people, including senior bureaucrats, in many States. The Pattiveeranpatti police intercepted him at the police check post a fortnight ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/impostor-detained-under-goondas-act/article35906682.ece
14 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized, three detained||Acting on a tip-off, a team of Special Branch sleuths attached to the Superintendent of Police office here intercepted a container truck at Vittal Naicken Patti near Vedasandur on Friday and seized 1,000 kg of banned tobacco products which was valued at Rs. 15 lakh in the black market. Three persons, including the lorry driver, were detained for interrogation. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the contraband, transported from Salem, was meant for Sikkandar Haliq and Rafeeq of Begumpur in Dindigul. The lorry had a consignment of furniture items from Bengaluru and was proceeding to Kottayam in Kerala. The duo had instructed the lorry driver to follow their car. As the Special Branch police were on surveillance along the Dindigul bypass road, the duo suspected trouble and asked the lorry driver to park the vehicle at Vittal Naicken Patti itself. However, the police intercepted the duo and seized their mobile phones. Call logs showed that they had been continuously communicating with the lorry driver. After finding his location, the police seized the banned tobacco goods from the lorry. Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan visited the spot and commended the swift operation of Sub-Inspectors Marimuthu and Sheik Dawood. Vedasandur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized-three-detained/article35906684.ece
14 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||One detained under Goondas Act||C. Vijayan (41) of Kolathur, Chennai, who was arrested on August 2 by Pattiveeranpatti police for cheating gullible public stating that he was a ‘police’ officer, was detained under the Goondas Act on Friday. Following recommendation from Dindigul SP, V. R. Srinivasan, Collector S. Visagan ordered the detention of the accused under the Goondas Act. The order was served on the accused, detained in Madurai Central Prisons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-detained-under-goondas-act/article35906966.ece
14 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Depositors file complaint against chit fund firm||A group of people who had deposited Rs. 1.20 crore with a chit fund firm lodged a cheating complaint with the police here on Friday. Police said that two teachers of a government school, who were operating a chit fund scheme in Vakkampatti and Dindigul, could not be seen after the COVID-19 lockdown. When they surfaced and the depositors demanded their money, they promised to settle the money by selling an immovable property. However, they had sold the property and vanished, the depositors said and asked the police to trace them and ensure that they returned the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/depositors-file-complaint-against-chit-fund-firm/article35906681.ece
14 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door surveillance resumes in Erode Corporation limits||With COVID-19 cases continuing to be on the rise, the corporation has resumed door-to-door surveillance to check for fever and other symptoms among residents here. As on Friday, the district reported a total of 95,726 cases with 1,718 persons under treatment. On an average 20 to 40 cases were reported everyday in the corporation limits in the past one week and hence, the civic body had resumed the surveillance that it carried out in May. There are 1.30 lakh houses in the city and 300 workers were initially involved in the surveillance. Each worker was asked to cover 300 to 350 households everyday to check for fever and other symptoms. If a resident complained of fever or had other symptoms of COVID-19, they were sent to the District headquarters Hospital and swab samples were lifted from them. The workers were also asked to create awareness on dengue prevention during their visit. Officials said that early identification of asymptomatic persons and treatment at the right time prevents spread of the virus which was effective during the first and second wave. Hence, focus is on to expedite surveillance, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-surveillance-resumes-in-erode-corporation-limits/article35906703.ece
14 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shops to remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays in crowded areas||Except for medical, milk, groceries, vegetable shops and hotels, all other shops located at places where people gather in large numbers will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays till August 23. Following an increase in COVID-19 cases in the district, Collector H. Krishnanunni had announced new restrictions from August 9 that allows shops to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. Also, restrictions were imposed on shops that function in crowded areas as it could turn into a source for the spread of COVID-19 during the weekends. Hence, shops located in Eswaran Kovil Street, TVS Street, Gandhiji Road, Brindha Street, Old Central Theatre Road, Manikoondu, RKV Road, Mettur Road, Stoney Bridge, VOC Park, Cauvery Road, Bhavani – Cauvery Road, Kooduthurai, Ammapettai Town and Mangalapadithurai, Gobichettipalayam – Market and Bazaar Street, Sathyamangalam – Varathampalayam Nirmala Theatre Junction, Puliyampatti, Madhampalayam Junction, Puliyampatti Bus Stand opposite, Talavadi Basweswara Bus Stand, T.N. Palayam bus stand and D.G. Pudur will be closed. Parcel service Hotels were allowed to function with 50% seating capacity while takeaway service is only allowed from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Only parcel service is allowed in the tea shops here that will function from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-to-remain-closed-on-saturdays-and-sundays-in-crowded-areas/article35906706.ece
14 August 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek special financial package||The MSMEs, while lauding a majority of the announcements made in the State Budget, have called for special impetus to the MSME sector that has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Hosur Small and Tiny Industries Association (HOSTIA) has asked for a special financial package of Rs. 5,000 crore by way of credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs. According to K.Velmurugan, President, HOSTIA, “the announcement of SIPCOTs in nine backward districts, the defence corridor, land bank of over 45,000 acres for backward districts, tidel parks, are the kind of support the industry needs.” The industry here has also welcomed the Hosur Development Authority under the Smart Cities mission. The SIPCOT in Dharmapuri had been a long-pending demand, for which announcements were made and land was also acquired to a large extent. The MSME sector has sought a three-month interest waiver and waiver in property tax for SIPCOT and SIDCO industrial estates. “While the budget has provisioned for low-cost housing for industrial workers in Chennai, a similar scheme should be implemented for Hosur,” Mr.Velmurugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-seek-special-financial-package/article35906712.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary exams held||The Tamil Nadu higher secondary supplementary examinations commenced on August 6. As part of it, 423 candidates from the district took up the Chemistry, Accountancy and Geography exams held here on Friday. The exams are being conducted in seven centres in the district, including the Central Prison here. A total of 3,343 candidates had enrolled for the exams and there are hall supervisors for every 20 persons, said an official from the CEO office. A hall supervisor from Ananth Memorial Matriculation Higher Secondary School, one of the seven centres, said that the exams were being conducted in accordance with the Covid-19 norms. On the fourth day of the exams (Friday), there were about 145 absentees in the district. Ten papers, including Mathematics, Zoology and Commerce, will be held on Monday. The exams will come to a close on August 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supplementary-exams-held/article35907063.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Metro rail plan is a great step to ease traffic congestion’||Trade associations in Madurai have expressed their happiness, after the Finance and Human Resources Management Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan announced during the revised budget presentation that the government would form a committee to study the feasibility of setting up Metro rail in Madurai. S. Rethinavelu, president of Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “We welcome the announcement of the Finance Minister that a report would be prepared to set up Metro rail in Madurai. It is the only way to ease traffic congestion in the city.” He also lauded the government’s move to form several committees with experts in trade that would provide guidance towards a growth trajectory. The Chamber also said the establishment of land bank in Tamil Nadu with 45,000 hectares for investors and establishment of a 60 MLD desalination plant in Thoothukudi would attract more investments on Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor which had not taken off in the past eight years. The popular announcement of reduction in tax on petrol to the extent of Rs. 3 per litre would ease the burden on monthly wage earners and small traders, who were using two-wheelers, Mr. Rethinavelu said and expressed satisfaction over their request to announce a samadhan scheme for the dues under the erstwhile Value Added Tax and other taxes for one-time settlement. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jegatheesan said the announcements made in the budget would benefit people from all walks of life. The government has prioritised infrastructure projects in southern Tamil Nadu. The Chamber appreciated the move to set up an archaeological museum in Keeladi. The president said it was a disappointment that an agenda to upgrade the Madurai airport and elevate Thoothukudi port as an international container transshipment terminal was not made. As announced in this budget, Tamil Nadu Siddha University should be set up in Madurai or any districts in southern Tamil Nadu. Steps should be taken to establish a Bus Port in Madurai. The Chamber appreciated the announcement of implementation of underground sewage project in 27 cities with a population of over 1 lakh. Federation of Madurai Manufacturers and Traders Associations secretary G. Selvapandi was happy about the government’s decision to reduce the petrol price. B. Muruganantham, president of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, hailed the decision to set up SIPCOT industrial parks in Tirunelveli, Theni, Virudhunagar, Namakkal, Sivagangai and Villupuram, but also insisted on building one in Madurai, as it was also proving to be a growing industrial hub. The association added that the move to encourage MSMEs in their growth by providing suggestive measures to them was a welcome initiative. Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants Association Limited president S.P. Jeyapragasam welcomed the government’s idea to form a committee to study GST. In a statement, he requested the government to include representatives from various trade organisations to be a part of the committee. He also added that the newly proposed single window gateway for trade and industries would also help the MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-plan-is-a-great-move-to-ease-traffic-congestion/article35906669.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove encroachments on forest land’||All encroachments of forest lands have to be necessarily removed by the officials concerned even without the orders of the court, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed and directed the removal of encroachment from forest land in Ramanathapuram district. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that as long as the lands stand declared as reserved forest, the plea raised by the petitioners cannot be entertained. They have to be necessarily treated as encroachers of forest lands, the court said. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by the residents of Rameswaram. They claimed that they developed dry lands in the region into coconut groves. They constructed houses and also obtained electricity connection, they said. Their claim for patta was rejected by the authorities and a notice was issued to them to show cause as to why they should not be evicted for being in occupation of forest lands. An order was passed by the authorities stating that they were liable to be evicted from forest lands. The petitioners challenged the order stating that it was unreasonable. In its response, the State government submitted that the petitioners were encroachers of the forest land and only after affording a reasonable opportunity to them the orders were passed by the authorities. The court took note of the fact that the lands had already been notified as reserved forest as early as 1993 and a notification was published in the District Gazette. In such circumstances, the plea raised by the petitioners were wholly untenable, the judges said. The judges said that there was no error in the decision taken by the forest officials directing the petitioners to remove the encroachments and as long as the lands continue to remain notified as forest lands, the plea raised by the petitioners have to be rejected as devoid of substance. The court dismissed the batch of petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-removal-of-encroachments-on-forest-land-in-ramanathapuram/article35906689.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Process application and issue passport: HC||Taking into account the fact that the State government had taken a policy decision to withdraw all the cases registered during the jallikattu protest, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Madurai Regional Passport Officer to process the application of a petitioner who had participated in the protest in Thoothukudi district. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh took note of the fact that the State issued a government order in this regard that states further action must be dropped by the police. The court was hearing a petition filed by A. Selvin of Thoothukudi district. He sought a direction to the Passport Officer to issue a passport. The court observed that in the present case the investigation was still pending and at the FIR stage. The government order had made it clear that all cases pertaining to jallikattu protest will be closed and action dropped. Even otherwise, mere pendency of an FIR cannot be a ground to refuse to entertain the application. It cannot be construed to be criminal proceedings pending against the petitioner, the court said and directed the Madurai Regional Passport Officer to process the application and issue the passport to the petitioner. The court also directed the Thoothukudi police to follow the government order and file the action dropped report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/process-application-and-issue-passport-says-hc/article35906957.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Kamaraj University told to submit reports||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai Kamaraj University to submit to the court a report of the selection committee and the scrutiny committee that are looking into the allegations of irregularities in the appointments made to the university. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the decision of the University Syndicate on these reports to be placed before the court for scrutiny. The case was adjourned till September 13. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Lionel Antony Raj of Madurai. He complained that there were large-scale irregularities in the previous appointments and promotions in the university. A high-level committee was constituted to look into the allegations. The petitioner said that the committee headed by retired High Court Judge G.M. Akbar Ali had submitted a report and it pointed out the various irregularities in the university. The appointments and promotions of the teaching and non-teaching staff should be revised. Without following the norms, people were appointed to various posts during the stint of P.P. Chelladurai as Vice-Chancellor and V. Chinnaiah as Registrar, he said. The university submitted that the recommendations were being implemented and the reports of the committees would be placed before the University Syndicate. Earlier, the court had restrained the Madurai Kamaraj University from further promoting any person whose promotion was already in dispute. The case was adjourned for the filing of the reports before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-told-to-submit-reports/article35906670.ece
14 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Need more price cut for petrol: residents||As Tamil Nadu government slashed petrol prices by Rs. 3 on Friday, people in the city had mixed reactions about it and the other announcements made in the budget. According to V. Poornima, chairperson, Young India CII, Madurai Chapter, India is among the countries that is charging more taxes on the public when it comes to fuels. In many countries, the fuel prices are low. I am happy that the prices have come down. In future also, if there is more price cut, it will help several industries in their growth. T. Nageshwaran, a social activist, said that every time the budget is announced, we get excited by the number of new schemes and initiatives promised. We needn’t get excited until the projects are executed and completed. I think Madurai needs more funds for farmers’ welfare, new irrigation projects and overall infrastructure development. B. Hari, a school teacher, is of the opinion that the Green Tamil Nadu Mission announced in the budget sounds promising. It aims to improve the total forest cover in the state. A massive tree plantation programme of native species is also planned under it. It will be great if this programme is planned and executed in the next 10 years, as promised. P. Balamurugan, daily commuter/tailor, said he appreciated the government’s effort to provide Rs. 1000 for women in every household. It will empower them financially. I am a tailor and I commute for about 20 km using a bike every day. Though the petrol price has been cut by Rs. 3, I don’t think it is going to be helpful. It has to go down to Rs. 80 or lesser. Most of the autorickshaws use diesel or gas. We need a better price cut in those prices too. It has been difficult to manage the monthly expenses as a litre of petrol or diesel gives a mileage of only 20 km, said M. Chidambaram, an autorickshaw driver. R. Nagarajan, a food delivery executive, said that petrol prices go up every time by Rs. 4 or Rs. 5 and the hike is done pretty often. When it comes to the price cut now, it is just Rs. 3. It is not a permanent solution. The government needs to think of a better alternative. I make more than 20 deliveries in a day, but the petrol prices have been burning a hole in my pocket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-more-price-cut-for-petrol-residents/article35906677.ece
14 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Harassment by senior officials alleged||Members of the All India Gramin Dak Sevak Union staged a state-wide demonstration condemning the senior officials of alleged harassment here on Friday. Placing a 10-point charter of demands, the agitators alleged that they were being ill treated by some of the senior officials. Under the guise of citing covid-19 pandemic, the salaries were cut. However, they claimed that they were forced to work even on holidays and made to conduct campaigns to enhance revenue earnings. The government should fill vacancies by recruiting permanent employees and a move to outsource certain works should be stopped, they said. The maternity benefits should be given to the eligible staff like any other department employees. The partial approach should be dropped forthwith, they stressed. The demonstration, which was held near the Tamukkam Postal Department office, was led by State secretary M. Baskaran among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harassment-by-senior-officials-alleged/article35907059.ece
14 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stir by INLP members||Hundreds of Muslims assembled near Madurai Central Prisons to condemn the prison authorities for ‘not allowing’ Muslim prisoners to perform daily prayers inside the prison premises here on Friday. Led by Indian National League Party (Tamil Nadu) State youth wing president Al Asiq, the members shouted slogans against some senior officials in the prison. For the last 20 years or so, the prison officials had given a space inside a cell exclusively for Muslim prisoners to offer prayers. However, since the last two years, "the new set of officers has not allowed us to perform prayers giving lame excuses," Mr Asiq said. The Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should interfere in the issue immediately as it had hurt the sentiments, the agitators urged. There were about 50-60 Muslims detained in the prisons here on various charges, and convicts. They should be allowed to offer prayers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stir-by-inlp-members/article35907061.ece
14 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent discrimination in appointment of Bishops’||Alleging discrimination faced by Dalit Christians and lack of representation for them in the Roman Catholic church, a petition was filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the State to prevent the discrimination. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice to the Centre and the State. The court also ordered notice to the Apostolic Nuncio to India and the Tamil Nadu Bishops Council. The case was adjourned by six weeks. The court was hearing a petition filed by M. Anbarasan of Srivilliputtur in Virudhunagar district. The petitioner said that more than 60% of the Catholic population in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry consists of Dalits. But the Dalit Christians faced discrimination. In India, out of the 170 Bishoprics, there were only 11 Dalit Bishops and out of the 18 Archdiocese in Tamil Nadu, only one Dalit Bishop was consecrated. Though there is a demand for equal representation, the voices were not heeded by the Catholic hierarchy. The names of Dalit candidates were rejected. If equality was followed in the appointment of Bishops all other forms of discrimination like a divided church, segregated seats, segregated cemetary and discrimination in employment opportunities in institutions could be eradicated, the petitioner said. He said that he had sent several representations in this regard to the authorities concerned. But they were not looked into. Therefore, he sought a direction to the Centre and the State to prevent discrimination in appointment of Bishops in the Roman Catholic church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-discrimination-in-appointment-of-bishops/article35906668.ece
14 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for strict verification to weed out fake advocates||An advocate has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and police authorities to ensure that there is a strict verification to weed out fake advocates and maintain the dignity and decorum of the legal profession. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice to the Bar Council and police authorities on the petition filed by S. Muthukumar of Madurai. The petitioner said the standard of the legal profession was deteriorating. If this went unchecked it would affect judicial institution. There was a need to frame proper guidelines to verify the antecedents of advocates, he said. To check the genuineness of an advocate, there must be a proper mechanism. These fake degree holders were conducting kangaroo courts. The case was adjourned by six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-strict-verification-to-weed-out-fake-advocates/article35907064.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Adheenam is no more||The 292nd pontiff of the Madurai Adheenam Sri Arunagirinathar passed away at the age of 77, at Apollo Hospital in Madurai on Friday night. Mutt sources said that the pontiff was unwell for some time after he developed respiratory complications. He was admitted to the hospital on August 9. While he showed little progress, there was a sudden setback on Thursday, which led to the doctors shifting him to the ICCU.  Prior to taking over as the Pontiff of Madurai Adheenam in the 80s, Sri Arunagirinathar had worked as a journalist with ‘Murasoli’. His association with the DMK and the late leader M. Karunanidhi was well known . Nityananda's claim In 2012, the Madurai Adheenam announced Sri Nityananda as the junior pontiff of the Mutt. Many senior pontiffs from Kanchi and Thiruvavaduthurai condemned the appointment. Though the senior Adheenam was determined initially, he withdrew the announcement after a few months. Taken aback, Nityananda approached the court seeking justice and the Adheenam was in the centre of a storm for a few years. The case is pending in the Madurai bench of Madras High Court. Meanwhile, disciples of Sri Arunagirinathar after realising the deteriorating condition of the pontiff had locked up the rooms at the Mutt premises situated near the Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai on Friday as a "precautionary" measure, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-adheenam-is-no-more/article35906958.ece
14 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 135.65 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 780 cusecs and a discharge of 1,800 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 68 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,572 cusecs and a discharge of 1,199 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,126 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35906686.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,TAMIL NADU||Mysuru-Chennai air link revived||Air link between Mysuru and Chennai was revived on Friday after a brief hiatus, shoring up connectivity between the two cities. Though TruJet used to operate between the two cities it was discontinued though the originating air passenger traffic between the two cities was high. The authorities, after a prolonged negotiations with Indigo, convinced it of the traffic potential between the two cities after which the inaugural flight was flagged off in a subdued manner owing to the pandemic. There were 35 passengers for both the inbound and outbound flights on the first day. This is a non-UDAN flight. Indigo flights between Mysuru and Chennai will operate thrice a week to start with and is expected to garner additional traffic in the days ahead so as to become a daily service. Flight 6E7269 will depart from Chennai at 2.50 p.m. and arrive at Mysuru at 4.15 p.m. In the return direction the flight will depart from Mysuru at 4.35 p.m. and reach Chennai at 5.55 p.m. Mysuru Airport Director R. Manjunath said the Mysuru-Chennai traffic has been encouraging and the occupancy rate was always in excess of 80 per cent in the ATR72 flights which can carry about 70 passengers. ‘’We are confident that given the number of passengers who travel between the two cities Indigo will make it a daily service in due course’’, he said. The TruJet discontinuation was attributed to operational reasons and has nothing to do with the market potential, according to the authorities. With the introduction of Indigo flights, Mysuru is now connected to Bengaluru, Belagavi, Kochi, Goa, Hyderabad and Chennai. Despite the pandemic, things are looking bright and the occupancy rates are higher than 80 per cent, according to Mr. Manjunath. As far as Chennai was concerned, there was a ready market as the flight duration is less than 2 hours while the overnight trains take about 8 to 9 hours. The fare was affordable and the number of people visiting Chennai for business or to obtain visa at the US Consulate was high, Mr. Manjunath added.  There were 35 passengers for both the inbound and outbound flights on the first day Despite the pandemic, things are looking bright and the occupancy rates are higher than 80 per cent, says Airport Director R. Manjunath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-connectivity-revived-between-mysuru-and-chennai/article35906820.ece
14 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Over 10 villages achieve 100% first dose vaccination||Over 10 villages in Namakkal district have achieved 100% of first dose vaccination. District Collector Shreya P. Singh honoured the village panachayat presidents and medical officers for achieving this feat. Door-to-door campaigns and regular follow-ups were conducted by the district administration, local bodies and health department here to achieve 100% vaccination in the villages, a majority of them located in rural pockets of the district. The villages include Bailnadu in Kolli Hills, Ayilpalayam in Rasipuram, Kunnamalai in Paramathi, Iruttanai, D.Koundampalayam, Marurpatti, Siviyampalayam, Tho.Koundampalayam in Thiruchengode, Sikanaikenpalayam, Pallakuzhi, Pazhanthinipattipudur, Minnakal, Pokkampalayam and Puthur. The entire population in the villages have taken first dose of vaccination, officials said. According to health officials, at villages in Kolli Hills, special efforts were taken and door-to-door campaign was conducted to convince the villagers to get vaccinated. Ms. Singh said that at Bailnadu in Kolli Hills, very few people where turning up for vaccination initially and following intensive campaign, all villagers were administered with vaccine on the same day. According to officials, 319 persons are residing in Bailnadu. Ms. Singh said they are aiming to complete 100% vaccination in at least one village in all the blocks. S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services here said that differently-abled persons were administered with vaccine at their homes. He added that data available with village health nurses was used by the department to ensure 100% vaccination in the villages. Dr. Somasundaram said that among the target population in the district, five lakh persons have received first dose vaccination and 1.2 lakh persons have received both doses. He added that about 35% of the target population have been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10-villages-achieve-100-first-dose-vaccination/article35906708.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Rajesh Das petitions SC to shift case outside T.N.||The Supreme Court on Friday heard submissions by suspended IPS officer Rajesh Das, who said a series of orders passed by the Madras High Court in a sexual harassment case against him had prejudiced his chances for a fair trial. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit also heard a plea by Mr. Das, who was Special Director General of Police in Tamil Nadu, to transfer his case to a Special Magistrate Court at Nellore in Andhra Pradesh or any other competent court outside Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu government lawyers, however, sought time to take instructions. The court scheduled the case for Wednesday. Mr. Das is accused of sexually harassing a Superintendent of Police in February. The incident allegedly happened when he and the woman officer were part of a security detail for the then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during an election campaign. The High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the case on March 1 to ensure a fair probe. However, Mr. Das submitted in the Supreme Court that the High Court’s intervention was “biased” and a source of prejudice which destroyed the presumption that a person was innocent until proven guilty. Mr. Das, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and advocates Balaji Srinivasan, S. Elambharthi and Abdul Saleem, said the CB-CID probe in the case is led by a Superintendent of Police. It is supervised by Inspector General of Police, CB-CID and monitored by Deputy General of Police, CB-CID. “The High Court commenced monitoring of the investigation without disclosing any default in the progress of the investigation and further, continued to monitor the case even after filing of the chargesheet before the competent trial court,” the appeal by Mr. Das read. The petition said the continued monitoring of the case even after the filing of the chargesheet in a competent court was in “blatant ignorance” of the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Sushila Devi case. A constitutional court need not monitor the case once the probe is complete and chargesheet has been filed in a trial court. The petition said the repeated orders of the High Court from March till August 2 has attached “stigma” on Mr. Das and amount to a punishment in itself. “Moreover, the High Court lost sight of the most basic golden rule of natural justice - audi alteram partem (hear the other side) - while passing grave prejudicial orders against the petitioner even to the extent of sternly directing his immediate suspension from the rank of Special Director General of Police (Law & Order), Tamil Nadu,” the petition said. Mr. Das raised his apprehension that the High Court’s orders seem to leave the outcome of the trial to be a foregone conclusion. In August, the High Court had ordered the expeditious conduct of the trial. It said the trial should be held on a day-to-day basis. The Chief Judicial Magistrate was directed to frame charges against the accused and hold the proceedings without granting unnecessary adjournments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajesh-das-moves-sc-to-shift-case/article35906717.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session to begin on August 26||The Budget session of the Legislative Assembly will commence on August 26 with the customary address of the Lieutenant Governor. Announcing the commencement of the session at a press conference on Friday, Speaker R. Selvam said the session would start at 9.30 a.m. with the address of the Lt. Governor. The election for the Deputy Speaker would be held on the first day. Also, the Business Advisory Committee would meet on the same day to decide on the duration of the session and date for presenting the first Budget of the National Democratic Alliance government. It might be recalled that a few weeks after the Ministers were sworn-in, the government had sent draft of the annual plan of Rs. 10,100 crore for the Centre’s approval. The foundation for the construction of a new Assembly-cum-Administrative complex would be held on September 9, he said, adding the government was planning to invite Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The Speaker said he would accompany Chief Minister N. Rangasamy when he makes a visit to New Delhi to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Shah. Mr. Selvam said he had already requested the Centre to fund the entire cost of construction of the new Assembly building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-to-begin-on-august-26/article35906888.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors take out rally||Street vendors, affiliated to the Puducherry Roadside Vendors’ Association (CITU), took out a rally on Friday to protest the forceful removal of shops in a drive against encroachments on Thursday. The vendors objected to the eviction of hawkers in spite of the Roadside Vendors Livelihood Protection and Regulation Act being in force and without providing alternative sites. The rally, led by CPM leaders R. Rajangam, CITU general secretary Sreenivasan, Azhagar Raj of the vendors’ association, began at the Kamaraj Statue, passed through the thoroughfares and culminated at the Immaculate Conception Cathedral. Later, vendor representatives handed over a memorandum to the Chief Minister seeking his intervention in the livelihood issue, which had been aggravated due to the pandemic restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-take-out-rally/article35906885.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Test positivity rate goes above 2% in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even while the fourth successive day of new cases crossing the 100-mark saw the test positivity rate go above the 2% mark on Friday. The cumulative toll remained at 1,803 -Puducherry (1,428), Karaikal (231), Yanam (105) and Mahe (39). Of the 113 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, 67 were in Puducherry, followed by Mahe (34) and Karaikal (12). No new cases were reported in Yanam. The test positivity rate was 2.01%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.75%. With 83 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 944. Of this, 195 patients were in hospitals and 749 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,22,102 cases against 1,19,355 recovered patients. Of an estimated 15.68 lakh tests administered so far, over 13.40 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 3,320 persons took the jab against Covid to take the total vaccinated population in the Union Territory to 7,53,985.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-positivity-rate-goes-above-2-in-ut/article35906881.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Aurobindo anniversary celebration to begin tomorrow||Auroville will launch a year-long 150th birth anniversary celebrations of freedom fighter, philosopher and spiritual sage Sri Aurobindo on Independence Day, falling on Sunday. The traditional pre-dawn bonfire at the amphitheatre near the Matrimandir will be followed by meditation and mass invocation with Sri Aurobindo’s ‘Gayatri Mantra’. A press statement from Auroville said proceedings would be live-streamed from the anniversary websitehttps://sriaurobindo150.aur oville.org The anniversary celebrations are broadly centred on the theme, “Sri Aurobindo: A Force in Action (1872-2022)”. This year only Aurovilians, newcomers and Aurocard holders can join the meditation at the amphitheatre. Strict COVID-19 protocols are to be followed. The dawnfire is at 5 a.m. and Gayatri Mantra invocation at 5.45 a.m. A host of other events will follow from 8 a.m. at the Bharat Nivas campus and at the Savitri Bhavan from 10 a.m. Aurobindo’s message As is the custom, Sri Aurobindo’s Independence Day message (written for All India Radio, Tiruchirapalli, and broadcast on August 14, 1947) will be played on the occasion .  Auroville Foundation Secretary Jayanti Ravi will hoist the National flag and deliver an address to mark India’s 75th Independence Day at 8.30 a.m. An exhibition /(SAWCHU) is also part of the events. The Secretary will open a flower exhibition at Savitri Bhavan dedicated to special significances of Sri Aurobindo and the Supramantal Consciousness expatiated by the Mother. This will be followed by a reading from Savitri, (Book 11, Canto 1), Sri Aurobindo’s epic poem and a talk by Shraddhavan, who is among the early Aurovilians. Webinar to be held A webinar is scheduled at 7.30 p.m. on the theme “Sri Aurobindo’s Five Dreams for India and the World" from his Independence Day message featuring Karan Singh, former chairman of the Auroville Foundation, Sir Mark Tully, former international advisory council member of Auroville, Shashi Tharoor, MP and former UN Under Secretary, Ameeta Mehra and Aster Patel, former members of the Auroville Governing Board. To join, registerhttps://us02web.zoom.us/ webinar/register/8916277429629/ WN_kN0pn-G-SDGw Tc_6Q6niMQ||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auroville-to-begin-sri-aurobindo-anniversary-celebration-tomorrow/article35906875.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centac invites applications for non-NEET courses||The Centralised Admission Committee (Centac) has invited applications for all non-NEET based courses in the Union Territory for the academic year 2021-22. Announcing the commencement of admission process at a press conference, Home Minister A. Namassivayam, who also holds the Education portfolio, said the government had decided not to collect application fee from candidates other than NRIs, foreign nationals and those applying for self-supporting courses. The decision to waive the application fee was taken considering the COVID-19 induced economic burden on people. Usually, Centac collected application fee ranging from Rs. 300 to Rs. 500 from students, he added. The last date for online application would be August 31. More details about the courses and seats in each of the colleges can be had from the website www.centacpuducherry.in. Candidates could also submit online application through the website, he said. Admission would be conducted to fill as many as 4,260 seats in Arts and Science Colleges and 3,907 seats in professional courses. To a question on the demand to waive the fee for SC/ST students in all educational institutions, the Minister said the government could incur an additional expenditure of Rs. 40 crore annually. Constable recruitment Earlier, the Minister flagged off “Fit India Freedom Run-2021” to mark the 75th Independence day. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of the function, the Minister said the government had fast-tracked the recruitment of 390 constables. In a few days, tender would be invited to select a professional organisation to conduct the physical tests, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centac-invites-applications-for-non-neet-courses/article35906879.ece
14 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Postpone local body polls, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party has sought postponement of local body polls in the Union Territory due to the pandemic. Speaking to reporters after participating in a draw of lots by State Election Commission to decide on the number of seats to be reserved for Other Backward Classes and Schedule Tribes on Friday, BJP legislator A. John Kumar told reporters that medical experts had advised on the third wave of COVID-19.  “ There will be thousands of candidates in the fray for the local body polls and the campaign will be more intense. So, there is nothing wrong in postponing the polls by six months,” he said. While attending the drawing of lots, he along with other party representatives, expressed unhappiness on the way delimitation exercise was conducted in the Union Territory. The All India N R Congress representatives also supported BJP’s stand. State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas agreed to look into the complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postpone-local-body-polls-bjp/article35906880.ece
14 August 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Now, a ready reckoner for mangroves||For the first time, a detailed book on mangroves of Ramanathapuram titled ‘Roots of the Sea’ has been published by the Forest Department of the State. The 130-page book is the brainchild of international award winning Forest Range Officer S. Sathish, who has been working towards conservation of mangroves in the region for the last five years. He has co-authored the book with two faculty members of Centre of Advanced Study in Marine Biology, Annamalai University – Associate professor T. Ramanathan and retd.Dean K. Kathiresan. Mr. Sathish told The Hindu that book is an useful reference tool for forest officials and scholars who are pursue courses on marine ecosystems and marine biology. Texts and pictorial presentations of different species of mangroves found across the world, in the country, in Tamil Nadu and in Ramanathapuram, how they are beneficial as a pristine ecosystem and what can be done to protect them are highlighted in the book that was released by Wildlife Warden of Ramanathapuram A. S. Marimuthu. The first copy was handed over to District Forest Officer Arun Kumar in the presence of Assistant Commissioner of Forests S. Ganeshalingam Mr. Sathish said that he felt it necessary to document the mangroves because he did not find much printed material related to it even though mangroves were present in Pichavaram, Cuddalore and Muthupettai besides the Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar in Tamil Nadu and Odisha and Telangana. In Ramanathapuram, there were 11 species of mangroves. Due to climatic change, indiscriminate fishing activities and lack of awareness, the place is left with eight species. He has been leading the movement to rejuvenate mangroves and also plant new ones over 560 hectares. People should be aware that mangroves act as sea walls and protect coastal areas from the wrath of cyclones, help purify salt water of the sea, attract migratory birds, are spawning ground for fish and mangrove leaves have high medicinal value, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-a-ready-reckoner-for-mangroves/article35906679.ece
14 August 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen condemn attack by Lankan navy||Following the alleged attack by Sri Lankan Navy personnel against fisherman Selvam, 35, of Mandapam, fishermen associations have demanded Union and State government intervention immediately. In a meeting held in Mandapam on Friday, they condemned the attack. On Wednesday, when fishermen from Mandapam ventured into the sea in 150 mechanised boats with over 1,000 fishermen, the Sri Lankan Navy personnel had reportedly pelted stones and empty bottles against the boats and fishermen claiming that they had crossed the IMBL at Katchatheevu. The fishermen maintained that they were very much fishing in Indian territory and condemned the attack. The fishing nets of at least 20 fishermen were also damaged by the Navy personnel. In the stone pelting, Selvam suffered multiple injuries and fainted in the boat. Immediately, they returned to the shore in the early hours of Thursday and admitted him to a private hospital. The fishermen said that they would hold a meeting on Sunday and decide the next course of action.  We will conduct a meeting on Sunday and decide the next course of action Fishermen forum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-condemn-attack-by-sl-navy/article35906687.ece
14 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||NIB seizes 100 kg of ganja||The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau seized 100 kg of ganja during vehicle checks here. According to police, a team led by DSP Manoharan conducted vehicle checks at Omalur here and intercepted a truck. On checks, police found that the truck was loaded with 100 kg of ganja and police seized the contraband goods and the truck. Police arrested two persons, Sathish Kumar from Erode and Sivakumar from Ariyalur. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nib-seizes-100-kg-of-ganja/article35906710.ece
14 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man sentenced in sexual assault case||An elderly man was sentenced to five years of imprisonment by the Special Court under POCSO Act here on Friday. According to the police, in August 2014, Kaliappan (60) from Samuthiram near Manapakkiyam here lured a 10-year-old girl from his locality and attempted to sexually assault the minor girl. Based on a complaint from the victim’s mother, Sankari All Women Police Station registered a case and arrested the accused. Hearing the case on Friday, the Special Court for Trail of cases under POCSO Act, Judge S. Muruganantham sentenced the accused to five years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-man-sentenced-in-sexual-assault-case/article35906715.ece
14 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Adulterated sago products seized||In a joint drive conducted by various department, over 13 tonnes of adulterated sago products were seized by officials here. Officials are investigating. Officials from Sagoserve, food safety department, commercial tax department and police conducted inspections at a sago manufacturing unit near Thalaivasal here. As part of the raids, officials seized about 13.5 tonnes of finished sago products and 7.2 tonnes of wet starch. Officials also seized 100 litres of sulfuric acid, 100 litres of hydrogen peroxide, 15 litres of phosphoric acid, and 225 kg of calcium hypochlorite from the unit. The total value of seizures was put at Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adulterated-sago-products-seized/article35906709.ece
14 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Drumstick sale picks up||Timely assistance from the Horticulture department has reportedly helped drumstick cultivators in Thiruvonam block to market their produce. A sizeable number of farmers in Thiruvonam block had started cultivating drumstick as an intercrop in groundnut fields two to three years ago. The variety suggested by the Horticulture department has a life of around nine months and the cultivator could start harvesting drumsticks from the sixth month onwards. Claiming that the drumsticks produced on about 300 acres in Sivaviduthi and Kaduvettividuthi areas in the block were received well by consumers in Tiruchi, Peravurani, Mannargudi and Pattukottai areas, K. R. Ramasamy of Sivaviduthi, who is also the deputy president, Thiruvonam Block, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (TNVS), said that suddenly the traders stopped purchasing the drumsticks. As the trees were unable to bear the weight of drumstick pods, the TNVS brought the plight of the cultivators to the notice of the District Horticulture Department, said N.V. Kannan, District Secretary, TNVS. Subsequently, officials passed on the information to traders and it resulted in a positive response from a Madurai-based moringa trader who arrived at Sivaviduthi two days ago and purchased around 100 kg of drumsticks at a price of Rs. 5 to Rs. 6 depending on the quality, said Mr. Ramasamy. “Due to the timely intervention of the department we expect more traders from other districts to arrive and procure our produce”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drumstick-sale-picks-up/article35906639.ece
14 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plan to construct check dams welcomed||Delta farmers have welcomed the announcement of the construction of 1000 check dams over a period of 10 years and revival of 200 irrigation tanks during this year. P.R.Pandian, chairman, Tamil Nadu All Farmers’ Associations Coordination Committee, urged the government to construct the check dams within five years. Sami.Natarajan, State secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, said the exercise would help recharge the groundwater table. Retired economics professor, R.Palanivelu of Thanjavur welcomed the infrastructure development projects. Koundampatti R.Subramanian of the Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association also appreciated the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-construct-check-dams-welcomed/article35906640.ece
14 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK councillors join hands to defeat proposals at district panchayat||Two proposals moved by District Panchayat chairperson Sathya, worth about Rs. 22.77 crore for digging drainage channels in three panchayats and laying seven roads, were jointly defeated by the AIADMK and the DMK councillors. When the district panchayat council meeting was held here on Friday, two proposals – creating drainage channels in three village panchayats on an outlay of Rs. 1.29 crore and laying of seven roads in rural areas at a cost of Rs. 21.49 crore – were tabled for the members’ approval. Of the 17 members, 16 councillors, vice-chairman Selvakumar and chairperson Sathya of AIADMK participated in the meeting. Of the 17 councillors, the AIADMK had won 12 seats and hence AIADMK’s Sathya and Selvakumar became the chairperson and vice-chairman respectively while the DMK had bagged the remaining five seats. After the DMK came to power, Selvakumar and another AIADMK member defected to take the ruling party’s strength to seven. As the proposals were tabled in the council meeting, the DMK councillors raised slogans against the two proposals. Interestingly, a section of the AIADMK councillors also joined the DMK members in opposing the proposals. Consequently, the proposals were defeated. Mr. Selvakumar, who recently defected to the DMK, said a majority of the councillors opposed the proposals as the chairperson, without “consulting” the members, had moved it in “arbitrary” manner. The proposals moved by the AIADMK’s chairperson have been defeated even after nine AIADMK councillors had participated in today’s meeting, leaving the Opposition party perplexed and strengthened its charge that the DMK was trying to capture the district panchayat council chairman post by encouraging defection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-councillors-join-hands-to-defeat-proposals-at-district-panchayat/article35906959.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A new bus stand for Tiruchi: Residents happy||The Budget announcement that an integrated bus stand would be established in Tiruchi has brought cheer to city residents who hope that the elusive project would see the light of the day soon after being in the limbo for more than two decades. Finance Minister P.T.R.Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, in his revised Budget, announced that an integrated bus stand-cum-commercial centre would be established in Tiruchi with financial assistance from Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (TUFIDCO). An announcement on the project was widely expected in the Budget as Minister for Municipal Administration K.N.Nehru had set in motion preliminary steps towards establishing the bus stand at Panchapur, off the Tiruchi-Madurai Highway, soon after the DMK government returned to power. Down the years, successive governments have looked at various sites at Devadhanam off Tiruchi-Chennai Bypass Road, Ariyamangalam compost yard on Tiruchi-Thanjavur Road, Ramji Nagar and Pirattiyur on Tiruchi-Dindigul National Highway, and Kottapattu and Navalpattu on Tiruchi-Pudukottai Highway, besides Panchapur. However, Mr.Nehru had remained firm on establishing the bus stand at Panchapur, a site identified during the previous DMK regime. Chief Minister M.K.Stalin had also inspected the site in August 2010 as the then Deputy Chief Minister. The Budgetary announcement has infused hope that the project would at last become a reality. Many activists and residents took to social media welcoming the move. Welcoming the announcement, Tiruchi MP, Su.Thirunavukkarasar, in a statement, expressed happiness and conveyed his gratitude to the Finance and Municipal Administration ministers. The existing Central Bus Stand in the city has been found inadequate to the ever-increasing traffic handles about one lakh passengers every day. The integrated bus stand along with allied amenities is planned to be established on about 115.68 acres of Corporation land at Panchapur. S.Pushpavanam, secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, pointed out that the establishment of an integrated bus stand was long overdue and stressed the need for reviving the Kallikudi Central Market for Vegetables and Fruits, situated not far away from Panchapur, by shifting the Gandhi Market. Since no financial allocation has been made in the Budget, steps should be taken at the earliest to get financial assistance from TUFIDCO and establish the bus stand, said C.Balasubramanian of the District Exnora. H.Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist, hoped that the project will be kick-started without any further delay and executed within a couple of years. “We are delighted over the much awaited announcement. This is a dream project of Tiruchi residents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-new-bus-stand-for-tiruchi-residents-happy/article35906647.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mother, child die in wall collapse||A 25-year old woman and her 11-month old girl child died after a portion of the mud wall of their tiled house collapsed and fell over them at Manpidimangalam village near Manachanallur in the district on Thursday night. Police identified the victims as S. Nithyashree and her child S. Bhavyashree. The incident occurred when Nithyashree was providing food to her child outside their house and standing close to the side wall when a portion of the wall suddenly collapsed and fell over them. The mud wall is believed to have collapsed due to heavy rains over the past two days, said the police. While the child was killed on the spot, the woman died on the way to the hospital. The bodies were taken to the Government Hospital at Srirangam. The Manachanallur Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mother-child-die-in-wall-collapse/article35907109.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 351 cases||The central region reported 351 fresh cases for COVID-19 on Friday. The number of deaths from the viral infection in the region saw a spike as 12 people succumbed to the illness, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Health Department. In Thanjavur district, three patients succumbed to COVID-19, while Tiruchi, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai reported two deaths each. One death each was reported in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of cases amongst the central districts. A total of 114 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Tiruchi reported 77. All other districts in the region reported 40 or less cases. In Tiruvarur district, 38 patients tested positive, while Pudukottai reported 36 and Nagapattinam, 31. Mayiladuthurai reported 19 patients testing positive for COVID-19, Ariyalur 16, and while Karur, 14. Meanwhile, Perambalur district reported the lowest number of COVID-19 cases in the district with six patients reporting COVID-19 positive. Vaccination camp COVID-19 vaccines will be administered at the following camps in the city from 9.30 a.m. on Saturday: Covishield vaccines would be administered at Devi Corporation Elementary School, Srirangam; Ambika Balar Padasalai, Ariyamangalam; St. John's Vestry Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School; SM High School, Woraiyur; Arabic College, Khajanagar; Kanaga Middle School, Tennur; Kingsley Matriculation School, Uyyakondan Thirumalai; Corporation Primary School, Manjathidal; Ayyanar High School, Melur; and Arokiyamatha Matric School, Karumandapam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-351-cases/article35906643.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Emergency response drill held||An emergency response drill was conducted at the Indian Oil Corporation terminal as part of an initiative to test the preparedness of employees and technical staff to meet emergencies. The drills were conducted for two scenarios - fire at a petrol and diesel storage facility. The drill is conducted once every six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emergency-response-drill-held/article35906641.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Security up at railway stations||Security and surveillance were being scaled up in major railway stations in Tiruchi Division in view of the Independence Day celebrations. An alert has been issued to field-level officers of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the Government Railway Police (GRP) to mount vigil at the stations and areas in its vicinity. The Bomb Detection Squad of the RPF conducted anti-sabotage checks at Tiruchi Junction on Friday checking the personal belongings of the passengers at the station and on board the Mayiladuthurai-bound Jan Shatabdi Express train upon arrival of the train at Tiruchi using hand held metal detectors. Security sources here said detective dogs attached to the RPF Dog Squads functioning at Tiruchi and Villupuram Junctions would be pressed into service to look out for any suspicious objects at major railway stations. The RPF teams would check parcels at the stations as part of the drive to step up security arrangements, said a senior RPF officer. Additional manpower would be involved to scale up bandobust arrangements. The RPF would carry out the vigil in coordination with the GRP, the officer said. The GRP would intensify the security measures by checking baggage of passengers at prominent railway stations in Tiruchi Division. Besides this, the GRP personnel would also carry out track patrolling along different stretches, a senior officer said. Police sources said vehicle checks would be intensified in every sub division in Tiruchi district besides checking of lodges ahead of the Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-stepped-up-at-railway-stations/article35906635.ece
14 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||People disappointed as Budget remains mum on Nanguneri SEZ||The Tamil Nadu government’s silence on reviving the Nanguneri Multiproduct Special Economic Zone (SEZ), which has been ailing ever since the foundation stone was laid by late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in March 2002 due to government policies, has disappointed the people of the southern districts. With no tangible proposal in the revised State Budget, the chances of the SEZ growing big appears to be bleak, at least in the near future, entrepreneurs have expressed their concern. Even though the foundation for this SEZ, one of the first two SEZs that came-up in the country along with another one in Gujarat in 2001 when late Murasoli Maran was the Union Minister for Commerce, was laid by Karunanidhi, no step was taken to invigorate the ailing industrial complex when he returned to power in 2006. While sanctioning SIPCOT Park to “industrially backward Tirunelveli district” along with a few more districts, the maiden Budget of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin-led Cabinet has failed to spell out any plan to revive the Nanguneri SEZ. The SEZ complex with 2,600 acres of land situated advantageously on the 4-lane national highway was acquired and handed over to a private firm for developing it with industry-friendly infrastructure. Though 20 years have already passed by, only eight small units were now functioning. Investors complain that promoters were only eyeing hefty profit, they could make by selling the land to industrialists. Despite enjoying excellent road, rail, air and seaport connectivity, the sprawling campus remains undeveloped evens as several lakhs of skilled and unskilled youth from this industrial backward region was moving towards Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai in search of employment. When Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu visited Tirunelveli district on July 2, he informed that Mr. Stalin was keen on revitalizing the 20-year-old ailing Nanguneri SEZ, which now has only 18% occupancy. “We expected that Mr. Stalin would do something concrete to attract hefty investments to the SEZ by announcing more sops and thereby creating new employment in this region. But there is no such announcement in this Budget, which is quite disappointing and disturbing,” says Gunasingh Chelladurai of Bell Group of Companies and president of Tirunelveli Chamber of Commerce and Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-disappointed-as-budget-remains-mum-on-nanguneri-sez/article35906691.ece
14 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Civic polls: checking of EVMs, control units under way||As the Supreme Court has set September 15 as the deadline for conducting local body elections in nine districts, including Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, the first-level checking of the electronic voting machines (EVMs) and the control units in the presence of political parties’ representatives is under way here since Thursday. Local body polls were not conducted in nine districts, as delimitation exercise could not be completed properly after new districts were carved out from existing ones two years ago, the State Government has planned to conduct the rural civic polls before September 15, as mandated by the Supreme Court. Moreover, steps were being taken to conduct the election for the urban civic bodies across Tamil Nadu before December this year. Hence, the first-level checking of EVMs and the control units started here on Thursday. In the process, 3,200 EVMs and 1,600 control units, all brought here from Karnataka, were being subjected to the first-level checking at Sankar Nagar Town Panchayat office on the city outskirts under tight security arrangements. In the presence of officials and representatives of the political parties, the serial numbers and the year of manufacturing of the EVMs and the control units were being recorded and uploaded in the State Election Commission’s website. “This work will be completed within a week,” said Kutralingam, Assistant Director of Town Panchayats. If the civic polls were notified by the State Election Commission as stipulated by the Supreme Court, a team of technicians from the Bharat Electronics Limited will be roped in to calibrate the EVMs and the control units to get the machines prepared for the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-polls-checking-of-evms-control-units-under-way/article35906960.ece
14 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Mini run held as curtain-raiser for 75th Independence Day||A mini run was organised here on Friday as a curtain-raiser for the 75th Independence Day celebrations. As the Union Ministry of Sports and Youth Welfare was organising nation-wide events connecting the memorials of freedom fighters to commemorate the 75th Independence Day, a mini run, christened ‘Fit India Freedom Run’, was organised in here in which good number of youth participated. After NSS Coordinator of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Rajarathinam and District Sports Officer Rajesh flagged off the mini run at VOC Memorial on Exhibition Grounds here, the participants ran around the temporary bus stand and garlanded the statue of V. O. Chidambaram in the memorial. A group of youth showcased their skills in the martial arts including ‘silambam’, karate and other art forms. Cycle rally In Thoothukudi, the Indian Coast Guard organised a cycle rally in which Collector K. Senthil Raj participated after flagging off the rally at Pearl City Beach. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Corporation Commissioner T. Charushree and ICG Commandant Aravind Sharma participated along with ICG personnel and Thoothukudi Corporation officials. The rally covered 7.50 km up to South Beach Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-run-held-as-curtain-raiser-for-75th-independence-day/article35906963.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out in godown||Fire that broke out in a godown here in the small hours of Friday destroyed discarded tires, steel scrap and two mini cargo vehicles, all worth several lakhs of rupees. The police said fire broke out shortly after midnight in the godown owned by one Stephen of Karuppanthurai here, who had stored discarded tires and steel scrap in the godown at Melapalayam to be sent to Karur-based factories. After the neighbours noticed the fire, they alerted the Palayamkottai Fire Station. Fifteen fire and rescue services personnel fought for more than six hours to douse the flame that destroyed discarded tires, steel scrap and two cargo vehicles. The fire that spread due to strong winds, also damaged the synthetic water tanks atop the neighbouring houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-breaks-out-in-godown/article35906692.ece
14 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out in godown||Fire that broke out in a godown here in the small hours of Friday destroyed discarded tires, steel scrap and two mini cargo vehicles, all worth several lakhs of rupees. The police said fire broke out shortly after midnight in the godown owned by one Stephen of Karuppanthurai here, who had stored discarded tires and steel scrap in the godown at Melapalayam to be sent to Karur-based factories. After the neighbours noticed the fire, they alerted the Palayamkottai Fire Station. Fifteen fire and rescue services personnel fought for more than six hours to douse the flame that destroyed discarded tires, steel scrap and two cargo vehicles, all worth about several lakhs of rupees. The fire that spread due to strong winds, also damaged the synthetic water tanks atop the neighbouring houses. The Melapalayam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-breaks-out-in-godown/article35906961.ece
14 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Nurses call off protest||Following the sit-in protest by the staff nurses at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur, a group of the protesting nurses met Collector S. Vineeth on Friday regarding their grievances. Nine nurses submitted the petition, to which the Collector promised action, said C. Geetha, a staff nurse at the hospital and State treasurer of Tamil Nadu Government Nurses Association. “We have now called off the protest temporarily,” she said after the meeting. The petition alleged that Dean of GMCH R. Murugesan along with two assistant resident medical officers had been mistreating the women staff nurses by allegedly reprimanding them in public, making the nurses sign attendance sheets at every ward in the hospital and having allegedly changed the room of the nurse supervisor four times in the past two months. The staff nurses began their protest at 1 p.m. on Thursday, which extended till midnight. Revenue Department officials held talks with them at the hospital, following which they met Mr. Vineeth on Friday, Ms. Geetha said. Speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, Dr. Murugesan alleged that the nurses had not approached him on their grievances. The hospital administration had launched an inquiry into complaints from patients regarding “rough behaviour” of some of the nurses, which might have triggered the protest, he further claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-call-off-protest/article35906994.ece
14 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||GOC of Dakshin Bharat area visits Wellington||The General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Dakshin Bharat area, Lieutenant General A. Arun visited the Wellington Military Station on Thursday and Friday. The general officer “visited the various units and establishments,” including the Defence Services Staff College, the Madras Regimental Centre and the military hospital, Wellington, a release from the MRC said. Personnel felicitated “He also interacted with the veterans during his visit to the ECHS polyclinic in Wellington. The general officer inspected the training infrastructure of the MRC. He felicitated personnel of various units in the station for their outstanding contributions in accordance with their charter of duties,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goc-of-dakshin-bharat-area-visits-wellington/article35906997.ece
14 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 41 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,423 with 41 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 46,990 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 335. The district's death toll is 1,098. In Ranipet district, 17 cases were reported positive and the total number of cases in the district stood at 42,206. In Tirupattur district, 7 new cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,428. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 43, taking the total number of cases to 52,680. Out of this, 51,563 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 476.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-41-new-covid-19-cases/article35906877.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 236 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported five new COVID-19 deaths and 236 fresh cases on Friday, which was slightly lower than the caseload of Monday (249 cases). The new cases took the overall tally to 2,32,351. The five deaths took the district’s toll to 2,212. Coimbatore district had 2,358 active cases and reported 182 recoveries on Friday. Tiruppur district registered an increase in the daily COVID-19 caseload with 105 new cases on Friday, which was higher than the Thursday’s 83 cases. The overall tally touched 88,937. Three more persons died taking toll to 883. There were 906 active cases and 65 patients were discharged on Friday. In the Nilgiris, 48 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 31,142. The toll stood at 186 while 485 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-236-new-covid-19-cases/article35906996.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||177 positive cases reported in Erode district||Erode district reported 177 new cases on Friday, taking the tally to 95,900. While 146 persons were discharged, 1,745 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, taking the toll in the district to 642. After a brief period, the daily load of positive cases crossed the 100-mark in Salem on Friday as 120 cases were reported here. According to health officials, 118 cases were indigenous and 24 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Two patients returned from other districts. In Namakkal, 47 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all were indigenous. As per bulletin, two men aged 48 and 70 died in Salem and Namakkal respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/177-positive-cases-reported-in-erode-district/article35906701.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report ‘Corporation asked to abide by court order’ published on Page 2 on August 2, 2021, the reference should be to the Third Additional District Munsif and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article35907000.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hard copy||Since an e-Budget was presented for the first time, all members of the House were provided a desktop screen — a tablet with a stylus. However, they were free to collect a hard copy from the Assembly Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hard-copy/article35906656.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 2||The State government will establish an advisory council to develop a “federal fiscal model”, with renowned experts on legislation involving revenue and taxation (including GST), announced Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-2/article35906657.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 3||The government will publish a citizen’s Budget 2022-23, along with the Budget, in simple and non-technical language to encourage greater public understanding and informed debate on the government’s finances, the Finance Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-3/article35906658.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 4||Funding for the MLA Constituency Development Scheme will be restored to Rs. 3 crore a constituency, from the current year, said Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. It was earlier restricted in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-4/article35906659.ece
14 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Action sought against hotel||Member of Legislative Assembly Anil Benake and other BJP leaders submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath urging him to initiate legal action against Niyaaz group of hotels for an advertisement campaign that insulted Hindu sentiments. Advocates R.S. Mutalik and Ramesh Deshpande accompanied the delegation. Mr. Benake told the Deputy Commissioner to take such severe action that would act as deterrent to others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought-against-hotel/article35906724.ece
14 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tribal leader Diego Bastav Siddhi no more||Diego Bastav Siddhi, a leader of the Siddhi tribal community, died in Halyal in Uttara Kannada district on Friday. He was around 75. He was instrumental in pushing forward the demand that the community treated equally as a member of the Scheduled Tribe. He organised the Siddhi community in Belagavi district where it was listed under backward classes. He was a part of the national Siddhi federation and led a delegation to the Centre about the welfare of the Siddhi community and rights of forest dwelling communities in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-leader-diego-bastav-siddhi-no-more/article35906839.ece
14 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddhi leader dead||Diego Bastav Siddhi, a leader of the Siddhi tribal community, died in Haliyal in Uttara Kannada district on Friday. He was aged around 75.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddhi-leader-dead/article35906723.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delay, shoddy work plague revamp of Commercial Street||The colourful tiles and cobblestones paving Commercial Street, which is undergoing a makeover, have worn out even before the formal inauguration of the busy road. Revenue  and city-incharge Minister R. Ashok during an inspection on Friday ordered the contractor to bear the cost and replace the tiles. Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL) is developing the road at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore. But this is not the first time that the quality of work has come under question. A day after the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inspected the newly developed stretch in July, traders had complained of rainwater seeping into their shops. Cut to Friday, the tiles are all faded, and the work is still weeks away from completion. Mr. Ashok, who inspected the stretch along with Administrator of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Rakesh Singh and BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, told reporters that several complaints had been received about the quality of work. “The colour of the tiles has faded as the contractor had decided to paint them after they were laid. The tiles also seem to be of poor quality, which the contractor has also agreed with. I have directed the contractor to change the tiles at their own cost,” he said. Traders are unhappy with the delay and shoddy work. The owner of a commercial establishment along the stretch said business had been affected for more than a year owing to the ongoing work. “We are already badly affected due to the pandemic,” he said. He added that work was completed only on one part of the road and it was progressing at a snail’s pace at other places. “Tiles are yet to be laid properly. In many places, they have already been damaged. If the work has to be done again, it will take longer for our businesses to recover,” he said, and sought to know why quality checks were not in place. Mr. Ashok said work would be completed by September. Apart from replacing the tiles, 100-metres of the crossroads adjacent to Commercial Street would also be developed. “All this will be completed by September. Officials have been directed to ensure quality work so that Commercial Street is developed into a model road,” he added. Drain inspection The Minister later inspected the storm-water drain in front of Gurudwara junction near Ulsoor lake. He asked officials to ensure that the water flows smoothly during the monsoon months.  “The colour of the tiles has faded as the contractor had decided to paint them after they were laid. The tiles also seem to be of poor quality, which the contractor has also agreed with. I have directed the contractor to change the tiles at their own cost,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-shoddy-work-plague-revamp-of-commercial-street/article35906582.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL to cut open white-topped ORR wherever median is narrow||After enduring traffic snarls for years, motorists are finally enjoying the ‘smooth ride’ on the newly white-topped Outer Ring Road from Kasturi Nagar to Hebbal. But it will be temporary: the expensive concrete road projectimplemented by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is facing a threat from the planned Namma Metro project that will link the city to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Once the work begins, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has to cut open the white-topped road to erect pillars for the metro corridor wherever median of the ORR is narrow. Metro officials claim that when the project is completed, the road will be restored, but this will take years. And unlike regular roads, restoring the white-topped stretches will be more expensive. The tender for this stretch is yet to be awarded. Most of the 12-km stretch, barring Nagawara and Veerannapalya, has been white-topped. The BBMP had taken up white-topping work in 2018-19 at a cost of about Rs. 15 crore for every km (six lanes). Blame game When asked about lack of coordination between the BBMP and the BMRCL, a civic official maintained that the alignment of the metro line to the KIA was finalised only after the white-topping project was cleared. “The BMRCL had initially proposed to build a metro network to the international airport from Nagawara via Hegde Nagar and Jakkur. The new alignment was recently approved so the question on lack of coordination does not arise,” said the civic official. ‘Will be restored’ Replying to the BBMP’s accusation on delayed alignments, chief PRO of the BMRCL B.L. Yeshawanth Chavan said, “It is wrong to say that the metro alignment was decided later. Metro projects are discussed at the high-powered committee level where the BBMP is also a stakeholder. When it comes to implementing the project on the median of the Outer Ring Road, we will follow the set standards on restoration of the road after completing the project. In the past too, we had restored the road after completing the project. This will be repeated on the ORR too.” Civic officials said they had been communicating with the BMRCL on the project. “As per the new alignment, the metro corridor will come on the median of the road. To build the pillars, the BMRCL is likely to occupy around 5 metres of land on the median. They may have to cut open the white-topped road. We will come up with certain riders to facilitate the metro work and restoration of the road,” said a BBMP official. He maintained that white-topped roads had a durability of over 25 years. “Even when metro work begins, barring a portion of the stretch, motorists will still enjoy the benefits of white-topping. This is not the case with other roads in the city where the metro work is under way,” he added. The BMRCL is building 58-km ORR-airport line from the Central Silk Board to the KIA. Work has already begun between the Central Silk Board and K.R. Puram and for the remaining 38 km, tender evaluation is under progress. The project is likely to be completed by 2025.  Optional quotes The BMRCL had initially proposed to build a metro network to the international airport from Nagawara via Hegde Nagar and Jakkur. The new alignment was recently approved so the question on lack of coordination does not arise: BBMP official. It is wrong to say that the metro alignment was decided later. Metro projects are discussed at the High Power Committee level where BBMP is also a stakeholder. When it comes to implementing the project on the median of the Outer Ring Road, we will follow the set standards on restoration of the road after completing the project: BMRLC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-to-cut-open-white-topped-orr-wherever-median-is-narrow/article35906576.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-filing: Advocates lag behind litigants, states report||Litigants arguing their own case without engaging the services of any advocate have outnumbered advocates in registering for the service of the e-filing portal launched by the High Court of Karnataka last year. This information was disclosed before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda on Friday in a report on e-filing cases, submitted by the High Court’s Registrar (Computers) N.G. Dinesh. The Bench had sought a report on a PIL petition filed in 2019 by Dilraj Rohit Sequeira, a city-based advocate, seeking the facility of e-filing petitions. As per the report, 455 litigants treated as party-in-persons for having chosen to argue their cases with engaging an advocate had registered with the e-filing portal, as against 317 advocates. However, in the district judiciary, 1,991 advocates had registered as users in e-filing portals, as against 1,029 party-in-persons, as per data available on July 23, the report stated. The total number of cases filed through the e-filing portal in the High Court was 809, while it was 7,424 in the district judiciary. “Though the e-filing facility has been enabled a long time back, very few members of the Bar have taken advantage of it,” the court noted in its order. e-Seva Kendra The report also stated that four e-Seva Kendra had been set up in the civil court complexes of Bengaluru city and rural districts, and the commercial court complex in Bengaluru to assist advocates and litigants in filing cases through the e-filing portal. While the process is underway to set up four e-Seva Kendras in the principal Bench of the High Court in Bengaluru, one kendra each is already functioning in the Dharwad and Kalaburagi Benches of the High Court. It was also stated in the report that 86 more e-Seva Kendras would be set up in the district judiciary, depending on the number of court rooms in each court complex. It was pointed out in the report that around 1,000 advocates from across the State had already been trained on the e-court services last year, in addition to the provision of training to 137 advocates as master trainers. Over 1,000 court staff too have beenimparted training in e-court services, the report stated, while pointing out that the user manual on e-filing is provided in the portal and being circulated through WhatsAppgroups of advocates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-filing-advocates-lag-behind-litigants-states-report/article35906600.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City gets ready for I-Day celebrations||The stage is set for the 75th Independence Day celebrations at Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Ground in Bengaluru. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said a hundred COVID-19 warriors, including healthcare professionals, frontline workers, and 25 persons who have recovered from the infectious disease, would participate in the celebrations as special invitees. A total of 1,000 seats have been earmarked for VVIPs, VIPs, and special invitees. There will be no cultural programme. All invitees have to wear masks and comply with social distancing norms. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be received by senior officials of the three wings of the armed forces at 8.55 a.m., following which he will hoist the national flag at 9 a.m. He will receive a guard of honour. The entire event will be webcast live and also telecast on Doordarshan. Mr. Gupta said, as part of security measures, 60 CCTV cameras and baggage scanners had been installed. Ambulances and fire tenders would be on standby in case of any emergency. Police CommissionerKamal Pant told reporters that 1,500 police personnel would be deployed, as well as 15 platoons of KSRP, 10 platoons of CAR, and two commando teams. Anti-demonstration squads will be deployed in and around the ground. Parking restrictions As an additional security measure, vehicular movement will be prohibited from 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. on Cubbon Road (between B.R.V. Junction and Kamaraj Road Junction).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-gets-ready-for-i-day-celebrations/article35906579.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No lockdown in Bengaluru’||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Friday clarified that there would not be any lockdown in Bengaluru and that the government would be reviewing the situation by holding discussions with the technical committee after August 15. “I want to clarify that curfew or lockdown is not the only solution. Lockdown creates a lot of hardship to people. Hence, we will take all other possible steps to check COVID-19 rise,” Mr. Ashok said. Noting that COVID-19 cases are under control in Bengaluru, he said Deputy Commissioners had been asked to take strict action in districts where the number of cases had increased in the past few days. He also put to rest fears of a rise in infection among children. “Let me clarify that there is no surge in COVID-19 cases among children. However, the government is taking all possible steps to ramp up infrastructure, including setting up of new paediatric hospitals and training doctors on treating children,” he said. So far, multiple meetings had been conducted and guidelines issued for restricting crowds during festival season, the Minister said. Single-point of contact The city has witnessed a rise in COVID-19 clusters, defined as three or more cases together, and containment zones (100 metres surrounding area) over the last fortnight, most of which are in apartment complexes. In the backdrop of this, the civic body has issued a fresh circular of rules and regulations for residents’ welfare associations. As on August 9, 50% of the containment zones were in apartment complexes alone. RWAs and management committees must appoint a single point of contact who will be in touch with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) health authorities. The BBMP in a circular issued on Friday reiterated that all patients who had tested positive would be physically triaged by the mobile triage unit. Home isolation will be permitted only if they are certified for it and if they clear the home adequacy check.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-rules-out-lockdown-in-city/article35906587.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah asks govt. to clarify stand on Mekedatu||Following BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi’s remark that Mekedatu, the balancing reservoir project proposed in the Cauvery basin, is “to be looked at pragmatically and not emotionally”, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday asked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to clarify the government’s stance on the project, which is being opposed by Tamil Nadu. The former Chief Minister questioned the “double standards” adopted by the ruling BJP on the issue and said Mr. Bommai should control the “loose talk” of some of the BJP leaders in the State. The government should take the Opposition into confidence in matters related to inter-State disputes, he said, condemning Mr. Ravi’s comments. Mr. Ravi, who is in charge of BJP affairs in Tamil Nadu, had said it was not correct to politicise the inter-State issue and added that there was no restriction on either Karnataka or Tamil Nadu using their share of the water. “I will make the same statement in Tamil Nadu too,” Mr. Ravi had said, stressing that the States should work as per court directives. Earlier, Mr. Bommai had categorically said that the State would not compromise on implementing the proposed Mekedatu project and would go ahead with it. Oath-taking ceremony Mr. Siddaramaiah was speaking at the oath-taking ceremony of Raksha Ramaiah as president of Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee. Mr. Ramaiah will continue in the post till January 31, 2022. He will be succeeded by Mohammed Haris Nalapad then. Mr. Siddaramaiah also hit out at the Narendra Modi-led Union government’s policies and the hike in fuel prices that have impacted the livelihood of the common man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-asks-govt-to-clarify-stand-on-mekedatu/article35906605.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Speaker condemns ‘unruly’ conduct in Rajya Sabha||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri has condemned the unruly behaviour of Opposition members in the Rajya Sabha in its concluded session. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru on Friday, Mr. Kageri said the conduct of a few Opposition members was “abominable” and was not expected on the floor of Parliament or legislature. “Never before in the history of Parliament had there been an instance of the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha breaking down in anguish. This is unacceptable,” the Speaker said. “The Rajya Sabha has a moral role to play in setting a noble precedence to State legislatures in terms of mature and measured debate, dignified conduct and exemplary behaviour,” he said, adding that the recent incidents had made “all right-thinking persons hang their heads in shame”. According to the Speaker, the responsibility of inculcating discipline and imparting dignified behaviour among members is on the political parties. “It is my ardent wish that political parties and their leaders take up some sort of orientation programme for their members on matters related to public conduct and behaviour,” Mr. Kageri said. The Speaker recalled several events in the Karnataka Assembly in the recent past where discussions took place on the issue of deterioration of values in parliamentary democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaker-condemns-unruly-conduct-in-rajya-sabha/article35906835.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No PSU will be closed, says Nirani||Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh R. Nirani on Friday said that his department has prepared a plan to revive loss-making public sector undertakings and make them profitable. The Minister, who assumed charge of the department, outlined his priorities. “There are several corporations and institutions such as Kalaburagi Cement Corporation, Mysugar and Mysore Paper Mills, that are on the path of bankruptcy. I held discussions with Union Ministers on reviving them during my trip to New Delhi two days ago. I will not allow closure of industries and try to make them functional,” he said. On the use of land allocated by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) for setting up industries, Mr. Nirani warned against its misuse. “Those who obtained land to set up industries from KIADB must use it for the same purpose. There is no provision to use KIADB land for other purposes. I will order a probe if the land is being misused,” he warned. The Minister said that the government was planning to use 21 acres belonging to Mysore Lamps and NGEF to build theme parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-psu-will-be-closed-says-nirani/article35906838.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents evacuated after slurry enters building||The residents of a building in Shivajinagar were evacuated when slurry entered the ground floor due to metro tunnel boring work on Tuesday evening. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) managing director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that the incident occurred while the tunnel boring machine, Urja, was drilling seven and a half metres below the surface level. “The cutterheads of the TBM drill in high pressure. Because of the loose soil, slurry may have entered the premises. Slurry was seen leaking through a wall located near the bathroom on the ground floor. Prior to that, it started overflowing through a manhole near the residential area,” he said. As a precautionary measure, all occupantsof the ground floor and three storeys of the building were evacuated. “They preferred to stay with their relatives in nearby areas,” said Mr. Parwez, adding that the building would be thoroughly examined. A metro engineer said the incident happened at around 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday. “As soon as we got to know about the incident, the families were evacuated. There were around 10 occupants in the building, including the family of four on the ground floor. Barring the single building which is quite old, other residential buildings in the area were not affected.” TBM Urja started drilling from the proposed Cantonment metro station towards Shivajinagar metro station in August 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-evacuated-after-slurry-enters-building/article35906577.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,669 new cases in State||Karnataka reported 1,669 new cases of COVID-19 and 22 deaths on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 29,26,401 and death toll to 36,933. The Health and Family Welfare Department bulletin said that Bengaluru Urban accounted for 425 new cases and five deaths. Dakshina Kannada, which had surpassed Bengaluru in the last two days, recorded 390 new cases on Friday and three deaths. Ramanagar, Haveri and Bidar reported no new cases. The day also saw 1,672 recoveries. A total of 4,06,02,759 samples have been tested, out of which 1,69,332 were tested on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1669-new-cases-in-state/article35906583.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private school ordered to refund excess fees||The Commissioner for Public Instruction (CPI) has ordered a private school in Bengaluru to refund the excess fees charged by the management to parents for three academic years in 15 days. The CPI upheld the order filed by the District Education Regulatory Authority (DERA) which had said that Gopalan International School has to refund the excess fees for academic years 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20. If the school managements fail to refund parents, its NOC will be cancelled. A parent who was one of the petitioners to the DERA said they were hoping that the school management would fall in line and comply with the order. The school management was unavailable for comment. FIR against school The Whitefield police have registered a case against the management of a private school for allegedly issuing the transfer certificate to a Class VI student over non-payment of fees in August 2020. The child’s parents refused to pay fees prescribed by the school during the pandemic. The complainant alleged that management of Euro School refused to let the child attend online classes, and sent the transfer certificate over an email. The parent filed a private complaint in the 29th ACMM court which directed the police to register an FIR in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-school-ordered-to-refund-excess-fees/article35906588.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three held for setting MLA’s cars on fire||The city police on Friday arrested three youths who allegedly broke into the premises of Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy’s residence and set fire to two cars around 1.25 a.m. on August 12. The arrested are unemployed youths and mostly vagabonds, all in their late 20s and residents of Garvebhavipalya, also in the Bommanahalli constituency. The trio reportedly confessed to the act and claimed they set fire to the cars out of a grudge against the MLA. One of those arrested had been to the MLA’s residence multiple times seeking some personal help, but was reportedly not let into the house. According to sources, he told the police that this experience fuelled in him an anger against the MLA and his “riches”, and claimed he wanted to teach him a lesson. He suffered minor burns on his leg while setting fire to the cars. Senior police officials said by analysing CCTV footage from several cameras from the area, they tracked down the trio wandering in the narrow bylanes around the MLA’s residence and finally fleeing after stealing a bike parked on a bylane. Incidentally, on Thursday morning, the bike owner registered a missing complaint as well. The police found the bike parked on a bylane and kept watch for a few hours. They were able to nab two of the accused who came to retrieve the bike. They led the police to the third accused. Investigations have revealed that the arson was preplanned and the trio had bought a bottle of petrol from a nearby station, before going near the MLA’s residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-for-setting-mlas-cars-on-fire/article35906590.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Steep hike announced in relief for the flood-hit||The State government on Friday increased the relief amount to be given to families who lost their homes and belongings in the recent floods and torrential rains in 61 taluks in 13 districts. Instead of Rs. 3,800 under National Disaster Response Fund/State Disaster Response Fund, the government has decided to release Rs. 10,000 for each family that has lost its household items and clothes during the recent floods. The government will additionally pay Rs. 6,200 per household from its own finances. The amount is to be credited to the bank accounts of eligible beneficiaries by the district administration from its relief fund, stated a Government Order. Compensation of Rs. 5 lakh would be provided to owners whose houses have seen more than75% damage. This is instead of the Rs. 95,100 under SDRF/NDRF. Similarly, a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh would be provided to owners whose houses have seen between 25% and 75% damage, but require a rebuild. The relief fixed under NDRF/SDRF is Rs. 95,100 per house. Compensation of Rs. 3 lakh would be given to families whose houses have been heavily damaged, in the range of 25% to 75%, instead of Rs. 95,100. These are for houses that need to be repaired. Owners of ‘C’ category houses damaged in the range of 15% to 25% would be given a compensation of Rs. 50,000, instead of the amount of Rs. 5,200 fixed under SDRF/NDRF. The amount would be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries identified through software developed by Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd. Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to identify houses damaged in the floods. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai inspected rain-hit districts of North Karnataka and promised to provide relief to the families impacted by the floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steep-hike-announced-in-relief-for-the-flood-hit/article35906602.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes to labour laws in the offing: Minister||Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar on Friday said that new amendments were set to be introduced to labour laws in order to provide more benefits to lakhs of unorganised workers and bring mechanics and autorickshaw, bus and truck under their ambit to provide medical care and other facilities. Speaking to presspersons after conducting a puja at his office at the State Secretariat, he said the existing labour laws would be amended in the coming session of the State legislature. He also said compensation to family in the case of death of construction workers would be increased to Rs. 5 lakh. A vigilance squad would be formed to keep an eye on the implementation of the various labour laws at factories, industries, and private establishments. Recently, the Karnataka State Construction Worker Unions’ Coordination Committee had alleged a misuse of funds in the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-to-labour-laws-in-the-offing-minister/article35906603.ece
14 August 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka HC seeks details of funds released by govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to submit the details of the funds actually disbursed to various newly created boards and corporations such as the Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation based on the provisions made in the Budget. The court also directed the government to submit details of the amount spent by each of the boards and corporations. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction during the hearing of a batch of PIL petitions in which the legality of the creation of several boards and corporations was questioned. Though the arguments on the petitions have already concluded, the petitions were posted on Friday to take on record the written submissions of the parties to the petitions. At this stage, the Bench pointed out to the government counsel that details of funds actually released to the boards and corporations, and the amount spent by these bodies, were not available in the government’s submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-hc-seeks-details-of-funds-released-by-govt/article35906594.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reopen schools with less than 50 students in rural areas’||The National Coalition on Education Emergency has demanded that lower primary schools in rural areas with a student strength of less than 50 should be reopened immediately. In a press release issued on Friday, it stated that children who are enrolled in small schools are in the same bubble as the community and are already playing with one another outside their homes. “These should be the first to be opened. Gradually, other schools should be opened, with staggered resumption, for different classes, shift system, as required, for larger schools,” the release added. The coalition welcomed the State government’s decision to reopen classes IX to XII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reopen-schools-with-less-than-50-students-in-rural-areas/article35906591.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||75,000 saplings to be planted||To mark 75th Independence Day, Koti Vruksha Sainya, a platform of Citizens of Bengaluru, along with the BBMP will plant 75,000 saplings in the city, mainly in parks and at lakes. A release stated that the civic body is providing saplings from its Forest Department for the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/75000-saplings-to-be-planted/article35906580.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Kannadiga first, then Indian’||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy has said that when it comes to the interests of the State, he is “Kannadiga first and then Indian”. Reacting sharply to BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that the former Minister should not speak as if those who are talking about the interests of Karnataka “are from Pakistan”. He reiterated that the Mekedatu project was Karnataka’s right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannadiga-first-then-indian/article35906598.ece
14 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Banks told to lend without inhibition||Stating that Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) are playing a significant role in rural development, Executive Director of Canara Bank Brij Mohan Sharma on Friday told bankers to lend loans without any inhibition to leverage the living standards of people living below poverty line. He was addressing bank officials after unveiling a name board to mark the naming of the Head Office of Karnataka Vikas Grameena (KVG) Bank in Dharwad as Vikas Bhavan on Friday. Mr. Sharma said that over 70% of the people in the country lived in villages and despite various measures, there has not been much improvement in their living standards. Bank officials should sanction them loans without any inhibition so that they can climb the ladder of economic progress and thereby improve their living standards. He said that the main objective of RRBs should be inclusive growth and it should be achieved by promoting financial inclusion, financial literacy, accelerating priority sector lending, inculcating repayment habits and motivating them to avail of digital banking. He urged bankers to introduce bankable schemes and open financial literacy and credit counselling centres to improve the credit flow in the region. In the last four decades, the Canara Bank-sponsored KVG Bank has been instrumental in the development of rural areas, particularly in improving the quality of life of the farming community. Collective responsibility should be shown to ensure the development of villages without forgetting personal customer service, he said. Making the introductory remarks, Chairman of KVG Bank P. Gopi Krishna said that the bank has registered good growth every year and its business has crossed Rs. 27,800 crore. KVG Bank is committed to providing banking services to the rural community and accordingly, various schemes and programmes are being implemented. The bank currently serves over 2,045 villages with 629 branches. General Manager of Canara Bank, Hubballi Circle, G.S. Ravisudhakara lauded KVG Bank for its constructive role in the development of this region. General Managers of KVG Bank Chandrasekhar D. Moro, B.C. Ravichandra and P. Srinivasa Rao were present. KVG Bank’s head office spread over two acres of land was inaugurated in 1994 when it served as the head office of the erstwhile Malaprabha Grameena Bank. In 2005, after amalgamation of four RRBs (Malaprabha, Bijapura, Varada and Netravati Grameena Bank), the bank was renamed as Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank and subsequently, all products and services of the bank were renamed with the brand name, “Vikas”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banks-told-to-lend-without-inhibition/article35906728.ece
14 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Exhibition begins||An exhibition-cum-sale of traditional silk and cotton saris and other handloom products organised by Silk India, in which weavers from across the country are participating, has begun at Gujarat Bhavan at Deshpande Nagar here. The exhibition has participation from weavers of West Bengal, Odisha, Gujarat and several other States. On Thursday, president of Dharwad District KPCC Women’s Wing Devaki Yoganand, Director of Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Mallikarjun Savakar took part in the inauguration of the exhibition, which will go on till August 22. After the inauguration, the dignitaries visited various stalls and purchased a few handloom products. The exhibition has a wide range of saris from different States and of different designs and patterns. It also has a wide range of handloom products and handicrafts and wide variety of ornaments. The exhibition is open from 10.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition-begins/article35906727.ece
14 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Celebrating Nag Panchami by distributing milk to poor children||In a programme aimed at sensitising the general public on meaningful celebration of Nagara Panchami (festival of worshipping the Serpent God), children of nomadic communities were fed milk at a school in Hubballi on Friday. The programme was jointly organised by the Rani Channammaji Balaga of Lingayat Panchamasali Jagadguru Peetha of Koodalasangama and Sri Channabasava Education Society at Amaragol in Hubballi. Seer of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha of Koodalasangama, Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami distributed milk to the children of nomadic communities on the school premises on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, the swami urged the public not to waste milk by pouring it over idols of Nagappa (Serpent God) or over anthills while celebrating Nagara Panchami festival. Instead, give milk to needy children which will be a more meaningful celebration of the festival, the swami said. This was the 24th year that the peetha celebrated the festival this way. Rani Channammaji Balaga president Deepa Gouri, members of the Panchamasali community Nagaraj Gouri, Shanmukh Betageri, Bisagal Hanumanth, Rekha Managundi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-nag-panchami-by-distributing-milk-to-poor-children/article35906730.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Day train restored between Mangaluru and Karwar||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) has finally relented to public demand while announcing resumption of services of the Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Tri-weekly Special (day) Express between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar. On Thursday, KRCL asked South Western Railway that owns the train to issue a notification for reintroducing the train on the partially cancelled stretch. However, the reintroduction too has come with a rider — it will only run for a period of three months, as against the Railway Ministry’s earlier directive of “until further advice.” South Western Railway on Friday issued a formal notification announcing the resumption of services partially cancelled in May. While Train No 06211 will resume services on Monday, till November 26 between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar, the pairing service, Train No 06212 will resume services between Karwar and Mangaluru Junction on Tuesday, till November 27. These trains will run as fully reserved special services. Introduced in 2010 when the residents of the coastal region filed a public interest writ petition before the High Court of Karnataka seeking rail connectivity to Karwar, the tri-weekly day train offered connectivity between the coastal areas and the State capital. The overnight express between Bengaluru and Karwar too was introduced at the same time after extending it from Mangaluru Central to Karwar. With the State government relaxing COVID-19 restrictions in phases since June, people in the region began demanding reintroduction of the partially cancelled train service. Elected representatives, including Uttara Kannada MP Anantkumar Hegde, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP and Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje, MLAs Dinakar Shetty and Halady Srinivas Shetty, and others supported the demand. Yet, KRCL was unrelenting and justified the cancellation saying that the train was running under a huge loss, prompting rail patrons to contemplate initiating contempt of court proceedings against the Railways. Additional halts Meanwhile, KRCL said that additional commercial halts have been provided at Murudeshwar, Ankola and Gokarna Road for these trains. Murudeshwar and Gokarna Road serve popular religious tourist spots. And, it was said that the Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare met the Railway Minister and had urged him to resume the railway service up to Karwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/day-train-restored-between-mangaluru-and-karwar/article35907074.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Archana Jaivittal from Manipal for Special Olympics in Austria||Archana Jaivittal M.J. from Asare, a home for the specially challenged being run by Archana Trust and Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), is all set to participate in the Special Olympics World Championship Dance Sport 2021 at Graz, Austria, on August 19 and August 20. She will be the sole representative from India in this category. Ms. Jaivittal is prepared for a 90-second classical solo category performance at the competition. Through her long journey within Special Olympics, she made India proud when she bagged a bronze in swimming at the SOAP Regional Games held in 2013. She repeated the feat in the Abu Dhabi World Games 2019 winning another bronze. She is eager, and confident, to participate in this new category of Dance Sport that has once again brought her to the spotlight. In 2015, she received the national award in the role model category by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, a release from MAHE said on Friday. She left for Graz on Friday. Austria will welcome 80 athletes from 13 nations at the first Special Olympics Dance Sport World Championship. Special Olympics athletes will compete in four categories — solo, duo, couples and teams within the four disciplines. They are ballroom, street dance, performance art, and speciality. Dance Sport was officially recognised by Special Olympics in 2019, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/archana-jaivittal-from-manipal-for-special-olympics-in-austria/article35907078.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Those protesting at Talapady village in Kerala cautioned||Cautioning protestors on the Kerala-side of the border Talapady village against denigrating Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader on Friday said that the pain of the protestors due to the restrictions in the border areas does not give them the right to speak lightly of the Chief Minister. Mr. Khader was commenting on statements by United Democratic Front Manjeshwar Block chairman Saifullah Tangal and the former president of Vokardy Gram Panchayat Harshad Vorkady that because of the protest at Talapady Mr. Bommai cancelled his visit on Friday morning. “He is our Chief Minister. We cannot tolerate statements denigrating him,” Mr. Khader told reporters at a press conference here. “It is because of the prevailing COVID-19 situation in Kerala that the State government decided to insist on RT-PCR negative certificate for those entering from Kerala into Karnataka. These are hard decisions and it is bound to cause pain to those in the border areas. But this does not give anybody the right to speak lightly of the Chief Minister,” he said. Mr. Khader said that the Chief Minister reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Dakshina Kannada on Thursday and has taken steps to prevent the spread of the pandemic from the border areas. “As he could review the situation effectively during the meeting, Mr. Bommai cancelled his visit to Talapady,” he said and added that there was no need for Mr. Bommai to visit the border areas. “It is silly (for protestors) to state that Mr. Bommai cancelled his visit because of the protest,” he said. The United Democratic Youth Front and other activists had called for a protest on Friday morning in anticipation of Mr. Bommai’s visit. After the cancellation of Mr. Bommai’s visit, the protestors held a snap protest hoping that Mr. Bommai will visit the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-protesting-at-talapady-village-in-kerala-cautioned/article35907079.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ullal is being wrongly projected as a hub of terrorist activity: Khader||Ullal is known for communal harmony and some social organizations are trying to use the recent raid of the National Investigation Agency on a house in the area to project it as a hub of terrorist activity, said U.T. Khader, Mangaluru MLA, here on Friday. Talking to reporters, he said there is no question of Ullal residents encouraging anti-national activities. “They are as patriotic as other residents and live in solidarity with all communities. Nobody here supports terrorist activities,” he said. The NIA, the MLA said, raided the house of former Ullal MLA and late poet B.M. Idinabba in Ullal, among the five places searched in relation to investigation into an ISIS Kerala module. “The NIA is doing its investigation but is yet to give a clear picture (about the activities of ISIS). It is improper to say anything at this stage and politicise the issue.” Mr. Khader said the protest by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists before the house of late Idinabba on August 9 was an attempt to create communal tension in the area. The VHP activists are falsely projecting a family member of late Idinabba as a victim of ‘Love Jihad’ and there was no complaint by the woman’s parents in this regard. Instead of protesting against the Centre demanding a law barring ‘Love Jihad’, the VHP activists are trying to raise a hue and cry over the marriage of the woman with a member of late Idinabba family, which is permitted under the law. “They are just trying to politically encash on NIA raid. People of the area are seeing this clearly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ullal-is-being-wrongly-projected-as-a-hub-of-terrorist-activity-khader/article35907085.ece
14 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Train service restored||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) has relented to public demand and resumed services of Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly (daytime) express between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar. The service was cancelled between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar in May. The reintroduction comes with a rider — for a period of three months, as against Railway Ministry’s earlier directive of ‘until further advice’. On August 12, KRCL asked South Western Railway (SWR), which owns the train, to issue a notification for reintroduction of the train between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar. On August 13, SWR issued the notification. While Train No. 06211 will resume service with effect from August 16 till November 26 between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar, the pairing train, No. 06212 will resume service between Karwar and Mangaluru Junction from August 17 till November 27. The trains would run as fully reserved special services. The train, now running between Yeshwantpur and Mangaluru, has two special vistadome coaches to promote tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-service-restored/article35906830.ece
14 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai to donate organs||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would be donating his organs and would be signing a pledge to this effect. Speaking to mediapersons in Udupi on August 13 on the occasion of World Organ Donation Day, the Chief Minister said that with the availability of organ harvesting and transplanting technology, many lives could be saved if more people pledge to donate their organs. Organ donation pledges and donations have been badly hit by COVID-19, especially during the first year of the pandemic in 2020. Though there is a slight improvement this year, donations are still way below the numbers in the pre-COVID-19 days. Jeevasarthakathe, the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO), recorded 35 donations in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-cm-signs-pledge-to-donate-organs/article35906514.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A glimpse of coastal beauty||Attached with two Vistadome coaches to promote tourism and now running till Mangaluru Junction, the Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Tri-weekly Special (day) Express upon its reintroduction till Karwar is expected to enthral travellers giving a clear view of the beauty of the coastal region. Vistadome coaches on the day trains between Yeshwantpur and Mangaluru Junction introduced since mid-July have been a big hit and are running to full capacity. With 44 reclining and rotating seats in each coach, wide window panes and wide rear window, the coaches offers a pristine view of the Western Ghats to the patrons. The coastal stretch of Konkan Railway network between Mangaluru and Karwar too is full of natural beauty with a number of rivers, coconut gardens and vast paddy fields. People expect a big boost to tourism sector with the operation of the Vistadome coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-glimpse-of-coastal-beauty/article35907073.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Weekend curfew today, tomorrow||Weekend curfew will be in force in Dakshina Kannada till 5 a.m. on Monday. However, people can purchase essential commodities till 2 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Also, the Mega Lok Adalat has been allowed in courts in the district from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Those attending the adalat have been exempted from the curfew. They should produce the relevant notice and documents when asked by the authorities concerned during their travel. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said in a statement on Friday that those coming from Kerala for attending the Lok Adalat should compulsorily produce RT-PCR test negative certificate for COVID-19. They should produce the negative certificate even if they have taken two doses of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-curfew-today-tomorrow/article35907076.ece
14 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||17-yr-old boy rescued||The Railway Police rescued a 17-year-old boy from Bengaluru at the Udupi Railway Station on Friday. The boy had left his house in Bengaluru and boarded a train. The Railway Protection Force personnel found him without ticket on the train and deboarded him at the Udupi Railway Station. Then, Prabhakar Achar and Yogish Shetty from the Udupi District Child Protection Unit took the boy to the Child Welfare Centre. Following counselling, CWC president Ronald Furtado ordered to place the boy in an institution in Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-yr-old-boy-rescued/article35907080.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MP urges NHAI to upgrade Mysuru-Nanjangud highway||Anticipating a rise in vehicular traffic between Mysuru and Nanjangud, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has urged the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to upgrade the 23-km stretch of highway from the existing four lanes to six lanes. It is part of National Highway (NH) 212 between the border of Kerala and Kollegal in Karnataka. The stretch of road is busy with traffic plying between the city and the industrial townships in Nanjangud area and the vehicles operating to and from Ooty and Kozhikode, besides Bandipur national park. It is expected to go up further with the construction of Multi-Modal Logistic Park by Container Corporation of India (CONCOR), a subsidiary of Indian Railways, at Kadakola near Nanjangud, said Mr. Simha. This park, a container yard with a separate goods train terminal and a dedicated railway line, is expected to boost industries in Kadakola and Thandavapura industrial areas in Nanjangud. Further, Mr Simha pointed out that the Mysuru airport is also located in Mandakalli along the highway. The number of flights operating to and from Mysuru airport is expected to go up when the length of the runway is increased and the airport is upgraded to operate larger-sized aircraft. In a letter addressed to R.K. Pandey, Member, Projects, NHAI, New Delhi, Mr. Simha also sought a rest area facility along with a truck lay bye with a dormitory for truck drivers. Such a facility was necessary to address the driver fatigue and enhance safety of the commuters, he said. The NH 212 from the border of Kerala to Kollegal in Karnataka had been constructed by Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORT&H) and had been handed over to NHAI for maintenance and toll collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-urges-nhai-to-upgrade-mysuru-nanjangud-highway/article35906829.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bids invited to prepare DPR for five grade separators on ORR||In a major boost to road infrastructure in Mysuru, grade separators will come up at five junctions of Outer Ring Road (ORR) with the highways. The National Highways, Bengaluru Division, has invited bids for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for grade separators at Deve Gowda circle, Nanjangud Road junction, Srirampura junction, Bogadi Road junction and Vijaynagar junction. Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha said a notification had been issued for preparation of DPR for the five grade separators on the ORR, which is part of National Highway 275. The notification issued on August 12 by the Executive Engineer, National Highway Division, Bengaluru, has invited proposals from eligible consultants for preparation of the DPR for the grade separators. The deadline for submission of the bids is September 27, 2021. The invitation for bids to prepare DPR comes at a time when the volume of traffic on the ORR has increased in the last few years, leading to chaos and also accidents. Movement of traffic on the ORR and the junctions has increased several folds with new residential areas coming up outside the ORR and also due to a rise in the number of vehicles entering or leaving Mysuru through the highways connected to the ORR. A flyover-cum-underpass has already been proposed at the Columbia Asia Junction of Outer Ring Road and Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway. Now, proposals have been invited for preparation of DPR for construction of grade separators on the ORR at 16.49 km (Deve Gowda circle) 25.82 km (Nanjangud road junction), 30.1 km (Srirampura junction), 38.1 km (Bogadi road junction) and 40.2 (Vijaynagar junction).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bids-invited-to-prepare-dpr-for-five-grade-separators-on-orr/article35906822.ece
14 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State’s adult population can be fully vaccinated by May 2022||Even though vaccination is considered to play a crucial role in blunting the feared third wave of COVID-19, Karnataka can hope to fully vaccinate its adult population only by mid-May 2022 at the present pace of vaccination that is hovering around 65 lakh per month or 2.1 lakh doses per day. However, by stepping up the vaccination drive to 3.3 lakh doses per day, if the State receives one crore doses per month as promised by the Centre, the target can be achieved by the first week of February, 2022. Karnataka is unlikely to fully vaccinate its adult population before the year end if the Centre does not accept the State’s demand for 1.5 crore doses per month, which will facilitate administering 5 lakh doses per day. Karnataka’s population above 18 years stood at 4.6 crore against a total population of 6.75 crore as on May, 2020, according to Aadhaar enrolment data shared by State government’s Centre for E-Governance. Out of the 9.2 crore doses required to fully vaccinate 4.6 crore adult population at the rate of two doses each, Karnataka, as per the media bulletin by Department of Health and Family Welfare, had administered a total of 3.37 crore doses of vaccine by 3.30 p.m. on August 11, including 2.61 crore first doses and 0.75 crore second doses. To administer the remaining 5.83 doses to fully vaccinate the adult population of Karnataka, the State will require another 277 days at the present rate of 2.1 lakh doses per day or mid May (May 16) 2022, 176 days if vaccination is stepped up to 3.33 lakh per day or first week of February (Feb 4) 2022. If the State is to fully vaccinate its adult population before the end of December 2021, as per the Government of India’s plans, Karnataka’s demand for 1.5 crore doses should be met soon and facilitate administering 5 lakh doses per day. It would take around 117 days from now or till December 7, 2021, to reach the target if 5 lakh doses are administered every day, according to Rama Mohan, member of Jeevan Raksha, an initiative that is studying COVID-19 trends across the country. So far Till August 11, a total of 2.99 crore people in Karnataka had been vaccinated with at least a single dose. While 2.61 crore people had received the first dose, only about 38 lakh persons had been administered both the doses. The 0.75 crore second doses administered in the State translate to about 38 lakh fully vaccinated people in the State, accounting for roughly 12.1% of the State’s adult population, according to sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare. More than 1.61 crore of the 4.6 crore eligible adult population in Karnataka has not received even a single dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatakas-adult-population-can-be-fully-vaccinated-by-may-2022/article35906593.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Unity run by RPF in Mysuru||The Railway Protection Force (RPF), Mysuru Division, organized a Unity Run on Thursday as part of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” to mark the beginning of 75 years of Independence. The Run, which began from Chamundi Railway Officers’ Club in Yadavgiri, culminated at Mysuru Railway Station. It was flagged off by Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, Rahul Agarwal in the presence of Additional Divisional Railway Manager Devasahayam. Chief Medical Superintendent of Railway Hospitalm Ramachandra and Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Mysuru, Thomas John were also present on the occasion. About 100 officers and personnel from the RPF, Mysuru, participated in the Run. The programme is the first in the series of events oganised by RPF, Mysuru, spread over a year to celebrate 75 years of Indian Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unity-run-by-rpf-in-mysuru/article35906827.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Plan to promote Chamarajanagar as knitwear hub gets concrete shape||Plans to market and promote Chamarajanagar district as a knitwear hub is gaining traction as a few major players have evinced interest in investing in the region. It is the district’s proximity to Tirupur - the knitwear capital of India – which is one of the factors driving the decision apart from the low overhead costs entailed given the availability of both land and labour in the district. Though the concept was announced more than an year ago, it was put in the backburner due to the pandemic. However, with the graded unlocking and the imperatives of keeping the wheels of the economy turning, the authorities are fast tracking the concept. Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar M.R.Ravi said 200 acres of land has been reserved at Badanguppe-Kellambally industrial area – which is spread over 1,200 acres – for knitwear units. Besides, 144 sub-plots have been prepared to enable the MSME units to start functioning. It is reserved for SC/STs and in a recent single window meeting, 42 units were accorded clearance. The district aims to encourage start-ups and entrepreneurs to start units to manufacture knitwear for which there is tremendous demand. This is different from textiles and garments and knitwear pertains to readymade garments such as t-shirts, sweaters, inner-wears. etc for which there is a huge demand, said Mr.Ravi. He said Chamarajanagar is very close to Coimbatore and Tirupur in Tamil Nadu and this can be harnessed to procure raw material from there and produce knitwear products. The objective is to help develop Chamarajanagar as the knitwear hub of Karnataka, he added. Perceived to be low-skilled in nature, officials are confident that there will be no scarcity of labour in Chamarajanagar and will help arrest migration of workers to other places in search of work. “We intend to develop and promote Hanur as one of the hubs as it is economically backward’’, according to Mr. Ravi. There are already 9 skill development centres located at Chamarajanagar, Yelandur, Kollegal, Hanur and Gundlupet and this can be stepped up to meet future requirements. The areas where readymade garment units and knitwear units can be established have been identified and they include Santhemarahalli, Badanguppe, Harve, Hanur, Ramapura, Lokkanahalli, and Bandalli. Chamarajanagar’s proximity to Tirupur apart, it is also closer to other cotton cultivating areas in the region including H.D.Kote and Nanjangud. As the labour requirement is semi-skilled in nature there will be no dearth of workers or even raw materials given the connectivity to Tamil Nadu, according to officials. ‘With an investment of Rs. 50 crore, as many as 1000 jobs can be created and we are looking at 4 to 5 such units straightaway which can help create at least 4000 to 5000 jobs in the near future,’’ said Mr. Ravi. This can have a chain reaction and generate ancillary jobs which will give a stimulus to the local economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-to-promote-chamarajanagar-as-knitwear-hub-gets-concrete-shape/article35906824.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||DC honours freedom fighters as part of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav||Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham on Friday visited the residences of freedom fighters in Mysuru and honoured them as part of the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, which marks the start of the 75th year of Indian Independence. The Deputy Commissioner visited the residences of B.S. Ramachandra Rao, Somashekaraiah, B. Lingaiah and T. Puttanna and enquired about their health and well-being, whether they were regularly receiving freedom fighters’ pension and also if they had received the vaccination against COVID-19. The Deputy Commissioner was accompanied by Assistant Director of Department of Information and Public Relations R Raju, Protocol Tahsildar Shivaprasad and other officials of the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-honours-freedom-fighters-as-part-of-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav/article35906819.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Increase in COVID-19 vaccination rate key to tackle third wave’||With the extent of vaccination considered to be one of the key factors in determining how the third wave will play out, the ‘Ensemble Forecast of COVID-19 in Karnataka for 2021-22’ prepared by Department of Computational and Data Sciences, Indian Institute of Sciences, Bengaluru, points out that an increase in vaccination rate will reduce the peak active caseload then. Sashikumaar Ganesan, Chairperson of the department, said a reduction in the peak active caseload would consequently lead to a decrease in hospitalisation, ICU admission and requirement of oxygen. ‘Should be doubled’ The ensemble forecast built last month by aggregating a total of 972 different scenarios and models has also pointed out the vaccination rate should be doubled to reduce the probability of Wave 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-in-covid-19-vaccination-rate-key-to-tackle-third-wave/article35906833.ece
14 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tiger found dead in Bandipur||A tiger was found dead in the Kundukere range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Friday. The authorities said the tiger, aged around 4 to 5 years, was a male and has wounds sustained from territorial fight with another male tiger. The carcass was found in the Aladmarahalla forest range Its claws, skin and canines were intact and hence the authorities have ruled out foul play in the death. Postmortem of the carcass was conducted by veterinary doctors in the presence of senior officials of the Forest department and and incinerated as per the standard operating procedure of NTCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-found-dead-in-bandipur/article35906825.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Advocate held for throwing kerosene on police officer||The arrest has been made based on a complaint filed by Assistant Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation M.B. Sabarad. Mr. Chowdhary is representing shop-keepers of Super Market and the incident happened after the municipal authorities entered the Super Market to carry out the demolition under police protection. The advocate started arguing with the authorities and when the authorities did not listen to him on stopping the drive, he reportedly brought a can of kerosene and poured it over himself threatening that he would immolate himself. When Assistant Commissioner of Police Anusha, who was leading the police force, tried to stop him, Mr. Chowdhary reportedly splashed kerosene over her, the sources said. Subsequently, the police personnel on the spot took him into custody. Later, following a complaint from Mr. Sabarad, he was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocate-held-for-throwing-kerosene-on-police-officer/article35906725.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Assessment system for II PU, Class X to be overhauled||According to a department official, these assessments will be conducted along the lines of the board examination, but the modalities have yet to be finalised. “Students will have to take them seriously and prepare rigorously,” he said. Continuous assessment Students in Classes I to X will have four formative assessments and one summative assessment for the current academic year. In the past, two summative assessments were held. The hope is that regular assessments will improve learning outcomes. With PU colleges and schools set to reopen on August 23, schools are already preparing to conduct the first term test. School principals and teachers, acknowledging the need for continuous evaluation, are worried about how they will be conducted along the lines of board examinations should there be a surge in COVID-19 cases. Supreeth B.R., secretary of Oxford Group of Institutions, Nagarbhavi and Ullal, said that introducing changes for II PU students was apt, but doing so for SSLC students may create havoc and confusion as both students and teachers were not trained in this method. “The department is trying to adopt the National Education Policy which prioritises regular assessments. But doing this in a hurry will defeat the purpose of it,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said a lot would depend on how the pandemic pans out and if schools would remain open for the rest of the academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assessment-system-for-class-x-and-ii-pu-to-be-overhauled/article35906584.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating the Serpent God||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-the-serpent-god/article35907082.ece
14 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Lokame Tharavadu’ opens||After a gap of more than three months, ‘Lokame Tharavadu’, (The World is One Family), a large-scale contemporary art exhibition featuring 267 artists, was reopened on Friday. It was inaugurated by Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas at Port Museum. Speaking at the function, Mr. Riyas said the exhibition would reinvigorate the tourism sector. The Minister said the Alappuzha Heritage Tourism project would be completed soon. The art show was first inaugurated on April 18, 2021, but had to be closed early May following a rise in COVID-19 cases. The show exhibits the works of 267 artists who trace their origins to Kerala. The exhibition, being organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation with the support of the government, is spread across five different heritage venues in Alappuzha: the Kerala State Coir Corporation, New Model Society Building, Port Museum, Eastern Produce Company Ltd, and William Goodacre and Sons Pvt Ltd- and Durbar Hall Art Gallery in Kochi. Entry to all exhibition venues is strictly governed by the appropriate COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lokame-tharavadu-reopens/article35906783.ece
14 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Elephant found electrocuted near Munnar||A wild elephant was found electrocuted at 301 Colony, near Chinnakanal, in Munnar on Friday. Forest officials said the female elephant aged around 45 years came in contact with a live wire that separated forestland from the farm area. Devikulam range officer Arun Maharaja said, as per the initial probe, the elephant got electrocuted from the border fencing line. A postmortem examination would reveal the actual cause of the death, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-found-electrocuted/article35906784.ece
14 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad seeks to attain envious distinction with full vaccination||The district administration is gearing up to make Wayanad, which has a large tribal population, the first district in the country to perhaps achieve complete COVID-19 vaccination of the first dose for the targeted population. As many as 5,72,950 persons of the 6,51,967 targeted persons above 18 years of age have been inoculated so far in the district. The remaining population would be vaccinated in a two-day mega vaccination drive to be held in various parts of the district on Saturday and Sunday, District Collector Adeela Abdulla told The Hindu on Friday. “We are planning to vaccinate 1,00,000 people above 18 years of age in the mega drive,” said Ms. Abdulla. More than 100 camps have been set up in the district for the purpose and a four-member team, consisting of a doctor, three nurses and a data entry operator, has been constituted for each centre, she said. Three special camps have also been organised for migrant workers, traders, students and plantation workers at Sulthan Bathery, Mananthavady and Wayanad. “The district administration, in association with the Health Department, had launched the vaccination drives at a faster pace since February this year, which helped us reach the target,” said Ms. Abdulla.  As many as 2,02,022 persons above 18 years of age in the district have received the second dose of vaccination so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-seeks-to-attain-envious-distinction-with-full-vaccination/article35906809.ece
14 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Court order lets Sister Lucy stay at FCC convent||The Mananthavady Munsif Court on Friday issued an order that Sister Lucy Kalappura could remain at the Karakkamala Convent of the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC) in the district until the final verdict in the case related to her expulsion by the FCC. The order was based on a petition filed by Sister Lucy in 2020. The convent authorities later approached the court seeking the expulsion of the Catholic nun after the Vatican had confirmed the action of the FCC authorities expelling her from the convent. However, the court ruled that Sister Lucy could remain at the Karakkamala convent after a four-day trial, including a two-day virtual trial. “The order is a crucial one for me in my 40 years of life as a nun, since it gives me the courage to fight injustice,” Sister Lucy told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-order-lets-sister-lucy-stay-at-fcc-convent/article35906807.ece
14 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Woman held for plot to kill husband’s friend||A Kerala Bank employee was arrested on the charge of hiring goons to kill her husband’s friend, on Friday. The Pariyaram police said N.V. Seema, 48, from Payyanur had hired goons for Rs. 3 lakh to assault one Suresh Babu, a native of Pariyaram. Bail plea Seema, who reportedly admitted to the act, accused Suresh of constantly giving alcohol to her husband, a police officer, thereby disturbing her family life. The Thalassery Sessions Court dismissed her anticipatory bail plea on Friday, following which she was arrested by a team led by Pariyaram Sub Inspector K.V. Satheeshan. Suresh Babu was critically injured in the alleged attack in April this year. It was following the arrest of assaulters Jishnu, Abhilash, and Sudheesh that Seema’s role came to light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-plot-to-kill-husbands-friend/article35906736.ece
14 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK to set up medicinal botanical garden||The department of plant science at the Central University of Kerala (CUK) is establishing a medicinal botanical garden and a garden of edible fruits. Vice Chancellor Prof. H. Venkateshwarlu inaugurated the project. The garden is being set up as part of the Kasaragod Botanical Garden and Research Centre (KBGRC) proposed on the campus. Ten acres have been set aside for the botanical garden. The Vice Chancellor said the proposed facilities would be of immense benefit to plant science students and researchers. The campus is a storehouse of medicinal and rare wild fruits, he added. The university is also in the process of implementing projects such as a mini forest and a tree adoption scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-to-set-up-medicinal-botanical-garden/article35906735.ece
14 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Jewellery scam accused remanded||T.K. Pookoya Thangal, managing director of Fashion Gold Jewellery, has been remanded to police custody for four days in connection with an investment fraud case. The investigation team demanded his custody for five days after Mr. Thangal surrendered in court on Wednesday. He had been absconding for the past 10 months. Crime Branch Superintendent of Police Moidheen Kutty, who is investigating the case, will question Pookoya Thangal in detail. He had earlier surrendered in the Hosdurg Judicial First Class Magistrate Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jewellery-scam-accused-remanded-in-custody/article35906741.ece
14 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUCET exam likely in Sept.||The Central University Common Entrance Examination (CUCET 2021) for various integrated, undergraduate, postgraduate, and MPhil courses in 12 central universities across the country, including the Central University of Kerala (CUK), is expected to be held in September, said M. Muraleedharan Nambiar, CUK Examinations Controller and CUCET nodal officer, here on Thursday. The announcement is expected by mid-August. The Central University of Punjab is coordinating the entrance examination for admission to 307 postgraduate and 63 undergraduate courses in 12 universities. Of these, one undergraduate course, 26 postgraduate courses, and three PG diploma courses are available at the CUK. Admission in the CUK is to 1,384 seats for various courses. For details, contact 04672309467, 04672309466 or email admissions@cukerala.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cucet-exam-likely-in-sept/article35906868.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CSL set to build missile vessels||Personnel of the Indian Navy and Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), which constructed India’s first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC), to be christened INS Vikrant , are exhilarated at the outcome of the recent maiden five-day sea trial of the vessel. Works are under way to ready the over Rs. 20,000-crore vessel for the upcoming six sea trials. Six personnel — two from the Navy and four from CSL — were on board the vessel for the five-day maiden sea trial. Among them was Lieutenant Commander (Lt. Cdr.) Janet Maria Philip who hails from Thalassery. On board the deck, Suresh Babu, Director (Operations), CSL, said the vessel was a milestone in India’s ship building history, thanks to proven workmanship. “The yard has got a Rs. 6,000-crore contract to build eight anti-submarine warfare corvettes and a Rs. 10,000-crore project to build next-generation missile vessels.” “Our task is to ensure that the vessel’s massive structure, accommodation spaces, wet spaces, and even paint is intact. During the sea trial, we verified whether the equipment on board adhered to standards set by the Navy,” she said. On the maiden sea trial, in which around 1,500 personnel participated, she said everything happened as planned owing to robust collaboration between the Navy and the shipyard. The other woman Naval officer who took part in the sea trial was Lt. Cdr. Darshita Babu. Among the four women personnel of CSL were Revathy S. Sanan and Smrithi B., both from the yard’s electrical wing. Ms. Sanan explained how the team combated the frequent ‘rolling and pitching’ of the vessel when the sea turned rough. The vessel can continuously remain at sea for approximately 8,000 nautical miles (around 15,000 km). Unlike commercial vessels that are built as per design, the IAC’s design evolved concurrent with the construction, enabling inclusion of latest technologies. With 75% indigenisation, Rs. 10,000 crore of the vessel’s Rs. 20,000 crore price tag was spent in India, Mr. Babu said. Flag Officer Commanding in Chief of the Southern Naval Command Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla said the 75% indigenous components had given a push to the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, since around 50 Indian public sector undertakings and private firms were involved in supplying components.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vessels-maiden-sea-trial-a-success/article35906512.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maharaja’s College hockey ground awaits a facelift||The historic Olympic bronze medal win of the Indian hockey team and the outstanding performance by its star goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh seem to have revived hopes of giving a facelift to the unkempt hockey ground of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam. The waterlogged ground filled with overgrown grass has been in a state of neglect for long. Young talents dreaming of making it big in the sport were left to grope in the dark thanks to the poor state of the ground. “We are planning to submit a proposal before the government to elevate the existing ground into an international-level hockey turf. The idea is to develop a hockey hub that offers a platform for budding talents to nurture their skills,” said N. Ramakanthan, chairman of the college governing council. The once vibrant ground hit a bad patch after 16.5 cents were handed over to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) for constructing the Maharaja’s College Ground station. The total land value was estimated at Rs. 8.8 crore. “However, the college did not receive any money, as the metro rail authorities took a position that compensation could not be given for government land,” said Prof. Ramakanthan. But T. Jayachandran, member of the college development council, recalled a Government Order issued on March 24, 2014, asking the college principal to deposit the Rs. 8.8 crore to be received as land value for the 16.5 cents taken over from the college for the metro rail project. “The college had worked out a proposal to utilise the money for elevating the existing hockey ground into an international-level facility at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.5 to Rs. 3 crore. The remaining amount was earmarked for the construction of ladies’ hostel and renovation of men’s hostel,” he said. The plans did not materialise, as the college never received compensation for the land. Prof. Ramakanthan said the college governing council was hopeful of setting up a new hockey turf. “The working group meeting of the Higher Education Department held last month had approved a proposal to the tune of Rs. 6.9 crore for the construction of synthetic track at the ground,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maharajas-college-hockey-ground-awaits-a-facelift/article35907052.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala HC dismisses plea against Lulu Mall||A writ petition challenging the construction of Lulu Mall in Thiruvananthapuram was dismissed by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court. The contentions of the petitioner that the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) gave the environment clearance for the project without jurisdiction or authority and the construction came up in violation of the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules were rejected by the Bench consisting of Justice S.V. Bhatti and Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas. ‘A misconception’ The court held that the argument of the petitioner that a building having a built-up area of more than 1.5 lakh sq m must obtain the clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forest was a misconception and a misreading of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification. The SEIAA was competent to consider the application of the project proponent for grant of clearance for constructing the shopping mall having an extent of more than 1.5 lakh sq.m. of built-up space, it said. The court noted that the SEIAA decided to grant clearance, after “considering the entire perspective of the project vis-a-vis the environment.” The procedure prescribed for the grant of clearance was scrupulously complied with by SEIAA, it noted. From waterbody The petitioner had alleged that the construction fell within the prohibited distance from two waterbodies - the Aakulam Lake and the Parvathy Puthanar canal. He submitted that the Aakulam Lake was a saline infiltrated waterbody from which the prescribed distance under the CRZ notification was not maintained. He also alleged violation of the distance rule under the CRZ in respect of the Parvathy Puthanar canal too and submitted that the construction was taking place only a stone’s throw away from the canal. The court held that the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority had affirmed that it approved the project after verifying the details submitted by the project proponent. The court also held that the construction did not fall within the prohibited distance under the CRZ notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-dismisses-plea-against-lulu-mall/article35907103.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL told to come clear on expenses||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) must come clear on the revision of project cost from Rs. 5,182 crore to Rs. 6,218 crore for the 25-km phase-one Aluva-Pettah corridor, a year after the stretch was commissioned, and the revised estimate of over Rs. 1,000 crore for the 3-km Pettah-Thripunithura corridor, Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents Associations (TRURA) has said. The over Rs.1,000-crore increase in project cost for phase one is at odds with the metro agency’s claims that it was able to save Rs. 350 crore during the execution of the project, and that the saved amount would be used for the Pettah-SN Junction extension. Even worse, there is no assurance of road connectivity for further extension up to the Thripunithura railway station, contrary to the promise that road connectivity would be established from SN Junction, said V.C. Jayendran, convenor of the association. Applying the same logic, wherein the per km cost for the Thripunithura extension has more than doubled to over Rs. 300 crore per km, fear is rife that the metro’s 11.20-km Kakkanad extension cannot be realised for, what KMRL says as, Rs. 1,957 crore. “Members of the public could thus end up paying as much as Rs. 3,500 crore. All this could escalate the cost of metro phases one and two to over Rs. 10,000 crore. Under this circumstance, an independent agency must probe the steep cost escalation,” said V.P. Prasad, chairman, TRURA. KMRL sources said they did not see any immediate need for a road beneath the metro’s SN Junction-Thripunithura viaduct, since there is an access road to the Thripunithura terminal station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-told-to-come-clear-on-expenses/article35907053.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi City traffic police rope in civil defence volunteers for festival season regulations||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the City traffic police have roped in 125 civil defence volunteers for traffic and crowd control during this festival season. They have been deployed across the City Traffic West limits and will continue on duty at least till the eve of Onam. Fifty volunteers each are being deployed in two shifts from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. “We have identified 35 points within our limits where they are deployed on a priority basis with the primary focus being on reining in unauthorised parking and ensuring lane traffic along narrow lanes to avert blocks. Among these include seven points in the market and Broadway area, where their service also includes maintenance of COVID-19 protocol to avoid overcrowding,” said T.B. Vijayan, Assistant Commissioner, Traffic West. Volunteers were given a detailed briefing by the police on how to go about their job before being deployed across 12 sectors within the Traffic West limits. “Each sector is under the supervision of a sub inspector and a civil defence volunteer who serves as a sector head,” said Binu Mitran, Ernakulam divisional warden, Civil Defence. Volunteers have found the service quite an experience. “It has given us an idea about the hardships faced by cops put on day-long traffic though our duty time is restricted to five hours. We have been asked to take photographs of traffic violations like unauthorised parking and send them to the police officer in charge of each sector. However, we mostly try to reason with them and convince them about their folly,” said Mathew C. George, a civil defence volunteer deployed as the head of one of the sectors. The traffic police have found the experiment quite effective to tide over the challenges in enforcement owing to manpower shortage and are planning to adopt the system more often in the future. “Our primary duty is to assist the fire and rescue force in the event of an emergency or disaster. So, in the event of such a crisis, the entire lot of volunteers deployed for traffic regulation will be called back,” said Mr. Mitran. The district has 50 active civil defence volunteers each in each of the 18 fire stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-traffic-police-rope-in-civil-defence-volunteers-for-festival-season-regulations/article35907048.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court cancels interim bail of scam accused||The Special Court on Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases cancelled the interim bail of Rinu Mariam Thomas, second accused in the Rs. 2,000-crore Popular Finance scam, on Friday . Rinu Mariam, CEO of the firm, and her father and first accused Thomas Daniel were arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Monday night. On the agency’s request, the court allowed the custody of both the accused till August 18. The court had allowed interim bail to Rinu Mariam and remanded Thomas Daniel to judicial custody on August 11. The ED has withdrawn its appeal before the Kerala High Court against the interim order of the special court following the cancellation of the bail of the second accused and the decision to grant custody of both the accused till August 18. The agency had sought custody of the accused to get further leads into the multi-crore scam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-cancels-interim-bail-of-scam-accused/article35907055.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 2,388 COVID cases||As many as 2,388 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. The number of those who got infected through local contact stood at 2,334. The source of infection in 50 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district is 11.79%. The regions where positive cases are above 30 include Kizhakkambalam (97), Edathala (95), Thrikkakara (75), Vazhakkulam (73), Vengoor (54), Avoli (48), Elankunnapuzha (45), Kalamassery (43), Kuttampuzha (43), Rayamangalam (39), Thripunithura (38), Nellikkuzhi (37), Kothamangalam (35), Aluva (34), Palluruthy (33), Vadakkekara (33), Nayarambalam (32), Kunnathunad (31), and Chengamanad (31). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ashamanoor, Edakkattuvayal, Maradi, Vaduthala, Pampakuda, Ayappankavu, Chalikkavattom, Panampilly Nagar, and Panayappilli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-2388-covid-cases/article35907056.ece
14 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Melsanthi posts are secular appointments’||The melsanthi (chief priest) posts of Sabarimala and Malikappuram temples are not Karanma (hereditary post) priesthood but secular appointments made by the Kerala government, contended the petitioners in the Sabarimala case. The contention was raised by the petitioners, who challenged the Travancore Devaswom Board’s decision to reserve the posts for Malayala Brahmins, in the Kerala High Court. The appointments must be considered as government jobs and employment as made under the provisions of a secular piece of legislation and the Constitution. All qualified Hindus, irrespective of their caste, shall be made eligible to apply, they submitted. The petitioners also sought instructions to the Board to define the term Kerala Brahmin. The Yoga Kshema Sabha, an organisation of Namboodiri Brahmins of Kerala origin, moved a petition to implead itself in the case. The Travancore Devaswom Board sought time to file its counter-affidavit in the case. The court posted the case for September 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/melsanthi-posts-are-secular-appointments/article35906507.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Scribes-lawyers melee: State not to take stance on report||The State government has decided not to take a specific position on the findings of the inquiry commission that looked into the police lathicharge following clashes between lawyers and mediapersons in front of the Kerala High Court on July 20, 2016. The commission was headed by the late P.A. Mohammed, former judge of the Kerala High Court. It had submitted the report before the government on June 30, 2020. The government opted not to take any specific stance as the cases registered by the police were at various stages. However, the Additional Chief Secretary, Home, and Secretary, Law Department, were entrusted with the task to examine and implement the committee recommendations to avoid such incidents in future, according to the action taken report published on August 9. The inquiry report was also tabled before the Assembly. Reporter manhandled The confrontation between the lawyers and the mediapersons started after a government pleader was arrested in Kochi for alleged molestation on July 14, 2016. The lawyers allegedly manhandled a reporter after they accused him of inaccurate reportage of the case and its related developments. The stand-off worsened after the lawyers allegedly manhandled reporters covering the High Court proceedings and asked them to leave the premises. Both media persons and lawyers were injured in the clashes that later spilled on to the streets and other courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scribes-lawyers-melee-state-not-to-take-stance-on-report/article35906799.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Road owners to be brought under a banner||Efforts are under way to bring different road-owning agencies in the State under a common banner, to increase the extent of designed roads, prevent their haphazard trenching, and avert accidents. This comes in the wake of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety selecting the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) as the nodal agency to spearhead road safety measures in the State. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy convened a meeting recently to discuss the modalities to enhance coordination among departments to prevent accidents at the over 200 accident-prone black spots, especially on highways. Steps will be taken to remove encroachments that hamper safe movement of motorists and pedestrians, it is learnt. The aim is to bring down road accident fatalities by at least 10% each year by improving amenities like footpaths, medians, and street lighting based on a standardised design. In addition, frequent safety audits will be done, from the detailed project report (DPR) and construction stage as per the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) norms. It will help usher in the best practices in road engineering, sources said. The condition of several roads has improved after they were re-developed as per the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) design and quality parameters, PWD sources said. This brought about a marked change from yesteryears when road maintenance works were awarded on the basis of per-item rate, and the focus was largely confined to black-topping works, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-owners-to-be-brought-under-a-banner/article35907047.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youngster found dead in rented room||A youngster was found hanging in his rented room at Pulluvazhi near Perumbavoor on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Ashish Omanakuttan, 25, of Ranni in Pathanamthitta district. He was employed with a car showroom at Pulluvazhi. The death happened sometime between 9 p.m. and 9.30 a.m., and the police suspect it to be a case of suicide. He usually left for work around 8.30 a.m. However, his motorcycle was found in the parking area even after 9 a.m. following which the landlord, who lives nearby, checked on him and found him hanging, the police said. They recovered a mobile phone from near the body. The phone, which was found in switched-off mode, will be examined, they said. The Kuruppampady police have registered a case of unnatural death. Helpline -0484-2540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youngster-found-dead-in-rented-room/article35907057.ece
14 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Esho movie: HC turns down plea||The Kerala High Court on Friday rejected a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking instructions not to issue certification for the Malayalam movie Esho . A Division Bench of the court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly dismissed the plea by observing that the court could not interfere with the certification of the movie on the ground that it was named after a god.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esho-movie-hc-turns-down-plea/article35906802.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Old Aluva- Munnar road to be reopened||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas told the Assembly on Friday that the old Aluva-Munnar road would be reopened to give a boost to tourism. The distance between Kothamangalam and Munnar is just 60 km along the old road, which was constructed by the erstwhile Travancore royalty. Recently, the Forest Department blocked traffic along the road which was being used by the people of Kurathikkudy and Njandukulam. Mr. Riyas said the issue would be taken up with the Forest Minister. The Thattekkad-Kuttampuzha stretch is getting renovated under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/old-aluva-munnar-road-to-be-reopened/article35907054.ece
14 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam Corpn. to care of Ashtamudi lake||The Kollam Corporation is all set to announce an ambitious action plan to conserve Ashtamudi Lake, one of the Ramsar sites in the district. Various measures to protect the waterbody facing abuse in different ways, including pollution, will be devised at a technical workshop being held on Saturday. Vishwanath Srikantaiah, a pioneer of sustainable water management popularly known as Rainman and urban designer Biley E Menon, will attend the workshop. Mr. Srikantaiah is an activist known for his efforts to conserve water. The Bengaluru-based urban planner had made headlines by leading a drive to dig more than one lakh recharge wells across the city, offering a practical solution to water scarcity, an issue faced by many Indian cities. The vice president of the Indian Institute of Urban Designers, Mr. Menon focusses on designs that ensure greenery, tourism potential, heritage conservation, and sustainable development. Both the experts will take a cruise through the lake with the Kollam Mayor to assess the current condition of the waterbody. The Corporation and the 12 panchayats that share the shoreline of Ashtamudi will come up with long and short-term projects to purify the waterbody and conserve the aquatic ecosystem. “The Ramsar site has huge tourism possibilities and the workshop is being held to ensure all the projects are scientific,” said Mayor Prasanna Earnest. The workshop will have five sessions. MPs, MLAs, block and panchayat heads of the 12 local bodies, environmentalist, scientists, politicians, social and cultural activists, urban planners, and people’s representatives will attend. The sessions will focus on environment-friendly and practical suggestions. Making the waterbody garbage-free and conserving its biodiversity will be the priority. The district administration had earlier said that the lake will be cleaned in coordination with the Suchitwa and Haritha Keralam missions.  The district administration had planned to get the lake cleaned in coordination with the Suchitwa and Haritha Keralam missions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-corpn-to-care-of-ashtamudi-lake/article35906790.ece
14 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2 engineering students killed in accident||In a tragic incident, two engineering students were killed in a road accident when their bike collided with a car on Kollam-Thirumangalam National Highway, near Chengamandu. The deceased have been identified as B.N. Govind, a resident of Keralapuram, and Chaithanya, a resident of Payyanur. Trip gone wrong Both are students of an engineering college in Thiruvananthapuram and the accident took place on Thursday night when they were returning after a trip to Thenmala eco-tourism centre with their friends. Though they were rushed to a hospital, their lives could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-engineering-students-killed-in-accident/article35906785.ece
14 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for food tech course||The College of Indigenous Food Technology, Konni, has invited applications for its BSc Food Technology and Quality Assurance course. Visit www.supplycokerala.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-food-tech-course/article35906791.ece
14 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for skill-based courses||The Indian Institute of Infrastructure and Construction, Chavara, has invited applications for 18 skill development courses. All the technician, and managerial courses are recognised. For more details, visit www.iiic.ac.in. or call 8078980000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-skill-based-courses/article35906792.ece
14 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Campaign against dowry launched||The Kerala Pradesh School Teachers Association, Kollam district committee, has launched a campaign against dowry. Association general secretary C. Pradeep inaugurated the campaign and district president V. Prasanth presided over the function. Secretary D.K. Sabu, B. Jayachandran Pillai, Binoy Kalppakam, Vinod Pichinadu, and Deepthi Gangadharan were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-against-dowry-launched/article35906793.ece
14 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Fresh challenges on SEBC list||The State is likely to face a new challenge in drawing up its list of Socially and Economically Backward Classes (SEBC), with both Houses of Parliament adopting the Bill that restores the rights of States to maintain their Other Backward Classes (OBC) list. It remains to be seen whether the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government will maintain the status quo or disturb the equilibrium after the Kerala High Court recently put on hold its decision to include the Christian Nadar community in the OBC category. At present, the groupings of OBC mentioned in the Kerala Public Service Commission are Ezhavas, Thiyyas and Billavas; Muslims; Latin Catholics and Anglo Indians; Nadars (Hindu Nadars and Nadars included in the South India United Church (SIUC) Scheduled Caste Converts to Christianity); Viswakarmas and Dheevaras. Sources say the government would have to draw up the criteria to include more communities on the SEBC list based on the new legislation. At the same time, it would have to be cautious not to exclude any castes from the list. Nadars The Left government had decided to include Nadars belonging to Christian religious denominations other than the SIUC on the OBC list for the purpose of providing employment and educational benefits before the Assembly polls in April. The significance of the votes based on religion and caste in Kerala’s electoral spectrum can be ascertained when the Congress leadership welcomed the Cabinet decision on the Nadar Christian quota, while it also raised doubts on how the community would benefit when 80 communities are already on the OBC list. The BJP government at the Centre was compelled to bring the Constitution Amendment Bill after the Supreme Court dismissed the review petition for a separate quota for the Maratha community in Maharashtra. But the 127th Constitution Amendment Act, 2021 that restored the power of States to identify the SEBC could be subjected to Supreme Court scrutiny even if President Ram Nath Kovind gives assent to it, sources say. Incidentally, the Left government had earlier approved 10% reservation in government jobs and educational institutions for the Economically Weaker Sections in the general category. Non-creamy layer Although family income and economic backwardness are considered parameters in deciding the eligibility for reservation, most often, many candidates have been deprived of getting educational and employment benefits. This is because the upper sections, including candidates belonging to business families and Non-Resident Indians of the SEBC, manage to secure non-creamy layer certificates from the Revenue Department and reap the quota benefits, the sources say.  Both Houses of Parliament adopt Bill that restores rights of States to maintain their OBC list||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-challenges-on-sebc-list/article35906800.ece
14 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Travel curbs inflict heavy toll on trade||With travel bans across the globe for the last year and a half following the pandemic, a report from The Conference Board has revealed that restrictions have inflicted a substantial toll on global trade, and industry may recover to 50% of the 2019 level only by the end of 2021. Pandemic curbs have had a cascading effect on 334 million people worldwide directly dependent on the travel and tourism sector, said The Conference Board, a US-based think tank. The emergence of new virus variants and stubborn vaccination challenges—whether due to supply, logistics, or hesitancy—is understandably prompting governments to extend policies that heavily restrict movement of people across borders, Dana Peterson, Chief Economist, The Conference Board, said in a press release. The report said companies were cutting costs by forgoing travel as ongoing curbs—63 % of governments have either a total or partial ban on foreign visitors—appeared to be accelerating a long-term trend towards virtual meetings. The report said tourist spending, which accounted for 87% of the total global exports of travel services, collapsed worldwide in 2020. The ongoing negative impact of the collapse has extended beyond tourism directly affected by travel bans, to pummel sectors like entertainment, amusement and food services as well as national and regional governments dependent on tax revenues from visitors. Tourist hubs in Asia and the Caribbean have felt the brunt of the challenges, but even some of the world’s largest and richest economies, including Germany, Italy, Mexico, and Hong Kong, face outsized exposures to continued restrictions, the report said. The path to recovery for travel and tourism, it pointed out, remains uncertain given the tangle of conflicting restrictions on foreign visitors. Ideally, international people flows will return to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2021 or early next year. However, as virus variants spread, such a return to normalcy is highly dependent on the degree to which individual governments roll back travel bans and people regain confidence in the safety and reliability of international travel. The report also said travel bans threatened to sour relations between economies that choose to reopen borders quickly and those that did not. Even before the pandemic, rising geopolitical tensions were already fuelling a surge in tariffs, sanctions, and protectionist sentiments. As governments choose different paths to reopen borders, travel restrictions may become the next front for international trade friction and another prime risk to the future of globalisation, the report said.  Tourist spending, which accounted for 87% of the total global exports of travel services, collapsed worldwide in 2020 The Conference Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/travel-curbs-inflict-heavy-toll-on-trade/article35906740.ece
14 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No action taken to demolish Kakkadampoyil bunds||The hearing convened by District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy on Friday regarding the allegedly unauthorised bunds at Kakkadampoyil was inconclusive, as no action was taken on the High Court order of December 2020 to demolish the structures. The High Court had issued the order based on a complaint filed by T.V. Rajan, State secretary of the All Kerala River Protection Committee, alleging that the three concrete bunds and one mud bund on a stream near a private resort in Kakkadampoyil, if broken, would prove dangerous to the people in the valley. The bunds also posed an obstacle to the natural flow of water in the stream that leads to the Iruvazhinji river. The Koodaranhi Village Officer and the engineer at the panchayat had submitted a report that stated that the bunds were dangerous and recommended their demolition. Expert panel  The District Collector had appointed an expert panel in January 2021 to study the situation. However, the reports of the Hydrology and Geology Department officials, who visited the site, have not been published so far. During the meeting on Friday, Mr. Rajan maintained that the bunds were unauthorised and that they would affect the river and the biodiversity of the region. The resort manager maintained that the bunds were constructed for securing drinking water for the resort and nearby villas and that the local people did not have any complaints about the structures. The Koodaranhi Panchayat Secretary too supported the latter's argument.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-action-taken-to-demolish-kakkadampoyil-bunds/article35906748.ece
14 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vigilance raids at MVD checkposts||Surprise raids carried out by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) at inter-State checkposts manned by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) on August 13, revealed corrupt practices, irregularities in examining overloaded vehicles and clandestine deals of officers and agents. Code named Operation Bhrast Nirmoolan, the raids were initiated following intelligence reports that MVD officers indulged in bribery for allowing vehicles to pass without any inspection and imposed a paltry fine for overloaded vehicles. Also, the corruption and laxity on the part of the officials led to accidents besides denting the State exchequer. VACB Inspector General of Police H. Venkatesh monitored the raids, which began at the checkposts from 6 a.m. VACB Director Sudesh Kumar issued the orders for the raids. At the Aryankavu checkpost in Kollam, the raids yielded unaccounted cash from the office and even recovered packets containing currency notes from under a tree outside the office. Penal action was initiated against a suspicious looking person in possession of 100 currency notes in the denomination of Rs. 500. The VACB fined Rs. 37,750 from three overloaded vehicles. Likewise, an amount of Rs. 1.5 lakh was collected as fine from overloaded vehicles at the RTO checkpost at Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram. It was also found that only one motor vehicle inspector was present at the Attupuram checkpost though six officers were assigned duty on Friday. Walkie-talkie siezed In Palakkad district, the VACB team seized three walkie-talkie unauthorisedly used by officers at the Walayar checkpost. These two-way radio transceivers were used for collecting bribes and dissemination of information unlike mobile phones that would leave traces of evidence. Similarly, unaccounted money was recovered during the raids carried out at the checkposts at Kannur, Idukki, Kasaragod and Wayanad districts. A detailed report would be submitted to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigilance-raids-at-mvd-checkposts/article35906801.ece
14 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||TPR inches close to 19% in Kozhikode||Kozhikode recorded 2,426 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. While 2,396 are cases of local transmission, the source of infection is unknown in 16 cases. One person who returned from abroad, 10 who came from other States and three health workers are also among the infected. A total of 13,341 people were tested on Friday and the test positivity rate is 18.54%. As many as 1,772 people recovered from COVID-19 on Friday. At present, there are 26,543 patients under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-inches-close-to-19-in-kozhikode/article35906749.ece
14 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Minister A.K. Saseendran to lead Independence Day programme in Kozhikode||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran will hoist the national flag during the Independence Day programme to be held at Vikram Maidan at West Hill in Kozhikode on Sunday. The event, to be organised in compliance with COVID-19 protocol, will begin at 8.40 a.m. The flag hoisting will be at 9 a.m. The Minister will deliver the Independence Day message after the parade. Twelve health workers have been selected to be part of the district-level parade as special invitees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-ak-saseendran-to-lead-independence-day-programme-in-kozhikode/article35906750.ece
14 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kerala man gets jail till death for raping daughters||In an extremely aggravated sexual assault case involving the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a court at Manjeri sentenced a man for imprisonment until his death for repeatedly raping two of his minor daughters. Fast Track Special Court (POCSO) judge Prakasan P.T. on August 13 sentenced the 55-year-old to four life imprisonments and slapped a fine of Rs. 2.1 lakh considering the gravity of the crime. Of the two POCSO cases, the judgment was in connection with the rape of his 15-year-old daughter between 2014 and 2016. The verdict on the second case, in connection with the rape of his 17-year-old daughter in the same period, is set to be delivered on August 25. The case registered at the Pothukal police station in March 2016 found that the accused had abused his daughters repeatedly during 2014-16 when he used to sleep with them after picking quarrels with their mother. When the girls complained to their mother, he threatened to kill them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-man-gets-jail-till-death-for-raping-daughters/article35906737.ece
14 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Revision of elephant management rules sought||Elephant lovers have demanded a revision of the norms that bind the maintenance of captive elephants in the State. An online programme held under the banner of the District Elephant Lovers Forum as part of World Elephant Day on Thursday said revising the Kerala Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules of 2012 would go a long way in improving the situation for the State’s captive elephants. The programme expressed concern at the dwindling number of captive elephants in the State. Fourteen captive elephants died in the State in the past seven months. Prevent early deaths “We cannot stop ageing deaths. But it’s our responsibility to stop early death of elephants. Elephant owners, mahouts and the Devaswoms should fulfil their responsibilities to prevent early deaths,” said Haridas Machingal, president of the Elephant Lovers Forum. A resolution moved by the forum demanded that mahouts should not be allowed to be changed frequently for an elephant. “A captive elephant will be attached to its mahout much more than anybody. So changing the mahout will affect the behaviour of the elephant,” said Mr. Machingal adding that a clause should be incorporated in the rules not to change the mahout for at least five years. He also demanded restrictions on seasonal elephant owners and lovers. 460 captive elephants At present the State has 460 captive elephants. The forests in the State had registered 5,716 wild elephants in the 2017 census. Between 2010 and 2019, 839 elephants had died in the State, and half of them were because of old age. Those who addressed the meeting online included T.S. Rajeev, Director of the Centre for Elephant Studies, Kerala Veterinary University; K. Mahesh, Elephant Owners Federation State secretary; Sreejit Valappaya, Kerala Elephant Owners Association State secretary; Nagaraj Narayanan, special government pleader for Forest and Wildlife, High Court; N. Mahesh, wildlife law expert; B.S. Bhadrakumar, forest officer; and Manoj Vazhakkulam, All Kerala Elephant Workers Union State secretary. Mr. Machingal was the moderator. Elephant Loves Forum secretary Guruji Krishna welcomed the participants and treasurer Rajesh Ramakrishnan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revision-of-elephant-management-rules-sought/article35906864.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bid to revive housing project||The city Corporation is making yet another attempt to resolve the land issues and revive the housing project for Scheduled Caste (SC) families proposed at Mannammoola. Since 2015, the 1.72 acres of land has been occupied by a few families under the leadership of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Ambedkar Democratic Party of India, who have put up tents here. On Friday, the Corporation convened an all-party meeting, involving local leaders of various political parties to discuss the issue. However, the BSP leaders stayed away from the meeting. The civic body plans to construct flat complexes here for landless and homeless SC families, under the LIFE (Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment) housing project. Their demand According to Corporation officials, the protesters have demanded that individual houses and land be provided to around 40 families who are still staying there. Officials say there are only around six families there at present, with the rest having shifted to other places. Some own land and house at other locations. Also, the demand for individual houses and land is unfeasible as only few families can be accommodated, said the officials. They added that anyone eligible for a house will be provided one under the project. Mannammoola was one of the housing projects under the Union government’s Basic Services for the Urban Poor (BSUP). The land was bought using SC development funds in 1998. In 2007, the Corporation prepared a detailed project report of Rs. 1.71 crore for 45 SC/ST families in Mannammoola. Due to local opposition and shortage of enough implementing agencies it got delayed, and was scrapped later. Approaching HC BSP leader V.K. Rajendran, one of the leaders of the agitation at Mannammoola, claimed that they have already approached the High Court, demanding houses be constructed for 40 families on the land, with three cents of land for each family. He said certificates from village officers concerned, showing that the 40 families belong to the SC category and are landless, have been submitted to the court. He said he did not participate in the meeting as they were against other politicians being called for the meeting.  1.72 acres identified for housing project for Scheduled Castes Corpn. plans to build flat complex, but protesters seek houses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-revive-housing-project/article35907089.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest dept. plans to acquire estates||As part of the efforts to reduce human-wildlife conflict, the Forest Department is planning to acquire private estates situated on forest fringes and transform them into natural forest. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran informed the Assembly on Friday that 13 estates in six divisions would be taken over in the first phase by providing adequate compensation to the owners. In 27 centres “Steps are being taken in this regard in 27 centres under the Rebuild Kerala development programme. In taking over the estates, we can expand forest cover and also guarantee the conservation of wilfdlife habitats,” Mr. Saseendran said. The decision to take over the private estates was taken in view of the threats to wildlife posed by human presence near forests and the crop damage caused by wild animal incursions into human habitats. While there is an increase in wildlife population, the animals continue to face problems related to habitat loss and shortage of food resources and water inside the forests. In some stretches along the forest fringes, the department has also erected protective fences to discourage wild animal incursions into human settlements, he said. The Forest Minister added that government would look into the complaints that the compensation provided to farmers for crop damage caused by wild animals is inadequate.  13 estates in six divisions will be taken over in the first phase by providing adequate compensation to owners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-to-make-wildlife-buffers-out-of-estates/article35906518.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport gets new approach lighting||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has installed a state-of-the-art Precision Approach Lighting System (PALS) on the runway of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, a measure which improves safety during aircraft landings. Trials are in progress on the Rs. 5.83-crore Category-1 PALS on Runway 32 and it will be commissioned once the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) gives the nod, airport director C.V. Ravindran said. Simply put, an approach lighting system consists of a series of strategically placed lights extending outward from the approach end of a runway. It serves as a guide to pilots of incoming aircraft and plays a crucial role, especially during bad weather, in guaranteeing safe landings. The advantage of the new PALS is that it allows pilots to safely land even if the visibility is down to 550 metres (it is 800 metres now). This reduces the chances of approaching aircraft having to be diverted due to poor visibility when the weather is bad. Atop bridges Another factor makes the ALS on Runway 32 special from an engineering point of view; a sizeable portion of the ALS — 360 metres out of the total 900 metres — is outside the actual operational area of the airport and installed atop bridges and the cantilevers over the Parvathi Puthanar canal. Under the DGCA requirements, a full-length ALS is mandatory up to a distance of 900 metres for Category-1 runways. “In 2012, the DGCA had pointed out the requirement when renewing the aerodrome licence,” Mr. Ravindran said. The licence was granted on the condition that the requirement would be met. Land scarcity However, the runway was equipped with a distance-coded CAT-1 PALS up to a distance of only 540 metres due to scarcity of land and the proximity of public road and the Parvathy Puthanar canal. “These factors meant that a conventional CAT-1 ALS was out of the question. The height of the Ponnara bridge and the need to install the light poles across the canal posed stiff challenges,” Roji R. Assistant general Manager (Engg-Electrical), AAI Thiruvananthapuram Airport, said. To overcome the hurdle, the airport resorted to the barrette-type ALS. This system has a full length of 900 metres consisting of 30 bars of lights installed at 30-metre intervals and requires less land. Each bar has four fixed lights and one flashing light unit. “By providing sequenced flashing approach lights instead of wing-bars used in the conventional systems, we have reduced the land requirement,” Mr. Roji said. Lights located above the canal have been installed atop cross-over bridges and cantilevers made of galvanized structural steel. There are two such bridges and three cantilevers on the canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-gets-new-approach-lighting/article35907097.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3-day vaccine drive from today||A three-day intensive vaccination drive will be held across the State from August 14 to 16. All persons in containment zones would be tested and all non-infected persons (those who test negative for COVID-19) in such zones would be vaccinated, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday. At a COVID-19 review meeting here, Mr. Vijayan directed that the vaccination campaign be intensified in all districts. All districts should finish administering the allotted vaccine doses as fast as possible. Given the size of the districts, 10 districts should aim at administering 40,000 doses a day whereas the other four districts should administers a minimum of 25,000 doses. Prior sanction will have to be taken from the authorities for all formal public functions. In government offices, all Onam celebrations other than athappoo events should be avoided. Teachers would be avoided from COVID duty as they are involved in conducting online classes, examinations and Plus One class admissions. Mr. Vijayan directed that intense awareness programmes should be conducted to reduce the spread of infections within homes/families. Meanwhile, the State registered 20,452 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,42,501 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The case graph continues to be a plateau, as it has been for the past two weeks, adding 18,000 to 22,000 cases daily. Though there has not been a significant surge in hospitalisations despite a steady increase in the active case pool, a slow rising trend is seen in all parameters, including ICU and ventilator occupancy. The test positivity rate remained at 14.35%. ICU occupancy up ICU and ventilator occupancy is certainly on a slow rise, despite the daily fluctuation. ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State, which had gone up to 2,101 on Thursday, showed a slight decline at 2,046, while the number of those patients requiring ventilator support was 806. The State’s active case pool has been on the rise, even though hospitalisations are more or less stabilised. The active case pool on Friday stood at 1,80,000, with 16,856 recoveries. The cumulative case fatality is continuing to rise and now stands at 18,394. On Friday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,364. The cumulative case burden now stands at 36,52,090 cases. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of cases at 3,010, followed by Kozhikode 2,426, Ernakulam 2,388, Thrissur 2,384, Palakkad 1,930, Kannur 1,472, Kollam 1,378,Thiruvananthapuram 1,070, Kottayam 1,032, Alappuzha 998, Pathanamthitta 719, Kasaragod 600, Wayanad 547 and Idukki 498.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-day-vaccine-drive-from-today/article35906813.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bicycle Brigade makes seed bombs||A few years ago, the city-based Indus Cycling Embassy had planted seed bombs at Kanakakkunnu as part of ‘Seed the Future’ campaign. Following up the green drive, students who are part of the Corporation’s Bicycle Brigade, which the organisation is associated with, are now preparing seed bombs to be planted in easily accessible locations. At least 15 Bicycle Brigade students are involved in the initiative. Two seeds are placed inside each ball made of soil, cow dung and coconut fibre. These are dried to keep them safe from insects inside the soil till the rain helps them germinate. Each student will make 50 seed bombs for planting at least once a month in locations within 10 km of the city that are easy to access on bicycles. On Thursday morning, six students, led by junior bicycle mayor Madhur B. and Bicycle Brigade captain Devadath V., cycled to Kaliyikkavila to hand over 1,500 seed bombs to a Tamil Nadu-based sister cycling club, TN 75 Cycling Club. The club is embarking on a four-day ride from Nagercoil to Dhanushkodi and plans to sow the seed balls en route. Prakash Gopinath, the city’s Bicycle Mayor, says seed balls are much easier to carry, as compared to saplings, for cyclists. Even if only half of them survive, it is worth the effort, he says. Seeds of Ashoka, kanikonna, koovalam, kunthirikam, poomaruthu, tabebuia, manjadi and custard apple are used inside the bombs. A good number of the seeds were picked from the Museum premises with the permission of the museum director, says Mr. Gopinath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bicycle-brigade-makes-seed-bombs/article35907093.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||The Hindu Pookkalam contest on August 19, 20||The 11th edition of Preethi Power Duo The Hindu Pookkalam Contest, powered by Mangaldeep, will be held at four centres, namely Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Thrissur, and Kozhikode, on August 19 and 20. The contest, first held in 2007, has witnessed increased participation over the years and has become a top event of its kind. This time, Pookkalams are encouraged to be prepared by participants / family members from the comfort of their home adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols. Prizes The teams adjudged first, second, and third will receive Rs. 25,000, Rs. 15,000, and Rs. 10,000 respectively. Ten teams will be given Rs. 1,500 as consolation prize. All teams will be given Rs. 1,000 as reimbursement towards the cost of flowers. There will be also special gifts for all participating teams. Onam Smile contest Participants of the contest can also join the best Onam Smile contest sponsored by Smile partner K.P. Namboodiri’s Ayurvedics by posing for a click before Pookkalams are made. Winners will be given special gift hampers by the sponsor. RKG Ghee is the associate sponsor, and Mar Sleeva Medicity, Palai, is the healthcare partner. Gift sponsors include Indian Oil Corporation and Parisons. For details and registration, call Aneesh (Kozhikode Centre) 98472-00442, Girish (Thiruvananthapuram Centre) 94474-50454, Vinod Krishnan (Kochi Centre) 90614-52825, and Athul Krishnan (Thrissur Centre) 94469-92927 Terms and conditions Only 25 teams will be allowed to participate at each centre on first come, first served basis. Each team should have three to five members, including the team captain. Natural flowers and leaves alone should be used. Flowers required for the contest will have to be arranged by the contestants. Harmony of colours and shapes and neatness of the Pookkalam will be considered by the jury. The decision of the jury will be final. Family members of the staff of The Hindu and the sponsors are not allowed to participate. Right of selection of the teams will rest with The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-hindu-pookkalam-contest-on-august-19-20/article35906739.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police open drone forensic lab||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said remotely operated drones were emerging as force multipliers in the hands of criminals and the State’s law enforcement required to catch up. He was inaugurating the State Police Department’s ‘Drone Forensic Laboratory’ at the Kerala State Police CyberDome. Mr. Vijayan said the facility would help investigators gain an edge over those who operate drones for illegal purposes. The police have forayed strongly into the relatively new field of drone forensics. It had recently analysed a drone brought down by the Border Security Force (BSF) near the international border in Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir and helped the local enforcement zero in on its illegal operator. The forensic experts sifted through the device’s storage/memory card, dissected its software and hardware and studied the networking details. An analysis of its GPS module revealed the locations the drone had traversed over and its operational history. A senior official said drones posed a new set of challenges for the police. Criminals could use them for smuggling contraband. A repurposed industrial drone could easily cart 2.5 kg of marijuana across rugged border terrain. Lawbreakers could kit drones out with crude explosives and drop the payload on their targets remotely. To spy on others They could use drones to spy on others, peek inside high-rise apartments and eavesdrop on conversations with audio sensors. Offenders could use drones to breach no-fly zones or scan strategic locations. The State police had banned the use of unregistered drones in 2019. Moreover, it had set limits on where owners could deploy them. For instance, drones are banned from whizzing over crowds or restricted airspace. Ban on paper However, the ban has remained largely on paper. Scores of persons operate unregistered drones for recreational or amateur filming purposes. The police have also sensed a rise in the use of homemade drones. Investigators said that drones left no physical evidence behind, making it difficult for the police to capture their remote operators. “Unlike a classic crime scene, drones leave no DNA evidence, fingerprints or digital signature behind. The police are often left clueless. Drones hold an appeal for criminals because they are difficult to track, trace and intercept,” an official said. CyberDome hoped to aid the police capture and analyse data from captured or recovered drones. “We could use the data to identify when and where the drone was used and perhaps who flew it. It could lead us to the perpetrator and the motive,” he said. State Police Chief Anil Kant and nodal officer, Cyberdome, Manoj Abraham, ADGP, are heading the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-open-drone-forensic-lab-in-capital/article35906869.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All set for BL Celebration quiz||The 18th edition of BusinessLine (BL) Celebration 2021, one of the country’s premier corporate quiz championships, is back. But, in a virtual format this time. After the preliminary online quizzing held between August 4 and August 11, the top six from each of the six cities — Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi — have been shortlisted for the regional rounds. The preliminary online had about 6,000 participants. Participants selected for the Kochi regional round are Jameer K.B. from Q Collective Knowledge Solutions; Siddharth Rout from Kantar Analytics; Anand Kumar from SAIL DSP; Jis John Sebastian, an advocate; Sharat Chandar M. from Optisol Business Solutions, and Amrut Abraham from Federal Bank Ltd. Corporate executives The quiz has been designed for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students, and MBA aspirants. The contestants stand a chance to win the coveted intellectual title and a prize money worth up to Rs. 1.5 lakh. (First prize Rs. 75,000, second prize Rs. 50,000, and third prize Rs. 25,000). Register Quiz enthusiasts can login to witness the top six compete by registering at https://bit.ly/BLQUIZ21 or scan the QR Code. While the Union Bank of India is the title sponsor, the event is powered by CFA Institute along with ManageEngine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-businessline-celebration-quiz/article35906744.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Handloom and khadi get a leg-up through a ‘challenge’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the handloom-khadi challenge at the Assembly gates on August 13, by gifting ‘Onakkodi’ to Speaker M.B. Rajesh and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve gifted ‘Onakkodi’ to Mr. Vijayan. Ministers and MLAs were present at the function. The Industries Department launched the handloom-khadi challenge during the Onam season to promote the sales of these materials. Discounts of up to 40% have been announced on various clothing items. A khadi kit worth Rs. 5,000 is available for Rs. 2,999. Mr. Rajeeve said people can help the workers in the handloom sector, who have been struggling due to the COVID-19 pandemic, by choosing handloom clothing for ‘Onakkodi.’ The government will roll out a programme to revive the ailing sector by roping in designers to enhance appeal and diversify products and modernising khadi weaving equipment. Replying to a submission moved by K.I.Madhusoodanan in the Assembly on Thursday, Mr. Rajeeve said efforts were on to replace old ‘charkas’ and looms with modern equipment using funds from the Plan outlay. The government had commissioned a research programme to improve the efficiency of old equipment. Marketing troubles Noting that marketing of khadi products was beset with problems, the Minister said showrooms were being modernised to draw customers. A marketing campaign would be taken up to promote the export of khadi products. Online marketing was one of the proposals on the anvil. The Minister said the government would provide an assistance of Rs. 10 crore as rebate on khadi products during the Onam festival season. An amount of Rs. 8 crore had been disbursed under the income support scheme, he told the House.  The government will roll out a programme to revive the ailing sector by roping in designers to enhance appeal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/handloom-gets-a-leg-up-through-a-challenge/article35906954.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||College develops oximeter, KTU to transfer technology||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has initiated steps for the technology transfer of a pulse oximeter developed by Mar Baselios College of Engineering in the city. The product, named Oxifine , is a modular device having minimal components and a sample design. It can monitor pulse rate in beats per minute (BPM) and SpO2 level (blood oxygen saturation indicator) in percentage using the companion mobile application. The design takes away the need for a display unit in the device. It can be powered with a micro-B USB power adapter and thereby removes the need for batteries, reducing the device’s size, complexity and cost. The product, designed and manufactured at the college’s fab lab, is expected to cost around Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 when manufactured in bulk. According to the university, the technology transfer is bound to become a boon for the State, which has been grappling with a sharp spike in the prices of pulse oximeters with an increase in demand. The university’s Industry Attachment Cell had earlier facilitated the transfer of the technical know-how to manufacture a portable oxygen concentrator developed by the Providence College of Engineering among its affiliated colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-develops-oximeter-ktu-to-transfer-technology/article35907087.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID-19: Union Health Minister to visit State||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will visit Kerala next week, likely on August 16-17 to directly review the COVID-19 situation in the State. Director of the National Centre for Disease Control Sujeet Singh is expected to accompany him. Dr. Singh had led the Central team that visited the State in the first week of August to assess the COVID-19 scenario after Kerala’s case graph began rising since July second week. The State’s case graph has been on a plateau for the past two weeks, with a daily caseload of 20,000-22,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-union-health-minister-to-visit-state/article35907091.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State administers 5.35 lakh jab doses||The State administered a record 5,35,074 doses of COVID-19 vaccine on Friday, of which 1.2 lakh doses were delivered to the elderly above 60 years of age. The State’s earlier record of the highest number of vaccine doses to be delivered in a single day was 5.15 lakh doses After the vaccination campaign was launched on August 9, 5.04 lakh persons, aged 60 years and above have been vaccinated, an official release issued by the office of the Health Minister said here. Of the 5,35,074 doses administered on Friday, 4,64,849 were first doses and 70,225 were second doses The State had launched the intensive vaccination campaign on August 9, with the aim of taking the first dose of vaccines to all aged 60 years and above as well as all bed-ridden persons above 18 years with chronic illnesses in the State Kerala also received 4.02 lakh doses of additional vaccine stock on Friday, which included 3,02,400 doses of Covishield and one lakh doses of Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-administers-535-lakh-jab-doses/article35907102.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC launches new loan scheme for MSMEs||The State-owned Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) has announced a new scheme to assist MSME units located on industrial estates. Under the ‘Support MSMEs’ meant for manufacturing and service industries, loans will be issued for setting up new units, or modernise or expand existing ones. The KFC will provide term and long-term loans and working capital loans. It will also provide guarantees for MSME units. The upper limit of loans is Rs. 20 crore for companies. For partnership firms and proprietary concerns, the upper limit is Rs. 8 crore. The upper limit for the guarantees is Rs. 50 crore. Existing units are eligible for loans up to 90% of their modernisation/expansion project cost under the modernisation scheme. The applicants should apply online at www.kfc.org. “The scheme is tailor-made to help the industries to get hazzle-free credit facilities. The KFC will set apart a Rs. 500-crore pool for the scheme,” said KFC chairman and managing director Sanjay Kaul on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfc-launches-new-loan-scheme-for-msmes/article35906953.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Paddy harvested for Niraputhari||The paddy fields inside the Assembly complex and the Putharikkandam Maithanam which were being cultivated for the Niraputhari festival at the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple were harvested on Friday. On the Assembly premises, Speaker M.B. Rajesh and Deputy Speaker Chittayam Gopakumar handed over the harvested paddy stacks to Mayor Arya Rajendran. At Putharikkandam At the Putharikkandam Maithanam, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil and Transport Minister Antony Raju handed over the paddy stacks to the Mayor. Deputy Mayor P.K.Raju, standing committee chairpersons and officials of the city Corporation and the Agriculture Department were present. In the evening, the Mayor handed over the collected paddy stacks to Padmanabha Swamy Temple Chief Executive Officer B. Sureshkumar. Ms. Rajendran said the harvesting at Putharikkandan Maithanam was possible this year due to the special care taken by the Corporation to prevent destruction of the paddy due to the rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-harvested-for-niraputhari/article35907090.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3.5 tonnes of cloth waste collected||As many as 3.5 tonnes of cloth waste were collected in a drive organised by the Corporation across all the 100 wards on Friday. Collection counters were set up in all wards as part of the drive. The cloth waste was sent for recycling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/35-tonnes-of-cloth-waste-collected/article35907094.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman, daughter electrocuted||A 55-year-old woman and her 29-year-old daughter were electrocuted while trying to save a 5-year-old child who had accidentally come into contact with an earth wire near Thiruvallam here on Friday. The deceased were identified as Henna Mohan and her daughter Neethu Mohan. According to the Thiruvallam Circle Inspector, the incident happened around 11.30 a.m. at their house in Madathunada, when the child, Neethu’s second daughter, was playing outside the house. As soon as she came into contact with the earth wire, she screamed out, and Neethu and Henna rushed to her help. Though they managed to save the child, they got electrocuted. They breathed their last, while being take to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-daughter-electrocuted/article35907095.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,070 cases in district||The district reported 1,070 COVID-19 cases and 852 recoveries on Friday. The test positivity rate stood at 9%. In all, 10,003 people are under treatment for the infection at present. Contact cases accounted for 967 of the day’s caseload, while the source was unknown in 98 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1070-cases-in-district/article35907099.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to look into seizure of vendor’s fish in Attingal||The State government will look into whether the seizing and destroying the fish that Alphonsa, a fish vendor, had put up for sales by a roadside in Attingal Municipality was as per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, Minister for General Education and Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He said stringent action would be taken against the municipal officials responsible if it was found that they were found to have acted in violation of the act. As per the Street Vendors Act, the vending and non-vending zones have to be notified by the municipality. A survey of street vendors has to be conducted and identity cards have to be provided. Notice has to be served in advance before eviction from non-vending zones.  Illegal The destruction of fish that was seized during eviction, instead of auctioning it off, was illegal, said Mr. Sivankutty. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who visited Ms. Alphonsa’s house in Anchthengu, condemned the action of the municipal authorities against her. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he demanded the case that was charged against her should be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alphonsa-gets-backing-from-chennithala/article35906788.ece
14 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Award for Prasanth Bhushan||Civil rights lawyer Prasanth Bhushan has been chosen for the first P. Govinda Pillai National Award instituted by the P.G. Samskrithi Kendram. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 3 lakh, a citation and a sculpture. Mr. Bhushan has been chosen by a jury headed by CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby. The jury cited his interventions in contemporary issues, including citizenship and constitutional rights, as making him deserving for the award. The details on the presentation ceremony will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-prasanth-bhushan/article35906804.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Minister seeks report on power failure||Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty has sought a report from the KSEB on the abrupt shutdown of six generators at the Moolamattam power station in Idukki on Thursday night. The Minister visited the station on August 13. “'We are viewing the incident very seriously,” KSEB chairman and managing director B. Ashok said. An abrupt dip in power availability by 300 MW caused by shutdown had forced the KSEB to temporarily impose a load-shedding in the State on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-minister-seeks-report-on-power-failure/article35906806.ece
14 August 2021||THIRUVANATHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala CM to launch virtual Onam fete today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on August 14, inaugurate the virtual Onam celebrations organised by the Tourism Department. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas will preside over the function to be held online at 6 p.m. The department is organising a virtual pookkalam competition, with the message 'World Onappookkalam for humanity', in which Malayalis across the world can participate. Ministers, people's representatives, government employees will be part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-virtual-onam-fete-today/article35906803.ece
14 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU Weed Wiper gets patent||A ‘weed wiper’ developed by scientists of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has been awarded an Indian patent. The invention, which was filed for patent in 2014, is of great help for farmers to check weedy rice (‘vari’ in local parlance) in paddy fields in the State. The technology was transferred to Raidco Kerala Ltd., a Government of Kerala enterprise, and the product is available in the market. The novel wiper device was designed as part of the doctoral programme of Nimmy Jose, scientist at the Rice Research Station, Moncompu, of the KAU. The research conducted by her under the guidance of C.T. Abraham, former Professor and Head, All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Control, KAU, could also standardise an integrated strategy for the management of the highly persistent weedy rice in paddy fields.  Weedy rice is a product of natural hybridisation between cultivated rice and wild rice. Morphological and biochemical similarity of weedy rice to cultivated rice makes hand weeding and herbicidal control ineffective. As a result, weedy rice infestation has become a serious threat in the rice tracts of Kerala. Severe infestation and subsequent reduction in yield by 50-70% has forced many farmers to abandon rice cultivation. Weedy rice generally grows taller by 15-30 cm than cultivated rice after 55-60 days of sowing. The KAU Weed Wiper makes use of this height difference for the selective application of herbicides on weedy rice plants to destroy them. The device is fast gaining popularity among farmers as it makes restricted application possible without contaminating soil or crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-weed-wiper-gets-patent/article35906952.ece
14 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Protest against suspension of Cooperation employees||Alleging that Cooperation employees were made scapegoats to protect the director board members of the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank, the KGOU (Kerala Gazetted Officers Union) district committee staged a protest in front of the Thrisur Collectorate on Friday. “Suspension of the employees of the Cooperation Department, who have been working sincerely, is an attempt to protect CPI(M) leaders from the loan scam. It is an effort to divert public fury. An employee who reported the irregularities in the bank was among those suspended. This will destroy the morale of the workers,” the union said. The protesters demanded withdrawal of the suspension order against the workers. KGOU state general secretary K.J. Kuriakose inaugurated the protest. They demanded action against those involved in the scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-suspension-of-cooperation-employees/article35906865.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest drama||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-drama/article35906956.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for visitors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-for-visitors/article35906867.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Governor joins campaign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-joins-campaign/article35907101.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Star of the season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/star-of-the-season/article35907105.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing the waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-the-waters/article35906811.ece
14 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Labourer electrocuted||A farm labourer, Soora Nagendra Prasad, 42, got electrocuted while switching on a pumpset in his field. Putlur Sub-Inspector A Guru Prasad Reddy said the labourer got electrocuted after he turned on a motor for watering plants. He got electrocuted due to a faulty switch in the motor. Meanwhile, a 19-year-old youth, identified as Anil Kumar Reddy, died in a road accident at Bukkarayasamudram on the city outskirts on Friday morning. Bukkarayasamudram Circle Inspector Sai Prasad said the bike Anil Kumar was riding on his way to Reddipalli slipped while he was negotiating with a curve at 4 a.m. and hit the median. He was declared dead at a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agricultural-labourer-electrocuted/article35906562.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court directs ACB to submit status report in Sasikala case||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to submit a status report on the investigation carried out so far in a criminal case of alleged illegalities and corruption in providing preferential facilities to V.K. Sasikala in the Bengaluru Central Prison when she was serving sentence in connection with the corruption case against former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction while hearing an application filed by the ACB seeking more time to submit the final report on the investigation of the First Information Report registered way back in 2018 on the government’s direction. The ACB had sought more time as the court on June 11, 2021, had set a deadline of two months to submit the final report before the jurisdictional court while disposing of a PIL petition by K.S. Gita, a 65-year-old social worker and an educationist from Chennai, who had questioned the delay in completion of the probe. Petitioner’s advocate K. Aravind opposed the ACB’s plea for extending the deadline to submit the final report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-directs-acb-to-submit-status-report-in-sasikala-case/article35906506.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will not go back on poll promises, says Stalin||Reiterating that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government would not go back on its electoral promises because of the existing financial crisis, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said instead of seeing them as freebies, they should be considered as schemes to improve the livelihood of people. In an interview to The Hindu on the occasion of his government completing 100 days in office, Mr. Stalin said that the DMK had made electoral promises for the welfare of people. “We studied the ways to fulfil the promises before making them. We are firm on fulfilling those promises at the appropriate time,” he said. Alleging that NEET had benefited students of a particular stream and favours a student who was ready to spend lakhs to learn from coaching centres, Mr Stalin said it did not offer a space for poor and government school students. He said the Legislative Council in the state should be revived. “It is the policy of the DMK and government that democracy should be lively and there should be scholarly debates,” he said. COVID challenges Explaining the challenges and hardships caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr Stalin said he was not entirely happy when the DMK was elected to power. “I took it as an opportunity and challenge to fulfil the faith reposed in the DMK government by the people that it could save the state from the impact of the second wave." Asked about opening of educational institutions, he said the government was eliciting the opinion of doctors, educationists and parents to get an idea about the situation and based on their opinion the government is keen on opening schools and colleges.  We studied the ways to fulfil the promises before making them. We are firm on fulfilling those promises at the appropriate time M.K. Stalin T.N. Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-wont-go-back-on-our-promises-says-tn-cm/article35906595.ece
14 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 200 COVID-19 cases per day worries officials in Chittoor||The single-day coronavirus infection tally of more than 200 for the last week has kept the Chittoor district administration on tenterhooks as the schools are all set to reopen on August 16. Four people succumbed to the infection and 203 cases were reported in the district in 24 hours, ending Friday morning. Collector M. Hari Narayanan has instructed the officials of the Education Department to keep a strict surveillance on the compliance with the COVID-appropriate behavior among the students. A senior medical officer at the SVRR Government Hospital in Tirupati said that of the total 2.35 lakh COVID-19 patients identified in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, close to 20 % are in the age group of 5 to 18. “However, the fatality rate among the children is almost zero,” he said. The health officials observe that even as many districts in the State have been registering considerably manageable number of infections per day, Chittoor continues to show the graph scaling beyond the 200-mark. “The single-day infection tally crossed the 400-mark last week, after a brief lull since July. Now, a major worry is the floating population, escpecially people from across the country visiting the pilgrim destinations in the district, though in small numbers. The inflow of migrant workers is also picking up. The inter-State business operations (neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka) are returning to normal slowly. These factors are certainly behind the fluctuating graph of the daily count of COVID-19 infection,” he said. Vaccination of teachers The officials say that the focus now is on the vaccination of the teachers of both government and private schools, espcially those working in the rual areas. The occupancy rate in the APSRTC and private buses plying on the inter-State routes is witnessing a surge. A majority of the cummuters are travelling without waering mask and not maitaining social distancing, in gross violation of the COVID-19 protocols, the health officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-200-covid-19-cases-per-day-worries-officials-in-chittoor/article35906563.ece
14 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘immolates’ self after tiff with husband||Satyavani (28) of Puducherry on Friday allegedly immolated herself reportedly after a heated argument with her estranged husband at the latter’s house at Munipalle village of Baireddipalle mandal, 90 km from here. Her husband, who rushed to her rescue, was injured in the incident. According to the area police, Hariprasad Reddy (32) of Baireddipalle married Satyavani two years ago, after both fell in love with each other while working in Bengaluru. After a few months, differences cropped between the two, and Satyavani reportedly left for her native place to stay with her parents. Satyavani reached the husband’s house on her scooter all the way from Puducherry on Thursday night. She reportedly picked up an argument with her in-laws, asking them to tell her husband to come to the village urgently. Receiving information from his father, Hariprasad arrived at his house in the early hours of Friday. Seeing her husband, the woman reportedly turned hysterical and all of a sudden rushed out the house, and allegedly immolated herself, after dousing herself with petrol, which she was reportedly carrying with her. Though the family members and neighbours tried to save her, the woman was charred to death. The police registered a case and took up further investigation. Those in distress with suicidal tendencies can call Dial 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-immolates-self-after-tiff-with-husband/article35906567.ece
14 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders worth Rs. 75 lakh seized, two Tamil Nadu men held||The Chittoor police on Friday morning seized 61 red sanders logs worth about Rs. 75 lakh from two cars and and arrested two youth— Karthik and Raghu, both hailing from Tirupattur district of Tamil Nadu, on the Rangapuram-Chennai road near Palasamudram mandal headquarters. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy and Circle-Insepctor (Chittoor East) Balaiah, who led the operation, said that acting on a tip-off, the police team intercepted the cars. The accused allegedly had procured the red sanders logs near Chandragiri at the foothills of Seshachalam Range. They were transporting the logs to Chennai with logs. According to the police, the accused have confessed that they they have been trading in the precious logs since years and that they supply the logs to the red sanders syndicate operating out of Bengaluru and Chennai. The accused have been remanded. Sandalwood chips seized, two held Meanwhile, the GD Nellore police seized 10 kg sandal wood material worth Rs. 50,000 from two people riding a motorbike at the Tana checkpost on the outskirts of Chittoor on Friday. The accused, identified as Dorai (65) and Babu (30) of GD Nellore mandal, carrying the sandal wood chips in two small bags, were proceeding towards Chittoor. They took a U-turn on seeing the police at the checkpost. The police took them into custody and seized the sandalwood chips and the bike. A case has been registered and the accused have been sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-worth-rs-75-lakh-seized-two-tamil-nadu-men-held/article35906566.ece
14 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man booked under POCSO Act in Chittoor||The police on Friday booked a 30-year-old man under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on charge of raping a minor girl from Kurumjalam village of Varadaiahpalem mandal. The accused, father of two children, is a resident of NTR Nagar in B.N. Kandriga mandal. Varadaiahpalem police said the parents of the minor girl lodged a complaint a few days ago, alleging that their daughter had gone missing. Police registered a case and launched an investigation. On Thursday night, the girl was traced at Venadu village near the Pilucat Lake in Tada mandal of Nellore district. The investigation revealed that the accused, identified as Subramanyam, used to visit Varadaiahpalem mandal frequently. Subramanyam allegedly lured the girl to the lake island and raped her. The accused has been sent on remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-booked-for-raping-minor/article35906564.ece
14 August 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sowing picks up in Krishna delta, thanks to copious rains||Copious rains in the beginning of the Kharif season and availability of water in the irrigation canals have led to heightened agricultural activity in the Krishna Western Delta (KWD) region. For the third consecutive year, farmers in the KWD region have begun sowing operations in July, with the countryside turning into a lush green paradise in most mandals of Tenali revenue division. The KWD region is spread across an ayacut of 5.70 lakh acres, which includes 71,000 acres in Prakasam district. The main irrigation canal meeting the needs of farmers in KWD is also called KWD canal, which has a carrying capacity of 8,200 cusecs and extends from Seethanagaram downstream of Prakasam Barrage to Duggirala. The KWD is one of the biggest delta systems, consisting of several major canals and many minor ones. The major canals are: Bank Canal, which covers an ayacut of 1.55 lakh acres; Kommamuru canal, which covers an ayacut of 2.43 lakh acres; and the High-Level Channel, which covers an ayacut of 26,414 acres. Three canals flow through Tenali town, which are: Nizampatnam channel, covering an ayacut of 22,214 acres, East Channel, covering an ayacut of 53,992 acres, and Western Channel, covering an ayacut of 27,588 acres. “Farmers have begun agricultural operations through direct sowing in more than two lakh acres in Krishna Western Delta. In Tenali, Kollipara and Duggirala, direct sowing is being practised,” a senior agricultural officer said. Presently, the KWD region is getting a discharge of 7,000 cusecs from Prakasam Barrage. Farmers in KWD are a happy lot due to availability of sufficient water for the third consecutive year. In 2019, 5.78 lakh cusecs of floodwater was discharged from Prakasam Barrage, followed by 7.13 lakh cusecs of floodwater discharge in October 2020. This year, both the Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar reservoirs are filled to the brim due to heavy discharges from reservoirs in Karnataka and Telangana. This year, excess rainfall of 30% was recorded, according to officials. The irrigation department usually prepares a Kharif contingency plan at the beginning of the Kharif season. The annual water requirement is 69 TMC and in 2020, 66 TMC was sufficient to meet the requirements of farmers. In 2021, water is being released from Prakasam Barrage from July 1 and the present discharges are around 7,000 cusecs from Prakasam Barrage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sowing-picks-up-in-krishna-western-delta-thanks-to-copious-rains/article35907118.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viveka’s daughter sees threat over recce||Have associates of D. Siva Shankar Reddy, the prime suspect in Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder, recently conducted a recce of his house in Pulivendula of Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh? Raising this question, the murdered YSRCP leader’s daughter Suneetha Reddy wrote to Kadapa Superintendent of Police on Friday requesting him to assess the threat perception to her family in the backdrop of such recce. A doctor, Ms. Suneetha Reddy said in the letter that on August 10 a bike-borne person was found moving suspiciously near her house in Pulivendula between 5.18 p.m. and 5.22 p.m. The person crossed the house, went to the end of the road and returned within two minutes. He stopped in front of the compound wall of a neighbouring house, attended a phone call, removed the mask and went away, she narrated in the letter to the SP. The suspect, later identified as Manikanta Reddy by local police, was a close associate of local YSR Congress leader D. Siva Shankar Reddy. This “Siva Shankar Reddy is the prime suspect in the brutal murder of my father and I have made this allegation to every investigation officer since August, 2019,” Vivekananda Reddy’s daughter said in the letter. She said that she was not sure why Manikanta Reddy was seen moving near their house. “This appears more like someone doing a recce of the house and surrounding areas,” she said in the letter. Ms. Suneeta requested the SP to examine the movement of Manikanta Reddy near her house in the backdrop of Siva Shankar Reddy being the prime suspect in her father’s murder case. “His close associates are moving around my house,” the doctor said in the letter requesting the SP to analyse the threat perception to her family. Along with the letter, Ms. Suneetha Reddy sent a pen-drive containing video footage of the suspect’s movements at her house in Pulivendula on August 10. The doctor said that she informed the local Circle Inspector over phone of the suspect’s movements on August 12. The circle inspector, after identifying the suspect and questioning him, said that person was a catering contractor. He told the police that he was looking out to rent a place in the area for his catering business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vivekas-daughter-sees-threat-over-recce/article35906863.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana HC provides relief to Chief Secretary||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar received relief on Friday with the Telangana High Court vacating its earlier order issued nine days ago not to release any funds under GO (Routine) 208 towards ‘expenses for contempt of court cases faced by the CS’. Observing that the court got clarification on the amounts of money sanctioned under GO 208, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy vacated its earlier direction issued after hearing a PIL petition on GO 208. The plea was filed by a lecturer and social activist Prabhakar Chouti seeking to declare GO 208 as illegal and arbitrary. The petitioner contended that Telangana government issued GO 208 allocating Rs. 58.95 crore for the expenses to face contempt of court cases pending against Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar who also holds the posts of Revenue Secretary and Chief Commissioner of Land Administration. The GO was issued by Revenue department. Mr. Prabhakar, in his petition, stated that Mr. Somesh Kumar was facing 181 contempt cases by virtue of two posts he was holding. By sanctioning Rs. 58.95 crore, the government allocated Rs. 32.57 lakh to each of such case faced by him, the lecturer said. After hearing the PIL plea, the bench on August 4 instructed the government not to release any money under the GO. Within hours of the bench’s direction, the Chief Secretary filed an affidavit explaining that the money sanctioned was not meant for expenses to face contempt of court cases. The amount sanctioned under GO 208 was for payments in different land acquisition cases, the CS said in that affidavit. Two days ago, the bench instructed the government to issue an addendum to GO 208 clarifying for what specific purpose the money was allocated. When the bench resumed hearing the matter on Friday, Advocate General B.S. Prasad explained to the bench that the amount was required to be disbursed as part of the executive proceedings in land acquisition original petitions pertaining to a PIL petition. On hearing the AG’s explanation, the bench disposed of the petition permitting the government to release the money under the said GO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-hc-provides-relief-to-chief-secretary/article35906508.ece
14 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advisers have become dominant and Ministers voiceless: Manohar||Jana Sena Party (JSP) political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar on Friday said that the dominance of advisers to the State government in governance was against the constitutional spirit. Addressing the media here, Mr. Manohar said, “The advisers are dictating the terms in every aspect of the administration. The Cabinet Ministers are voiceless. Such a trend promotes corporate governance and not people’s governance.” On the Polavaram irrigation project, Mr. Manohar said that the YSRCP government lacked humanity to settle the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package for more than one lakh families that would be displaced by the project. “R&R of the displaced families, mostly forest dwellers, is a humanitarian gesture that is nowhere visible under the YSRCP dispensation,” he said. ‘Development ignored’ Referring to the State’s finances, Mr. Manohar said the spendings of the government was not on creating infrastructure and job opportunities. Development was being ignored, he added. “The State is spending Rs. 835 crore a day. Where is all this money going remains a puzzle. The spending is under the Centre’s scrutiny,” Mr. Manohar siad, adding that the JSP would intensify its field level activities once the COVID-19 situation eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/advisers-have-become-dominant-and-ministers-voiceless-manohar/article35906852.ece
14 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second phase of Nadu-Nedu from Aug. 16||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will kick-start the second phase the Nadu-Nedu programme at the Zilla Parishad High School at P. Gannavaram in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district on August 16. During the second phase, 16,000 government schools will be renovated at a cost of Rs. 4,446 crore, according to Education Minister A. Suresh. In the first phase, the government had spent Rs. 3,600 crore to renovate 15,715 schools. East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran reviewed arrangements for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-phase-of-nadu-nedu-from-aug-16/article35906849.ece
14 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four accused in ISRO frame-up case get bail||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to the former police and Intelligence Bureau officers who were arraigned as accused in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) frame-up case. Allowing the plea of P.S. Jayaprakash, Thampi S. Durga Dutt, Vijayan and R.B. Sreekumar, Justice Asok Menon held that the accused “should not be made to face a similar situation of being forced to undergo the ignominy of being incarcerated in the prison for interrogation at this old age after their retirement for an incident that took place a quarter of a century ago.” The court noted that there was no “indication or material, apart from the rhetoric that a foreign power has a hand in persuading the petitioners,” to implicate the ISRO scientists in the case. There was “not even a scintilla of evidence regarding the petitioners being influenced by any foreign power so as to induce them to hatch a conspiracy to falsely implicate the scientists” with the intention to stall the activities of the ISRO regarding the development of cryogenic engine. Unless there are specific materials regarding their involvement, prima facie, it cannot be said the officials were acting against the interest of the country, the court noted. If arrested, the accused shall be released on bail on the execution of Rs. 1 lakh each with two solvent sureties for the same amount, the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accused-in-isro-frame-up-case-get-bail/article35906513.ece
14 August 2021||Madurai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Madurai Adheenam pontiff passes away||The 292nd pontiff of the Madurai Adheenam Sri Arunagirinathar passed away at the Apollo hospital in Madurai on Friday night. He was 77. Mutt sources said that the pontiff was unwell for some time after he developed respiratory complications. He was admitted to the hospital on August 9. While he showed little progress, there was a sudden setback on Thursday. The Madurai Adheenam, an ancient Saivaite mutt, has huge assets including immovables in the form of cultivable lands in Thanjavur district. The mutt is a trustee in four temples including the Kanchanur Agneeswarar Swami temple in Thanjavur. Prior to taking over as the pontiff of Madurai Adheenam in the 80s, Sri Arunagirinathar worked as a journalist with Murasoli . His association with the DMK and the late leader M. Karunanidhi was well known. The Adheenam had aired his views openly on critical issues involving Hindus in the past. In 2012, the Madurai Adheenam announced controversial seer Nityananda as the junior pontiff of the mutt. In a short span, many Saivite mutts and senior pontiffs from Kanchi and Thiruvavaduthurai condemned the move. Though the senior Adheenam remained determined initially, he withdrew the announcement after a few months. Taken aback, Nityananda approached the court seeking justice. The case is pending in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, wherein Nityananda had claimed to be the next pontiff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seer-passes-away/article35906597.ece
14 August 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl pays artistic tribute to freedom fighters||A 16-year-old micro-artist, Keertana paid a unique tribute to 75 freedom fighters ahead of the 75th Independence Day. Guided by noted micro-artist Sk.Ameer Jan, she painted with water colours 75 heritage sites associated with the freedom struggle on pistachio blisters. It took her 32 hours and 20 minutes to complete the painting, she said, adding that she was striving to set record of sorts in the field of micro painting. She did not use any lens to create the miniature images, said Mr. Ameer Jan. She has been undergoing training in micro art for over five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-pays-artistic-tribute-to-freedom-fighters/article35906569.ece
14 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 3 more lives||Coronavirus claimed three more live in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as teh region reported 342 infections in 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Friday. Nellore district reported all the three fatalities, taking the total deaths in the region to 2,002. Prakasam district witnessed zero deaths during the period. As a result, the toll remained stagnant at 1,025, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The overall coronavirus cases tally inched closer to the 2.69 lakh mark as 236 persons in Nellore district and another 106 in Prakasam district tested positive in the last 24 hours. As many as 341 patients in the region, including 207 in Prakasam district recovered from the infection during the period. The active cases in Nellore and prakasam districts were put at 2,694 and 1,386 respectively. Private hospitals warned Meanwhuile, the Prakasam district administration is gearing up for the possible their wave of the pandemic. The district Collector has warned of stern action against the private hospitals that fail in upgrading the infrastructure in accordance with the Supreme Court guidelines. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-three-more-lives-in-nellore-district/article35906570.ece
14 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja Group chairman calls it a day||After founding and nurturing the Amara Raja Group for over three decades, its chairman Ramachandra N. Galla has finally decided to hang up his boots. When the U.S.-based entrepreneur returned to India in 1984 to provide jobs to the unemployed youth of his native Chittoor district, he had chosen the rocky Karakambadi area, under the Tirumala hills, for his mission of introducing the hitherto unknown industrial battery in India. “The entire region, devoid of plantation, was converted into a green belt to facilitate a healthy working atmosphere. Not just here, even our Nunegundlapalli, Thenepalli, Petamitta and Diguvamagham plants are replete with greenery today,” Mr. Ramachandra said on Friday, while announcing his retirement. The decision on his retirement was taken in June at the company’s board meeting when Mr. Ramachandra chose not to seek reappointment and hand over the mantle to his son and vice-chairman Jayadev. His maternal grandsons, Harshavardhana Gourineni and Vikramadithya Gourineni, who are being groomed since 2013 as a part of the succession planning exercise, will be on the board as Executive Directors. Growth trajectory Recalling the strides made during his long stint, Mr. Ramachandra said the Gallas had infused Rs. 6 crore as their first investment in the 1980s, which had grown to Rs. 6,000 crore today. The first year’s production was a paltry 60 million Ampere hour (Ah), which had risen to 2,500 million Ah today. “The automotive battery plant started in 2000 is among the biggest such plants in the world today,” Mr. Ramachandra said. Refusing to be drawn into a conversation on the pollution-related issues, he said the company had always adhered to the highest standards, be it the environment, human resources and working atmosphere. After making strides in the industrial, automobile and tubular batteries (used for home inverters), the group has added mobility as another core area of focus, coupled with energy. “With enhanced focus on energy and mobility, we are working towards rolling out electric-powered vehicles in various formats,” said Mr. Jayadev. The formal transition in the board will take place on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amara-raja-group-chairman-calls-it-a-day/article35906854.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 20 COVID deaths, 1,746 infections in a day||The State reported 20 COVID-19 deaths and 1,746 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The death toll increased to 13,615 and the cumulative tally reached 19,90,656 with a recovery rate of 98.37%. During the past day, 1,648 patients recovered, taking the total recoveries to 19,58,275. The number of active cases slightly increased to 18,766. Test positivity rate The daily positivity rate of the 73,341 samples tested in the past day was 2.38% and that of the 2.55 crore samples tested so far was 7.80%. Chittoor and Visakhapatnam reported four new deaths in the past day. They were followed by Nellore (3), East Godavari (2), Srikakulam (2) and Krishna (2). Anantapur, Guntur and West Godavari reported one new death each while Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported no new death in the past day. East Godavari reported 304 new infections, while neighbouring West Godavari reported 261 new infections in the past day. They were followed by Nellore (236), Chittoor (203), Guntur (160), Krishna (125), Visakhapatnam (115), Prakasam (106), Srikakulam (91), Kadapa (78), Anantapur (27), Kurnool (20) and Vizianagaram (20). The district-wise tallies are as folows: East Godavari (2,82,090), Chittoor (2,34,634), West Godavari (1,71,810), Guntur (1,70,320), Anantapur (1,56,740), Visakhapatnam (1,53,633), Nellore (1,37,146), Prakasam (1,31,680), Kurnool (1,23,564), Srikakulam (1,21,336), Kadapa (1,11,567), Krishna (1,11,490) and Vizianagaram (81,751).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-20-covid-deaths-1746-infections-in-a-day/article35906859.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sindhu inspires many women, says DGP||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Friday felicitated P.V. Sindhu, who won bronze medal in Tokya Olympics, at the AP Police Headquarters, at Mangalagiri. The DGP said the success of Ms. Sindhu was an inspiration for many women in the State, and her achievement was a proud moment for the country. Ms. Sindhu praised the police for taking several initiatives for security of women and asked the girls to download Disha App. Mr. Sawang felicitated the medal winner and her parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sindhu-inspires-many-women-says-dgp/article35907114.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools told to follow SC ruling on children hit by virus||The school education authorities in the State have asked the managements of all schools and junior colleges to strictly adhere to the Supreme Court order that the education of children who have become orphan or have lost one parent due to COVID-19, should be continued without any break. According to the information gathered by the State Women and Child Welfare Department so far, 6,800 children have become either orphans or lost one parent to the virus. The school education wing officials have secured detailed information about 4,033 such children. Of them, 1,659 of them are from government schools and colleges and 2,150 of them are studying in private institutions, while the remaining 524 are infants. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also given certain guidelines to be followed by the State governments with regard to the COVID-hit children. Director, School Education, V. Chinaveerabhadrudu, has released orders asking the headmasters and principals of all schools and junior colleges in the State to identify the details of COVID-hit children in the ‘Child Info’ list prepared by the government. In view of the reopening of schools from August 16, the respective school managements should ensure that these children are allowed to continue their studies. Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu warned private school managements against any attempt to pressure such children for fees or remove them from their institution. These children should be given school kits containing three pairs of uniforms, notebooks and textbooks, a pair of shoes, socks, belt and a dictionary by August 31. Private institutions should also provide free books and uniforms to these children and the expenses incurred would be later reimbursed by the Department of School Education. The managements should also display these details in the notice board and also inform the parents’ committees about it. The department officials, meanwhile, would monitor the academic progress of these children at regular intervals and sort out issues, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-told-to-follow-sc-ruling-on-children-hit-by-virus/article35906856.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor felicitates medallists||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan felicitated P.V. Sindhu, E. Rajani and Satwik Sairaj Rankireddy for winning medals in the Tokyo Olympic Games – 2020. Mr. Harichandan presented mementos to the three Olympians at a function held at Durbar Hall in Raj Bhavan on Friday. He praised them for winning the medals and wished them more success in the future. The Olympians said that they would try their best to achieve more success and bring laurels to the country. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargava, Secretary to the Governor Mukesh Kumar Meena, and Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh Managing Director N. Prabhakar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-felicitates-medallists/article35906896.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP reviews security for I-Day celebrations||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang reviewed the security for the Independence Day parade at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Friday. Mr. Sawang reviewed the rehearsals and mock drill of the I-Day parade. Additional Director General APSP Battalions, Shankha Brata Bagchi and Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu spoke about the security protocols in place for the I-Day parade, which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Ministers, Members of Parliament (MPs), MLAs, MLCs and other public representatives and top bureaucrats will attend on Sunday. The DGP enquired about the security at the entrances, VIP gallery, parking, officers’ gallery and the neighbouring points in and around the stadium. Disha App Special Officer and DIG B. Rajakumari and Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh explained about the programme schedule. The officers explained that arrangements are being made keeping in view of COVID-19. All the participants are requested to attend the Independence Day celebrations by wearing masks, face shields and gloves, the DGP said. Mr. Sawang said the municipal official officers, revenue and police officials are erecting waterproof tents and the dais, and making arrangements to conduct the I-Day celebrations even in rain, as there was a rainfall prediction from the Weather Department personnel. APSP Mangalagiri 6th Battalion Commandant Ajitha Vejendla, DCPs and ACPs accompanied the DGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-reviews-security-for-i-day-celebrations/article35906847.ece
14 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||NITI Aayog team presents report on SDGs to Jagan||A NITI Aayog team, comprising Adviser Sanyukta Samaddar, Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Officer Alen John and Data Analytics Officer Saurav Das, called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Friday and presented the SDG India Index 2020-21 report. The Chief Minister explained the reforms being undertaken by the State government for the integrated development of Andhra Pradesh, prioritising the development of various sectors. Members of the NITI Aayog appreciated the efforts of the government in achieving sustainable and integrated development. The team lauded the Chief Minister for implementing various welfare schemes under the Navaratnalu and for prioritising education, health, and agriculture sectors. Under the guidance of NITI Aayog, a two-day workshop was conducted at the Secretariat on SDG India Index 2020-21 and Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI). At the meet, officials discussed and charted out plans to keep the State at the top of the SDG ranking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/niti-aayog-team-lauds-ap-govt-for-welfare-schemes/article35906520.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on computational intelligence||Prem Prakash Jayaraman, head of the Digital Innovation Lab and Professor, Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) in Swinburne University, Australia, shared his experiences, research observations and challenges related to data engineering, Internet of Things and privacy and security-related issues in computational intelligence at the inaugural session of a two-day International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Data Engineering-2021, at VIT-AP campus on Friday. The event was organised by the School of Computer Science and Engineering in virtual mode. Senior vice-president and Global Head- Analytics, Insights and Data, Virtusa, Krishna Thiagarajan, was the guest of honour. Founder and Chancellor, VIT, G. Viswanathan said the objective of organising such an event was to create a forum to present and exchange ideas and results of researchers from academia and industry providing a common platform to help them develop a comprehensive understanding of the challenges of technological advancements from different perspectives. Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy, Registrar CLV Siva Kumar, Dean of Computer Science and Engineering S.V. Sudha, convenor of the event Nagaraju Devarakonda, co-convenor Hari Seetha, faculty members, research scholars and scientists participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-computational-intelligence/article35907120.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight security for I-Day celebrations||Tight security has been put in place for the Independence Day celebrations to be held on Sunday. Police have sounded alert and stepped up vigil at all public places, including the bus and railway stations, across the State. Police and Intelligence wing officials are taking steps to check movement of drones as a precautionary measure. Police have warned against operating drones in prohibited areas and high secured zones in the State. Security forces took possession of the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium (IGMC) where Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and a host of Ministers and VIPs will participate in the I-Day celebrations. Security has been tightened at all Collectorates, district police offices, parade grounds and other offices where I-Day will be celebrated. Police are checking hotels, lodges, bus and railway stations and pickets have been arranged, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tight-security-for-i-day-celebrations/article35907111.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to help kin of scribes who died of COVID||Andhra Pradesh government National Media Adviser Devulapalli Amar has said that the State government is chalking out plans to extend all possible help to the family members of the journalists who died of COVID. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Amar said that the government would provide residential house sites and houses to their family members. Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had always been journalist friendly and took initiatives for the welfare of the journalists. He signed on the journalist health scheme on first day of assuming office. Accreditation cards The government would also issue accreditation cards to all eligible journalists in the State. There was a delay due to court cases. As per court directions, the cards were being issued to all eligible journalists, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-help-kin-of-scribes-who-died-of-covid/article35907119.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man booked for ‘torturing’ niece||The Machavaram police registered a case against a person for allegedly torturing his brother’s daughter, on Friday. According to sources, the accused beat the eight-year-old girl for not taking food properly. She suffered injuries and her forehead and cheeks, the Machavaram police said. On receiving information, the National Child Labour Project (NCLP), District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), Mahila Police and the Anganwadi workers rescued the girl and produced her in the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The girl was sent to government hospital for medical examination and shifted to a shelter home for protection, said NCLP coordinator B. Prasanna. Case registered A case under Section 75 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, has been registered against he accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-booked-for-torturing-niece/article35907115.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aid given to Raj Bhavan staffer’s kin||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan handed over a cheque for Rs. 3 lakh to the family members of Yelamanda Seshu (24), who died in a road accident on June 27. He worked as a butler in Raj Bhavan on an outsourcing basis. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aid-given-to-raj-bhavan-staffers-kin/article35907110.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. school kit suppliers to be fined for delay||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Friday said suppliers causing delay in providing material for school kits to be distributed to students under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme would be liable for a fine. Ahead of the reopening of schools on August 16, the Minister reviewed the programme and said the kits with all the promised material in it, should reach the respective districts. The Minister informed that this year a dictionary was being added in the kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-school-kit-suppliers-to-be-fined-for-delay/article35906857.ece
14 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No ‘At Home’ on I-Day||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said that there will be no ‘At Home’ at the Raj Bhavan on the Independence Day on Sunday due to the COVID-19 situation. Mr. Harichandan has appealed to the people to follow the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-at-home-on-i-day/article35906848.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre sanctions Rs. 55 crore for works at Simhachalam temple||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that top priority will be given to the provision of pilgrim amenities at the temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam. He expressed happiness at the sanctioning of Rs. 55 crore by the Centre under its ‘PRASAD’ scheme. Thanking Union Minister of Tourism G. Kishen Reddy for responding to his letter on promotion of temple tourism in the State, Mr. Srinivasa Rao gave details of the development works to be taken up at Simhachalam like revival of the ancient footpath from Madhavadhara to the Simhachalam hill and construction of bathing ghats, provision of changing rooms and lighting at the temple ‘pushkarini’, at a media conference at his camp office at Seethammadhara here on Friday, He said that though proposals were sent in the past, they were kept pending due to the pandemic situation. The proposals were sent for Rs. 70 crore and Rs. 55 crore was sanctioned. The plan for construction of an underpass, made in the past, was given up on the advice of China Jeeyar Swamy. A ‘yagnasala’ would be constructed at the temple. Queue complexes would be constructed on the lines of Tirumala as there would be a huge turnout of devotees during Ekadasi, Chandanotsavam and other auspicious days. The Minister said that a 2,000-capacity waiting hall would be constructed on the lines of the one at Tirumala both on the hill top and at the foothill for the convenience of devotees. A walking track would be developed all around the Simhachalam hill range to enable devotees to circumambulate during Guru Purnima (Giri Pradakshina) along the lines of the one located at Arunachalam in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that proposals have also been sent to the Centre for development of Srisailam, Vijayawada Kanaka Durga temple, Annavaram and the Sun temple at Arasavalli under the ‘PRASAD’ scheme. Under Secretary (Tourism) S.S. Varma said that plans would be made for the development works after studying the proposals submitted by the State government. Executive Director of AP Tourism A.L. Mal Reddy, Simhachalam Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala, Appanna Dharmakarthala Mandali special invitee Gantla Srinu Babu, Tourism CEO Murthy, Regional Director K. Ramana and Divisional Manager Prasada Reddy were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-temple-to-get-rs-55-crore/article35906510.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free health check-up, blood donation camps organised||A free medical awareness-cum-health check-up camp on cancer, neuro and cardiology related issues was organised by the Waltair Division at Srinivasa Kalyanamandapam here on Friday. A blood donation camp was also organised. The camp was organised for the general public as well as railway personnel.Women’s Welfare Organisation (ECoRWWO)/Waltair president Parijata Satpathy, who participated as the chief guest, inaugurated the programme. Chief Medical Superintendent of Divisional Railway Hospital M.K. Rama Krishna, MD of Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI), Visakhapatnam, Voonna Murali Krishna, and Station Director of Visakhapatnam Railway Station Rajagopal participated in the programme. The camp was organised jointly by the Medical Dpartment of the Waltair Division and Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. The blood donation camp was organised in association with the NTR Trust Blood Bank. More than 150 units of blood were donated by the participants, including Station Director and staff, and more than 175 persons utilised this facility for the free health check-up. Ms. Satpathy gave away certificates and mementoes to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-health-check-up-blood-donation-camps-organised/article35906898.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Organ donation provides opportunity to help others even after death, says Mayor||Awareness meetings, programmes and calls for pledging organs and cadavers were organised as part of World Organ Donation Day on Friday. An awareness meet was organised, under the auspices of the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), near the YMCA on Beach Road in the morning to create awareness among the public on the importance of organ donation. Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari, who participated as the chief guest, said organ donation provides an opportunity to help others even after death. All individuals, irrespective of their position in society, should think in a humanitarian way and pledge their organs to give a new lease of life to others, after death, she said. She called upon youngsters to shun superstitions and pledge their organs. VIMS Director K. Rambabu presided. The Savithri Bai Phule Educational and Charitable Trust (SPECT) conducted an awareness programme at the Government Institute of Chemical Technology of the Government Polytechnic on Thursday. SPECT founder Guduri Sita Maha Lakshmi said that organ donation could give a new lease of life to eight persons after death. It was unfortunate that not even one in a million persons in India were pledging their organs, she said. An estimated five lakh persons were dying in India every year. The Organ Retrieval Banking Organisation (ORBO) of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) figures show that only around 8,000 organ transplants were being done in India every year. The annual requirement of kidneys for transplant to patients was between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh. One way to increase cadaver transplants is to register as an organ donor. After registering as an organ donor, the person concerned should inform his/her immediate family members about their wish to donate their organs after death. “Organ transplantation and retrieval cannot be done by all hospitals. Government approval is required and the hospital should be registered as a transplant or retrieval centre. Transplantation of Human Organs Act (THOA), 2014, gives guidelines for transplantation in India,” says R.K. Mahesh, consultant nephrologist, KIMS ICON Hospital. Brain death “After brain death, the relatives can discuss with the doctor or hospital if that hospital has this facility, if not the patient could be shifted to another hospital, which has the facility. Organ donation is the need of the hour to improve survival of patients with end-stage organ failure and is everyone’s responsibility to spread the awareness about it,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/organ-donation-provides-opportunity-to-help-others-even-after-death-says-mayor/article35906899.ece
14 August 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standing committee approves purchase of Rs. 44-lakh car for Mayor||The proposal to purchase a car for Rs. 44.36 lakh for Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari raised eyebrows at the second standing committee meeting of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council here on Friday. The corporation prepared a 13-point agenda for the meet. One of them was the proposal to purchase the car for the Mayor. GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, Deputy Commissioner of Revenue P. Nallanayya and others attended the meet. However the decision has not gone down well with the Opposition and Left parties, which criticised the standing committee for approving purchase of the expensive car. CPI(M) leader and Corporator B. Ganga Rao said that the corporation has no money to take up development works but was ready to spend lavishly on purchase of the car. The common public were being taxed in the name of reforms. He said it was wrong to spend such a huge amount for a vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/standing-committee-approves-purchase-of-rs-44-lakh-car-for-mayor/article35906908.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Randeep Guleria to receive GITAM foundation award today||Renowned pulmonologist and Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences(AIIMS), Delhi, Randeep Guleria, has been chosen for the GITAM Foundation Annual Award-2021, GITAM Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna said here on Friday. The award will be presented to him at the 41st GITAM Foundation Day celebrations to be held on Saturday(August 14). Prof. Sivaramakrishna said that Dr. Guleria is a Professor of Pulmonary Medicine and Sleep Disorders at AIIMS, where he has been working for the last 30 years. Exemplary services He was honoured with Padma Shri in 2015. He is also currently a part of India’s COVID-19 response effort. Prof. Sivaramakrishna said that the award is presented every year to an eminent person in recognition of the exemplary services rendered by him/her in various fields for the benefit of the society at large. The award, consisting of a plaque and a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh, is presented to the eminent personality in recognition of the services to humanity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/randeep-guleria-to-receive-gitam-foundation-award-today/article35906901.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police not accepting complaint against husband’||A 30-year-old woman of Burma Camp area has alleged that the Kancharapalem Police as well as the Disha Police are not taking her complaint against her husband, who has been reportedly torturing her. In a press conference on Friday, the woman claimed that her husband has been harassing her mentally and physically. When she had approached the Kancharapalem police seeking action against her husband, instead of registering a complaint, they harassed her, she alleged. ‘Will verify facts’ Responding to the issue, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that he had already spoken on the issue with the police personnel concerned and would verify the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-not-accepting-complaint-against-husband/article35906909.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district reports one death, 115 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 115 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,54,143. During the same period, the district recorded one more death taking the toll to 1,063. Seventy-five persons recovered from the corornavirus in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,51,655. The number of daily infections has outnumbered the number of recoveries consecutively for the second day. In the last 48 hours, the recoveries were only 122, but the number of new infections recorded was 238. The number of active cases stands at 1,425.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-reports-one-death-115-new-covid-cases/article35906903.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF unit organises freedom run||Under the Campaign of Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 as part of “Azadi ka Amrit- Mahotsav”, the 198th Battalion Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) organised a Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 here on Friday. Commandant of 198 Bn CRPF, Kavinder Kumar Chand, has flagged off the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crpf-unit-organises-freedom-run/article35906910.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga course from August 16||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, is conducting a one-month Weight Reduction through Yoga and Naturopathy course from August 16. Head of the Department K. Ramesh Babu said that interested can contact yoga therapist G. Lakshman on the mobile nos. 7993241701 or 9398019922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-course-from-august-16/article35906902.ece
14 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bike theft cases: man held, two minors taken into custody||The city police on Friday arrested a man and took two juveniles into custody, for their alleged involvement in 19 two-wheeler theft cases in the city. The police recovered 33 motorcycles, worth Rs. 13.20 lakh, pertaining to cases from various places in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts, from the accused. The arrested was identified as M. Yerri Naidu (34) of Gantyada area in Vizianagaram district. Addressing the media here on Friday, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the city police had received 19 complaints at various police stations between December 21, 2020 and August 12, 2021, regarding bike thefts. Among the complaints reported, Pendurthy Police Station reported seven cases, Airport PS reported six cases, two cases each were reported from Gopalapatnam PS and Malkapuram PS and one case each was reported from Bheemili PS and Gajuwaka PS. Based on the complaints, special teams were formed and investigation was started. The police also recovered 20 duplicate keys from the accused. DCP(Crimes) V. Suresh Babu and ACP (Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bike-theft-cases-man-held-two-minors-taken-into-custody/article35906906.ece
14 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DMHO urges people to donate organs||Vizianagaram District Medical Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari on Friday urged people to come forward and pledge their organs, which would help give a lease of life to many people. Dr. Ramana Kumari was the chief guest at an awareness programme held to mark World Organ Donation Day at Tirumala Hospitals. “There are many myths and unfounded fears surrounding organ donation in the country, which need to be dispelled in order to encourage more people to donate their organs,” Dr. Ramana Kumari said. Tirumala Hospitals MD K. Tirumala Prasad said that awareness regarding the positive impact of donation of organs such as kidneys, liver, heart and lungs was slowly on the rise in rural and semi-urban areas. He said that special awareness programmes would be conducted in colleges. A.P. Nursing Homes Association president J.C. Naidu gave away prizes to the winners of an essay competition organised on the benefits of organ donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dmho-urges-people-to-donate-organs/article35906894.ece
14 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmi temples wear festive look||All Lakshmi temples wore a festive look on the first Friday of auspicious month of Sravanam. Devotees thronged temples in large numbers to offer prayers to goddess Lakshmi. Special prayers with yellow horns were performed in Astalakshmi Sameta Ishwarya Venkateswara Swamy temple of Ayyannapeta of Vizianagaram. Sri Suktahomam and Astottara Kumkumarchana were performed. As part of ‘Mana Voorki Mahalakshmi’ programme launched by the temple, a celestial procession was taken up at Gantyada village. Astalakashmi temple located in Vinayaka Panchayatana Alayam of PN Colony of Srikakuam witnessed many devotional activities on the auspicious day. Several pilgrims visited Kamma Sigadam Mahalakshmi ammavari temple of Ranasthalam mandal in Srikakulam district. The temple trustees V.V.S.V. Prasad and Nadukuditi Eswara Rao made elaborate arrangements for pilgrims. The devotees were strictly directed to follow COVID-19 protocol on the temple premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakshmi-temples-wear-festive-look/article35906895.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Challan scam’ unearthed||Guntur DIG G. Srinivas Rao said that Rs. 7.95 lakh scam was unearthed in Mangalagiri office, and raids were continuing in all the 35 registration offices in the district. “Initially, we are verifying the records for the past one year. Police cases have been filed and a detailed investigation is on,” the DIG said. “Fraud was noticed in Bhimavaram, Alamur (East Godavari), Akiveedu, Gunupudi, Penugonda, Gandhinagar (Vijayawada), Nandyal and other sub-registrar offices. We recovered Rs. 29 lakh so far,” Mr. Ravindranath said. Minister for Registration and Stamps Dharmana Krishna Das told The Hindu said that instructions had been given to verify the records in all 295 offices and submit a detailed report on the challans scam to the government. “Registration and Stamps Department Inspector General (IG), AIG, DIGs and District Registrars (DRs) are conducting investigation. As of now, we have not handed over the case to any investigation agency. Criminal cases have been registered against the accused in the districts concerned,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/challan-scam-unearthed/article35906845.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-rush/article35906861.ece
14 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Broad-based movement of adivasis planned||The Gondwana Samkshema Parishath (GSP) has resolved to build a broad-based movement of adivasis in Bhadrachalam Agency to press for effective implementation of the laws relating to Scheduled Areas and checking alleged encroachments by non-tribals in Agency areas. In a statement, GSP State convenor Sonde Veeraiah alleged that several prime lands in Bhadrachalam town and its adjoining areas were allegedly encroached by some influential non-tribals by making a mockery of the Land Transfer Regulation (LTR) Act (1 of 70) and other laws applicable to Scheduled Areas. The Gondwana Samkshema Parishath has launched a campaign in the form of holding meetings and circulating pamphlets highlighting the “injustices” being meted out to adivasis and “gross violation” of provisions of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution by some influential non-tribals using their clout, he said. Hard-won rights of Adivasis were being undermined due to the failure of the persons at the helm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/broad-based-movement-of-adivasis-planned/article35906949.ece
14 August 2021||HARIDASPUR,TELANGANA||Haridaspur enters textbooks||Bhavya Sri is a third girl in her family in this village located in Kondapur mandal of Sangareddy district, about 25 km from the district headquarters, with about 1,000-strong population, 816 as per 2011 census. She was born on January 1, 2020, about one and a half years ago. She was unwanted in the family at that time. The entire family was disappointed over having third girl child in the family. Knowing this, panchayat sarpanch Md. Shafi and panchayat secretary Rohit Kulakarni took the initiative and met the family. They convinced the family that birth of a girl-child was nothing wrong and should be welcomed. They celebrated the event and from then the panchayat has been celebrating the birth of every girl in the village by lighting lamps and distributing sweets. Not only that, Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana (SSY) accounts were opened in the names of 74 girls with the help of donors, out of which 25 are from panchayat administration. Now the village got a rare honour. The activity of the village was mentioned in the Intermediate first year English textbook – Keep Going, INTERactive English. In 253rd page under Reading Comprehension Passages, the activity of the villages was mentioned. “Save Girl Child- Save Mankind: Gender bias is a global problem. Its intensity in India is intriguing for reasons both obscure and obvious. Yet, at times we see brilliant rays of hope emanating from unexpected quarters. An instance of this is an inspiring move initiated at Haridaspur village of Kondapur village in Sangareddy district by sarpanch Shafi to save girl children and to encourage their education. Proving that good manners too are infectious, the movement started spreading fast, far and wide. In just a year of its beginning, handful of villages have already started following the example. Inspired by this movement, Yeddumailaram village (Kandi mandal) set a record by opening SSY account for 72 girl children in a single day,” it was mentioned in the textbook. The villagers expressed happiness over their village finding place in a textbook. “We wish to move one more step ahead with new initiative Bete ko padhav ki beti ko bachav (teach the the boy to save the girl) on the lines of Beti bachav beti Padhav,” Mr Shafi and Mr Rohit told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haridaspur-finds-place-in-textbooks/article35906948.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Toilets go ‘missing’ from public places||A large number of public toilets installed on footpaths and road margins across the city ahead of Swachh Bharat rankings are being progressively dismantled reportedly owing to the high recurring costs of maintenance. At several locations in Serilingampally and Kukatpally zones, the toilets have disappeared overnight, making way for Haritha Haram saplings during the last two months. “I have counted at least four to five toilet boxes missing in the area around my home. They were set up only recently,” said Raj Kumar, a resident of Gachibowli. Between August and October last year, the GHMC went on a spree of installing public toilets, most of them box type and pre-fabricated. As per the data revealed by the GHMC, a total of 7,400 public toilets were installed in the city, at 3,500 locations. According to sources, close to Rs. 100 crore of funds have been spent on installation of these toilets, while Rs. 20-25 crore had to be earmarked for annual maintenance. Maintenance of the toilets was given out to private agencies through tender process, with the brief that they should clean the toilets at least five times in commercial areas and three times at other places every day. The corporation also claimed that it aimed to increase the number of public toilets to 10,000 by January this year. The civic body could not keep up its claim, but on the contrary, hundreds of toilets from several locations are now being removed. What’s more, at several locations, the toilets have fallen into disuse owing to reluctance of the public to use them. Doors and latches of several more are broken. Officials say that the toilets have become white elephants for the corporation, as the equipment inside is found either damaged or stolen repeatedly. “We’re forced to replace the broken or stolen parts from time to time. Agencies responsible for maintenance merely take care of hygiene, and not security,” an official informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toilets-go-missing-at-public-places/article35906938.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘India can take the lead to be next tech leader’||Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Friday said the present geopolitical context provides an unparalleled opportunity for the country to navigate the world order and take the lead in becoming the next technology leader. Stating that he believes India to emerge as global leader in research and development (R&D), science and technology, AI, manufacturing and next generation products and services in the coming decade, Mr. Chandrasekaran said that while right human capital and scale were available, the need was to make right investments. “All we need is right leadership, shift in mindset and to make right investments,” he said, addressing the e-graduation ceremony of Indian School of Business (ISB). Pointing to how China with its focus on a tectonic shift in manufacturing grew its economy from $1.2 trillion to $6 trillion in 10 years from 2000, he said “this is a decade of consequence for us as a nation... we can become a world leader in technology.” India has what it takes to be a technology leader and demonstrated this in IT services. “Now, we have the skills and talent to lead in hi-tech, 5G, AI, data and robotics,” he said. COVID, he added, has been a tremendous catalyst in terms of adoption of digital technologies at an unbelievable rate. ISB in a release said it was the 20th Graduation Day. A total of 692 students -- Hyderabad campus (481) and Mohali campus (211) graduated. Students of PGP (class of 2021), FPM (Fellow Programme in Management) and founding class of EFPM (Executive Fellow Programme in Management) took part in the e-graduation ceremony. Dean Madan Pillutla said "after completing two decades of meaningful and eventful years of national contribution, ISB is in for more promising and exciting times ahead.” Siddhant Gupta from the Mohali campus and Tanya Sri Yerra from the Hyderabad campus received gold medals for topping the class. ISB Parmeshwar Godrej Award, given to an exemplary woman student with a strong commitment to social causes, was presented to Ridhi Vohra from Co2021, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/india-poised-to-emerge-as-tech-leader-chairman-of-tata-sons/article35906934.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor inaugurates Hyderabad Sailing Week||Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan formally inaugurated Hyderabad Sailing Week at Hussainsagar on Friday. The championship being held under the aegis of EME Sailing Association (EMESA) and Laser Class Association of India will witness a large number of potential and professional sailors vying for top honours. Grand event The Governor complimented the EMESA for a meticulous conduct of such a grand event and for motivating the youth of the State for such a competitive sport. “This shall pave the way for the sailors to represent the country at various national and international meets in future,” she said. The National Laser Championship is also a trial for the Asian Games and for the first time Yachting Association of India (YAI) accreditation has been accorded to this event. Admiral Karmabir Singh, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chief of Naval Staff, President YAI, will be the chief guest for the valedictory function on August 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-inaugurates-hyderabad-sailing-week/article35907036.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS to open up more to Dalits||Entry of retired IPS officer R.S. Praveen Kumar into electoral politics is likely to open up more political opportunities for the MLAs and leaders from the Dalit community in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) so as to counter his impact on the party. Party is contemplating accommodating more Dalit leaders in the party posts as well as the government including corporations. One of the MLAs from the Madiga community may also be inducted into the Cabinet to ensure political balance between Mala and Madiga communities. Minister for SC Development Koppula Eashwar belongs to the Mala community. Since most Dalit MLAs in the party are either young or just lack pan-Telangana appeal and confined to their constituencies, party is contemplating bringing in a senior and well-known Dalit face in case it wants to move more aggressively. The Dalit Bandhu is likely to have a chairman on the lines of Rythu Bandhu and that senior leader may head it though the Chief Minister will continue to be the face of the scheme. Senior Dalit leaders from other parties singing paeans of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao seem to be eyeing the post. Mr. Praveen’s entry will certainly shake up the Dalit politics in the initial stages at least given his goodwill among those communities, particularly from the educated and employee sections. Voter base “Our voter base among Dalits is particularly from rural and unorganised sector and less educated Dalits. We will further consolidate our base with the Dalit Bandhu scheme among the poorer sections of Dalits,” a Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) senior functionary argued. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders are also of the view that Mr. Praveen would only cut into the anti-TRS votes among Dalits and that in a way would consolidate the party’s strength politically and electorally. Though Mr. Praveen is the coordinator of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in Telangana, Dalits rallying around him would be doing so more as individually than supporters of the party. “Individuals identified with communities don’t make much impact on electoral politics. We have experienced it with Jayaprakash Narayan, Manda Krishna Madiga, J.D. Lakshminarayana and even Pawan Kalyan, who were identified with certain groups or communities” said a senior leader. Telangana Rashtra Samithi has also devised a strategy to downsize Mr. Praveen’s image questioning his commitment to the Telangana movement and his role in countering the students in Osmania University when the agitation was at its peak. The aggression was visible when Gadari Kishore, student-leader turned MLA did not mince words while targeting Mr. Praveen Kumar at a press conference after the latter targetted the Chief Minister at the Nalgonda meeting. If the response is aggressive TRS too will step up its attack. Meanwhile, the police denied permission to the Dalita Girijana Dandora meeting to be held on August 18 at Ibrahimpatnam, citing traffic issues. Congress leader Malreddy Ram Reddy said that the police had asked them to find a new venue and not the proposed venue, which was adjacent to the Outer Ring Road near Ibrahimpatnam. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, under whose constituency Ibrahimpatnam falls, said that he won’t be available on August 18 for the meeting. He would be in Goa from August 18 to 21 with the Parliamentary Standing Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-to-open-up-more-to-dalits/article35906942.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIL begins supply of Covaxin drug substance to Bharat Biotech||Vaccine maker Indian Immunologicals (IIL) on Friday handed the first lot of Covaxin drug substance to Bharat Biotech. A development expected to pave the way for augmenting the indigenous COVID-19 vaccine production, it follows the Centre, in April this year, mooting a collaboration between IIL and Bharat Biotech. Several activities were performed in a short period of time, IIL said in a release. These signing of four agreements with Bharat Biotech, repurposing of the IIL manufacturing facility in Hyderabad, procurement of key raw materials, consumables and equipment for the process as well as technology transfer, trials at research and development scale and training. “These activities were all done at breakneck speed and production commenced in July,” the subsidiary of the National Dairy Development Board said. The batches produced at IIL’s manufacturing facility were tested at Bharat Biotech and IIL and meets quality specifications for the drug substance. The yields are more than expected, the company said in the release as managing director K. Anand Kumar handed over the first lot of the Covaxin drug substance to Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella. The output of Covaxin drug substance will be 3-4 million doses a month and from December, increase to 10 million doses a month. “It could not have been possible without the coming together of several stakeholders to achieve a common goal. Our capable and competent team worked tirelessly to ensure that the committed timelines and product quality are met,” Mr. Kumar said. IIL is also working on another COVID vaccine, whose animal trials are underway. This is expected to be out by next year, he said. Secretary to the Department of Biotechnology and BIRAC chairperson Renu Swarup said, “The government has worked relentlessly to provide all possible support for ramping up Covaxin production in the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iil-begins-supply-of-covaxin-drug-substance-to-bharat-biotech/article35906921.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. policies, schemes helping real estate growth: Minister||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s policies and schemes along with law and order and quality governance has not only given an impetus to the real estate industry but has been bringing IT firms to Telangana and creating jobs, claimed Minister for Roads & Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy on Friday. Round-the-clock power supply has been the key for growth and development enabling 1,500 firms to set up base here. The initiatives of Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao on improving road connectivity within the twin cities and in rest of the State has been another catalyst along with the TS-bPASS, Dharani portal and RERA, he said. The Minister, who was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the three-day 10th CREDAI-Hyderabad Property Show at Hitex, said that the development of Regional Ring roads would help in the next growth phase of TS. He exhorted Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India members to create low investment properties and property development plans for middle class and below poverty line sections. The property show would have over 15,000 best possible choice of residences and workspaces on display to suit varied customers’ needs complying with COVID-19 safety measures with limited stalls, wider corridors for social distancing, temperature checks at the entrance and sanitisation stations available to ensure seamless hygiene. CREDAI-Hyderabad president P. Ramakrishna Rao requested the government to make use of the corpus fund collected as labour charges and available to be utilised for providing healthcare facilities for the construction labour. He acknowledged the support of the government not only with innovative policies but helping the industry by allowing extension of all approvals and permissions by one year because of the pandemic plus permitting payment of various fees in instalments. Association office bearers G Anand Reddy, K Rajeshwar, N Jaideep Reddy, B Jagannath Rao, Aditya Gowra, Shivraj Thakur and K. Rambabu and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-policies-schemes-helping-real-estate-growth-minister/article35906925.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ from Aug. 24||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s proposed walkathon has been titled ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ and the same was disclosed to the media by party MLA T. Raja Singh after worshipping at the Bhagyalakshmi Temple, Charminar, along with senior leaders on Friday. The party chief has already announced that he would begin his tour from the temple on August 24 and the programme was meant to make citizens aware of the corrupt, dictatorial family rule of the TRS government led by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Singh said the party cadre were raring to go on the proposed walkathon to make it a grand success and launched a tirade against the Chief Minister accusing him ot purchasing MLAs of other parties like cattle and mortgaging the interests of the old city to the Majlis Party. Claiming that the Centre has been disbursing thousands of crores of rupees to TS but people were being misled here and he dared Mr. Rao to release a white paper on the issue. The ‘Dalit Bandhu’ scheme came into being only because of the Huzurabad byelection. “I am ready to resign as MLA and contest in the byelection if Dalits in my constituency of Goshamahal are offered the same largesse,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/praja-sangrama-yatra-from-aug-24/article35906940.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. to seek resignation of MLAs||Continuing its aggression Telangana Congress has decided to beat the drums in front of all the TRS MLAs in the State demanding their resignation so that bypolls will bring in schemes and funds being pumped into Huzurabad elections. TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud along with AICC spokesperson, Dasoju Sravan and former MLC Ramulu Naik addressed a press conference here and demanded that funds be released to all the constituencies like they are being done in Huzurabad. He said that Congress workers would visit all the villages to explain how the government was deceiving them diverting funds from their constituencies to Huzurabad. Mr. Sravan Dasoju mocked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao alleging that he was trying to delay Huzurabad bypoll by influencing Election Commission, fearing defeat. He claimed that Huzurabad bypoll was the most expensive election in the history of India and charged KCR with misusing power to buy votes through unfair means. He also challenged Telangana BJP leaders to ensure that the election notification for Huzurabad bypoll was released immediately, if BJP is really committed in fighting against TRS. He alleged that the TRS had spent about Rs. 300 crore till now for Huzurabad bypoll and is ready to spend another Rs. 400 crore to buy votes through unfair means. Still not sure of winning KCR is now trying to delay the bypoll by influencing the Election Commission, citing COVID-19. When Congress raised the issue of COVID-19 during GHMC polls and Nagarjunasagar, neither KCR nor Election Commission cared. Earlier in the day, the party held its preparatory meeting with the coordinators of the Dalit Girirjan Dandora meetings across Telangana. It was attended by Mahesh Kumar Goud, Sravan Dasoju, Bellaiah Naik, Manavata Roy, Bakka Judson and Ramulu Naik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-to-seek-resignation-of-mlas/article35906944.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR nod awaited to reopen schools, colleges on Sept. 1||Revival of classroom teaching by opening educational institutions from September 1 is likely if the government accepts the recommendations of the Education department to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Proposals to this effect have reached the Chief Minister’s Office for final approval. Sources said it is suggested by the officials to approve opening the educational institutions from September 1 in a phased manner beginning with higher classes. Primary and secondary classes in schools will not be in the first phase if the recommendations are to be believed. Classes can open from Class 8 to post graduation with 50% students initially is what the officials have recommended. However, classes for students from class 1 to 7 may open up after Vinayaka Chavithi or Dasara festival. Their argument is based on low number of cases in the State and also the fact that lockdown has been lifted totally and the public transport too was available. If classes start from September 1, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) might consider conducting first year examinations for second year students who were promoted without exams. However, these exams will be held with limited syllabus and giving lot of choice questions making it easy for the students. A clear picture will emerge only if the classes begin. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh has already decided to opt for classroom teaching as students were away from it long enough affecting their learning abilities. Problem in the rural and semi-urban areas is bit worrisome as they were not connected to the online classes due to access to smartphones, network issues and also their inability to adapt to the new mode of learning. Officials have cited reports of children in the villages forced to look for work either in agricultural fields or tagged along with their daily-wage-labourer parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-nod-awaited-for-school-college-reopening-from-sept-1/article35906931.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spectacular display of colourful boats||It was a sight behold for all those who were at Hussainsagar on Friday when the Yacht Club of Hyderabad, as part of the 75 years of India’s Independence celebrations came up with an impressive and colourful display of sailing boats. With a flourish of saffron, white and green as part of the National Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahautsav celebrations, YCH president and head coach Suheim Sheikh came up with this innovative concept which was clearly the star attraction even as the Hyderabad Sailing Week was formally inaugurated at the same venue late in the evening. With 86 State and national-level medals, multiple national titles and three of its wards being selected for the Asian and World Championships, the YCH Foundation reaffirms its dedication to the nation with a display of the Tricolour lighting up the very waters that also played a key role in nurturing the four Indian Sailing Olympians at Tokyo 2021 during their formative years, explained Suheim Sheikh. “We are privileged to be part of the celebrations in this way and thanks to the unbridled passion and enthusiasm of the young sailors, we could come up with this spectacular display of boats,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spectacular-display-of-colourful-boats/article35907041.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT club plans fitness walk||The Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) staff club has planned to conduct a 30-minute walk daily from 5.30 p.m. starting from August 16 to October 2, where 25 people from different departments will participate following COVID appropriate behaviour as part of the “Fit India Freedom Run 2.0”. Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav This initiative is of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports to commemorate “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. On Friday, Director S. Chandrasekhar led 35 staff members in the first such walk for about 3 km inside the institute campus, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-club-plans-fitness-walk/article35906927.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Quick watering system for trains||South Central Railway (SCR) has set up ‘quick watering’ system to passenger coaches at Secunderabad railway station where an entire train can be cleaned in five minutes flat reducing train detention and water wastage too. The facility would also help in ensure the availability of water in all coaches during the course of journey to provide hassle-free travel experience to rail users. Generally, each coach of a train requires 1,600 litres and each train on an average requires around 40,000 liters of water to fill all its coaches. Carriage watering is normally done at the originating stations of the trains. For the trains running for longer durations and trains running during day time, it is important to fill the water at intermediate locations as well. Watering at Secunderabad station is being done for both originating as well as enroute trains and this new facility helps in speeding up the process with help of automatic switching of pumps and valves depending on the water demand, remote operation planned by providing control panel at the end of platform, interactive soft touch interface to manually select the switching of hydrant line, etc., said a press release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quick-watering-system-for-trains/article35907039.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Demand for liver transplantation rises’||A virtual meeting of top doctors across specialities on the occasion of World Organ Donation Day on Friday discussed that there was a growing demand for liver transplantation in the country because liver cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases were rapidly increasing here. Survival chances At the meeting “Presidential Voices” organised by Asian Institute of Gastroenterology (AIG), president of Indian Society of Gastroenterology Rakesh Kochhar said the chances of survival of liver patients without transplant was a maximum of two to three years. Out of over 50,000 patients who needed liver transplant, only 2,000 procedures were conducted. Apart from Dr. Kochhar, presidents of five more top medical societies participated in the meeting. They included Dr. Abhay Dalvi of Association of Surgeons of India, Dr. D. Beherea of Indian Chest Society, Dr. P.P. Mohanan of Cardiology Society of India, Dr. A.K. Bhalla of Indian Society of Nephrology and Dr. Shailesh Shrikhande of International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association. AIG chairman D. Nageshwar Reddy said harvesting organs from the bodies of deceased persons and transplanting them on the needy should be priority as critical illnesses were on the rise. Dr. Abhay Dalvi said the country was able to establish a formidable capacity for living donor transplantation but deceased donor transplantation was still far from realising its potential in public health. Dr. Mohanan said over 50,000 persons needed heart transplantation per annum in the country but less than 250 actually got it. Dr. Behera said the overall organ donation rate in India only 0.52 per million population. Dr. Bhalla said 21,395 kidneys were transplanted between 1971 and 2015 as per Indian Society of Organ Transplantation. Of them, only 783 were from cadaver. AIG Director G.V. Rao summed up the proceedings saying each donor could potentially save up to eight lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-liver-transplantation-rises/article35906929.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Organ donation awareness poor in country’||Thousands of deaths can be averted each year provided the victims receive suitable organs in time to replace the damaged ones. But unfortunately, organ donation awareness is abysmally low in the country. To mark the World Organ Donation Day, the Gleneagles Global Hospitals, Lakdikapul, in association with the Hyderabad City Police, organised a session to enhance awareness on organ donation. The hospital also recognised the efforts of the city police for their cooperation in transferring organs for transplantation. And as recognition for their contribution in saving the lives of people, Gleneagles Global Hospitals CEO Gaurav Khurana felicitated Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar, Additional CP Anil Kumar and DCP Traffic LS Chowhan for their commendable work in transferring organs to conduct timely transplant surgeries. “For people suffering from serious illness, organ transplantation is the only hope. Donating organs will not only help save others’ lives but will help you continue to live in those who receive the organs,” Mr. Anjani Kumar said. The significant shortage of organs means millions of people continue to live life in pain, and at times counting their days to end and this pain can be halted by people who pledge to donate their organs in death, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/organ-donation-awareness-poor-in-country/article35907031.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two killed in separate road accidents||A man and a woman were killed in separate road accidents in the city here on Friday. At Karkhana, a woman, who was riding a pillion on a bike, died after a State-run RTC bus hit the bike near Anubhav Garden. The victim, Ramanamma from Venkatapuram in Alwal, along with her neighbour, Srinu, went to Jubilee Bus Station to pick up her daughter and grandchildren. All five were returning home on the same bike. When they reached Anubhav Garden around 9.40 a.m., a TSRTC bus of Vemulawada depot hit the bike from behind, as a result, Srinu lost control and all the five fell off on the road. Ramanamma died after came under the rear wheels of the bus, while the other four escaped with minor injuries. The victim’s body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy. A case was registered and a probe is on. Meanwhile, at Keesara, a 45-year-old driver died after he was run over by a lorry on the Nehru Outer Ring Road. The accident took place around 10.45 a.m. when the victim, Panasa Ramulu, from Sitharam Nagar Colony, Bairamalguda of L.B. Nagar, was going to Gajwel in Siddipet district from Nagole via ORR in his Bolero Max Truck loaded with coir. When he reached near exit No.8 of ORR., his vehicle’s rear left tyre got flat, and as he had no jack, Ramulu stopped another vehicle to lend him the jack to change the wheel. While he was busy changing the wheel, a speeding lorry coming from Ghatkesar hit Ramulu’s vehicle from the backside, as a result which he suffered severe injuries and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/article35907032.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ADP donates Rs. 54.2L equipment to Niloufer Hospital||ADP, a leading provider of Human Resources Management Software & Services, has donated Rs. 54.2 lakh worth premium ICU equipment, including 10 beds, to Niloufer Hospital for it to gear up for the looming third wave of coronavirus, primarily expected to impact children. The company has also contributed in providing cardiac monitors, ventilators, beds, ECG machines, BiPAP machines, defibrillators, equipment for the hospital’s nursing station, air conditioning, laryngoscopes and ICU syringe pumps, among others. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that the fully-operational ICU will help in the long run and not just for COVID . Hospital superintendent Dr. Murali Krishna pointed out that the donated equipment would help the healthcare staff deal with more patients in need during the current pandemic and beyond. The company has contributed more than Rs. 50 lakh to PM Cares fund and has facilitated 24/7 monitoring by the Gachibowli Police with installation of CCTV cameras worth Rs. 45 lakh. This initiative has facilitated a 24/7 monitoring covering a 4-km stretch in Nanakramguda and Gachibowli, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adp-donates-rs-542l-equipment-to-niloufer-hospital/article35906923.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man who tried to ‘grab’ Jubilee Hills society land arrested||A 45-year-old man, who colluded with others and executed a fake sale deed to grab the property of Jubilee Hills House Building Co-operative Society Limited, was arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police on Thursday. Mustafa Kamaal Siddiqui from Tolichowki executed the fake sale deed by showing non-existing house number, land and survey number measuring 1,431 square yards with fake self-affidavit and declaration to grab the properties -- plot no. 473-K-III and plot no. 473-L-III, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said, adding that the accused was produced before a local court. Eight criminal cases According to the officer, Siddiqui was involved in eight criminal cases, out of which three cases are at CCS, Hyderabad, three cases at Banjara Hills police station, one each at Pahadishareef and Kandukur police station areas. The other accused persons -- Syed Ahmed Darmani and Haneef Ali Khan -- are at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-who-tried-to-grab-jubilee-hills-society-land-arrested/article35907029.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gold, silver stolen from TSRTC bus||Over 40 tolas of gold, seven kg of silver and around Rs. 1.20 lakh was stolen from a jeweller travelling by TSRTC bus at Bodhan on Thursday night. Dalpath Singh, 38, from Secunderabad, went to Bodhan to deliver silver articles to clients. He took 18 kg of silver articles with him and handed over 11 kg to clients and was returning when one jeweller gave him 40 tolas of gold ornaments and asked him to hand it over to his client in Hyderabad. Aound 9 p.m., Mr. Singh boarded a bus to Hyderabad, kept his bag on the seat and went to get the ticket. When he came back, the bag was missing. Based on his complaint, a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gold-silver-stolen-from-tsrtc-bus/article35907043.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC JAC ups the ante||Unions of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) have upped the ante for workers’ dues, and demanded that the transport juggernaut deposit funds in the provident fund trust and also in pension schemes so that timely payments are made. The demand came from the TSRTC Joint Action Committee (JAC), which comprises several unions. The demands include Rs. 100 crore for pension scheme so as to ensure pensions are paid on time. Additionally, the JAC demanded that Rs. 1,045 be paid in the TSRTC provident fund trust. The JAC alleged that the deposit-linked insurance scheme which is used for insurance payouts in case of deaths, had not seen any disbursal of funds although 410 workers died of coronavirus. The JAC demanded that Rs. 6 lakh for each COVID death be released immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-jac-ups-the-ante/article35907046.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ARCI signs pact for tech transfer||International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI), an autonomous R&D centre of Department of Science and Technology (DST), has signed a know-how transfer of indigenous technology for production of Lithium Iron Phosphate (LFP) cathode material for Li-ion Batteries (LiBs) at its Centre for Nanomaterials with city-based Allox Minerals Pvt. Ltd, on Thursday. ARCI’s Technical Research Centre (TRC) on Alternative Energy Materials and Systems has developed the technology in line with the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. The agreement was signed in the presence of ARCI governing council chairman Anil Kakodkar, DST joint secretary Sunil Kumar, TS IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Allox Minerals directors - Rajiv Reddy and Mourya Sunkavalli. ARCI director T. Narasinga Rao said that the cost of cathode materials contributes significantly towards the overall cost of LiBs and as the country was heavily dependent on import of these materials, it became essential to indigenously develop a technology for the manufacture of electrode materials and support industrial organizations in LIB technology. Dr. Kakodkar emphasised on the importance of having a synergy among various organisations having complementary capabilities. The government, industry and R&D institutions needed to work together to nurture and develop EV mobility, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arci-signs-pact-for-tech-transfer/article35906918.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||427 fresh COVID cases, two deaths in Telangana||Telangana recorded 427 COVID cases on Friday as the case load dipped to 7,812 showing an improvement in the pandemic situation. There were two deaths in the State, taking the overall toll due to the pandemic to 3,838. The State tested even lower number of samples than on Thursday with 87,509 tests. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area logged in 68 cases with Karimnagar recording 44 cases and Warangal Urban 41. In total, 15 districts logged cases in single digits while Nirmal recorded zero cases. Interestingly, while GHMC limits has been recording higher number of cases in comparison to the rest of the State, it doesn’t have a single micro containment zone. In the rest of Telangana, there are 23 containment zones with six in Karimnagar and five in Jagtial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/427-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-telangana/article35906928.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apollo inks deal on liver transplant programmes||The Apollo Hospitals Group and Group of Hospitals – Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, a deemed to be university, of Maharashtra on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding to facilitate liver transplant programmes in Central India. The inking of the deal coincided with World Organ Donation Day. Joint Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals Group, Sangita Reddy described the development as significant and acknowledged organ donors and receivers. She said that in the last 50 years, scientists and doctors have played a crucial role in making organ transplantation and its methodology safe and effective. She expressed confidence that the power of collaboration between the two institutions would enable overcoming learning curves quickly. Pro-Chancellor, DMIMS, Dr. Vedprakash Mishra pointed out that as many as 22.2 deaths per 1 lakh persons were due to liver problems. He underscored the need for over 20,000 transplants per year, of which only 45% were being catered to. This is being done by around 200 recognised bodies. He said that there is a need to make organ transplantation available, accessible, and affordable. He opined that the collaboration is meaningful and not cosmetic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apollo-inks-deal-on-liver-transplant/article35906932.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BoB’s renovated regional office opens in city||The renovated premises of Bank of Baroda’s Hyderabad Metro region was inaugurated on Friday by the bank’s executive director Vikramaditya Singh Kichi. General manager and zonal head (Hyderabad zone) Manmohan Gupta, deputy zonal head (Hyderabad Zone) Vinod Babu, regional manager of Hyderabad Metro Region V.M.N.S. Saibabu were among those who participated in the opening ceremony of the office at Tirumala Estates, Himayatnagar, BoB said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bobs-renovated-regional-office-opens-in-city/article35906919.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 4 Book Fair||Hyderabad Metro Rail in partnership with ‘Kitab Lovers’ is hosting a unique book fair at Expo Galleria Punjagutta metro station from August 12 - 15, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. It’s free entry for everyone and under ‘load the box’ offer - three types of boxes are available with reasonable flat-price tags. One can buy any of these boxes and stack up as many books as one can, with the box lid closed flat. People can also sell their books to receive a decent discount on their purchases, said a press release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-4-book-fair/article35906937.ece
14 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3||Eleven cobras have been rescued from snake charmers by two voluntary organisations in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on the occasion of Nagapanchami, a press note informed. The Greater Hyderabad Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and People for Animals have rescued nine snakes in Hyderabad city limits and two in Nagarjunasagar. The statement said the snakes have been confiscated from areas such as Hussaini Alam, Shalibanda, Doodhbowli, Gowlipura, Aliabad and other areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3/article35907034.ece
14 August 2021||khammam,TELANGANA||Campaign to ensure rights of tribals||The CPI (ML-New Democracy) State committee has decided to lay siege to the official residences of MLAs and ministers, belonging to Agency Areas, on August 16 and 17 to exert pressure on them to ensure grant of pattas to tribals and other traditional forest dwellers for their “podu lands” under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. The CPI (ML-ND) and the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS) will jointly hold the two-day protests to press for a charter of demands, including withdrawal of cases foisted against podu farmers in various Agency mandals and stern action against those responsible for implicating podu farmers in “false cases” and “infringing” on the traditional rights of tribals as guaranteed by the Forest Rights Act , said a joint press release that was issued by the CPI (ML-ND) and the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/campaign-to-ensure-rights-of-tribals/article35906950.ece
14 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy opens BMCU in Erravalli||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited also known as Karimnagar Dairy opened the Bulk Milk Cooling Unit (BMCU) in Erravalli village of Markook mandal in Siddipet district on Friday. Incidentally, this is the village where Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s farm house was located. TS Forest Development Corporation chairman Vanteru Prathap Reddy called upon farmers to take up dairy units as an alternative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-dairy-opens-bmcu-in-erravalli/article35906946.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In sync||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-sync/article35907026.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Registration for admissions to NCWEB at DU under way||The registration process for admissions to the Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) at the Delhi University (DU) is currently under way. Admissions for BA (prog) and BCom will be based on merit and cut-off marks will be declared by the 26 undergraduate NCWEB centres that are there across various DU colleges. The application process is completely online and best of four subjects will be considered for admissions. According to the university, merit will be determined on the basis of one language and three best elective subjects. “Interested female candidates residing in NCT Delhi are automatically enrolled for NCWEB on selection of courses offered — BA (prog) or BCom or both. Students are expected to attend classes regularly as the minimum 66.67% attendance has been made mandatory to appear in the university examinations, which are held in semester mode or annually in May,” read the bulletin of information released by DU. Students will be permitted to complete their respective three-year undergraduate courses in five years. “The NCWEB enables thousands of young women who cannot join regular colleges for various reasons to attend classes on Saturdays and Sundays and during academic breaks to obtain their undergraduate and postgraduate degrees,” the university said. Aryabhatta College, Bharati College, Lakshmi Bai College, Hansraj College, Jesus and Mary College, Ramanujan College, Rajdhani College and Vivekananda College are some of the centres, which provide the undergraduate courses for NCWEB. However, the university specified that students will not be permitted to change their respective centres at a later stage during the admission process. “The board provides library facilities to all undergraduate students in the respective teaching centres. The board gives financial aid and book loan facility for the academic year to the needy and deserving students,” the university said. Non-collegiate students are also not permitted to pursue any other full-time or degree course. The registration process for undergraduate admissions to the various merit-based courses in DU began on August 2 and is scheduled to continue till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/registration-for-admissions-to-ncweb-at-du-under-way/article35907017.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 3 lakh cr. to be spent under new education policy: BJP||The BJP on Friday sought to corner the AAP government on issues related to the education sector. South Delhi MP Ramesh Bidhuri said Rs. 3 lakh crore was scheduled to be spent on the expansion of the education sector under the new education policy of the BJP-led Centre and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to “spend crores on advertisements” claiming credit for it over the coming days. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said this was at a time when the AAP government was allegedly blocking the release of funds to 12 Delhi University colleges because of which teaching and non-teaching staffers were not getting their salaries. Under the education police 2.0, the South Delhi MP said, children under 3 years will be registered for admission both in government and private schools; there were over 15 crore students for whom 57 lakh teachers teach across the country, he added. “In the new budget, there is provision for playschool, bal vatika, security, vocational studies among others,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-3-lakh-cr-to-be-spent-under-new-education-policy-bjp/article35907015.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar: Court denies bail to three, says remarks undemocratic||A Delhi court has denied bail to three persons arrested in connection with the communal slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here, saying one of them can be seen making “scathing” and “undemocratic” remarks. The judge noted that while accused Deepak Singh was seen making the remarks which were “uncalled for from a citizen of this country, accused Preet Singh was seen with him in the rally and accused Vinod Sharma was also present at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/communal-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-court-denies-bail-to-three-says-remarks-undemocratic/article35907014.ece
14 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Two held for making fake voter IDs||The Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested two persons for allegedly hacking into the Election Commission of India website and making 10,000 fake voter IDs. Reacting to the development, the poll panel on Friday said its database is “absolutely safe and secure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-held-for-making-fake-voter-ids/article35907018.ece
14 August 2021||Mumbai,||HC: Governor duty-bound to decide on MLC nominations||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Governor of Maharashtra has a constitutional obligation to either accept or reject the proposal sent by the State Cabinet to nominate 12 candidates as Members of the Legislative Council (MLC) within a reasonable time. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a petition filed by Nashik resident Ratan Soli Luth, seeking direction from the court to the Governor to decide on the nominations submitted in November last year, recommending the names. The court said, “Eight months had passed after the State Cabinet sent the list to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and this was a reasonable time.” This impasse has to be resolved, the court said. “It would be eminently desirable if the Governor discharged his obligation without much delay as seats in the Legislative Council cannot be kept vacant indefinitely,” the court added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-governor-duty-bound-to-decide-on-mlc-nominations/article35906613.ece
14 August 2021||Mumbai,||First Delta Plus death in Mumbai||Mumbai has recorded its first death due to the Delta Plus variant, with a 63-year-old woman, who was fully vaccinated, succumbing to the infection in the last week of July, a civic official said. This was the third recorded death due to the Delta Plus variant in the State.   Another Delta Plus death was reported at Nagothane in Raigad district. The 66-year-old senior journalist tested positive on July 5 and died on July 22. (With inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/first-delta-plus-death-in-mumbai/article35906611.ece
14 August 2021||Mumbai,||HC to issue order on new IT Rules today||The Bombay High Court on Friday said it will pronounce its order in the pleas challenging the new Information Technology Rules, 2021, and seeking a stay on its implementation as they violate fundamental rights on Saturday. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing the petition filed by a legal news website,The Leaflet,and a public interest litigation by senior journalist Nikhil Wagle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-to-issue-order-on-new-it-rules-today/article35906612.ece
14 August 2021||Patna,||Ganga in spate in Bihar||The swollen Ganga inundated many places from Buxar to Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district of Bihar on Friday and threatened to flood the State capital, Patna. Thousands of people have been shifted from flooded areas to relief camps set up by the government. As many as 14 diara (riverine) areas from Maner to Mokama have been completely submerged, forcing people to migrate to safer places with their cattle. All the river banks in the State capital have been flooded. Water has been flowing above the danger mark, threatening to enter Patna. The water level is the highest at Digha and Gandhi ghats (banks). Gandak, Kosi, Sone, Kamla and Bagmati rivers have been showing a rising trend in different parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ganga-in-spate-in-bihar/article35907019.ece
14 August 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 6,686 new COVID-19 cases, 5,861 recoveries||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 6,686 new COVID-19 cases as against 5,861 recoveries, pushing the active case tally to 63,004. With 158 deaths, the State’s death toll has risen to 1,34,730. The case fatality rate is now 2.11%. The total case tally has reached 63,82,076, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 61,75,010, with the recovery rate at 96.86%. “Of 5,05,45,552 laboratory samples tested, 63,82,076 (with the average case positivity falling to 12.63%) have returned positive, with over 2.19 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. 1,200 cases in Pune Pune saw nearly 1,200 new cases, taking its total tally to 11,02,203, while 27 deaths pushed the toll to 18,460. As per district authorities, the active case tally now stands at a little over 7,700. Mumbai reported 284 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,38,804, while the active cases declined to 3,137. Four deaths took the city's death toll to 15,979. Surge in cases Ahmednagar reported over 1,050 new cases and 19 deaths, taking its tally to 2,96,588, of whom 5,524 are active. The district’s death toll has risen to 6,326. Satara reported 1,020 new cases and 13 deaths, taking the total cases to 2,28,087, of whom 7,068 are active. The toll has climbed to 5,494. Sangli reported nearly 750 new cases and 21 deaths. The tally stands at 1,93,621, with active cases falling to 6,669. The toll has reached 5,257. Kolhapur reported 473 fresh cases, taking its case tally to 2,00,469. The active cases fell to 4,200. Nine deaths took the death toll to 5,664.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-6686-new-covid-19-cases-5861-recoveries/article35906610.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Are the Taliban on the brink of victory?||The speed with which the Taliban have seized Afghanistan’s key cities has triggered fears that Kabul could fall to the Islamist insurgents sooner than many had expected earlier. The Taliban now control at least 17 provincial capitals, including Kandahar and Herat, the second and third largest cities in the country, and are pressing on with their offensive. In many places, government troops retreated en masse . The map showing who controls which part of Afghanistan is changing by the hour. If the government had controlled all 34 provincial capitals and more than half of the country’s 421 districts before May 1, the Taliban are now firmly in control of more than 60% of territories. According to the Longwar Journal , 242 Afghan districts are now controlled by the Taliban, while the government has 65 districts under its control. The rest are contested. The Taliban captured Zaranj, the first city, on August 6. In eight days, they have taken 17 provincial capitals. Taliban’s strategy When international troops started withdrawing on May 1, the Taliban started an offensive in the north, northeast and western districts of Afghanistan. The plan appeared to be consolidating their position in the hinterlands as well as surrounding the big cities. The Taliban captured most districts in Badakshan and Takhar provinces, which had hosted the Northern Alliance that continued to fight the Taliban during 1996-2001. After capturing the districts, the Taliban turned their focus to the border crossings. They seized the Sher Khan Bandar crossing with Tajikistan, which was partly built with U.S. funds, the Islam Qila crossing with Iran and Spin Boldak with Pakistan. By taking these crossings, the Taliban squeezed the Kabul government out of critical revenues, leaving a financial blow. The control over the northern border would also allow the insurgents to check potential aid coming from neighbouring countries to their enemies in the future if a 1990s-type civil war breaks out. After taking the districts and key border crossings, the Taliban turned fighting towards the cities. They had already laid siege to the main cities such as Kandahar, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz and Ghazni. All they had to do was to start an all-out offensive breaking through government defences. They first took smaller cities in the north and then moved to the bigger ones such as Herat and Kandahar. The plan appears to isolate and surround Kabul to force the government of Ashraf Ghani to surrender or launch an offensive on the city. Is Kabul in danger? The fall of Ghazni, Herat and Kandahar are the heaviest setbacks to the government so far in the war. Ghazni sits on the Kabul-Kandahar highway, roughly 150 km south of Kabul, linking the Taliban-controlled areas with the capital city. The way Ghazni fell surprised many. The Governor of the province, Daud Laghmani, handed over his office to a senior Taliban commander without any resistance. “He gave a flower to the Taliban commander and congratulated him,” an official in the Governor’s office told the Wall Street Journal . Ghazni fell on the morning of August 12, and in the evening, Herat was also in the Taliban’s control. Within hours of Herat’s fall, the jihadists took Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban. Clearly, the Taliban are encircling Kabul from all sides. The Taliban’s advances have pushed foreign governments into swift action. The U.S. and the U.K. are sending more troops to evacuate their diplomats and civilians from the country. India recently closed its consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif. Earlier in the week, Afghanistan’s acting Defence Minister Khalid Payenda quit his job and left the country, which speaks of the mood in the government. The U.S. intelligence, which had earlier concluded that Kabul could fall within six months, revised its assessment that the Taliban could capture the capital within 90 days, according to the Washington Post . The situation looks a lot worse than what it was in 1989 when the Soviet troops pulled back after 10 years of military intervention in Afghanistan. The Communist government of Muhammed Najibullah clung on to power in Kabul for three more years, despite repeated attacks by the Mujahideen, who were backed by the ISI and the CIA. Najibullah’s regime fell in 1992, only after supplies from Moscow dried up following the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991. It took four more years for the Taliban to reach Kabul in 1996. Now, with the U.S. occupation set to end in two weeks, the Taliban seem to be eyeing Kabul before the winter sets in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/are-the-taliban-on-the-brink-of-victory/article35906260.ece
14 August 2021||COLOMBO,||Amid virus fears, Sri Lanka to widen vaccine coverage||In the midst of a sharp rise in daily COVID-19 infections and fatalities during the past week, Sri Lanka has decided to widen its vaccination drive, rather than locking down the country during a severe economic crisis. Health authorities reported 156 deaths on Wednesday, the highest single-day tally recorded in the country so far. Daily cases are at an average of 3,000, comparable to the surge in May, when Sri Lanka experienced its third wave and identified the Delta variant within the community. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Friday instructed health officials to pay “special attention” to persons aged over 60 years, and suffering from “chronic non-communicable diseases”, according to a statement from the Presidential Media Division. His orders follow an analysis of recent COVID-19 deaths, the statement said. The government has resisted a complete lockdown this year, citing the economic strain on the people and the national economy. However, medical professionals have called for urgent measures, including strict mobility restrictions, to contain the current spike in cases that, they say, is already burdening the country’s health sector. A group of senior medical experts, who attended a recent meeting convened by the WHO’s local office, have observed that thousands of deaths could be averted if “strictly enforced” movement restrictions are in place and all public events are cancelled for at least three weeks, in a note seen by The Hindu . According to the Institute for Health Policy, a Colombo-based research institution, the PCR-test positivity rate was 16.7% on August 12. For the past two months, Sri Lanka has been administering less than 2,000 PCR tests a day, its data showed. “Despite home quarantine and treatment of patients being allowed now, we are unable to cope with the load of patients at hospitals,” public health specialist Dr. Vinya Ariyaratne told The Hindu . “The political leadership is deciding on the strategy, the military is largely handling the operational part, but health experts should have a bigger say in the decision-making process,” he said. Last week, the Sri Lanka Medical Association warned the government of a “rapid escalation” in cases, reaching an “extremely serious point”, especially in the Western Province, where Colombo is located. “Insufficient coverage” among those below 30 years and the vaccines’ limits in preventing the Delta variant could compound the challenge, the medical professionals said in the note. Just over 4 million people, or about a fifth of the country’s population, have received both doses of the vaccines so far. A majority of them received China’s Sinopharm vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-virus-fears-sri-lanka-to-widen-vaccine-coverage/article35906258.ece
14 August 2021||Beijing,||21 dead as rain batters China||At least 21 people died as heavy downpours struck central China’s Hubei province, authorities said on Friday, weeks after record floods wreaked havoc and killed hundreds in a neighbouring province. China has been battered by unprecedented rains in recent months, extreme weather that experts say is increasingly common due to global warming. In Hubei, torrential rains caused power cuts and landslides, destroying hundreds of homes and forcing the evacuation of nearly 6,000 people, the province’s Emergency Management Bureau said, as reservoirs reach dangerous levels. “Twenty-one people were killed and four others are missing as heavy rain lashed townships from Wednesday,” state broadcaster Xinhua reported on Friday. Footage showed families wading in water that had risen to hip level and carrying essentials in plastic bags in Yicheng, which saw a record 480 mm of rain on Thursday. Rescuers carried people to safety on bulldozers. “We haven’t seen so much rain in 20 or 30 years,” a resident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/21-dead-as-rain-batters-china/article35906255.ece
14 August 2021||London,||U.K. man kills mother, 4 others in mass shooting||A man who shot dead five people, including a very young girl, during a six-minute killing spree with a pump-action shotgun was named by British police on Friday as 22-year-old Jake Davison, though they said the motive for the murders was unclear. Davison, a crane operator, started shooting at around 6 p.m. on Thursday, first killing a woman he knew in a house in Biddick Drive in Plymouth, police said. He ran out of the house and immediately shot dead a very young girl who was walking her dog in the street along with her male relative. Davison shot at two other passers by who were badly injured, then entered a park and shot dead another man before killing another woman in Henderson Place. He then turned the gun on himself before firearms officers could tackle him. The deadly shooting spree was over in just a few minutes, Devon and Cornwall Police Chief Constable Shaun Sawyer said. “There is no motive,” Sawyer told reporters, adding that police were not considering terrorism or any far right associations, though police were trawling through his computer. “We believe we have an incident that is domestically related, that has spilled into the street and seen several people within Plymouth losing their lives in an extraordinarily tragic circumstance,” Mr. Sawyer said. Mr. Sawyer said witnesses described the weapon as a pump action shotgun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/young-girl-among-six-dead-in-uk-shooting/article35906254.ece
14 August 2021||Beijing,||No need for further WHO virus origins probe: China||China on Friday rejected the World Health Organization’s calls for a renewed probe into the origins of COVID-19, saying it supported “scientific” over “political” efforts to find out how the virus started. Pressure is once more mounting on Beijing to consider a fresh probe into the origins of a pandemic which has killed over four million people and paralysed economies worldwide since it first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. A delayed and heavily politicised visit by a WHO team of international experts went to Wuhan in January 2021 to produce a first phase report, which was written in conjunction with their Chinese counterparts. It failed to conclude how the virus began. On Thursday the WHO urged China to share raw data from the earliest COVID-19 cases to revive its probe into the origins of the disease. China hit back, repeating its position that the initial investigation was enough and that calls for further data were motivated by politics instead of scientific inquiry. “We oppose political tracing... and abandoning the joint report” issued after the WHO expert team’s Wuhan visit in January, Vice Foreign Minister Ma Zhaoxu told reporters. “We support scientific tracing.” That report said the virus jumping from bats to humans via an intermediate animal was the most probable scenario, while a leak from Wuhan’s virology labs was “extremely unlikely”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-need-for-further-who-virus-origins-probe-china/article35906256.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Reopening old wounds along the border||A month before the Assam-Mizoram border conflict on July 26 claimed the lives of six Assam police personnel, Lalchhandama was in Champhai town near the Myanmar border when his farm shed and areca nut plantation, 320-km north at Aitlang, were destroyed. Aitlang is within the Inner-Line Reserve Forest, which is a 509-sq km green belt that the British India administration had notified in 1875. They did this to separate the plains of the tea-rich Surma or Barak Valley from the hills inhabited by the Lushais, who would often raid the plains. The Lushais and other ethnically related communities came to be called the Mizos decades later. The Inner Line Reserve Forest runs along the 146.6-km Assam-Mizoram border. Not clearly demarcated, it separates the Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts of Mizoram from the Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts of Assam. About 300 Mizo families — all residents of Mizoram’s border town Vairengte — have broomstick or areca nut plantations in the hilly Aitlang, which Mizoram claims is in Kolasib district. Assam claims it is in Hailakandi district and has periodically been evicting Mizo “encroachers”. The last time Lalchhandama and a few others lost their broomstick plantations to such an eviction drive was about 10 years ago. “We would wait for things to cool down in a few days and reclaim our land,” he said. But he had a bad feeling when fellow cultivator Darthanzaua narrated how the officials from Assam were more organised than ever before during the eviction drive on June 29. Apart from destroying the plantations of 18 families, the Assam police set up camps in the vicinity in no time. “I switched to areca nut on my 1.5-hectare land two years ago. I am not sure if I will get back my land this time, let alone start cultivation again,” he said. Disrupting life Aitlang is aerially about 5-km west of Auto Stand on National Highway 306, Mizoram’s lifeline, where the conflict took place in July. The Auto Stand, almost midway between Vairengte and Assam’s Lailapur town where three-wheelers from both the States terminate, is now a Mizoram police checkpoint. In the 4-km stretch of the highway between the Mizoram police checkpoint and the Assam police barricade at Lailapur are two barriers, about 100 metres apart, each manned by a unit of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). The CRPF units have been stationed as a neutral force at violence-prone spots along the inter-State border after the July 26 incident. The CRPF replaced the Border Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal which were deployed after arson and violence on October 17, 2020, under the operational control of the Mizoram police and the Assam police, respectively. About 10-km east of Lailapur, Riyazuddin Laskar is more worried than relieved by an instruction from local authorities in Assam to stop paying ‘tax’ to his Mizo landowner. Laskar, a Bengali Muslim, has been residing for more than a decade on the farmland Laltimliana claims he owns in the disputed stretch of the volatile inter-State border. Laltimliana’s thatched house is the last civilian structure in the Assam-controlled territory at Dholakhal Kulicherra Forest Village, referred to as Saihapui V in Mizoram, near the ‘line of control’ – the Kalakhal stream – flanked by temporary camps of the CRPF. Laltimliana’s house is about 500-metres north of his tenant Laskar’s, in the Mizoram-controlled part of Saihapui V, beyond three layers of security – two of CRPF on either side of the culvert and a unit of the Indian Reserve Battalion inside the Mizoram-controlled territory. The ‘V’ stands for Vairengte. Laskar, like most Assam-based contract farmers on ‘Mizo-owned land’ along the inter-State border, had struck an annual deal with Laltimliana. This entailed handing over 80 maunds of rice as ‘tax’ to Laltimliana in lieu of staying and farming on his land. A maund in the border areas equals 30 kg, almost eight kg less than the measure elsewhere in Assam. The contract farmers subsist by growing three crops a year, usually keeping the yield of two crops for their own consumption or for selling in the local markets. “I have not paid tax to my landowner this year. But I am worried this could be the end of my farming in this area and of years of association with the Mizo landowners,” Laskar said. Laltimliana is the second Mizo landowner Laskar has worked with. Radheshyam Chauhan and Ramlal Chauhan of Frenchnagar, west of Dholakhal Kulicherra, face a similar dilemma. They have not been to work on the paddy fields, fish ponds, areca nut and broomstick plantations in the adjoining Mizo-controlled Paglachhara. The ‘border’ here starts where a road ends about 100 ft from the elevated Frenchnagar Khasiapunji LP School, now a camp of the Assam police commandos. The camp set up after the July 26 incident has forced Bijon Malakar and his family to spend their nights at home. Their house adjoins the school. “We used to send our women, children and the elderly away to spend the nights at the house of relatives since the border violence started in October 2020. The fear of attacks increased after Intaz Ali, a firewood collector from Lailapur, was killed in Mizoram 10 months ago. Intaz invariably took the road beside this school,” he said. Blood notice A series of wooded low hills with patches of plantations and small valleys characterise the inter-State boundary. The Kulicherra area has four forest villages – Phainum, Upper Phainum, Buarchep and Saihapui V – marked as Cachar’s ‘Mizo section’. The four villages have about 600 people listed as voters in both Assam and Mizoram. Locals said the road and the Bengali-medium Upper Phainuam LP School damaged in a bomb attack by miscreants in October 2020 were built by the Assam government while Mizoram provided electricity and water supply. “Whatever is our status on paper, we are emotionally, ethnically and culturally with Mizoram. We hope the Assam government will give back the land our forefathers have been occupying since 1925. What will Assam gain by robbing us of our land and livelihood as well as depriving their contract farmers caught in no man’s land,” Samuel-a, the son of Laskar’s landlord Laltimliana asked. It is not a question of taking or ceding land but of a violation of the Supreme Court’s 1996 order banning the felling of trees and non-forestry activities in forests across the country, officials in Assam said. “The law is absolutely clear. Irrespective of status and ownership, there cannot be any non-forestry activities in forest areas. And they (Mizoram) have over the years built permanent structures, thereby breaking up the land,” Jatindra Sarma, Southern Assam Circle’s Chief Conservator of Forests, said. Records of the Assam Forest Department show that the encroachment on the Inner-Line Reserve Forest started in 1985, two years before Mizoram was upgraded from a Union Territory to a State. “The incident of encroachment first recorded was during November 1985 when a portion of Kalaland and Shantipur area inside Singla Reserve Forest (part of the Assam-Mizoram border in Karimganj district) was occupied with the help of the armed forces of Mizoram. Gradually, they encroached a total of 75 ha clearing natural vegetation and practising jhum (slash-and-burn cultivation on hill slopes) and cash crop plantation,” a report prepared by the Forest Department on July 5 said. Officials said some farmers in Assam showed the Mizos the way to encroach the forest. These farmers came up with the idea of contract farming, replacing the trees with plantation crops that ensured them a steady income. Unlike the border forests of Karimganj and Hailakandi districts, the Cachar Division was relatively free from encroachment until October 17, 2020, the Forest Department report said. That day, “three temporary bamboo shops on NH-306 were burnt down by miscreants from Vairengte”, leading to a law-and-order problem in the border areas. “Mizoram police accompanied by IR Battalion of more than 30 armed personnel entered Inner Line Reserve Forest and constructed a temporary post at Kulicherra Forest Village,” the report said. Manoj Kumar Singha, the beat officer at the Lailapur Forest Beat House, the last Assam government structure on the edge of the de facto boundary, said the Mizoram authorities had used the COVID-19 situation to grab Assam’s land inch by inch. “Almost every day, our men on patrol saw them advance the testing centre for incoming passengers towards Assam. Whenever we objected, they would say it was a temporary set-up to be removed,” he said. Before long, Mizoram set up a police outpost atop Rengtilila, a mound beside the Auto Stand that had been cleared of an illegal plantation a few days ago, Singha said. A notice that was to have been served to the Mizoram authorities for removal of the outpost led to the July 26 incident. “We had registered a case against several Mizoram officials under various sections of the Assam Forest Regulation such as trespassing and encroachment. Based on that, we went to serve them the notice to come to our office on a specified date and give a written explanation. They refused to accept the notice and then all hell broke loose,” Sunnydeo Choudhury, the Divisional Forest Officer said. He was transferred out of Cachar Division after the incident. Assam police officials said the attack on them appeared to have been planned. “The Mizoram officials became aggressive and in no time, a large crowd gathered firing air gun pellets and throwing stones. We fired a few teargas shells to disperse the mob before the Mizoram police started firing from behind bunkers on higher ground,” a senior Assam police officer who received an air gun injury said. He said the Assam police retaliated after 20 minutes of firing from the other side only to evacuate their dead and the injured. “We never thought a normal notice to people occupying our own land could cause such bloodshed,” he added. According to the Mizoram government, the Assam police’s version of the incident is a web of lies. “Why would 200 officials and policemen come trooping here if not to create trouble? They started the firing that led to the unfortunate incident on our territory. We are pained by the loss of lives because of the provocation,” the State’s Home Minister Lalchamliana said. The killing of six policemen led to a 13-day economic blockade on Mizoram that was lifted after senior Assam ministers negotiated with the Lailapur locals in Assam and promised justice for the slain policemen. Bangladeshi bogey Border conflicts became a fairly regular feature from the mid-1990s. Silchar-based historical researcher Sanjib Deb Laskar said the conflicts intensified after the BJP-helmed North-East Democratic Alliance stirred sub-nationalism across the Northeast. The incidents took a serious turn after the Centre’s push for settling Assam’s border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland ahead of the celebration of India’s 75th year of Independence. Two British-era notifications are at the root of the Assam-Mizoram border conflict. One was derived in 1875 from the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation Act, 1873, which prescribes a permit for Indians beyond Mizoram to enter the territory. Mizoram follows this while Assam swears by the ‘constitutional boundary’ decided in 1972 (when the Lushai Hills district of Assam became the Union Territory of Mizoram), based on a 1933 notification. Mizo leaders say the 1933 notification is not acceptable as their ancestors had not been consulted. Assam leaders reject this argument since the scenario, they say, was similar during the 1875 notification. “When the Mizo Peace Accord (with the extremist Mizo National Front that became a political party now ruling Mizoram) was signed in 1986, the boundary of 1933 was agreed to be made Mizoram’s boundary,” Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. Political experts in Mizoram said the Constitution of India does not explain the constitutional boundary. “The Mizos have lived under a colonial wrong and our leaders have time and again said the only acceptable boundary is the 1875 notification since the voices of our leaders seeking re-organisation of the Mizo-inhabited areas were never heard,” Aizawl-based college teacher and member of Mizoram’s boundary committee, Joseph Lalfakzuala, said. Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga said Assam was trying to grab its land for settling ‘Bangladeshi migrants’ in Barak Valley. This seemed to have gained traction in the Northeast, especially with the BJP seen as eyeing the land of neighbouring States to settle Hindu Bengalis under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Congress was earlier accused of using Bengali Muslims as a buffer in the disputed belt. Deb Laskar contested this theory. “The Bengali Hindus and Muslims living in areas near Mizoram are agriculturists of Sylhet (in Bangladesh) origin settled since 1650. The contract farmers on land claimed by the Mizos are not locals, but are from other parts of Barak Valley. In contrast, many Mizos came from eastern Asia in the 1800s and tribesmen would often raid areas up to Silchar. One must remember these raiders were the reason why the British raised the Cachar Levy in 1835, which became the paramilitary Assam Rifles later on,” he said. “The bogey of Bangladeshi comes up when all arguments fail in the Northeast. No one in Lailapur or adjoining areas has been left out of the National Register of Citizens. We have been demanding a similar exercise in Mizoram to find out how many are domicile Mizos and how many are migrants from Myanmar,” Lailapur-based social worker Abul Hussain Barbhuiya said. The indigeneity of the Mizos can never be in doubt, said Famkima, the chairman of the joint council of four villages that comprise Vairengte town. “Mizos are not encroachers too because the land always belonged to us. In fact, the old maps show our territory is as far as Dhalai (between Vairengte and Silchar). If Assam wants to remove the encroachment, they should start with those occupying our land in the plains of Barak Valley that should have been ours. In football terms, Assam has scored an offside goal because of the adventurism of its Chief Minister and it is the duty of the Centre to don the role of a fair referee,” he said. Dhalai is the constituency of Assam Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya, a BJP veteran and a key player in the Assam Forest Department’s bid to reclaim “encroached” forests along the border. Solving conflict But he agreed Mizos and Bengalis and other communities in Assam cannot live in conflict forever. “We have a history of interdependence, and the sooner the boundary issue is resolved, the better for us,” he said. “The boundary issue should have been resolved in 1947 but we cannot keep on complaining. The give-and-take policy that Assam and Meghalaya are pursuing can be a way forward for the vague Assam-Mizoram border too. How long can two sister States keep on reopening old wounds? Our job is to recommend, and a solution requires political will from both sides,” Lalfakzuala said. He recalled how Assam rejected a Supreme Court-appointed commission’s report that prescribed transferring 70% of the disputed land to Arunachal Pradesh while accepting another panel’s report that advised Meghalaya to hand over a disputed village to Assam. Similarly, both Assam and Nagaland rejected the recommendations of two panels to settle their border disputes that have killed 136 people since 1979. Assam’s Urban Development Minister Ashok Singhal, who along with Border Affairs Minister Atul Bora had met their Mizoram counterparts for easing the boundary tension, said the boundary should be properly demarcated and the Mizoram government should propose a mechanism for that. “The Reserve Forest cannot be encroached by either side, and there should be a proper investigation of the July 26 incident. Those guilty must be punished for the boundary issue to be resolved since policemen have died and people in Assam are emotionally charged,” Singhal, also Cachar’s ‘guardian minister’, said. The angst is apparent at the 6th Assam Police Battalion at Jayfarpur near Silchar. Forty-nine-year-old Shyamsundar Dushad, one of the policemen killed, was a havildar attached to this battalion. “We received Rs. 50 lakh from the government as compensation. But this is not the justice we seek. Whatever may be the trigger, they committed a crime and should be tried as criminals,” said his widow, Lakshmi Dushad. “The dead policemen were not Bangladeshis, were they? In a region of diverse communities, we want peace for normal life and a non-militarised boundary. But I hope the killing is not forgotten like the excesses committed by extremist groups after they come to the mainstream,” Barbhuiya said. His reference was to the Mizo National Front which has been ruling Mizoram since December 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reopening-old-wounds-along-the-border/article35906253.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Growth needs steps beyond reforms||The Indian economy has travelled through an eventful period through the last three decades. In the post-independence economic history of our country, 1991 stands out as a watershed year. This was the year in which the economy was faced with a severe balance of payments crisis. In response, we launched a wide-ranging economic programme, not just to restore the balance of payments but to reform, restructure and modernise the economy. Thus, the crisis was converted into an opportunity to bring about fundamental changes in the approach and conduct of economic policy. A near tragedy was averted and a new path was laid out before the country. The words of Charles Dickens in somewhat reverse order seem appropriate: “It was the worst of times, It was the best of times,... it was the winter of despair, it was the spring of hope.” The shift, key players It is important to recognise in what way the new regime was different from the earlier one. The break with the past came in three important ways: in dismantling the vast network of licences, controls and permits that dominated the economic system; in redesigning the role of the state and allowing the private sector a larger space to operate within, and in abandoning the inward looking foreign trade policy and getting integrated with the world economy and trade. The last was particularly important because it was the opposite of what we normally did when faced with a balance of payments crisis. Dr. Manmohan Singh as Finance Minister spearheaded the new policy. He articulated the need for change and provided not only the broad framework but also the details of the reforms. P.V. Narasimha Rao as Prime Minister gave the valuable political support and shield which were very much needed. It must be noted that as Prime Minister, P.V. Narasimha Rao also held the portfolio of Industry which was directly responsible for initiating the changes that led to the dismantling of various types of controls and licences related to the industrial sector. This was indeed a key element of the reform programme. At the ministerial level, strong support came from P. Chidambaram as Commerce Minister who oversaw the transformation of the external sector. The metrics There is a common thread running through the various measures introduced since 1991. The objective has been to improve the productivity and efficiency of the system by creating a more competitive environment. Thus, barriers to entry and growth were removed. As the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. It is therefore appropriate to look at three broad parameters to judge the performance of the economy after liberalisation — growth rate, current account deficit and poverty reduction. Between 1992-93 and 2000-01, GDP at factor cost grew annually by 6.20%. Between 2001-02 and 2010-11, it grew by 7.69% and the growth rate between 2011-12 and 2019-20, was 6.51%. The best performance was between 2005-06 and 2010-11 when the GDP grew by 8.7% showing clearly what the potential growth rate of India was. This is the highest growth experienced by India over a sustained period of five to six years. This is despite the fact that this period included the global crisis year of 2008-09. The recent decline in growth rate which started even before the advent of COVID-19 should make policymakers reflect and introspect. Foreign reserves The balance of payments situation had remained comfortable. There were three years in which the current account showed a small surplus. Most of the years showed a small deficit. The exceptions were 2011-12 and 2012-13 when the current account deficit exceeded 4%. This was taken care of quickly. Foreign exchange reserves showed a substantial increase and touched $621 billion as of last week. The opening up of the external sector, which included liberal trade policy, market determined exchange rate and a liberal flow of external resources, has greatly strengthened the external sector. Of course, we still run a high merchandise trade deficit which is offset to a large extent by the surplus in services. Poverty ratio Besides growth, the other major objective of economic policy is to reduce the number of people living below the poverty line. There are many problems associated with the definition of poverty and the kind of data required to measure it. Going by the procedure adopted by the erstwhile Planning Commission using the Tendulkar expert group methodology, the overall poverty ratio came down from 45.3% in 1993-94 to 37.2% in 2004-05 and further down to 21.9% in 2011-12. The per year reduction in percentage points in poverty ratio between 2004-05 and 2011-12 was 2.18. The post-reform period up to 2011-12 did see a significant reduction in poverty ratio because of faster growth supplemented by appropriate poverty reduction programmes such as the Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the Extended Food Security Scheme. With the decline in growth rate since then and with a negative growth in 2020-21, this trend must have reversed, i.e. the poverty rate may have increased. Had the growth trend seen up to 2011-12 continued, we would have an unqualified answer to the impact of reforms on growth. Growth requires more than reforms. Reforms are, in the words of economists, only a necessary condition. It is not sufficient. In a developing economy, in the final analysis, growth is driven by investment. It is the decline in investment rate of nearly five percentage points since 2010-11 that has led to the progressive decline of the growth rate. Reforms normally create a natural climate for investment. But ‘animal spirits’ are also influenced by non-economic factors such as social cohesion. Reforms supplemented by a careful nurturing of the investment climate are needed to spur growth again. This should become the sole concern of policy makers. Need for continuity The reform agenda must continue. It will be incremental in character. It has to be. Policymakers should be clear about the directions in which they should move. First of all, there is a need to move in the same direction in which we have been moving in the past three decades. Policymakers should identify the sectors which need reforms in terms of creating a competitive environment and improving the performance efficiency. From this angle, we need to take a relook at the financial system, power sector and governance. Centre and States must be joint partners in this effort. Second, in terms of government performance, there should be increased focus on social sectors such as health and education. In terms of the provision of services, the emphasis must be not just on quantitative expansion but also quality. To achieve the latter is even more difficult. The advent of COVID-19 has clearly shown our inadequate health facilities and preparedness. Reforms are necessary to improve the productivity of the economy and achieve higher growth. But the story does not end there. We cannot ignore equity considerations. Growth and equity must go together. They must not be posed as opposing considerations. They are truly interdependent. It is only in an environment of high growth, equity can be pushed aggressively.  C. Rangarajan is former Chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister and former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/growth-needs-steps-beyond-reforms/article35906247.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||An Indian sail to navigate the maritime environment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on August 9 (https://bit.ly/2VSH6Sz) at the UNSC High-Level Open Debate on “Enhancing Maritime Security: A Case For International Cooperation”, convened by India, was both timely and apt. He described the oceans as a common heritage for humankind and a lifeline for the future of the planet. In urging the global community to develop a common framework to deal with contemporary challenges, including maritime disputes and natural disasters, he outlined a far-sighted vision rooted in India’s culture, history and geography. Maritime traditions With a long coastline and large island chains spread-eagled across the Indian Ocean, India has a natural seaward orientation, with key sea lanes of communication coursing through its surrounding seas. India has ancient maritime traditions. In the 15th century, Vasco de Gama was piloted to the west coast of India from Zanzibar by a Gujarati seaman. Long before that, India’s ancient mariners were trading with the old world. The very word navigation is derived from the Sanskrit word “navgath”. In enunciating five principles, Mr. Modi linked free and open trade to India’s civilisational ethos. His words were a reminder of India’s maritime trade with Mesopotamia 4,500 years ago. Lothal was a key maritime centre of the Indus Valley civilisation. The Prime Minister’s home State, Gujarat, has one of India’s oldest maritime histories. Kutch and Kathiawar as well as the Malabar coast enjoyed ancient links to Africa. A ship built indigenously and manned by a local crew voyaged to England and back in the time of Rao Godji II (1760-1778) of Kutch. Buddhism and Hinduism spread to South-east Asia by the maritime route. Even Islam took the maritime route from India to South-east Asia. Mr. Modi reiterated the relevance of SAGAR (Security And Growth For All In The Region). He urged the international community to develop a cooperative and inclusive framework for maritime security, so essential for unimpeded trade and commerce. Ninety per cent of global trade is conducted on the high seas, for the simple reason that it continues to be the most cost effective mode of transport. Disruption of sea lanes of communication has global repercussions. The blockage in the Suez Canal earlier this year interrupted the flow of trade worth billions of dollars. In 1956, great powers intervened militarily when Egypt nationalised this key waterway. Today, a naval blockade at any choke-point in the Indo-Pacific could prove catastrophic. Freedom of navigation and unimpeded commerce are key to the spread of prosperity. Critical supply chains depend on the concept of mare liberum (open seas). The neo-colonial concept of mare clausum (closed seas) in the South China Sea is anathema to the future of the global economy. Dispute settlement The Prime Minister advocated peaceful settlement of maritime disputes on the basis of international law. This idea is rooted in India’s values of peace and non-violence. India’s acceptance of the award by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in 2014 paved the way for India and Bangladesh to put aside their maritime dispute and forge even closer ties. This should be an example to others in the region. In 2016, China summarily rejected the Permanent Court of Arbitration ruling in favour of the Philippines. Today, natural disasters and maritime threats posed by non-state actors have grown exponentially. Mr. Modi called upon the global community to rally together to deal effectively with the ravages of cyclones, tsunami and maritime pollution. India’s role as ‘first responder’ in the Indian Ocean, whether in thwarting piracy or providing relief after the Boxing Day tsunami in 2004, is well- documented. The Indian Air Force airlifted 30 tonnes of relief material to Mauritius in August 2020 to contain an oil spill that threatened to engulf the island nation’s pristine coast. The Indian Coast Guard’s operational reach and capability has vastly improved in dealing with environmental hazards and piracy. The election, on August 5, of the Director General of Indian Coast Guard as the executive director of the Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (ReCAAP) Information Sharing Centre, Singapore. is an endorsement of India’s contributions. India now has white shipping agreements with several countries. The Indian Navy’s state-of-the-art Information Fusion Centre-Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR) based in Gurugram hosts officers from the United States, Japan, France, Australia and the United Kingdom. The Indian Navy regularly offers a large number of training slots to friendly countries. Environmental concerns Mr. Modi’s remarks underscored the importance of preserving the maritime environment and its resources. The oceans remain our lifeline. Yet, they have been overwhelmed by plastic waste which chokes all forms of marine life. This, in turn, poisons the entire food chain and imperils the lives of millions. Development of connectivity and infrastructure were also outlined as a major priority. There are heightened concerns today over China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). India stands for openness and transparency in the execution of projects, based on local priorities, with in-built fiscal viability and environmental sustainability. The U.S., Japan and Australia are also promoting better standards for global infrastructure through the Blue Dot Network. Primacy of UNCLOS As President of the UN Security Council for the month of August, India’s leadership in the debate on maritime security, that too at the level of the Prime Minister, has strengthened its credentials as a key stake-holder in the maritime commons. The Presidential Statement issued on the occasion highlights the commitment of the UN Security Council to international law. More relevantly, it emphasises the importance of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea as the legal framework governing all maritime activity. India’s natural interests stretch across both the Indian and Pacific Oceans as reflected in its inclusive Indo-Pacific vision. No doubt, India’s initiative will further the prospects for a stable and enduring maritime environment. Sujan R. Chinoy, a former Ambassador, is currently DG, Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-indian-sail-to-navigate-the-maritime-environment/article35906249.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Afghan tragedy||With the fall of Kandahar and Herat, Afghanistan’s second and third largest cities, to the Taliban, the war in the country appears to have entered an irreversible phase. They already seized Ghazni, a strategically important city on the Kabul-Kandahar highway. The speed with which the Islamist insurgents captured the cities — 17 in eight days — is a surprise. Troops from the U.S. and the U.K. are to go back to Afghanistan to evacuate their citizens. The latest U.S. intelligence assessment predicts that Kabul could fall within 90 days. The Afghan government has reportedly offered a power sharing proposal to the Taliban. But neither the offer nor the warning from the U.S. and other countries that they would not recognise a Taliban regime that takes power by force has stopped the militants. In his Id message, Taliban’s supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada said the Taliban are on the verge of establishing a “pure Islamic system” in Afghanistan. It is clear from his words and the military campaigns that the Taliban want the whole of Afghanistan under their command. Also, why should they make concessions when their offensives are cutting through the government defences at break-neck speed? What altered the balance of power in the battlefield was the withdrawal of the U.S.-led international forces. While the U.S.-Taliban agreement in February 2020 legitimised the jihadists, the American withdrawal gave them a sense of victory. At no point in talks with the Taliban did the U.S. manage to extract concessions towards a political settlement in Afghanistan. The American focus was on taking its troops out unharmed, and the Taliban stayed away from targeting Americans even when they continued an assassination campaign inside the country. On the other side, the U.S. withdrawal has left the Afghan government, internally divided and lacking support in rural areas, devoid of its most critical advantage in the war — air support. Overstretched across the cities that were under siege for weeks, their defences crumbled like a sandcastle when the Taliban pressed on. The government of President Ashraf Ghani has long tried to ignore the former warlords in an attempt to shore up the national army. But when the national forces failed to defend the cities, Mr. Ghani turned to the ethnic leaders, but it is now too late as the Taliban are already at the gates of Kabul. The Taliban, like in the 1990s, promise stability and security. But the tragedy is that if they take Kabul, Afghanistan’s nearly 40 million population would be subjected, once again, to one of the most barbaric forms of religious totalitarianism. Whatever limited progress and freedoms the Afghans earned over the last 20 years are now at risk of being surrendered to a murderous militia with scant regard for human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/afghan-tragedy/article35906243.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Slanting posts||Several Twitter handles associated with the Congress and its leaders including its former president Rahul Gandhi were blocked by Twitter in the last few days, for violating its user policy and the law of the land. The violation pertains to posts shared by these handles that identified the family of a child who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. The platform has since revealed that the NCPCR brought the violation to its notice. A petition in the Delhi HC seeking legal action against Mr. Gandhi has pointed out that his post was in violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and Section 23(2) of the POCSO Act 2012, both of which mandate that any material that might reveal (directly or indirectly) the identity of a child victim of a crime shall not be published. Additionally, the post also violated Twitter’s own rules. The Congress has not addressed the substantive question raised by the platform regarding these violations. It has alleged double standards by the platform, and questioned its impartiality. That is not a mature response. The party transgressed the norms of discussion in a sensitive case in its campaign. It must, without qualifiers, accept that mistake, and commit to better standards in social media campaigns. Twitter had flagged posts on several handles associated with the BJP in May, which were intended to target the Congress, as ‘manipulated media’. The BJP and the Centre took umbrage over the decision, claiming that only a police investigation could establish whether the content was altered. Twitter insisted that it had its own mechanism to check whether files uploaded on the platform were tinkered with. Herein lies the core conflict between the state and private companies over controlling the information flow in a democratic society. Both the state and the companies invoke public order and interest to justify their control over information, but the protocol for exercising that enormous power over lives remains open to question. Additionally, private companies also claim a right to unilaterally decide their user policy. This raises the pertinent question of whether a private company that is providing a service that is essential — connectivity in this instance — can set the terms of usage arbitrarily. The state has often shown itself unable to control speech in a fair and even-handed manner. It does even wilfully misuse such powers, going by experience. The age of acceleration has thrown up many such complicated moral and governance questions that society needs to resolve. In the meantime, state agencies must exercise control over speech only in the rarest instances, for the briefest periods, and in the most transparent manner. Private companies must be more transparent in enforcing their guidelines and reassure users that their standards for those in power and those in the Opposition are one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slanting-posts/article35906242.ece
14 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex soars past 55,000, adds 593 points on retail ‘euphoria’||Benchmark equity indices closed at record highs on Friday, with the S&P BSE Sensex scaling the 55,000 mark, propelled by consumer and technology stocks. Amid sustained buying in blue-chip stocks, the Sensex rose 593.31 points, or 1.08%, to 55,437.29 points. The NSE Nifty 50 climbed 164.70 points, or 1.01%, to 16,529.10, its highest close ever. The top Nifty-50 gainers included Tata Consumer, which rose 4%, TCS (3.11%), L&T (2.56%), HCL Tech (2.5%) and Tata Steel (2.22%). Reports of a dip in retail inflation in July and pickup in manufacturing activity in June buoyed market momentum, analysts said. “Factors like strong corporate results, inflation cooling off and a few sectors finding favour have all resulted in the Sensex touching new all-time highs,” said Rahul Shah, co-head of Research, Equitymaster. “Above all, it is the optimism and euphoria, especially from retail investors that’s keeping the party going,” he added. He said the fear of losing in a falling market witnessed in March 2020 “has now been replaced by euphoria and greed.” He said if it had been time to be aggressive in buying stocks back in March 2020, it is perhaps time now to turn a ‘tad defensive’. “This does not mean there’s a crash coming or one should just get out of stocks entirely... But it may not be a bad idea to tweak one’s allocation a little and liquidate maybe a small portion of the portfolio,” Mr. Shah said. According to a BSE presentation, it took 129 trading sessions for the Sensex to go from 50,000 to the 55,000-mark. The Sensex had crossed the 50,000 closing level on February 3. The journey from 45,000 to 50,000 was covered in 41 trading sessions while the 40,000 to 45,000 milestone took 375 trading sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-soars-past-55000-adds-593-points-on-retail-euphoria/article35906223.ece
14 August 2021||GANDHINAGAR,||Vehicle-scrappage policy will promote circular economy: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday unveiled the National Automobile Scrappage Policy and said the initiative will promote a circular economy and make the process of economic development more sustainable and environment friendly. The policy, aimed at recycling old and unfit vehicles, will give a new identity to India’s mobility and auto sector, Mr. Modi said in his address while virtually unveiling the initiative during an ‘Investors Summit’ organised in Gandhinagar. The summit, which saw the participation of potential investors and industry players, was organised to attract investment for setting up vehicle-scrapping infrastructure under the Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Programme, as per an official release. “This policy will play a major role in removing unfit vehicles from our roads in a scientific manner. It will modernise the vehicular population on our city roads,” he added. Under this policy, people who give their old vehicles for turning them into scrap, will be given a certificate by the government, he said. People having this certificate will not be charged any registration fee on the purchase of a new vehicle, said Mr. Modi, adding that such vehicle owners will also be entitled for some rebate on road tax. The policy would attract an investment of Rs. 10,000 crore and create thousands of employment opportunities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vehicle-scrappage-policy-will-promote-circular-economy-pm/article35906217.ece
14 August 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Only 5 out of 136 unicorn founders are women’||India’s 136-strong unicorn founders’ club has only five women, and as of August 4, the country had 56 start-ups that had turned unicorns. A gender analysis brought out the skewed scenario as 131 of the 136 unicorn founders in the country are males and only five are women: Divya Gokulnath (Byju’s), Falguni Nayar (Nykaa), Ruchi Kalra (OfBusiness), Saritha Katikaneni (Zenoti) and Gazal Kalra (Rivigo), as per EMA Partners, a global executive search and leadership advisory. The study, titled ‘An analysis of Indian unicorns & their founders’, also found it took seven years on a median basis for 56 start-ups to achieve unicorn status. Four companies took only 1-2 years of operation to reach the milestone, 15 reached it in 3-5 years, 19 in 6-8 years, 12 in 9-12 years and the remaining took 13-plus years to get valuations of $1 billion. Eleven of these unicorns are single-founder firms, 22 have two founders, 15 have three founders, four have four founders and four more have 5 founders each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/only-5-out-of-136-unicorn-founders-are-women/article35906219.ece
14 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Grasim Q1 net surges fourfold to Rs. 2,412.32 cr.||Grasim Industries Ltd.’s first quarter consolidated net profit surged more than fourfold to Rs. 2,412.32 crore . Consolidated revenue rose 53% YoY to Rs. 19,919 .40 crore, it said. Standalone revenue increased almost tripled to Rs. 3,763 crore. Profit after tax stood at Rs. 482 crore against a net loss of Rs. 283 crore, the company said in a filing Revenue and EBITDA from discontinued operations (fertiliser business) for Q1FY22 stood at Rs. 687 crore and Rs. 56 crore compared with Rs. 605 crore and Rs. 72 crore respectively. “The second wave of COVID-19 slowed down the pace of economic activity, which was fast recovering,” the company said. “However, with the accelerated pace of vaccination by the government and the receding impact of the second wave, the economy is witnessing a strong rebound,” it added. The company said under VSF business, the share of value-added products in the overall sales mix improved to 26% in Q1FY22 from an average of 22% in FY21. Grasim said for FY22, the company had planned capital expenditure of Rs. 2,604 crore, excluding paints and fertilizer business.  With fast pace of vaccination and receding second wave, the economy is witnessing a strong rebound||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/grasim-q1-net-surges-fourfold-to-rs-241232-cr/article35906220.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Future Coupons seeks stay on seizure of assets||Future Coupons Private Ltd. has moved the Supreme Court to stay an order passed by the Delhi High Court to attach the assets of Future Coupons, Future Retail and Future Group promoter Kishore Biyani. A Single Judge of the High Court had ordered the attachment of assets in March. The judge had directed the Future group firms and promoters to file affidavits giving details of their assets for violating an Emergency Arbitrator’s award. On August 6, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of e-commerce major Amazon against the proposed Rs. 24,713-crore merger between Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) and Reliance Retail. A Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai had upheld the validity and enforceability of a Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator award that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the disputed transaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/future-coupons-seeks-stay-on-seizure-of-assets/article35906232.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||July exports rise 49.9%, imports surge 63%||The country’s exports surged 49.9% to $35.43 billion in July on account of healthy growth in petroleum, engineering, and gems and jewellery segments, even as the trade deficit widened to $10.97 billion during the month, official data showed. Imports rose by about 63% to $46.40 billion, as per the data released by the Commerce Ministry. “The trade balance for July 2021 was estimated at (-) $10.97 billion as against (-) $4.83 billion in July 2020,” the Ministry said in a statement.  Oil imports leap Oil imports soared by 97.5% to $12.89 billion. Exports during April-July 2021-22 rose by 74.5% to $130.82 billion. Imports during the first four months of FY22 rose 94% to $172.5 billion. Commenting on the data, Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president A. Sakthivel said the global demand during this period has also remained buoyant as the order booking positions of exporters have been impressive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/july-exports-rise-499-imports-surge-63/article35906237.ece
14 August 2021||Mumbai,||Greaves arm to buy stake in EV firm MLR||Ampere Vehicles, the e-mobility arm of Greaves Cotton Ltd., said it will acquire a strategic stake in electric three-wheeler maker MLR Auto Ltd. Initially, Ampere would acquire a 26% stake in MLR for a little more than Rs. 18.81 crore. It will have the right to increase its shareholding by another 25% within 12 months from the date of closing of the initial acquisition of 26%, Greaves Cotton said in a filing. “With this, Ampere Electric gets ready to operate as full range last mile EV company,” said Nagesh A Basavanhalli, director, Ampere Electric.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/greaves-arm-to-buy-stake-in-ev-firm-mlr/article35906224.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,||ALL eyes bigger role in global market||Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) is gearing up to play a much bigger role in the international market, said CFO Gopal Mahadevan. “ALL’s international market revenue in the total portfolio is about 8-9% and it has the potential to grow much more . We are waiting for the international markets to open up fully,” Mr. Mahadevan told mediapersons. ALL has strong presence in traditional markets such as West Asia, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh, the CFO added. The company plans to enter South East Asia and Africa (both East and West) markets. In Africa, ALL will be appointing large dealer houses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-eyes-bigger-role-in-global-market/article35906225.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,||TII turns Rs. 135-crore net profit for Q1||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII), a Murugappa Group firm, said its consolidated net profit for the first quarter stood at Rs. 135 crore against a net loss of Rs. 65 crore a year earlier. Revenue from operations jumped more than fivefold to Rs. 2,437 crore. CG Power and Industrial Solutions Ltd., a subsidiary, posted a revenue of Rs. 1,050 crore (Rs. 363 crore) and PBT of Rs. 75 crore (loss of Rs. 162 crore), it said. Shanthi Gears registered a revenue of Rs. 67 crore (Rs. 25 crore) while PBT stood at Rs. 12 crore (Rs. 5 crore loss). TII witnessed good demand in the engineering and metal formed products business, according to chairman Arun Murugappan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-turns-rs-135-crore-net-profit-for-q1/article35906226.ece
14 August 2021||COIMBATORE,||Govt. extends export rebate for garments||The Ministry of Textiles has notified the continuation of the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) scheme for export of garments and made-ups and issued guidelines for its implementation. According to the Textile Ministry’s notification, garment exporters would continue to get a rebate on Central and State taxes on outward shipments till March 31, 2024. The Department of Revenue would implement the scheme with end-to-end digitisation for issuance of transferable duty credit scrip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-export-rebate-for-garments/article35906228.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vodafone Idea files for review of AGR ruling||Vodafone Idea has moved the Supreme Court to review its dismissal of the firm’s request for an opportunity to place grievances about ‘arithmetical errors’ in Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) dues before the Department of Telecom. A Special Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah had concluded on July 23 that what Vodafone and other telecom firms truly wanted, ‘under the guise of correcting arithmetical errors’, was a recalculation of their AGR. The court had earlier ordered that the annual 10% instalments for AGR dues payment would commence on April 1, 2021 and go on till March 31, 2031.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-files-for-review-of-agr-ruling/article35906233.ece
14 August 2021||CHENNAI,||E.I.D. Parry nets loss on surplus, output||E.I.D. Parry India Ltd., one of India’s largest manufacturers of sugar, recorded a net loss of Rs. 33 crore for the quarter ended June, compared with a profit of Rs. 226 crore a year earlier, due to carry-over surplus and higher sugar production. Revenue from operations shrunk to Rs. 450 crore (Rs. 491 crore). “Operating performance in Q1 was almost in line with [that a year earlier] as sugar prices remained muted for the quarter. Debt reduction measures have helped in reduction of finance cost,” MD S. Suresh, said. “We were able to export around 36,500 MT under the MAEQ scheme which also helped in better cash flow,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/eid-parry-nets-loss-on-surplus-output/article35906227.ece
14 August 2021||Mumbai,||Nadir Godrej named CMD of Godrej Industries||Godrej Industries Ltd. (GIL) said effective October 1, Adi Godrej will step down as chairman and Nadir Godrej, MD will take over as CMD. Mr. Adi Godrej will continue to serve as chairman of the Godrej Group and chairman emeritus of GIL. “It has been a privilege to serve Godrej Industries for over four decades,”said Mr. Adi Godrej in a statement. “I look forward to Nadir and our team achieving our exciting aspirations,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nadir-godrej-named-cmd-of-godrej-industries/article35906221.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Airtel, Jio conclude spectrum trading agreement||Bharti Airtel announced the closure of its agreement with Reliance Jio Infocomm to transfer the 'right to use' of Bharti's 800 MHz spectrum in three circles to Jio. Bharti said it has received Rs. 1,004.8 crore from Jio for the proposed transfer.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airtel-jio-conclude-spectrum-trading-agreement/article35906230.ece
14 August 2021||LONDON,||Anderson’s 31st five-for helps England restrict India||The evergreen James Anderson exhibited complete mastery over his craft on way to a 31st five-wicket haul to wrap up India’s first innings at 364 and bring England back into the second Test here on Friday. Thanks to Anderson’s (5/62) exploits and a fine supporting act by Mark Wood (2/91) on day two, England got an opportunity to bat in the second session and reached tea at 23 for no loss. Seventh at Lord’s This was the 39-year-old Anderson’s seventh five-for at the hallowed Lord’s, four of them coming against the Indians. It was cloudy but there was no rain around, and the conditions looked much better for batting than it was at Trent Bridge in the series opener last week. Resuming at 276 for three with overnight centurion K.L. Rahul (129) and vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane (1) at the crease, India, however, ended up losing seven wickets for 88 runs while squandering the solid platform. With their enterprise, the flamboyant Rishabh Pant (37) and all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja (40) threatened to take the game away from the hosts, Anderson and Wood had other ideas as the later got rid of the dangerous left-handed duo while his senior teammate worked his magic at the other end. It was appropriate when Anderson led the team off the ground, raising the ball aloft as he does often. Earlier, India lost four wickets and gave England some comfort while letting slip the advantage in the first session. At lunch, India were 346 for seven with Jadeja batting on 31. Ishant Sharma was yet to open his account. The wickets that fell on the opening session included overnight centurion Rahul (129), Pant (37), Rahane (1) and Mohammed Shami (0). Pant departs Just when Indian seemed to rally after the early blows — when they lost Rahul and Rahane in a space of five balls — Pant edged a quick Wood delivery to wicketkeeper Jos Buttler. Resuming from a comfortable position, Rahul could add only two runs to his overnight score before walking back to the dressing room amid a big applause. Having played a fine knock, Rahul’s was a soft dismissal as he drove straight to the cover fielder in only the day’s second delivery. Soon enough, Rahane was sent back by the old warhorse Anderson as he got one to swing away from the batsman to nick it behind. Skipper Joe Root did the rest at first slip. One of India’s better batsmen overseas, Rahane hasn’t fired since his magnificent hundred at the MCG, and he needs a big score sooner than later to get his confidence back, having averaged under 30 in 22 Test innings since 2020. Making light of his team losing two early wickets, Pant had no trouble facing the English bowlers and got his runs of 58 balls before falling to Wood. The dashing left-hander struck five fours during his stay in the middle. Shami lasted just two balls as Moeen Ali dismissed him.  England 118/3 at close England finished day two on 118/3 in 45 overs with Joe Root (48) and Jonny Bairstow (6) at the crease. For India Mohammed Siraj took two wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andersons-31st-five-for-helps-england-restrict-india/article35906534.ece
14 August 2021||London,||Anderson’s 31st five-for helps England restrict India||Jimmy Anderson claimed the latest five-wicket haul of his enduring career to drag England back into the second Test against India that was finely poised on Friday after Mohammed Siraj’s quickfire double in the home team’s reply to 364. England reached stumps on day two at 119/3, with captain Joe Root unbeaten on 48 and seemingly needing a big innings to maintain his side’s recovery, which was sparked by another memorable performance by Anderson at Lord’s. Master of swing The name of the 39-year-old master of swing will go up on the famous Honours Board at the home of cricket for the seventh time in his career after compiling figures of 5-62, helping skittle out India with the addition of just 88 runs to its overnight score of 276-3. “Every time you turn up to this ground, it’s special,” Anderson said. “To get seven (five-wicket hauls) here is incredible. I do love it here.” Anderson removed Ajinkya Rahane off his first ball of the day — and England’s seventh — and then Ishant Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah in successive overs as India’s tail failed to wag. England’s record wicket-taker now has 626 in a Test career that is showing no sign of slowing down. Anderson has 31 five-wicket hauls, too. And he even took a catch to remove Ravindra Jadeja for 40, off the bowling of Mark Wood, wrapping up a disappointing end to India’s innings that looked in great shape at the end of Day 1. England’s openers got through an hour before tea, only to lose two batsmen — Dom Sibley (11) and Haseeb Hameed (0) — in the space of two balls by Siraj. It was Hameed’s first Test innings in nearly five years and he got a golden duck. Rory Burns and Root put on 84 for the third wicket but Burns was trapped lbw by Mohammed Shami in the closing stages, leaving Root in the middle with Jonny Bairstow (6) at the close. “I think we have a lot of hard work to do,” Anderson said. “India have the edge but I think if we get a couple of big partnerships tomorrow, it gets us right back in the game.” Midway through his knock, Root climbed into second place in the list of England’s all-time runs scorers in Test — above Graham’s Gooch (8,900) — and only behind Alastair Cook. K.L. Rahul, India’s overnight century-maker, was out off the second ball of the day, for 129, when he drove a loose shot straight to cover off Ollie Robinson. He added just two runs to his day one score.  Anderson’s name will go up on the famous Honours Board at the home of cricket for the seventh time in his career Root climbed into second place in the list of England’s all-time runs scorers in Test — behind Cook||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andersons-31st-five-for-helps-england-restrict-india/article35906550.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Aim is to be stable in technique’||Olympic champion javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra has rectified most of the shortcomings in his technique and now the endeavour is to maintain technical “stability” to touch greater heights, said his coach Klaus Bartonietz. Neeraj began working with Bartonietz in 2019 after undergoing a successful surgery, and the German bio-mechanics expert said though the youngster did not have any major flaws he still needed attention. Shortcomings “Run-up speed, (not) blocking in correct body position and ‘rushing’ into the throw as a young powerful athlete.... these were the shortcomings I found (at the beginning). The follow through should be more forward than on sideways,” Bartonietz said in an interview from Germany. “I made him understand and he started doing it the correct way. There was nothing dramatic. The angle of release should be right, you need to know aerodynamics if you want to throw farther. No doubt we have made improvements. There were shortcomings but we have worked them out.” Asked if there are no technical shortcomings now, Bartonietz said: “We have to work all the time on technique and continue and make it stable. You may do well during training but during competitions the mental state is different. If you want to do the same thing you have done during training, you have to calm down and be confident.”  The German said the best thing about Neeraj is that he is an all-round athlete as he can sprint, jump and perform other exercises well. He added that when he took Neeraj under his wings in 2019, he knew the Haryana lad had it in him to become a top thrower. “Some people do very well at the junior-level but wear out later on. But Neeraj was going in a sophisticated way (after becoming world junior champion). So, everybody was sure he had a bright future.” During the build-up to the Olympics, Neeraj had said that he was trying to throw the javelin flatter as the high projectile of the spear reduced the actual distance covered. Asked about this, Bartonietz said, “the javelin should go far and not high. Most of the athletes at the Olympics threw the javelin high. It’s not our business to correct them but yes it’s the correct thing to try and throw flatter.”  Neeraj topped the qualification round ahead of German Johannes Vetter, who came to Tokyo as the gold-medal favourite but finished ninth, and Bartonietz said winning a gold was never a realistic target. “Depending on what the others do (in the final), there was a real chance to win a silver or bronze, but not gold. Nobody thought of gold. “When you are so much fixed with gold. If you think like I must win gold, I will win gold, then mostly this will not happen. If you are enjoying what you are doing, and if you are doing your best, medals or gold medal will come.” Neeraj came up with big throws in his first attempt in both the qualification round and the final, and Bartonietz said that was always part of the plan. “It is his intention and logic also. You want to shock your opponents and show them you are a contender. Everybody would like to do this. You cannot save your best throw consciously till the end. You don’t know whether you will make the first three.”  You cannot save your best throw consciously till the end. You don’t know whether you will make the first three   The javelin should go far and not high. Most of the athletes at the Olympics threw the javelin high||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aim-is-to-be-stable-in-technique/article35906624.ece
14 August 2021||Rome,||Jacobs to take a sabbatical till 2022||Italy’s Lamont Marcell Jacobs, who claimed a shock Olympic triumph in the 100m, said on Friday he had decided not to run again until 2022 so he could be in top form next year. No simple decision “It’s not a simple decision,” he said in an interview on Rai 1 public television, the day after announcing the pause on social media . “I am the first to want to compete every week, but you get to a certain point in which you realise that it does not end here, in the sense that this is only a great starting point,” Jacobs said. Almost unknown Almost unknown a year ago, the 26-year-old claimed a shock triumph in the 100m at the Tokyo Olympics as well as gold in the 4x100m relay. His stunning victory was achieved in a European record of 9.80s. The Texas-born sprinter had been scheduled to next run on August 21 at the Eugene Diamond League meet in the United States, before appearing in Brussels and Zurich in early September. “Next year there are some very important events,” including the European and World Championships, he said, and “every time I race I want to raise the bar”. More work was needed, he said, and “for next year I want to arrive the top of the top, confirm (my results), actually improve on what I achieved this year.” Italian daily Il Corriere della Sera said on Thursday Jacobs had called a halt after a fall blamed on “the accumulated fatigue of the Olympics as well as a knee problem”. Eyebrows have been raised in some quarters about Jacobs’ performance, as before 2020, his times in the 100m had never gone below the 10-second barrier. Britain’s The Times ran a story last weekend about how Jacobs’ former sports nutritionist was caught up in an Italian police investigation into the alleged illegal distribution of anabolic steroids. Jacobs said on Friday insinuations of doping “haven’t touched me because I know all the sacrifices and setbacks I took to get to this moment, and I want to enjoy it 100 percent”. He was also asked about the suspension of British sprinter C.J. Ujah — who won an Olympic silver medal in the 4x100m relay in Tokyo — over an alleged anti-doping breach. Irony “It makes me smile a little,” he added. “Because a week ago they said so many things about me that were not true, and they have the relay runner with a positive result in their own backyard,” Jacobs said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jacobs-to-take-a-sabbatical-till-2022/article35906615.ece
14 August 2021||Chennai,||Sai Kishore spins Chepauk Super Gillies into final||Left-arm spinner R. Sai Kishore (3/14) bowled defending champion Chepauk Super Gillies into the final of the TNPL as he set up an easy eight-wicket win over Dindigul Dragons in Qualifier-2 here on Friday. Checking the flow Electing to field, the Super Gillies bowlers kept a leash on the runs from the start with some tight overs from M. Siddharth before Sai Kishore ran through the top-order to bowl out the Dragons for just 103. Super Gillies chased down the paltry total with ease as skipper Kaushik Gandhi (53, 41b, 7x4, 1x6) took charge of it with a much-needed half-century. The skipper ensured his side would be in the final for the fourth time in five years. After a watchful start, Kaushik stepped it up in the final over of the PowerPlay as he hit left-arm spinner M. Silambarasan for four boundaries and six. Initial breakthrough Earlier, Sai Kishore gave the initial breakthrough for Super Gillies in his first over as he removed debutant opener R. Vimal Khumar and the big-hitting K. Mani Barathi. At the other end, skipper C. Hari Nishaanth (56, 46b, 2x4, 4x6) battled away with some clean sweeps for sixes over mid-wicket against off-spinner B. Arun. But yet again, Dragons top-order batsman failed to give Hari any support, with only two other batsmen even managing double-figure scores. While Arun had R. Srinivasan caught at mid-wicket, the big blow came when Sai Kishore dismissed the dangerous Vivek Raj in the 11th over. After being hit for a six on the previous ball, the left-arm spinner tossed one up and forced the error from Vivek, who miscued it to the long-on fielder. Hari got to his half-century with a beautiful six over long-on off medium-pacer Harish Kumar but was dismissed the very next ball in the 14th over. Final blow It was the final blow for Dragons as they lost their next five wickets for 20 runs and bowed out of the tournament.  The scores: Dindigul Dragons 103 in 20 overs (Hari Nishaanth 56, Sai Kishore 3/14, R. Alexandar 2/3) lost to Chepauk Super Gillies 106/2 in 16 overs (Kaushik Gandhi 53). Final: August 15: Ruby Trichy Warriors vs Chepauk Super Gillies .   Dragons top-order batsman failed to give Hari Nishaanth (56) any support||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-kishore-spins-chepauk-super-gillies-into-the-summit-clash/article35906607.ece
14 August 2021||GENEVA,||Federer says return date uncertain||Roger Federer said on Friday that the timing of his return to the courts is still uncertain, just weeks ahead of the US Open, but the tennis legend remains upbeat after turning 40. Federer, who has only played 13 matches in 2021, having been out for more than a year with two knee surgeries, pulled out of the Tokyo Olympics and subsequent tournaments to rest his knee. 40th birthday After turning 40 on Sunday, Federer said he was learning to adjust to the fact that recovering from niggles takes two weeks rather than two days. The US Open gets underway on August 30 but Federer did not say whether he would be taking part in the last of the year’s four Majors. “I’m fine. I was on holiday. I haven’t done anything for a while because of my knee. “ I had to stop everything after Wimbledon,” he told Blick newspaper. “This week, I have to meet my doctors and my team, and then we will see what happens next. For now, everything is still a bit uncertain.” Federer reached the Wimbledon quarterfinals but pulled out of the Tokyo Games and then withdrew from the ATP Toronto and Cincinnati Masters — the last major tune-ups for the US Open. Hard to deal Federer said it is hard to deal with the uncertainty. “It was different before. The questions were simple: what is my place in the ranking? What will my next tournament be?” he said. “Today, it’s more difficult: how do I feel when I start training again? What are my goals? How to reconcile all this with the family? What does the rest of the team say? I am much more enthusiastic than before, the attitude is different. It’s really completely different from 10 years ago.” Federer is a 20-time Grand Slam champion, a record he shares with his younger rivals Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal. He said he celebrated his landmark birthday privately with family and friends, and felt surprisingly good the following day. “I woke up in the morning when I was 40 and realised that everything was still the same as the day before. I was relieved,” he said. “I just turned 40 and am still active. Who would have believed it? Surely not me. I’m totally in tune with myself and I’m sure there is still a lot of great things to come.”  I woke up in the morning when I was 40 and realised that everything was still the same as the day before||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-says-return-date-uncertain/article35906628.ece
14 August 2021||Kingston,||Abbas double-strike pegs back West Indies||Two wickets off two balls by Mohammad Abbas just before close of play put the West Indies on the back foot in reply to Pakistan’s first innings total of 217 on the rain-affected opening day of the first Test at Sabina Park here on Thursday. Bowlers’ day Abbas put the seal on a bowlers’ day by having Kieran Powell well taken low at second slip and then trapping Nkrumah Bonner leg before next ball in a testing final 20 minutes of play. It was Bonner’s first Test innings since his brief appearance on the opening day of the South Africa series when he was forced to retire hurt after being struck on the helmet first ball by fast bowler Anrich Nortje. Like Abbas, the West Indies fast bowlers justified their skipper’s decision to bowl first with former leader Jason Holder and young pacer Jayden Seales taking three wickets each. Kemar Roach lifted his tally of Test wickets to 225 in his 66th match by removing Imran Butt after half-an-hour’s play and then added the important wicket of Pakistan captain Babar Azam.  The scores: Pakistan 217 in 70.3 overs (Babar Azam 30, Fawad Alam 56, Faheem Ashraf 44; Jayden Seales 3/70, Jason Holder 3/26) vs West Indies 2/2 in four overs.   Toss: West Indies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abbas-double-strike-pegs-back-west-indies/article35906526.ece
14 August 2021||Madrid,||Spanish league gets approval for multibillion-dollar deal||The majority of Spanish league clubs approved a multibillion-dollar deal with an investment fund after giving Real Madrid and Barcelona the option not to participate. The league said 38 of the 42 clubs from the first and second divisions in Spain voted in favour of the deal with private equity firm CVC, which is intended to boost the clubs’ finances and help the league cut into the Premier League’s global dominance. The agreement could bring in up to €2.7 billion to the league. The league and CVC gave the four clubs who voted against the deal the option to opt out, meaning they would not benefit from the new funds and would not relinquish a percentage of their future revenues. Athletic Bilbao also opposed the agreement. The fourth club that voted against the deal was not disclosed. Broadcast rights Madrid and Barcelona said that although the deal would inject a significant influx of cash in the next three years, the agreement would hurt the clubs’ income from broadcast rights in the long term as they would be tied to it for the next 50 years. “Barca, as well as Real Madrid and Athletic Club, the three first division clubs that have not signed the agreement, defend their membership and assembly-based ownership systems, with boards of directors chosen by their members for limited mandates,” Barcelona said in a statement. Athletic released a statement saying the deal presented too many “risks” that could affect the club’s future. It said this kind of agreement shouldn’t have been put up for approval just before the start of the season. Spanish league president Javier Tebas said he estimates the value of the league’s broadcast rights to increase by 30% within the next decade thanks to the CVC deal. Super League angle He said the opposition by Madrid was “clearly” related to the proposal of a European Super League, which failed earlier this year. “This infusion of money in the league is not good for the type of competition that (Madrid president) Florentino (Perez) wants to create,” Tebas said. Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus are the only three clubs that still haven’t fully given up on the idea of the Super League, which would involve only the top European clubs and could weaken the domestic leagues. Madrid and Barcelona had already said they planned to take legal action against the league and CVC if the deal was approved by Thursday’s general assembly. Madrid noted that both the Italian and the German leagues refused the deal with CVC because they felt it undervalued their leagues. The Spanish league was valued at €24.2 billion in the deal with CVC, which used to own Formula One and has been involved in other endeavours related to sports. Tebas surprised The valuation would not change if Barcelona and Madrid opted out, the league said, though the amount of the investment would be reduced to about €2.1 billion as the clubs who opted out would not receive any funds. “It’s surprising that Barcelona doesn’t want €275 million euros,” Tebas said. “We don’t have to force anyone into a deal like this. What is important is that the other 38 clubs are very happy with it. The league is above the clubs, it will keep growing.” Tebas said the deal might have helped Barcelona secure a new contract with Lionel Messi had the club accepted the agreement.  He said it “hurts” to lose Messi but he said the league has worked hard to make sure the value of its audiovisual rights are not effected by the departure of players. Will keep growing “We always want the best players in the Spanish league,” Tebas said. “Neymar left, Cristiano Ronaldo left, Messi left. They matter, they help, but they are not indispensable. “We will keep growing and I have no doubt that we will move closer to the Premier League despite not having Messi.” As part of the agreement, CVC would have a share of about 10% of the league’s revenues and a stake of 10% in a new commercial entity. The clubs would receive 90% of the money paid by CVC, with 70% aimed at long-term investments. Some of the money would also go toward paying off debts and increasing their spending limits on players and coaches. The league said CVC will not have control of the management of the competition, or the sale of its broadcasting rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spanish-league-gets-approval-for-multibillion-dollar-deal/article35906625.ece
14 August 2021||KOLKATA,||Dennerby named head coach of the senior women’s National team||India set in motion the preparations for the AFC Women’s Asian Cup by announcing Swedish manager Thomas Dennerby as the head coach of the senior women’s National team on Friday. Dennerby, who was appointed the head coach of Indian women’s U-17 team in 2019, has been given the bigger responsibility ahead of the Women’s Asian Cup which will be hosted by the country early next year from January 20 to February 6. Immediately after his appointment as the National coach, Dennerby announced a list of 30 probables for a senior national team preparatory camp which will be held in Jamshedpur from August 16, an All India Football Federation release said. With the Indian Super League season yet to be announced, the camp will be held in the Jamshedpur FC’s training facility in the Steel City for an unspecified period. Dennerby will be overseeing the preparations of the senior national women’s team till the Asian Cup and then will move to take charge of the Indian U-17 World Cup squad after the completion of the continental competition. The U17 Women’s World Cup will be held in India from October 2022. The veteran Swedish coach said that it will be a big challenge getting the Indian women’s team ready for the continental event. “It is an honour to be taking over as the Head Coach of the Indian Senior Women’s National team. I have been in India and am aware of the huge potential. It is a big challenge to get the girls ready for the AFC Women’s Asian Cup. Life is all about challenges, and I relish it,” Dennerby told the AIFF website. Composite calendar The AIFF announced that it will be working out a composite calendar in consultation with Dennerby and relevant stakeholders. The calendar will also look to include a number of International exposure tours for the Women’s Team leading to the AFC Asian Cup India 2022. At the domestic level, the national federation is also planning to have the Senior National Women’s Championships in November and is “looking for a probable window” for the Hero IWL in March/April 2022 in Bhubaneswar.  The probables for senior women’s National camp: Goalkeepers: Aditi Chauhan, Sowmiya Narayanasamy, M Linthoingambi Devi, Shreya Hooda. Defenders: Jabamani Tudu, Ashalata Devi, Sweety Devi, Hemam Shilky Devi, Michel Castanha, Ritu Rani, Ranjana Chanu Sorokhaibam, W Linthoingambi Devi, Kritina Devi Thounaojam, Anju Tamang, Asem Roja Devi. Midfielders: Indumathi Kathiresan, Sangita Basfore, Martina Thokchom, Dangmei Grace, Soumya Guguloth, Sumithra Kamaraj, Mariyammal Balamurugan, Sanju, Manisha. Forwards: Renu, Karishma Shirvoikar, Sandhiya Ranganathan, Sumati Kumari, Daya Devi, Pyari Xaxa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dennerby-named-head-coach-of-the-senior-womens-national-team/article35906240.ece
14 August 2021||Kingston,||Brathwaite digs in to frustrate Pakistan||Kraigg Brathwaite (35 batting) was at his most obdurate as the West Indies lost just one wicket to reach lunch at 81 for three in reply to Pakistan’s first innings total of 217 on the second day of the first Test at Sabina Park on Friday. Roston Chase was the lone casualty for the hosts, which resumed in the precarious position of two for two after seamer Mohammad Abbas claimed the wickets of Kieran Powell and Nkrumah Bonner off consecutive deliveries just before the end of play on day one. Brathwaite and Chase put on exactly 50 for the third wicket, playing and missing on numerous occasions but still exercising considerable discipline against a Pakistan attack in which the seamers persevered in pursuit of an early breakthrough. They had to wait for more than an hour before the introduction of Hasan Ali into the attack brought almost immediate reward. Chase essayed a big drive to a full, wide delivery and wicketkeeper Mohammad Rizwan took the straightforward catch to send the upright right-hander back to the pavilion for 21.  The scores: Pakistan 217 in 70.3 overs vs (Fawad Alam 56, Faheem Ashraf 44; Jason Holder 3/26, Jayden Seales 3/70) vs West Indies 81/3 in 30 overs at lunch (K. Brathwaite 35 batting) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brathwaite-digs-in-to-frustrate-pakistan/article35906549.ece
14 August 2021||WROCLAW,||Indian teams enter seven finals||Indian archers booked places in seven finals of compound and recurve team events at the World youth archery championships here on Friday. The compound archers made it to the title clashes in men, women and mixed team events. To meet USA The men’s team — comprising Kushal Dalal, Sahil Chaudhary and Nitin Apar — beat Turkey 232-230 in the semifinals and will meet USA in the final. Kushal and Priya Gurjar defeated Mexico 154-150 in the last-four and will face the USA in the mixed team final. The women’s side — Priya, Parneet Kaur and Ridhu Senthilkumar — got the better of Italy 226-223 and takes on Turkey. Recurve archers reached the men’s and mixed team finals. The cadet men — Bishal Changmai, Amit Kumar and Vickey Ruhal — beat Spain 5-1 and will meet France. Bishal and Tamanna defeated Spain 6-0 runs into Japan in the mixed final. The women’s trio of Tamanna, Avani and Manjari Alone set up a bronze medal match with Germany after going down to France 6-0 in the semifinals. India also reached the finals of the recurve junior men and mixed team events. Indians will feature in 10 finals across varipus compound and recurve divisions in cadet and junior age groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-teams-enter-seven-finals/article35906522.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Finch undergoes knee surgery, targets T20 WC return||Australia’s limited-overs captain Aaron Finch, who underwent knee surgery on Thursday, expects to be fit for the T20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates. “Jumped in for a quick procedure yesterday... I am on pain killers at the moment, and now all roads lead to recovery,” Finch told Sportstar . Finch missed the recent Bangladesh tour, where Australia slumped to its fifth successive series defeat in T20Is. Stand-in captain Matthew Wade’s side was skittled in just 13.4 overs in the fifth and final T20, making it Australia’s shortest innings in 144 years of international cricket. No panic However, Finch is not pressing the panic button even as debates rage around Australia’s long-standing middle-order issues in the shortest format. “Let’s wait and see how we go at the World Cup, and after that, we will see what the perception [around the middle-order] looks like. We are out there giving it a crack every time we step on the field, no matter which team we have in the park. We are representing Australia. At the moment, I don’t think there is a problem.” In the final T20I, Australia picked three frontline spinners in the hope that the slowness of the Dhaka surface and the turn would help its bowlers. With conditions at the T20 World Cup likely to help spinners, Finch didn’t rule out a spin-heavy bowling strategy. “Depending on the conditions we face will depend on the makeup of the team. If the conditions are similar to Bangladesh I can’t see why three spinners can’t play in the same team.” Non-committal However, he remained non-committal on the makeup of the World Cup squad. “I actually don’t have any inputs in the squad, my job is to just get out there and captain the team. “George Bailey [new chairman of selectors of the Australia men’s team and his colleagues] will be selecting the squad.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finch-undergoes-knee-surgery-targets-t20-wc-return/article35906528.ece
14 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Unmukt Chand calls it a day||Unmukt Chand, who led India to Under-19 World Cup glory in 2012 but struggled to replicate the success at the senior level, announced his retirement from all forms of the game on the social media on Friday. Unmukt, who was the man-of-the-match in the under-19 final for his unbeaten 111, thanked the BCCI and described winning the World Cup as the biggest moment of his life. Unmukt, who played for Delhi and also captained Uttarakhand, played 67 First-Class matches, amassing 3,379 runs, with eight hundreds and 16 fifties. However, he never had that breakthrough Ranji or IPL season that could have catapulted him to the next level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unmukt-chand-calls-it-a-day/article35906531.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||PSPB honours its hockey heroes||In continuation with the felicitation functions for the Tokyo medallists, the Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB) honoured 11 members of the bronze-winning hockey team here on Friday. These players, five from Bharat Petroleum and three each from Indian Oil and ONGC, received Rs. 15,000 each, a silver plaque and more significantly, out-of-turn promotion from their respective employers. Wrong seating! Speaking on the occasion, Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas & Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri noted at the outset that the sitting arrangement for the function was not right. He pointed to the players and said, “These stars should have been on the dais and we all should have sat in the audience.” In the presence of the who’s who of the Petroleum companies, it was indeed an evening for the hockey heroes. The Minister recounted India’s glorious days in the game and assured the increased support for the players. The players — Hardik Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Simranjit Singh (all IOC), Vivek Sagar Prasad, Birendra Lakra, Harmanpreet Singh, Lalit Kumar Upadhyay, Varun Kumar (all BPCL), Sumit Kumar, Gurjant Singh and Mandeep Singh (all ONGC) — signed a T-shirt for the chief guest and also presented autographed hockey sticks to the dignitaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pspb-honours-its-hockey-heroes/article35906536.ece
14 August 2021||BENGALURU,||Bangalore Panthers to meet Ronaldo||Ronaldo FC will take on Bangalore Panthers in the final of the KSFA-BDFA ‘C’ division football tournament.  The results (semifinals): ‘C’ Division: Bangalore Panthers FC 3 (Praveen-og 7, Rajan Narayan 18, Tejas 46) bt Mahesh Raj FC 2 (Gagan 2, Tejas-og 30)   Ronaldo FC 2 (Sanju Kumar 1, Immanuel Derrick 58) bt Bangalore City FC 0.   KSFA youth football tournament: Gowthamapuram 5 (R. Vishal 8, R. Vignesh 25, 45, Vinod 37, 49) bt Jalahalli 1 (Robinson 42).   Murphy Town 2 (R. Sachin 4, Nitesh 30) bt Jeevanahalli 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangalore-panthers-to-meet-ronaldo/article35906572.ece
14 August 2021||London,||Liverpool ready for the fight this season||Liverpool will fight “for everything” this season but manager Jurgen Klopp expects it to be a really tough battle between several clubs as his side bids to regain the Premier League title that Manchester City reclaimed last term. “Last year, the gap was pretty big (City had a 12-point advantage over second-placed Manchester United and 17 over Liverpool),” said Klopp at Friday’s press conference ahead of its opening Premier League match away on Saturday to Norwich. “The previous season, the gap between us was pretty big (Liverpool finished 18 points clear of City). I’m not sure if it can get any more intense for all the rest. Ambitious “We will see. Chelsea aren’t hiding their ambitions, Man United aren’t, City aren’t. We don’t want to hide our ambitions, we want to fight for everything.” Klopp, though, says it is not only the top four sides in the league last season who will aspire to being viable title candidates. “I mention only these four, but it will not be only these four,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-ready-for-the-fight-this-season/article35906238.ece
14 August 2021||Paris,||Pressure now on Pochettino to deliver||Lionel Messi’s arrival at Paris Saint-Germain has left the club with the most frightening front line in the sport, but now coach Mauricio Pochettino is under pressure to deliver the glory on the pitch that its Qatari owners covet more than anything. That means winning the Champions League, a competition in which PSG have reached the final and then the semifinals in the last two seasons. It also, of course, means reclaiming the French title after Lille beat them to it last season — how could a team containing Messi, Neymar and Kylian Mbappe not win Ligue 1? “We don’t hide that it’s our objective,” PSG president Nasser al-Khelaifi said at Messi’s unveiling when asked about the Champions League. Not an obligation However, he later told sports daily L’Equipe “it is not an obligation”, despite the arrival of the six-time Ballon d’Or winner. “We have a great team, but we have not won anything yet,” he added.  Messi and Neymar, old pals from Barcelona, are delighted to team up again but there is speculation that Mbappe — with just a year left on his contract — is not happy about having to share even more of the limelight. PSG do not want to let him go though, and Pochettino will have to ensure that fielding that all-star front three, as well as Angel di Maria, does not overly imbalance the team. That is why PSG’s other summer signings are crucial. The arrival of Georginio Wijnaldum from Liverpool adds much-needed quality in midfield alongside Marco Verratti, while Achraf Hakimi was just what they required at right-back. Luxury options Sergio Ramos and Gianluigi Donnarumma are luxury options in defence and in goal. PSG won its opening game of the league season 2-1 at Troyes last weekend and now hosts Strasbourg on Saturday, when Messi is set to be paraded before the crowd. The Argentine, who has not had a pre-season to speak of, will have to wait a while yet for his debut. It also remains to be seen if Neymar will feature this weekend following his late return to pre-season training after playing for Brazil in the Copa America. Ramos is not expected to make his PSG debut at least until next week, but Mbappe will play against Strasbourg amid ongoing talk of a move to Real Madrid.  Christophe Galtier led Lille to a stunning title triumph last season but then left to join Nice, a club with lofty ambitions under its owner Ineos, the group chaired by British billionaire Jim Ratcliffe.   Key stats   150 - Mbappe is set to make his 150th appearance in Ligue 1. So far he has scored 107 league goals  87 - The number of goals scored by Neymar in a PSG shirt since he joined the club in 2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pressure-now-on-pochettino-to-deliver/article35906626.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mendonca struggles||Three draws preceded by a loss kept lone Indian Leon Mendonca in the 13th spot after four rounds of the Kramnik Challenge online rapid chess tournament on Thursday. Germany’s Vincent Keymer leads with 3.5 points in the16-player round-robin event.   Selected results: Fourth round: Dinara Saduakassova (Kaz) drew with Leon Mendonca; Third round: Mendonca drew with Awonder Liang (USA); Second round: Carissa Yip (USA) drew with Mendonca; First round: Lei Tingjie (Chn) bt Mendonca.   Leading standings (after four rounds): 1. Vincent Keymer (Ger, 3.5), 2-4. Christopher Yoo (USA), Awonder Liang (USA) & Nodirbek Abdusattorov (Uzb) (3 each); 13. Leon Mendonca (1.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mendonca-struggles/article35906523.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun Kalyan stuns Praggnanandhaa||Arjun Kalyan stunned R. Praggnanandhaa to join D. Gukesh, S. L. Narayanan and Arjun Erigaisi in the nine-player leaders’ group at five points after six rounds of the RTU Open chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Thursday.  Leading results (involving Indians): Sixth round: Arjun Erigaisi (5) drew with S.L. Narayanan (5); D. Gukesh (5) drew with Ilia Smirin (Isr, 5); Paulius Pultinevicius (Ltu, 5) drew with Nihal Sarin (5); Aravindh Chithambaram (5) drew with Vahap Sanal (Tur, 5); R. Praggnanandhaa (4) lost to Arjun Kalyan (5).   Fifth round: Nihal drew with Aram Hakobyan (Arm); Narayanan bt Kaido Kulaots (Est, 3.5); Gergely Kantor (Hun, 4) drew with Praggnanandhaa (4); N. R. Vishakh (3.5) lost to Arjun Erigaisi (4.5); Aras Vardanyan (Ltu, 3.5) lost to Gukesh (4.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-kalyan-stuns-praggnanandhaa/article35906524.ece
14 August 2021||Karachi,||T20 WC: 15 players, 8 officials allowed||The International Cricket Council (ICC) has allowed participating nations in the upcoming T20 World Cup to bring 15 players and eight officials for the tournament in the UAE. An official of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) confirmed on Friday that the ICC had set September 10 as the deadline for participating nations to submit their final 15 players and eight officials. The T20 World Cup, the first since 2016, will be held from October 17 to November 14 in Oman and three venues in the UAE — Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-wc-15-players-8-officials-allowed/article35906529.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Star turn||Star turn||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/star-turn/article35906699.ece
14 August 2021||PALA:,||Joseph wins long jump gold||Maharaja’s College’s T.J. Joseph, with 7.41m, won the men’s long jump gold in the 38th Mahatma Gandhi University athletics championships at the Municipal Stadium here on Friday. Mar Athanasius’ P.S. Prabhavathi took the women’s long jump title. P. Harikrishnan, Syndicate member, MG University, officially inaugurated the championship.  Important results (gold medallists only):   Men, 200m: K.M. Muhammed Shanoob (Mar Athanasius) 22.30s. 10,000m: K. Anand Krishna (MA) 32:34.00s. 110m hurdles: Ronald Babu (St. Dominic’s) 14.80s. Long jump: T.J. Joseph (Maharaja’s) 7.41m.   Women: 200m: A. Arathy (Alphonsa, 25.70s). 10,000m: Anju Murukan (Assumption) 41:04.00s. 100m hurdles: Aparna K. Nair (Asmp) 15.00s. Long jump: P.S. Prabhavathi (Mar Athanasius) 5.61m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/joseph-wins-long-jump-gold/article35906781.ece
14 August 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Banthia loses in doubles||Siddhant Banthia and Naoki Tajima lost 6-4, 6-4 to Japan’s Yuta Kawahashi and Keisuke Saitoh $15,000 ITF men’s tennis quarterfinals here.  Other results: $100,000 ITF women, Landisville, USA: Doubles (quarterfinals): Yu-Chieh Hsieh &Chieh-Yu Hsu (Tpe) w.o. Renata Zarazua (Mex) & Ankita Raina.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (quarterfinals): Miharu Imanishi & Ramu Ueda (Jpn) bt Kariann Pierre-Louis (USA) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-4, 6-3; Tiphanie Fiquet (Fra) & Akvile Parazinskaite (Ltu) bt Noella Bouzo Zanotti (Esp) & Vasanti Shinde 7-5, 7-6(4); Miyabi Inoue (Jpn) & Lauren Proctor (USA) bt Daria Zelinskaya (Rus) & Renne Singla 6-1, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/banthia-loses-in-doubles/article35906541.ece
14 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Adarsh joins Spanish third division side||At 18, N. Adarsh decided to chart a different course to realise his dream of donning the ISL and India colours. Adarsh, who has been training for the last couple of years in Germany and UK, moved one step closer after he was selected to represent Club Deportivo Olimpic de Xativa in the Spanish third division this season. “I will be joining the Spanish club next week and train with the team till October before the season begins. It will end in June 2022,” Adarsh told The Hindu . The striker, who represented Fateh Hyderabad FC in the I-League (under-15), said he hoped to improve his skills during the training stint with Olimpic De Xativa. How did this selection for Olimpic happen? “There were selections in Bengaluru in 2018, attended by about 150 players, and I got the nod when the Spanish coach Oscar Ruberio was impressed with me,” Adarsh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adarsh-joins-spanish-third-division-side/article35906544.ece
14 August 2021||London,||‘Villa ambitious despite Grealish sale’||Aston Villa is ambitious and had no option but to accept Manchester City’s £100 million ($138 million) bid for playmaker and captain Jack Grealish said manager Dean Smith on Friday. Smith speaking ahead of Villa’s opening Premier League game with Watford cited the arrivals of England striker Danny Ings and Argentine Emiliano Buendia — “he’ll bring the creativity and spark” — as evidence of their strengthening the squad. Arsenal was also interested in Buendia, but Villa were first to meet Norwich’s demands with a £33 million offer according to reports. Ings signed from Southampton for a reported £25 million. Villa also added veteran defender Ashley Young from Serie A champions Inter Milan and Jamaican international Leon Bailey joined from Leverkusen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/villa-ambitious-despite-grealish-sale/article35906617.ece
14 August 2021||KOLKATA,||ATKMB prepares to play AFC Cup||ATK Mohun Bagan will kick off its season playing the AFC Cup group league fixtures in Maldives from August 18. It will take on the winner of the play-off between Bengaluru FC and local club Eagles in the first match (of group D) before taking on Maldivian club Maziya Sports and Recreation in the second match on August 21. Bangladesh’s Bashundhara Kings will be the third opponent that ATK MB will face on August 24. The team, which is scheduled to leave on Saturday morning, had a preparatory session of nearly two weeks under Spanish coach Antonio Lopez Habas, who is quite upbeat about the new-look team following the addition of two prominent foreigners, Frenchman Hugo Boumous and Finland’s Joni Kauko. The two are expected to add a lot of firepower to ATKMB, which finished runner-up in the last Indian Super League season. Practice sessions The two newcomers will be joined by Fijian striker Roy Krishna, Australian David Williams and Irish defender Carl McHugh. The team had multiple rounds of practice sessions behind closed doors as Habas tried to get the squad in shape for the tough challenge. “I told the footballers that we are going to play in an international tournament. You have to work hard, you have to give your best, ” Habas said ahead of ATKMB's new assignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-prepares-to-play-afc-cup/article35906616.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 06:45 IST,||Sudoku — August 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-14-2021/article35907128.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Writers’ rooms head South||If you have a favourite American TV show, it probably has a writers’ room. Where storylines are thrown about, episodes created, and scripts fleshed out. But in India, this collaborative model had less appeal, at least until recently. When global streaming giants such as Netflix, Amazon and Disney+ came down, they brought with them industry standards from the West. Today, not only are writers’ rooms fast becoming a staple in Hindi programming, web series with multiple seasons have also highlighted the indispensability of a writer. Interestingly, the trend is trickling down to the South now, especially in Tamil and Telugu, and increasingly Kannada. The pandemic, which created new interest in southern content — SonyLiv acquiring Tamil releases, Jio Cinema picking up Malayalam titles, and the big OTT players making more intense inroads — has only helped accelerate this. The concept isn’t new, though. Director Barath Neelakantan says that writers’ rooms were part of Tamil cinema, albeit informally. “They used to call it ‘script discussion’ or ‘scene sollaruthu ’, where the director would write a story, which would then get a ‘treatment’ where every scene was developed.” Sometimes, there wouldn’t even be a story, just the whiff of an idea. Like when Tamil neo-noir director Mysskin walked into his writers’ room — dingy and cluttered, filled with odd paraphernalia such as a DVD of Taxi Driver , a broken shower head, and a Salman Rushdie portrait on the walls — with only a vague notion, “A detective follows demons into hell, only to discover they are actually angels.” His team of writers thrashed out a screenplay from that seed, which eventually became the 2011 hit, Yuddham Sei . So, what has changed today? Writers’ rooms in the South are becoming formalised, with contracts, NDAs and salaries. Depending on the project, writers make anywhere between Rs. 2 and Rs. 20 lakh (usually around 10% of the budget is reserved for script development). Hierarchies are being broken, too. Where once only the director would be listed as the writer, today everyone involved gets credited.  Bringing in discipline  In this format — used in Netflix’s Sacred Games , which ran for two seasons, Amazon Prime Video’s Paatal Lok , now renewed for a second season, and in several upcoming Tamil and Telugu projects — writers sit together and formulate a script, dividing episodes, scenes, or character arcs among themselves, before finally tying it all together. “The reason most OTT platforms opt for a writers’ room is because it is faster. If they sign me up, for example, I can buy some time to finish a project. But with a team, they can nudge them towards a definite deadline,” says Neelakanthan. Kannada writer-director Hemanth Rao agrees that this is a more efficient model for long-form content. “You have one person coming in with a solid idea, getting on board like-minded people, and writing 10 episodes in half the time. It democratises the entire process, and creates more jobs.”  Balancing perspectives  With different perspectives also come different skill sets. People are being recruited for specific talents: comedy, writing dialogues, local referencing, in-depth thematic knowledge. Writer-director Bejoy Nambiar, who started a writers’ room last year as an experiment, says that he is always on the lookout for people. “When putting together a room, you have to think of who would be right for the subject, what are the strengths you need to make it whole,” says the director of Wazir, Taish , and most recently, the short Edhiri for Mani Ratnam-produced anthology, Navarasa .  Another advantage is the fresh perspective brought in with multiple voices. Continued on page 7 This was why Kannada writer-director Rakshit Shetty began 7 Odds, his writers’ room — to polish a script he had written, which eventually became Kirik Party , the successful 2016 romantic-comedy. “For me, a writers’ room is very important. Once a script is ready, even if it is written by one person, the rest can come up with inputs. That opens a new dimension to the main writer. It’s also more of a feedback, which can be important.” Since then, the team co-wrote the 2019 fantasy-adventure, Avane Srimannarayana , and is working on new ideas now. However, there is still hesitance to adopt these formal rooms for feature films. This stems, perhaps, from the fact that production houses usually ideate movies around directors or film stars (and their tight schedules), while web series — that can take up to a year to develop a script — are built around the writing. “With films, there is often a compulsion to churn it out, start to end, within six months. So I see a bit of resistance,” says Abbhinav Kastura, a former supervising producer at mobile VOD (video on demand) service VuClip who is now independently developing commissioned Tamil web shows.  Heart of the matter  Does Tamil cinema need a writers’ room? According to Pushkar, one half of the Pushkar-Gayathri writer-director team (behind Tamil hits such as Vikram Vedha and Oram Po ), all writing is a synergy between the heart and the plot. “One thing Tamil cinema is really good at is the heart part of it — the depth of emotion, flavour, nativity. But we generally don’t have too many writers good at plotting.” He is working on two fairly large Tamil web series at the moment, adds, “With web series it is important to have a tightly structured plot to hold through eight episodes and possibly more seasons. It needs a build-up, a hook, a surprise; structural requirements that are very plot heavy. To get this combination, we think a writers’ room comes into play — with some focussing on the heart, and some focussing on the plot.” The Malayalam industry, meanwhile, is yet to pick up on the trend. However, industry insiders say change is imminent. “Writing is an independent, personal process in Kerala, being a small-scale industry compared to that in Tamil Nadu,” says Syam Pushkaran, one of the most prolific writers ( Maheshinte Prathikaaram , Mayanadhi , Kumbalangi Nights , Joji ). He prefers writing alone because “there is something lacking when two or three people are working together; that personal point of view is missing”. But in the last six to seven months, with OTT platforms shifting their attention to the state because of the pan-India success of films like Premam , Bangalore Days , and Drishyam , he notes that commissions for web series are coming in. In fact, he’s hired two associates and set up a writers’ studio in a rented house, to pen a web series and a film. It’s still too nascent to comment on how the small industry will reorient its working style to fit the demands of the sudden spotlight, he cautions.  A writers’ room must be created keeping the story in mind. If you are making something about a social minority, you need to make sure they are represented in the room. This is very common in Hollywood. [2002 drama] The Wire , for example, had a journalist and a cop writing, which is why it rings so true. — Pushkar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/writers-rooms-head-south/article35906414.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The torch song: flashback 34 years||The year was 1987. Rajiv Gandhi had taken over as Prime Minister against a troubled political backdrop. He was our youth icon — genteel, suave and progressive. And he, along with Doordarshan’s director general Bhaskar Ghose, felt that Indian patriotism needed a shot in the arm. They hired advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather to make a film on national integration, and briefed the team led by Suresh Mullick and film director Kailash Surendranath. Suresh, O&M’s maverick creative director, decided to use our sports heroes, both current and past, in the film. Nothing inspires patriotism in Indian hearts the way sports does. The visuals were deceptively simple: a flame passed from person to person, till it finally reached the hands of children — our future. However, it would not be one continuous shot filmed at a single location, but multiple shots taken across the country at iconic locations, and seamlessly spliced together.  Close calls and coordination  The film starts with the sound of a bugle, and the visual of a lone man (cricketer K Srikkanth) holding aloft a lit torch, running by the sea at sunrise. Then comes the main melody, which gets fuller with each subsequent bar, layered over with keyboard, strings, percussion and horns. It builds up to a crescendo and an unexpected finale of ‘ Jay a  h e! ’ from our national anthem. The finale has not lost its impact in 34 years. Composer Louis Banks’ name will forever be in the annals of history thanks to this outstanding composition. But this was not what the powers at Doordarshan were expecting. They protested that the national anthem was sacred. Rajiv Gandhi, however, loved it and gave it the nod. I was a 20-something film executive at O&M Madras at the time. I was enlisted along with my counterparts across the various branches to contact the sportspeople. Doordarshan picked up the production tab, but neither the sportspeople nor the production team took a fee. I handled the Madras section — Srikkanth, and track and field athletes PT Usha and Shiny Abraham. (Ramesh and Ramanathan Krishnan’s segment had already been done at the Madras Club.) Having previously worked with Srikkanth, I got him on board. Next came Usha and Shiny. They were returning from Malaysia after an event, along with their coach Nambiar. Their flight was expected to land around 1 am on the day of the shoot. Since I was the film executive and could speak Malayalam, I was designated to receive them. My colleague, Ramesh, accompanied me. After a long wait, they emerged from the terminal. Nambiar needed some cajoling, but we soon bundled them into the car and headed to the Connemara Hotel. Despite a few heart-stopping moments — the hotel told us there was no room for Nambiar — we finally checked them in. I was surprised that the hotel staff didn’t react to the presence of the two prominent athletes. We then raced to Srikkanth’s house in Kalakshetra Colony. He was sleepy, and a little grouchy, but nonetheless was ready in his tracksuit at 4 am. Bless him! We rushed him to Covelong beach at where he probably did three runs to nail the shoot. We dropped him home and headed to the Connemara.  Deer on the track  This time, the atmosphere at the hotel was different. When Usha and Shiny came down to the lobby in their tracksuits, there was a collective gasp followed by an awestruck hush. I guess the girls were not easily recognisable the night before in their salwar kameezes ! I was gratified. Their location was the race track at IIT Campus, adjacent to the deer park. When the camera was set up, a miracle happened; a herd of deer ambled out of the woods. Suresh and Kailash had an inspiration. They asked Usha to walk over to where the deer were grazing. Shiny was to take her position a little ahead. It was a gamble; we had only one chance to get it right. The director gave them a hand signal, Shiny ran over and handed the torch, and Usha started running. She startled the deer, but instead of disappearing into the woods, they ran along the tracks ahead of her. It was magical. That high-speed shot, along with the soundtrack, which starts to soar at this point, never fails to give me goosebumps. A month later, I was at the Bombay office on work and met Suresh in the corridor. He steered me into the packed conference hall. I stood among my colleagues and watched the film unfold. It was played on loop all week. Spread the Light of Freedom was aired on Doordarshan on August 15, 1987. Its impact was astounding. We hadn’t realised at the time that we were witnessing history in the making. I quit advertising almost 30 years ago, but the pride of being associated with this film will stay with me forever.  Geeta John now runs an interior design practice in Bengaluru, and dabbles in film styling, writing and playback singing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-torch-song-flashback-34-years/article35906487.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Fashion with purpose at the Olympics||We all have been glued to our TVs and laptops, cheering ‘Team India’ at the Olympics. It’s been such a high to see our favourite Indian sportspeople win glory in Tokyo. But as a designer, it was the other little things that put a smile on my face. For starters, seeing Olympic gold medalist Tom Daley quietly sitting in the stands and knitting his ‘Olympic cardigan’ that he would finally debut on Instagram. It was wholesome, elite and to be honest, brilliant. Uniform code Style has always been a strong focal point during the Olympics. It gives a sneak peek into the culture, tradition and heritage of a country. As I watched the opening ceremony I could not stop cheering over Ralph Lauren’s signature Team USA parade outfits in navy and stripe. It was everything American, polished and well put together. On the other hand, Giorgio Armani designed Italy’s opening ceremony outfits in red, white, and green with a graphic rising sun inspired by Pac Man. However, Team India’s parade outfits designed by Raymond came under heavy criticism for siding with political right-wing tones that left everyone underwhelmed. I wish we had better fits, contemporary design inspirations, a celebratory colour palette and detailed ensembles. Different Indian brands and designers need to come forward to design better gear for individual sporting events. But there is always a next time. British clothing brand Ben Sherman was signed on to create Team Great Britain’s ceremonial outfits. They designed a Harrington jacket, a bomber jacket and a white polo shirt. Lacoste designed Team France’s Olympic uniform by infusing the brand’s sporting heritage with Japanese-inspired designs in navy, white and red. Tool of resistance A big fashion moment this year was singer Misia performing Japan’s national anthem in a rainbow-coloured tulle gown from designer Tomo Koizumi that left spectators awestruck. Another momentous announcement? When reality TV mogul Kim Kardashian’s brand SKIMS became the official design partner for athletic undergarments for Team USA. Then there are the sartorial stories that celebrated fashion wins alongside sporting triumphs. American track and field star Christina Clemons’s multicoloured butterflies in her hair buns along with gold dangling earrings were a joy. Fashion at the Olympics is about optimism, not victimisation; about engagement, not elitism; about style that radiates a sense of belonging; and about communicative strengths. For US hammer thrower Gwen Berry, it was an important moment when she raised her fist as a sign of resistance during the American national anthem. She did this in bright blue lips and full cover make-up that quickly made her trend as a lipstick icon on Twitter. Another instance was when the German gymnastics team came out with a bold stance against sexualisation through dress code. They opted out of the traditional bikini-cut design and chose to perform in a full-length leotard in pursuit of comfort and performance. Sporting fans all over the world applauded this sign of protest. Being heard Silver medal Olympian Raven Saunders dyed her buzz cut half green and half purple. Her hair sat atop Technicolour sunglasses and a mask designed with a sadistic smile of the Joker. With her masks — there was an Incredible Hulk-inspired one too — she encouraged people to talk about mental health, racial justice and sexual orientation. “I really just hope I can continue to inspire and motivate the African American LGBTQ community,” she said. Bidding goodbye to Tokyo Olympics and watching Paris take the torch for the 2024 Games, I was certain about one thing: this was not the end of the ‘fashion with purpose’ story.  Delhi-based designer Anand Bhushan has always been interested in where Indian fashion and textile has been and where it may be going.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/fashion-with-purpose-at-the-olympics/article35906467.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Sabyasachi brings the sari to H&M||April 16, 2020, was a day every Indian fashion girl around the world had circled on the calendar. It was when Sabyasachi x H&M — one of India’s most celebrated couturiers collaborating with the world’s best-loved high street brand — was to go live. But then the world went on pause. Magazine covers had been shot, fashion editors had been given first looks. If there is one thing Sabyasachi Mukherjee never gets wrong, it’s how to build a story around his work. He has previously done collabs with Asian Paints, French luxury shoemaker Christian Louboutin and American home furnishings chain Pottery Barn. H&M, which has brought out sell-out capsules with global fashion greats such as Karl Lagerfeld, Comme des Garçons, and Versace, had approached him just after he presented his 20th anniversary show in 2019. “The delay was disappointing because I had told myself when the brand turns 20, I will do a collaboration and take it to a large audience,” he says. Called ‘Wanderlust’, the collection went live on August 12, across 11 H&M stores in India and in select stores in 17 countries, including the US, Britain and Japan. It is also e-tailing on Myntra and 48 international markets on hm.com.  Prints and pleats  Mukherjee, 47, had three conditions for H&M: it had to be an India proud collection, a sari had to be a part of the capsule, and a large part of the production had to be done in India (90% has been made here). “Our collaboration with Sabyasachi is the latest in the list of blockbuster global partnerships. We look at renowned designers in order to bring habitually inaccessible, made-to-measure, rare and costly creations to the masses,” says Maria Gemzell, Head of New Development, H&M. The Swedish multinational clothing-retail has been going more diverse in their approach to collabs. Last year, it did a capsule with Beirut-based designer Sandra Mansour and, just before the pandemic hit, their capsule with Columbian designer Joanna Ortiz debuted at their stores. “I was completely sure what I wanted to do with H&M,” says Mukherjee. It had to be something evergreen, something that was easy on the pocket and yet did not fall into the disposal trap of fast fashion. So the pandemic, with its conversations on sustainability, has, in fact, made the collection more relevant. Sabyasachi x H&M comprises 22 womenswear styles, 13 menswear and 32 accessories. The viscose georgette sari, with a print inspired by his hometown Kolkata, is available in H&M’s India stores only. “It was created for the Indian consumer who loves the Sabyasachi sari, but finds it unaffordable.” He suggests teaming it with pyjamas and a T-shirt from the collection.  Playing to his strengths  If you have read any of Mukherjee’s interviews, you will know that he likes to bring in his humble beginnings, and often refers to his muse Madonna, who is yet to wear one of his outfits. (Others like Kim Kardashian and Naomi Campbell have rocked his designs.) He is clear that his definition of sustainability draws from his middle-class upbringing. “With sustainability, there is an onus on production and on consumers. This collection is about wearable clothing that is classic and affordable,” he says. This is also how the slow fashion advocate justifies working with fast fashion giant, H&M. The line has references to all his couture trademarks, such as the royal Bengal tiger. But if you think classic means staid, think again. Wanderlust is a riot of colour and prints that has an Indian soul yet an international appeal. Each print was hand-painted to scale (and later digitally recreated by H&M), and he took inspiration from French toiles , kalamkari and the like. Made for the world citizen, it’s also aptly timed, as Sabyasachi has his eyes on the global market and the site for his flagship store in New York has already been found.  Street meets travel chic  It is the bridal couturier’s most street style collection to date. “If you recall my 2004 debut collection, Frog Princess, it was always Bohemian,” he says. So, in many ways Wanderlust is a return to his roots. The fact that it was delayed may have actually worked to the designer’s advantage. A joyous jet-set capsule that is easy, timeless and can be dressed up and down, as travel restrictions start to ease, this collection is on point. The designer admits to having had many conversations with the young members of his design studio while creating it. But it is also a collection made with his own approach to dressing in mind. “I like to buy clothes that are very versatile, that can travel well,” he says. Wanderlust was conceived to be gender and size agnostic. So he expects men to wear the women’s pyjamas and women to wear the men’s tunic. It also includes fashion jewellery bags and belts. Chintz is a strong inspiration for his prints, which may seem a bit obvious when designing an India proud collection. But Mukherjee says, “I like to celebrate cliches, which is one of the reasons I use the Taj Mahal as a motif on my handbags. Clichés are cliches because they are universally loved.” For the first time he has worked with denim and has given a responsible twist by making them into pyjamas, ensuring they will fit you no matter how your waist size increases and decreases. The craft-conscious designer himself is known to live in his jeans. “There is something very beautiful about relaxed clothing because then your mind can focus on things other than hemlines.” He believes comfort clothing is here to stay, yet there will be a return to glamour in the way we dress. The salwar kameez is his must-have from the collection, sold as a tunic and pyjama bottoms. “Everyone looks great in a salwar kameez . You can be hippy, you can be elegant, you can be Studio 54, you can be Halston in it.” Jemima Goldsmith in her days as Mrs Imran Khan was a definite influence for this piece. Meanwhile, Wanderlust has attracted mixed reactions in India. Many on social media have called out the use of cotton viscose by a designer who has always spoken about the heritage of handlooms. (It released a few days after National Handloom Day, and could have given Indian textiles a global stage.) A wiser move would have been to make it a part of H&M’s Conscious Collection, where eco-conscious fabrics such as Agraloop BioFibre — a natural fiber derived from food-crop waste — are showcased. But despite the debates, the collection virtually sold out within minutes, confirming that when it comes to understanding what the consumer wants there is no Indian designer like Sabyasachi Mukherjee.  Wanderlust is priced between Rs. 799 and Rs. 9,999   I like to celebrate cliches, which is one of the reasons I use the Taj Mahal as a motif on my handbags. Clichés are cliches because they are universally loved — Sabyasachi Mukherjee    Collaborating with an international brand is always a beautiful experience as it helps regional brands and designers gain more exposure and sheds light on emerging talent. It is a great way of promoting culturally-rich fashion narratives that amplify and nurture diversity and innovation — Sandra Mansour , the first Arab designer to collab with H&M||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sabyasachi-brings-the-sari-to-hm/article35906472.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||To the Moon and back, virtually||Art is no longer limited to traditional silos such as the white cube or plain digital. The new creative economy deals in cryptocurrency, collects non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and offers complete transparency. This opens up the field to pretty much any creator, which explains the success of artists like 13-year-old Laya Mathikshara from Chennai. This May, she minted her first NFT, an animated artwork titled What if, Moon had life? It shows the “cold” satellite’s active core bubbling. The teenager listed the reserve price as 0.384400 ETH (the token of the Ethereum blockchain) — “inspired by the distance between the Earth and the Moon (3,84,400 km). It sold for 0.39 ETH (approximately Rs. 90,500) on the platform Foundation. “My parents didn’t really believe in NFTs. Nor did I initially,” she says. “Then, three weeks later, someone bought it. That’s when I got the confidence it could work and began minting other artworks.”  V irtual bragging rights  An NFT is a digital asset that exists on a blockchain, which certifies authenticity and ownership. For Mathikshara, who started painting at the age of nine, her first NFT was a big step. It all began during lockdown last year, when, taking a cue from her sister, a computational neuroscientist, she started to learn programming languages such as Python and C++. This naturally transitioned into an interest in digital art. “I had just three to four hours of [online] school, so I began looking for hobbies. I found digital art and animated videos cool,” says the student of Chennai Public School. “I started by learning programmes like Blender and Cinema 4D. It was hard and I messed up a lot, but I watched YouTube videos and figured it out.” Currently, she has 17 creations listed on Rarible, 13 on Foundation, and seven on Indian platform WazirX. Among her most recent works is Gratitude , a 110-second short film minted on WazirX. It was screened at the 16th Busan International Kids and Youth Film Festival last month. Next, the typography-and-animation work that pays tribute to Covid-19 warriors will be screened in theatres in New York City in October, for the All American High School Film Festival. “It’s like the Oscars for teenagers,” Mathikshara says excitedly.  Into the metaverse  In the last year, the artist says she’s found a sense of community in the NFT world. “I was able to get in touch with a lot of creators, and understand how artists got into the NFT space,” she says, adding that contacts are everything. They are important for recognition and to improve chances of getting a bid on your collectibles. Gratitude , for instance, was sold within an hour to Indian artist and musician Ramesh Gopal, an avid collector on WazirX, at its listed price of 300 WRX (approximately Rs. 30,000). Between the speed of technological developments and the changing interests of a teenager, Mathikshara is picking up something new regularly. “One week ago, I didn’t know what generative art [which incorporates code] was. Today, I have made one,” she says, referring to her recent works made using programming software p5.js. “It’s all very fascinating and I wouldn’t want to choose a particular career. I would say something in the metaverse — at the intersection of art and tech, or maybe games,” she says, referring to the virtual world that is finding new proponents in the likes of Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/to-the-moon-and-back-virtually/article35906491.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||His Divine Wiseness rides again||The Olympics have bid goodbye, Kohli got a duck, the third wave threatens to come, and so does Akki’s latest movie. I say what better time for some more life-affirming advice from His Divine Wiseness, Dr Funky Astral Kumar.   No one achieves success without the help of others. The wise and confident acknowledge this help with gratitude. It is better than giving equity.   It is like the appendix. No one knows what it’s there for.   Courage is answering the doorbell despite knowing it’s the neighbours with an invite for their daughter’s dance recital.   A positive attitude causes a chain reaction of positive thoughts, events and outcomes. A negative attitude, on the other hand, lets you sit back with a drink in your hand and say, ‘Baby, could you get me the oorga ?’   It takes years to build a reputation and seconds to destroy it. So why bother?   It is not fair to ask of others what you are unwilling to do yourself. That is why you make your wife or seven-year-old ask them.   I am made by my belief. As I believe, I am. I believe I will have another Ceylon egg p arotta .   True devotion is when your involvement with the divine is so absolute that you yourself do not matter any more. It could also mean you are dead, though.   Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. Money, of course, is the duplicate key to both.   To know one’s ignorance is true knowledge. To use it well, now that is wisdom.   Life is a journey. If you get a window seat, the view might be good but going to the loo becomes difficult.   One chicken’s karma is another man’s kurma .   There is no greater loneliness than poor WiFi in your bathroom.   You call it a burp. I call it a precious memory of the garlic fried rice from three days ago.   In every encounter with nature, one always receives more than one seeks. On my last trip, it was ticks.   These are disguised as hard work. Which is why most people don’t recognise them. Come to think of it, old classmates are hard to recognise, too. Because they become bald and fat. Lol!   The knowledgeable man has the right answers. The intelligent one asks the right questions. The wise man sits between these two fellows in class.   The key to a good relationship is not the length of time you have spent together. It is the frequency of intervals you’ve spent apart.   Talent is an anagram of latent. Just like anagram is an anagram of... er... maranga . What does that mean? How should I know? I can’t tell you everything. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/his-divine-wiseness-rides-again/article35906423.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The tricolour on Panjim’s waterfront||It’s just past 7 pm on a damp monsoon evening. I’m at the Panjim promenade, deserted except for the occasional local peering into the river, hoping to catch his dinner. All around me are expansive views — the Mandovi now swollen with flood waters, three bridges seemingly criss-crossing close to each other, the flotilla of bobbing boats, and the neon-lit fishing villages of Betim and Malim on the opposite bank. As I enter the city, I come to the exquisite Adil Shah Palace, which once housed the Secretariat of Goa. This is one of the oldest buildings in Panjim and one of the most statuesque on the riverfront. As the sun sets in the Arabian Sea not too far away, something unusual (for the tourists) begins to unfold. Four uniformed members of the Goa Police leave their office in the Old Secretariat and cross the road to the tall flagpole installed on the promenade's pavement where the tricolour sways gently. One moves away, red baton and whistle in hand, to stop traffic, while another begins to unravel the loop of rope to lower the flag. The other two step into the now-clear road, at attention. Then, as the roar of traffic suddenly ebbs, a bugle sounds. Its plaintive call fills the hushed air as the flag is gently lowered. The tricolour is then folded with great care — the blue Ashoka Chakra always pointing upward — and put away until sunrise the next morning, when the flag is hoisted with similar ceremony all over again. Only when the flag is back across the road in its home, does traffic move again. The whole event barely takes a minute or two. Nobody minds. This happens every single day, no matter the weather. Even though the Secretariat moved to Porvorim across the river many years ago, the old tradition remains. “This is the first flagpole installed in the city, so the tradition continues even now,” says Guard Commander Manoj Bandekar. Raising the tricolor might be a daily event across select government edifices, but there are very few that the public are witness to. “Because we are on the main road, the public have a rare chance to see the ceremony,” says Bandekar. Pedestrians are asked to wait a moment, as a mark of respect to the flag. “To keep it consistent, we refer to just one newspaper, Tarun Bharat , for sunrise and sunset timings,” he adds. “When we were old enough to cycle, we used to pass by on our way home and stop for the ceremony,” says my husband, Luis, who grew up here. “It was nice to watch the pageantry of it all, including the bugle. We liked to stop our cycles and wait with other traffic; it made us feel like we had a proper vehicle as well!” I’ve been a resident of Panjim for over 13 years now and this happens not far from my home. Whenever I’ve walked by, I’ve stopped and taken in the moment — the sudden silence, the goosebumps the bugle evokes, the slap of boots on the still road as the police salute in unison. I’ve taken my son to witness the ceremony as well and it is something tourists (and locals) should definitely see when they’re in Panjim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-tricolour-on-panjims-waterfront/article35906485.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In Shaba’s world||Five years ago, a 15-month-old elephant calf was airlifted from the Shaba National Reserve after her mother was shot dead by poachers. Aptly named Shaba, when the calf arrived at Kenya’s Reteti Elephant Sanctuary for orphaned and abandoned jumbos, she was anxious, and charged at everyone she saw. Over time, however, she became the matriarch of the orphan herd, a story that award-winning American photojournalist Ami Vitale — whose film,Shaba, is now available online on shabafilm.org — has been following since. Having spent close to six years on the film, Vitale, 50, shares her learnings from the local Samburu community and, most importantly, how we can turn guardians for our elephants. The most important lesson Shaba taught you? When I met her for the first time, she tried to charge me and she was not a little elephant. The metallic sound of my shutter further aggravated her. This went on for almost a year until one day, I knew she had finally accepted me when she brushed her trunk on me as she idly walked by. As a filmmaker, I have to build relationships, not just with people but also with the creatures whose stories I’m telling. Shaba taught me how important it is to have that same trust with animals that we build with humans. What makes Reteti different from its counterparts? I have visited other sanctuaries in Kenya and Thailand, but what makes Reteti so special is that it is wholly owned and run by the Samburu community. It also works with the first indigneous female elephant keepers in a traditional, patriarchal community. Recruited from within the Namunyak Conservancy, they have rescued over 35 elephants and returned 10 back to the wild since 2016. How can the common man become an elephant guardian? Elephants are a keystone species and are great engineers of our ecosystem — they push over trees to maintain savanna ecosystems, excavate waterholes and fertilise land. This ultimately helps humans too. One must make their voices heard to pass legislation that protects habitats and wild elephants. Learning how to determine whether a sanctuary is truly acting in the best interest of the animals empowers you to support those doing good work. Shaba is available on-demand till August 31 on shabafilm.org . All sale proceeds will go towards operating costs of Reteti.   Read the full story and watch the video on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-shabas-world/article35906450.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||On an elephant chase||It isn’t uncommon to spot a jumbo roaming in the forest on a jungle safari, but then again, safaris are a distant memory for many of us. So photographs have been filling the void, especially of elephants exploring their ‘human-free’ surroundings during lockdown last year. What makes these snapshots special are the stories behind them — as photographers tracked the pachyderms for hours together to understand how a herd functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-an-elephant-chase/article35906432.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Cancel curry?||Journalist-author Pallavi Aiyar’s new book,Orienting: An Indian in Japan(Rs. 499, HarperCollins), is out. While it decodes the island country’s idiosyncrasies — its sanitary excesses, for example — it also explores how the ‘curry habit’ was passed on. Speaking of which, what do we make of the current curry debate? The one that kicked off a few months ago when California-based food blogger Chaheti Bansal (@rootedinspice) shared how the world needs to unlearn the “umbrella term popularised by white people” who couldn’t be bothered to follow the actual names of Indian dishes. Since then linguists and chefs have weighed in, news readers have pooh-poohed it (we are looking at you Simon McCoy of GBN), and social media has blown up with supporters and trolls. Watch this space for more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cancel-curry/article35906456.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Power play||Add to your shopping list with Amit Aggarwal’s Catalyst. The new collection is inspired by fierce individuals such as pole dancer Aditi Singh and sculptor Tarini Sethi. Comprising 22 styles — from jumpsuits and capes to dresses — it features intricate hand-weaving and gradient printing on chiffon, linen and satin. The pret 2021 line will be available on amitaggarwal.com soon. And don’t miss Neeman’s new ReLive Knits, India’s first sneaker crafted from 100% recycled PET bottles. Rs. 3,299, on neemans.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/power-play/article35906416.ece
14 August 2021||ArtEast 2021:,||Instapick||In its fourth edition, the fringe art festival has gone virtual and is exploring ‘Art as Storytelling’. “It will include contemporary and traditional forms,” says curator Kishalay Bhattacharjee, “from paintings and textile motifs that tell stories to photography — like Isaac Gergan who documents the spaces where stories are told in Ladakh [kitchens and where women dry apricot seeds].” Till August 22, on arteastfestival.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapick/article35906425.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Chat with Banerjee||“Dibakar Banerjee is as much a sociologist as he is a filmmaker,” states a post on FC Front Row. So who better than the maker of films such asKhosla Ka GhoslaandLSDto share how to “tell stories that capture hearts and change minds”? Sign up for ‘The Art of Telling Political Stories’ today, at 5.30 pm, on Zoom. in.bookmyshow.com. Madras Day (August 22) is almost here. Get a head start on celebrations with a virtual heritage trail of West Chennai organised by Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai. From 6 pm-7.30 pm. themadrasday.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chat-with-banerjee/article35906434.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Do Sunday right||The parades may be missing as independent India turns 75, but not the celebrations. Especially of the culinary kind. At Mumbai’s Bombay Canteen, order a banana leaf meal (Rs 2,300) as part of their 7th Independence Day Daawat, with dishes like monsoonsaag(charred corn, spinach and amaranth),aloo launji(guttiandbadamipotatoes), and tri-colourbarfi. thebombaycanteen.com. In Chennai, go thebiryaniroute at Courtyard by Marriott, with 40 varieties from across the country. Rs. 650-Rs. 1,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/do-sunday-right/article35906436.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Artisans’ corner||National Handloom Day may be over, but you can still do your bit for our artisans. GoSwadeshi Online, the virtual marketplace GoCoop’s ongoing exhibition (till August 17) is showcasing a range of weaves and crafts from across the country. Think Bengal’s Tangail saris, Karnataka’s Molakalmuru silks, home linen and more. gocoop.com/goswadeshi. If you would rather shop textile art, Red Earth has a collection of door hangings, vintage borders embroidery patches and beaded artwork. From Rs. 2,500 onwards, on art.redearthindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/artisans-corner/article35906438.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival edit||Onam is around the corner, on August 21, while Raksha Bandhan is a day later. Get a head start on a traditional Malayali lunch with Kappa Chakka Kandhari’s Onasadhya - Feast in a Box. With staples likeinji puliandavial, andpayasamssuch aspaladaandchakka pradhaman, it serves five. Rs. 4,750 + GST, on kckonam.com. For Sunday’s festivities, stock uprakhisfrom House of Badnore (from Rs. 650), gift boxes from tea brand Vadham (Rs. 499 onwards), Bombay Shaving Company (from Rs. 727) and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/festival-edit/article35906440.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Cursed encounters||Epic battles aside, theMahabharatais filled with dark narratives, especially curses. “These are pivotal points in the epic — like Gandhari’s curse on Krishna [that his entire clan would be destroyed in 36 years],” says V Balakrishnan of Theatre Nisha. “Being an actor, I relate to the dramatic tension and conflict that these curses offer.” Join him for a five-day storytelling session,Accursed — Curses from the Mahabharata. August 16-20, at 7.30 pm, on Google Meet. Tickets at Rs. 1,000 (for five days). 9677172897, 7550008139||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cursed-encounters/article35906442.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From Goa to Grimm||Make time for some retail therapy. Nicobar, the clothing and accessories brand, is in ‘A Goa State of Mind’ this season. Spot the bright, bold colours of the Konkan coast on a new range of dining and décor pieces. Portuguese-inspired architecture and Mario Miranda’s caricatures also make an appearance. From Rs. 1,250 onwards, on nicobar.com. At Tara Books, pick upLucky/Happy Hans. Spanish conceptual artist Maguma reinterprets the classic Grimm brothers story with a new twist. Rs. 720 on tarabooks.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/from-goa-to-grimm/article35906444.ece
14 August 2021||Jee Le Zaraa:,||Talking Point||First there was the iconic road trip to Goa inDil Chahta Hai(it’s been 20 years, people!). Then there wasZindagi Na Milegi Dobaraand the boys taking on Spain in 2011. Now, it’s the girls turn. After taking “three years to align all our schedules”, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Alia Bhatt and Katrina Kaif are ready to take the car out. Farhan Akhtar, we have a lot of expectations!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article35906446.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Writers’ rooms head South||If you have a favourite American TV show, it probably has a writers’ room. Where storylines are thrown about, episodes created, and scripts fleshed out. But in India, this collaborative model had less appeal, at least until recently. When global streaming giants such as Netflix, Amazon and Disney+ came down, they brought with them industry standards from the West. Today, not only are writers’ rooms fast becoming a staple in Hindi programming, web series with multiple seasons have also highlighted the indispensability of a writer. Interestingly, the trend is trickling down to the South now, especially in Tamil and Telugu, and increasingly Kannada. The pandemic, which created new interest in southern content — SonyLiv acquiring Tamil releases, Jio Cinema picking up Malayalam titles, and the big OTT players making more intense inroads — has only helped accelerate this. The concept isn’t new, though. Director Barath Neelakantan says that writers’ rooms were part of Tamil cinema, albeit informally. “They used to call it ‘script discussion’ or ‘scene sollaruthu ’, where the director would write a story, which would then get a ‘treatment’ where every scene was developed.” Sometimes, there wouldn’t even be a story, just the whiff of an idea. Like when Tamil neo-noir director Mysskin walked into his writers’ room — dingy and cluttered, filled with odd paraphernalia such as a DVD of Taxi Driver , a broken shower head, and a Salman Rushdie portrait on the walls — with only a vague notion, “A detective follows demons into hell, only to discover they are actually angels.” His team of writers thrashed out a screenplay from that seed, which eventually became the 2011 hit, Yuddham Sei . So, what has changed today? Writers’ rooms in the South are becoming formalised, with contracts, NDAs and salaries. Depending on the project, writers make anywhere between Rs. 2 and Rs. 20 lakh (usually around 10% of the budget is reserved for script development). Hierarchies are being broken, too. Where once only the director would be listed as the writer, today everyone involved gets credited.  Bringing in discipline  In this format — used in Netflix’s Sacred Games , which ran for two seasons, Amazon Prime Video’s Paatal Lok , now renewed for a second season, and in several upcoming Tamil and Telugu projects — writers sit together and formulate a script, dividing episodes, scenes, or character arcs among themselves, before finally tying it all together. “The reason most OTT platforms opt for a writers’ room is because it is faster. If they sign me up, for example, I can buy some time to finish a project. But with a team, they can nudge them towards a definite deadline,” says Neelakanthan. Kannada writer-director Hemanth Rao agrees that this is a more efficient model for long-form content. “You have one person coming in with a solid idea, getting on board like-minded people, and writing 10 episodes in half the time. It democratises the entire process, and creates more jobs.”  Balancing perspectives  With different perspectives also come different skill sets. People are being recruited for specific talents: comedy, writing dialogues, local referencing, in-depth thematic knowledge. Writer-director Bejoy Nambiar, who started a writers’ room last year as an experiment, says that he is always on the lookout for people. “When putting together a room, you have to think of who would be right for the subject, what are the strengths you need to make it whole,” says the director of Wazir, Taish , and most recently, the short Edhiri for Mani Ratnam-produced anthology, Navarasa .  Another advantage is the fresh perspective brought in with multiple voices. Continued on page 7 This was why Kannada writer-director Rakshit Shetty began 7 Odds, his writers’ room — to polish a script he had written, which eventually became Kirik Party , the successful 2016 romantic-comedy. “For me, a writers’ room is very important. Once a script is ready, even if it is written by one person, the rest can come up with inputs. That opens a new dimension to the main writer. It’s also more of a feedback, which can be important.” Since then, the team co-wrote the 2019 fantasy-adventure, Avane Srimannarayana , and is working on new ideas now. However, there is still hesitance to adopt these formal rooms for feature films. This stems, perhaps, from the fact that production houses usually ideate movies around directors or film stars (and their tight schedules), while web series — that can take up to a year to develop a script — are built around the writing. “With films, there is often a compulsion to churn it out, start to end, within six months. So I see a bit of resistance,” says Abbhinav Kastura, a former supervising producer at mobile VOD (video on demand) service VuClip who is now independently developing commissioned Tamil web shows.  Heart of the matter  Does Tamil cinema need a writers’ room? According to Pushkar, one half of the Pushkar-Gayathri writer-director team (behind Tamil hits such as Vikram Vedha and Oram Po ), all writing is a synergy between the heart and the plot. “One thing Tamil cinema is really good at is the heart part of it — the depth of emotion, flavour, nativity. But we generally don’t have too many writers good at plotting.” He is working on two fairly large Tamil web series at the moment, adds, “With web series it is important to have a tightly structured plot to hold through eight episodes and possibly more seasons. It needs a build-up, a hook, a surprise; structural requirements that are very plot heavy. To get this combination, we think a writers’ room comes into play — with some focussing on the heart, and some focussing on the plot.” The Malayalam industry, meanwhile, is yet to pick up on the trend. However, industry insiders say change is imminent. “Writing is an independent, personal process in Kerala, being a small-scale industry compared to that in Tamil Nadu,” says Syam Pushkaran, one of the most prolific writers ( Maheshinte Prathikaaram , Mayanadhi , Kumbalangi Nights , Joji ). He prefers writing alone because “there is something lacking when two or three people are working together; that personal point of view is missing”. But in the last six to seven months, with OTT platforms shifting their attention to the state because of the pan-India success of films like Premam , Bangalore Days , and Drishyam , he notes that commissions for web series are coming in. In fact, he’s hired two associates and set up a writers’ studio in a rented house, to pen a web series and a film. It’s still too nascent to comment on how the small industry will reorient its working style to fit the demands of the sudden spotlight, he cautions.  A writers’ room must be created keeping the story in mind. If you are making something about a social minority, you need to make sure they are represented in the room. This is very common in Hollywood. [2002 drama] The Wire , for example, had a journalist and a cop writing, which is why it rings so true. — Pushkar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/writers-rooms-head-south/article35906479.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Change agents in real estate||In May 2019, Nimmy David, 34, started a YouTube vlog in her name, documenting in Malayalam the various luxury properties she sold — mainly across Kerala. Initially, it was just a value-add, because people were physically travelling to see spaces. Ten months later, the pandemic hit, and suddenly an investment of Rs. 45,000 in video equipment paid off. “People didn’t have much to do, so they would go online and watch my videos. When things began reopening, there was quick conversion,” says David, who has been in the industry for 12 years. Pre-pandemic, she and her husband (a graphic designer who does the vlogs) would make a sale every month or two, with just a couple of enquiries daily. During the lockdowns, she’d get 20-25 fresh calls a day; these have now settled to 10-20. David’s sales right after the pandemic went to about 2-3 a month, which continues today. “It is only because of the vlog,” she says, of the 10-20 minute videos with her as host, describing the home, its amenities, surroundings, and the project itself. David often interviews property developers, establishing her credentials as an influential direct selling agent (selling builders’ projects) of luxury residences to Malayalees across the globe. In Mumbai though, Srishti Patel, 28, says the luxury market has been hit by 20% to 30%. A number of business owners who need liquid cash are selling homes they may have bought as investments. Another set of people are upgrading to newer properties that may be bigger, with better amenities, since work from home has come to be common practice. This has stood to benefit many women brokers, who operate within the ‘safe space’ of luxury rentals and sales. The company that Patel works for, Gupta & Sen, deals only in luxury, and has almost equal numbers of men and women employees. Pit this against just about 100 women members of the National Association of Realtors (NAR) India, with a countrywide membership of approximately 5,000 primary (with voting rights) members. While their membership may be just about 2%, they bring in 8-10% of the approximately Rs. 2,000 crore business, according to Ekta Ranjan, 46, who heads the central zone of NAR, and is based out of Bhopal. “Women are more aggressive and focussed on the business,” she says Ritu Arora, 52, from Bengaluru came to it 18 years ago, when her daughter’s paediatrician asked if she knew of an office space he could rent for a construction project. “Soon, he involved me in some projects that he began developing,” she says.  It is only now that women are choosing it as a career option. One reason is that there’s more structure, with professionally run firms establishing themselves. And learning is through a system of internship. Corporatisation removes the stigma of being in an unorganised segment, while support from an establishment ensures that women are accompanied to in-progress or off-the-grid sites. Making connections The trade needs certain skills that women naturally have, say the six agents from varied age groups we spoke to, across the country. The common consensus amongst these working professionals is that women brokers are softer spoken, patient, take more time to understand clients’ needs, and are more sincere. On the twenty-first floor of Gurugram’s Aralia’s, a housing society that looks more like tropical Singapore than dusty Haryana, Neetu Arya, 43, engages with a middle-aged woman and her teenage daughter. Spread across 9,600 square feet, with four bedrooms, separate dining and drawing spaces, a terrace, and a view of the pool and the golf lake, she says the rent is in the Rs. 4 lakh range. The person she is showing the house to “is a friend and a client,” says Arya, who works only through references. Networking is key, something women are natural at. “Women are used to slow and steady interactions, and begin with connecting, explaining contexts and availability clearly,” says Uma Natarajan, 54, who sells and rents residences for Chennai’s Hanu Reddy Realty. Addressing the advantage of being entrenched in a community, she says, “You can make a particular neighbourhood your zone and invest time and years learning everything about that area.” The profession also offers flexibility. David takes her daughter to many client meetings, while Ranjan initially worked from home, taking care of her twin girls and household responsibilities. What’s also important is the connection they form with other women who often do the background research for residential properties, whether buying or renting. “Even when a couple comes together, it’s often the women who ask detailed questions about the neighbourhood and areas around,” says Patel, adding, “I try to make it all about them, so I listen as much as I can.” Business-only approach Arya’s job does not appear like it’s out of a scene from Selling Sunset , a reality TV show based in LA. There, model-like women broker multi-million dollar deals as they work (and party) for a company run by the Oppenheim brothers. Here, the women maintain a strict business-only approach to prevent predators. They also want to ensure the highest levels of professionalism so they’re taken seriously in a business where a client may raise an eyebrow at the unfamiliar experience of a woman showing him land records. Neha Tekriwal, in her 30s, the only woman partner in Kolkata’s Shri Vriddhi Properties runs the business with family and friends. She tells the story of a client who wanted to buy a house in the Rs. 4 crore range. “I would send him property details every weekend and he would promise to see them and then wouldn’t turn up. One weekend I told him I wasn’t going to send him details anymore, and he’d just have to come to look at a few houses,” she says. He turned up, and ended up booking houses for four times what he had budgeted for. Today, women can focus on the joys of the profession rather than its challenges. But Ranjan cautions that it’s not just about getting a RERA (Real Estate Regulatory Authority) certification. It’s really about grooming girls young to move out of the house and take risks, so we don’t limit their career options by telling them to play safe, she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/change-agents-in-real-estate/article35906411.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Flavoured vodka grows up||With gin very much on the upswing globally, vodka too is in the middle of re-inventing itself. One of the key trends is the emergence of botanical vodkas, distinct from flavoured vodkas via their use of plant-based botanicals and natural essences. With that in mind, we engaged with Rodney Williams, president of Belvedere Vodka, that forms part of the LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy) portfolio. Williams tells us about Made with Nature, the platform introduced last year to make the brand even more eco-conscious. And the USDA-certified organic line of vodkas, with naturally-infused flavour combinations — think summer fruit with lemongrass, basil and ginger. Recently introduced in New York City with immersive experiences in greenhouse structures, they underline the premium vodka’s seriousness when it comes to promoting fresh, simple and natural ingredients. Belvedere, Williams reminds us, is made from only Polish rye and purified water. With zero additives, it is certified kosher. More from him: What is Made with Nature bringing to the Belvedere table? Made with Nature is our newest campaign platform. Belvedere has an incredible story of being all-natural since its inception, so we are going back to our roots. It embodies what we’ve been doing from an environmental standpoint and our commitment to nourishing the lands we share. And it has set the guidepost for a stream of all-natural and all-organic innovations from Belvedere. Sustainability has been a focus for Belvedere Vodka for about 10 years now. Belvedere’s distillery co-founded the Foundation for Local Environmental Protection, and only sources its Polish rye grains locally, working to nurture long-term relationships with just eight Polish agricultural sources. This allows us to ensure 100% traceability of the rye that goes into Belvedere. From 2012-2017, we cut energy CO2 emissions by 42%. There is a trend towards botanical vodkas using plant-based botanicals and natural essences. Is this a fancy name for something that Belvedere is already doing with its flavoured vodkas?     Belvedere has produced vodkas with natural fruit essences in the past. The new Belvedere Organic Infusions, made with our organic Polish rye and organic fruits, herbs and botanicals, are expertly blended to create unique flavour combinations, from blackberry with lemongrass to lemon with basil, and pear with ginger. The pandemic has seen drinks companies reorient their strategies for home bars, with bottled cocktails or a cocktail mixer. How has Belvedere reacted to the pandemic?  We created a batching program that supported bartenders who needed to prepare drinks in large quantities for the first time, with insights and tools on how best to do so. Also, the Belvedere website offers over 150 recipes from classics to superfood cocktails which makes it very easy for any home imbiber to access and create what they want. What’s your own desert island drink?  If I had Belvedere Pure, I’d drink a Belvedere Air, our signature cocktail [the recipe is on belvederevodka.com]. For Belvedere Singe Estate Rye Smogóry Forest, I’d drink it in a negroni and for Single Estate Lake Bartężek, I’d have a dry martini with a lemon twist. For Belvedere Heritage 176 and the new Belvedere Organic Infusions, I would enjoy them simply over ice. That should cover it all. For now.  Belvedere Organic Infusions — priced approx Rs. 3,600 a bottle at London’s The Whisky Exchange — are yet to be launched in India.   The writer is CEO of Tulleeho and co-founder of 30 Best Bars India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/flavoured-vodka-grows-up/article35906405.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Common area rules||I have a small portion of land outside my house which I have been using as an access point. I have a shoe rack placed in this area that also has a parapet wall on which I have placed a few flower pots. Neither the shoe rack nor the flower pot are a nuisance to the society or fellow residents. I have documented this over email to the society. However, the office bearers have passed a rule to remove both the pots and the shoe rack. How do I proceed? S Srinivasan Chennai You will have an exclusive right over the property conveyed to you under a document subject to the same being duly approved by the sanctioning authorities. Any portion outside your exclusive property has to be treated as a common area and the association can implement any decision taken in this regard. I am planning to buy an unapproved flat in Chennai. It is located on the second floor of the building that comprises ground plus two floors. Except the second floor, all others are approved and UDS is eligible. G. Tharanipathi Chennai It is not advisable to purchase any portion of a building which is not duly approved by the sanctioning authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/common-area-rules/article35906495.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A look at NCR’s realty market||Paradoxically, it was the NCR real estate market’s erstwhile reputation as a hotbed for untoward market practices that laid the foundation for structural reforms like the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Contrary to all previous perceptions of the region’s real estate market, NCR is now the new frontier of change. From the glory days of local players between 2010 and 2015, the area’s housing market has undergone a significant transformation between 2016 and H1 2021. A market once notorious for being driven by speculators, NCR was also a veritable hunting ground for unscrupulous developers churning out unchecked and unnecessary inventory, playing squarely to the speculator gallery, cashing in on the trust of unwitting homebuyers, and diverting their money elsewhere. “The aftermath of this period is still glaringly evident,” says Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. “More than 3,28,600 homes are either terminally stalled or heavily delayed in NCR alone, accounting for 52% of all such units across India’s seven major cities. Launched in 2014 or before, these projects are ugly testimony to NCR’s darkest ‘Wild West’ years. Unregulated and unchecked, this market saw close to 2.58 lakh units unleashed between 2010 and 2015 by the leading 15 local players alone,” he adds. NCR’s profiteering speculators and cut-throat developers have now faded into the past. The implementation of RERA in 2017 has wiped out unscrupulous developers and brought speculative buying and selling of homes to a complete halt. Between 2016 and the first half of 2021, corporate and national developers like Godrej Properties, Tata Housing, Hero Realty, Sobha, Shapoorji Pallonji Group, Birla Estates and Mahindra Lifespaces took centre-stage. In this period, the top 15 local players throttled their supply down to approximately 70,500 units — a 73% drop from their heyday years. Now, more national players like Prestige Estates are also foraying into NCR. Points to note An analysis of new launches during these two periods (2010-2015 & 2016-H1 2021) highlights many contrasting trends. The NCR market now favours buyers rather than developers, and supply largely follows demand: The average ticket price of properties being launched now has reduced from Rs. 68.20 lakh (2010-2015) to Rs. 56.25 lakh (2016 to H1 2021). The increasing demand for affordable and mid segment homes has led this change.  The average size of homes has also reduced from 1,550 sq. ft. in 2010-2015 to 1,250 per sq. ft. between 2016 and H1 2021. While developers reduced home sizes to bring down prices, they will have to reconsider the increasing demand for bigger spaces to accommodate the work-from-home (WFH) and e-schooling realities brought on by the pandemic  Even project sizes have decreased. Previously, the average NCR project had approx. 950 units; this has now come down to 650 units/project. Resultantly, the average project completion time between 2016 and H1 2021 has also reduced to 4.9 years from 7.8 years in the 2010-2015 period.  Between 2010 and 2015, atleast 63% units were launched in the Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 1.5 crore budget range. Affordable housing accounted for a mere 29% share of 2.58 lakh launched units. In the 2016-H1 2021 period, at least 51% of 70,500 units were in the affordable category, and 40% in the Rs. 40 lakh-Rs. 1.5 crore budget range. Status of stalled projects  Greater Noida comprises 50% of stuck or delayed units or approximately 1,62,720 units, followed by Noida with 16% share or approximately 53,680 units.  In Gurugram, nearly 40,380 units or 12% homes are stuck/delayed.  Ghaziabad comprises 10% of the overall share of stuck or delayed projects (approximately 33,970 units).  Delhi has nearly 15,740 units stuck or delayed which is nearly 5% total share.  The remaining 7% are collectively in Bhiwadi and Faridabad with approximately 22,110 units. Approximately 1,13,860 units in NCR worth Rs. 86,463 crore are completely stalled — a whopping 66% of the total 1.74 lakh stalled units across India’s top seven cities. The Central government’s Stalled Affordable and Middle-Income Housing Projects (SWAMIH) fund with a corpus of Rs. 25,000 crore has now come forward to complete nearly 1,500 stalled projects across the country. So far, SWAMIH funds have given approvals to more than 204 final or early-stage projects involving investments of Rs. 18,500 crore across tier 1,2 and 3 cities. Nearly 13 projects in Delhi-NCR are likely to be completed within the next one year, as per the government. Likewise, the government-backed NBCC and a few well-capitalised developers have taken charge of various stuck projects in NCR. For instance:  Gurugram-based Alpha Corp will invest approximately Rs. 900 crore in three stalled projects of Earth Infrastructure (in Gurugram and Greater Noida) that were launched between 2010 and 2012.  Lotus Panache project at sector 110 in Noida is likely to complete this month. Nearly 600 homebuyers will finally get their completed homes.  NBCC has also successfully completed over 2,060 homes across projects in Noida and Greater Noida. It has also delivered around 8,500 flats at Jaypee Wish Town project while another 6,000 flats are to be complete by 2022-end.  Gaurs Group has taken charge to complete over 10,964 Amrapali stuck homes. To conclude In testimony to the sea-change in perception about the NCR housing market, unsold inventory in the region has witnessed 26% decline - from 2.28 lakh units in 2015 to approximately 1.69 lakh units as on Q2 2021-end. It is apparent that NCR’s residential market has been reinvented almost from the ground up. Terms like resilience, transparency and professionalism have finally found a place in its narrative — largely on account of the entry of the large listed and corporate developers. This is evidenced by the significant resumption of homebuyer interest since 2015.  Anarock Property Consultants   In the 2016-H1 2021 period, at least 51% of 70,500 units were in the affordable category, and 40% in the Rs. 40 lakh - Rs. 1.5 crore budget range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-look-at-ncrs-realty-market/article35906492.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking India’s pollution data||It’s a known fact that a majority of India’s pollution control agencies remain closed entities when it comes to sharing information with the general public. Delving deep into this issue is Centre for Science and Environment’s (CSE) latest study that has revealed only a mere handful of India’s pollution control boards and authorities are adequately putting out environmental and governance information into the public domain. Titled ‘Transparency Index: Rating of pollution control boards on public disclosure’, it has assessed the data disclosure performance of 29 State Pollution Control Boards (PCBs) and six pollution control committees from across the country. Of these, only 14 boards and committees scored 50% or above. These 14 are from Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Goa, Karnataka, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. Nivit Kumar Yadav, programme director, Industrial Pollution Unit, CSE, explains how State PCBs are entrusted with several functions under the provisions of the Water Act, 1974; Air Act, 1981; Water Cess Act, 1977; and various rules and notifications issued under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. “One of these functions under Section 17(C) of the Air and Water Acts is to collect and disseminate information related to air and water pollution and also about its prevention, control or abatement. The law asks the boards to share the data in the public domain. But this is rarely done in practice,” he says. Shreya Verma, programme officer, Industrial Pollution Unit, CSE, and author of the study, takes us through the methodology: “CSE collected data from two sources — websites of SPCBs/PCCs and their annual reports. The study has evaluated the information shared by SPCBs/PCCs during the last four to five years (2016-21) and uses 25 indicators that provide a broader assessment on the type and amount of information shared.” A few key indicators used in the study include the availability of information on direction/show cause/closure notices issued by boards, information on public hearings and EIA reports, non-attainment cities and polluted river stretches etc, adds Verma. Key findings The major finding was that governance and functioning-related data remains paper-bound. Information on functioning, actions taken by a board against polluting industries, public hearing data on new projects etc. are rarely disclosed or remain difficult to access on the websites.  A few examples include:   1. Only 12 states have shared their latest annual reports on their websites:  Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura and West Bengal have shared annual reports of the year 2019-20. The states of Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have shared annual reports of the year 2018-19 (which could be termed as the latest considering the COVID-19 situation in 2020).  2. SPCB/PCCs have been protective of industries when it comes to non-compliance:  Out of 35 SPCBs/PCCs, only five have shared soft copies of directions and show cause/closure notices issued on their websites – these are from J&K, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.  3. Only five boards:  Delhi, Goa, Haryana, Tripura and Uttarakhand have shared minutes of their board meetings on their websites: It is mandatory for SPCBs to meet at least once every three months.  4.  Limited data on current pollution levels:  Data indicating the current pollution levels, air pollutants, waste etc. is missing. Most boards display inadequate data, indicating no trends. More so, even details on upcoming projects and grievances of the general public of the locality are hardly displayed.  5.  Laxity in sharing information on solid waste:  Fourteen SPCBs/PCCs do not share any information on municipal waste generation; 11 on plastic waste generation; 10 on hazardous waste; and nine on e-waste.  For details, visit cseindia.org  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/tracking-indias-pollution-data/article35906497.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘cost’ of sustainable construction||Acommon misconception we often encounter among some of our clients is that eco-friendly construction is expensive when compared to conventional building methods. On the contrary, our long-time experience in the field has revealed that the initial cost of creating an eco-friendly building is comparable to conventional construction, while also resulting in better quality indoor spaces and lowered costs over the life of the building. ‘Eco-friendly’ or ‘sustainable’ design and construction includes a myriad of design techniques, elements, materials and technologies that lead to indoor environments that are ultimately beneficial to the occupants as well as the natural environment. Green materials such as mud, thatch, bamboo, clay tiles, terrazzo and natural stone do incur a marginally higher initial cost when compared to conventional materials such as brick, cement and glass. This is in most part due to the artistic labour, handiwork and skill required which has slowly diminished over time due to introduction of modern technology and mass production of conventional materials. Sustainable technology such as solar photovoltaics, drip irrigation, grey water separation, treatment and reuse, use of sensors, water and energy meters and monitors also incur an additional initial cost. However, this additional initial cost we have seen is no more than 3-5%. This minimal increase goes a long way in significantly lowering the long term operational or life cycle costs for the occupants, resulting in a speedy payback of initial capital costs. The primary aim of eco-friendly construction is to minimise the use of electricity and water through a combination of sensible design, materials, and technologies. For example, today we are able to see a 30% to 50% reduction in electricity consumption and 50-70% reduction in water use when compared with conventional construction. In fact, buildings with net-zero energy and net-zero water are no longer uncommon. This reduction in energy and water use will not only result in reduced costs for the users but also reduce the burden on our environment. Equally, if not more important, is the intangible benefit we see in the creation of better quality indoor spaces which lead to improved mental health and happiness of occupants from being exposed to natural light, ventilation and nature in general. Natural materials are also less toxic for people leading to fewer health issues such as allergies. Environmentally sustainable construction should be looked at with a view of improving our own health and happiness and minimising the planet’s destruction. The additional and more direct benefit this brings us is in the form of cost savings we see year after year. Over time, when the demand for such materials, techniques and technologies go up, we will also automatically see a reduction in the initial cost.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-cost-of-sustainable-construction/article35906493.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Style that sideboard||A sideboard is often shunned to one side of a room, but it’s time you brought this piece of furniture into its own by styling it right. Traditionally used in dining rooms for serving food, displaying crockery and silverware, or for storage, a sideboard is mainly a set of cabinets or cupboards and one or more drawers, topped by a flat surface to place objects. The earliest versions of the sideboard made their appearance in the 18th century, but they became mainstream during the 19th century as an increasing number of households became prosperous enough to have a special ‘dining room’. During this time, these side tables became de rigueur in mass-produced dining room suites. Whatever type your sideboard may be — a China cabinet, a credenza, a hutch, Welsh dresser, or madia — it’s possible to make it an integral and stylish part of your dining room. We give you seven ways to successfully style a sideboard… ... in a symmetrical fashion These are basically symmetrical arrangements, with décor accents such as lamps and vases — usually tall ones — placed at both ends. The matching sides anchor the end and the middle section shows off other accents such as artefacts, photo frames, knick-knacks or even a bowl of fruit. Keep in mind that this style usually works best with a formal, chic look. …in an asymmetrical fashion These arrangements are ideal for those who don’t live for harmony in décor. You can do up a sideboard as you please — a tall lamp at one end, a tallish sculpture next to it and small artefacts at one end. It may look lop-sided to a few but works well in a modern home. …in a minimalistic manner Cut the clutter completely so that the sideboard takes centre stage. This works best when you have a gorgeous piece of furniture as it lets you show off the lines of the furniture. Add a couple of small touches — a frame or a sculptural piece for more impact. …with a bit of greenery Don’t rue the absence of space for a garden any more. Just bring in plants (that will work indoors) and put them on top of the sideboard to create a pretty little green indoor garden. Ensure that you keep things interesting by adding accents such as artwork, photos or objects d’art. A sideboard can also work well as a herb garden. …with the highest object placed at one end Putting your tallest accent at one end of the sideboard and designing the rest of the display around it can create an interesting arrangement. Play with arrangements that work for you and settle on the display that you really like. You can lean more towards the right or left, depending on your choice. …with the highest objects in the centre This kind of arrangement is pretty simple. Plop your main piece, be it a lamp, statuette or a mirror in the centre of the sideboard. Place other objects around this main piece to form a visual triangle. Layering artefacts in front and behind each other creates visual interest. …with repetitions of one object  If you have multiple versions of the same object — say a collection of similar photo frames, vases or Buddha heads — spread them across the sideboard to create a classic look. You could go with seven repetitions or stick to even two. Now that you know the many ways you can style your sideboard, it may be a good idea to get this multitasking piece of furniture: one that you can use to lay out food, to stow away wine and liquor, stash away extra table linen, and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/style-that-sideboard/article35906500.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A look at NCR’s realty market||Paradoxically, it was the NCR real estate market’s erstwhile reputation as a hotbed for untoward market practices that laid the foundation for structural reforms like the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Contrary to all previous perceptions of the region’s real estate market, NCR is now the new frontier of change. From the glory days of local players between 2010 and 2015, the area’s housing market has undergone a significant transformation between 2016 and H1 2021. A market once notorious for being driven by speculators, NCR was also a veritable hunting ground for unscrupulous developers churning out unchecked and unnecessary inventory, playing squarely to the speculator gallery, cashing in on the trust of unwitting homebuyers, and diverting their money elsewhere. “The aftermath of this period is still glaringly evident,” says Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. “More than 3,28,600 homes are either terminally stalled or heavily delayed in NCR alone, accounting for 52% of all such units across India’s seven major cities. Launched in 2014 or before, these projects are ugly testimony to NCR’s darkest ‘Wild West’ years. Unregulated and unchecked, this market saw close to 2.58 lakh units unleashed between 2010 and 2015 by the leading 15 local players alone,” he adds. NCR’s profiteering speculators and cut-throat developers have now faded into the past. The implementation of RERA in 2017 has wiped out unscrupulous developers and brought speculative buying and selling of homes to a complete halt. Between 2016 and the first half of 2021, corporate and national developers like Godrej Properties, Tata Housing, Hero Realty, Sobha, Shapoorji Pallonji Group, Birla Estates and Mahindra Lifespaces took centre-stage. In this period, the top 15 local players throttled their supply down to approximately 70,500 units — a 73% drop from their heyday years. Now, more national players like Prestige Estates are also foraying into NCR. Points to note An analysis of new launches during these two periods (2010-2015 & 2016-H1 2021) highlights many contrasting trends. The NCR market now favours buyers rather than developers, and supply largely follows demand: The average ticket price of properties being launched now has reduced from Rs. 68.20 lakh (2010-2015) to Rs. 56.25 lakh (2016 to H1 2021). The increasing demand for affordable and mid segment homes has led this change.  The average size of homes has also reduced from 1,550 sq. ft. in 2010-2015 to 1,250 per sq. ft. between 2016 and H1 2021. While developers reduced home sizes to bring down prices, they will have to reconsider the increasing demand for bigger spaces to accommodate the work-from-home (WFH) and e-schooling realities brought on by the pandemic  Even project sizes have decreased. Previously, the average NCR project had approx. 950 units; this has now come down to 650 units/project. Resultantly, the average project completion time between 2016 and H1 2021 has also reduced to 4.9 years from 7.8 years in the 2010-2015 period.  Between 2010 and 2015, atleast 63% units were launched in the Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 1.5 crore budget range. Affordable housing accounted for a mere 29% share of 2.58 lakh launched units. In the 2016-H1 2021 period, at least 51% of 70,500 units were in the affordable category, and 40% in the Rs. 40 lakh-Rs. 1.5 crore budget range. Status of stalled projects  Greater Noida comprises 50% of stuck or delayed units or approximately 1,62,720 units, followed by Noida with 16% share or approximately 53,680 units.  In Gurugram, nearly 40,380 units or 12% homes are stuck/delayed.  Ghaziabad comprises 10% of the overall share of stuck or delayed projects (approximately 33,970 units).  Delhi has nearly 15,740 units stuck or delayed which is nearly 5% total share.  The remaining 7% are collectively in Bhiwadi and Faridabad with approximately 22,110 units. Approximately 1,13,860 units in NCR worth Rs. 86,463 crore are completely stalled — a whopping 66% of the total 1.74 lakh stalled units across India’s top seven cities. The Central government’s Stalled Affordable and Middle-Income Housing Projects (SWAMIH) fund with a corpus of Rs. 25,000 crore has now come forward to complete nearly 1,500 stalled projects across the country. So far, SWAMIH funds have given approvals to more than 204 final or early-stage projects involving investments of Rs. 18,500 crore across tier 1,2 and 3 cities. Nearly 13 projects in Delhi-NCR are likely to be completed within the next one year, as per the government. Likewise, the government-backed NBCC and a few well-capitalised developers have taken charge of various stuck projects in NCR. For instance:  Gurugram-based Alpha Corp will invest approximately Rs. 900 crore in three stalled projects of Earth Infrastructure (in Gurugram and Greater Noida) that were launched between 2010 and 2012.  Lotus Panache project at sector 110 in Noida is likely to complete this month. Nearly 600 homebuyers will finally get their completed homes.  NBCC has also successfully completed over 2,060 homes across projects in Noida and Greater Noida. It has also delivered around 8,500 flats at Jaypee Wish Town project while another 6,000 flats are to be complete by 2022-end.  Gaurs Group has taken charge to complete over 10,964 Amrapali stuck homes. To conclude In testimony to the sea-change in perception about the NCR housing market, unsold inventory in the region has witnessed 26% decline - from 2.28 lakh units in 2015 to approximately 1.69 lakh units as on Q2 2021-end. It is apparent that NCR’s residential market has been reinvented almost from the ground up. Terms like resilience, transparency and professionalism have finally found a place in its narrative — largely on account of the entry of the large listed and corporate developers. This is evidenced by the significant resumption of homebuyer interest since 2015.  Anarock Property Consultants   In the 2016-H1 2021 period, at least 51% of 70,500 units were in the affordable category, and 40% in the Rs. 40 lakh - Rs. 1.5 crore budget range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-look-at-ncrs-realty-market/article35906504.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking India’s pollution data||It’s a known fact that a majority of India’s pollution control agencies remain closed entities when it comes to sharing information with the general public. Delving deep into this issue is Centre for Science and Environment’s (CSE) latest study that has revealed only a mere handful of India’s pollution control boards and authorities are adequately putting out environmental and governance information into the public domain. Titled ‘Transparency Index: Rating of pollution control boards on public disclosure’, it has assessed the data disclosure performance of 29 State Pollution Control Boards (PCBs) and six pollution control committees from across the country. Of these, only 14 boards and committees scored 50% or above. These 14 are from Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Goa, Karnataka, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. Nivit Kumar Yadav, programme director, Industrial Pollution Unit, CSE, explains how State PCBs are entrusted with several functions under the provisions of the Water Act, 1974; Air Act, 1981; Water Cess Act, 1977; and various rules and notifications issued under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. “One of these functions under Section 17(C) of the Air and Water Acts is to collect and disseminate information related to air and water pollution and also about its prevention, control or abatement. The law asks the boards to share the data in the public domain. But this is rarely done in practice,” he says. Shreya Verma, programme officer, Industrial Pollution Unit, CSE, and author of the study, takes us through the methodology: “CSE collected data from two sources — websites of SPCBs/PCCs and their annual reports. The study has evaluated the information shared by SPCBs/PCCs during the last four to five years (2016-21) and uses 25 indicators that provide a broader assessment on the type and amount of information shared.” A few key indicators used in the study include the availability of information on direction/show cause/closure notices issued by boards, information on public hearings and EIA reports, non-attainment cities and polluted river stretches etc, adds Verma. Key findings The major finding was that governance and functioning-related data remains paper-bound. Information on functioning, actions taken by a board against polluting industries, public hearing data on new projects etc. are rarely disclosed or remain difficult to access on the websites.  A few examples include:   1. Only 12 states have shared their latest annual reports on their websites:  Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura and West Bengal have shared annual reports of the year 2019-20. The states of Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have shared annual reports of the year 2018-19 (which could be termed as the latest considering the COVID-19 situation in 2020).  2. SPCB/PCCs have been protective of industries when it comes to non-compliance:  Out of 35 SPCBs/PCCs, only five have shared soft copies of directions and show cause/closure notices issued on their websites – these are from J&K, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.  3. Only five boards:  Delhi, Goa, Haryana, Tripura and Uttarakhand have shared minutes of their board meetings on their websites: It is mandatory for SPCBs to meet at least once every three months.  4.  Limited data on current pollution levels:  Data indicating the current pollution levels, air pollutants, waste etc. is missing. Most boards display inadequate data, indicating no trends. More so, even details on upcoming projects and grievances of the general public of the locality are hardly displayed.  5.  Laxity in sharing information on solid waste:  Fourteen SPCBs/PCCs do not share any information on municipal waste generation; 11 on plastic waste generation; 10 on hazardous waste; and nine on e-waste.  For details, visit cseindia.org  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/tracking-indias-pollution-data/article35906503.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||His Divine Wiseness rides again||The Olympics have bid goodbye, Kohli got a duck, the third wave threatens to come, and so does Akki’s latest movie. I say what better time for some more life-affirming advice from His Divine Wiseness, Dr Funky Astral Kumar.   No one achieves success without the help of others. The wise and confident acknowledge this help with gratitude. It is better than giving equity.   It is like the appendix. No one knows what it’s there for.   Courage is answering the doorbell despite knowing it’s the neighbours with an invite for their daughter’s dance recital.   A positive attitude causes a chain reaction of positive thoughts, events and outcomes. A negative attitude, on the other hand, lets you sit back with a drink in your hand and say, ‘Baby, could you get me the oorga ?’   It takes years to build a reputation and seconds to destroy it. So why bother?   It is not fair to ask of others what you are unwilling to do yourself. That is why you make your wife or seven-year-old ask them.   I am made by my belief. As I believe, I am. I believe I will have another Ceylon egg p arotta .   True devotion is when your involvement with the divine is so absolute that you yourself do not matter any more. It could also mean you are dead, though.   Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. Money, of course, is the duplicate key to both.   To know one’s ignorance is true knowledge. To use it well, now that is wisdom.   Life is a journey. If you get a window seat, the view might be good but going to the loo becomes difficult.   One chicken’s karma is another man’s kurma .   There is no greater loneliness than poor WiFi in your bathroom.   You call it a burp. I call it a precious memory of the garlic fried rice from three days ago.   In every encounter with nature, one always receives more than one seeks. On my last trip, it was ticks.   These are disguised as hard work. Which is why most people don’t recognise them. Come to think of it, old classmates are hard to recognise, too. Because they become bald and fat. Lol!   The knowledgeable man has the right answers. The intelligent one asks the right questions. The wise man sits between these two fellows in class.   The key to a good relationship is not the length of time you have spent together. It is the frequency of intervals you’ve spent apart.   Talent is an anagram of latent. Just like anagram is an anagram of... er... maranga . What does that mean? How should I know? I can’t tell you everything. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/his-divine-wiseness-rides-again/article35906753.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In Shaba’s world||Five years ago, a 15-month-old elephant calf was airlifted from the Shaba National Reserve after her mother was shot dead by poachers. Aptly named Shaba, when the calf arrived at Kenya’s Reteti Elephant Sanctuary for orphaned and abandoned jumbos, she was anxious, and charged at everyone she saw. Over time, however, she became the matriarch of the orphan herd, a story that award-winning American photojournalist Ami Vitale — whose film,Shaba, is now available online on shabafilm.org — has been following since. Having spent close to six years on the film, Vitale, 50, shares her learnings from the local Samburu community and, most importantly, how we can turn guardians for our elephants. The most important lesson Shaba taught you? When I met her for the first time, she tried to charge me and she was not a little elephant. The metallic sound of my shutter further aggravated her. This went on for almost a year until one day, I knew she had finally accepted me when she brushed her trunk on me as she idly walked by. As a filmmaker, I have to build relationships, not just with people but also with the creatures whose stories I’m telling. Shaba taught me how important it is to have that same trust with animals that we build with humans. What makes Reteti different from its counterparts? I have visited other sanctuaries in Kenya and Thailand, but what makes Reteti so special is that it is wholly owned and run by the Samburu community. It also works with the first indigneous female elephant keepers in a traditional, patriarchal community. Recruited from within the Namunyak Conservancy, they have rescued over 35 elephants and returned 10 back to the wild since 2016. How can the common man become an elephant guardian? Elephants are a keystone species and are great engineers of our ecosystem — they push over trees to maintain savanna ecosystems, excavate waterholes and fertilise land. This ultimately helps humans too. One must make their voices heard to pass legislation that protects habitats and wild elephants. Learning how to determine whether a sanctuary is truly acting in the best interest of the animals empowers you to support those doing good work. Shaba is available on-demand till August 31 on shabafilm.org . All sale proceeds will go towards operating costs of Reteti.   Read the full story and watch the video on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-shabas-world/article35906762.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Multi-layered security in place at Red Fort for I-Day||The Delhi police have put a multi-layered security cover in place for the 75th Independence Day at Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday. The police said as it’s the second year of Independence Day during the pandemic, COVID protocols will be maintained. They said NSG snipers, SWAT commandos, kite catchers, canine units and sharpshooters on high-rise buildings will be there as every year. Over 5K personnel deployed Over 5,000 security personnel will be deployed. According to the police, anti-drone systems have also been installed at the Red Fort in view of the recent terror attack at IAF station in Jammu airport. In addition to that, over 350 cameras have been installed and their footage is being monitored round the clock through two police control rooms situated in and around the Red Fort area. Over 70 police vehicles, including PCR vans, ‘PRAKHAR’ vans and QRT (Quick Reaction Team) vans will be stationed in the area and officials will patrol on bikes as well. The police have already carried out anti-sabotage checks in the area and visited hotels in the vicinity to ensure no suspicious persons are present and security verification of the residents, including tenants and servants, has also been conducted. Eye on sky Police personnel have been asked to keep an eye on the sky to ensure that no stray kites are seen in the areas around the Red Fort during the I-Day celebrations. The police said security arrangements have also been tightened at the Delhi borders where thousands of farmers have been protesting for over seven months against the three new agriculture laws. Action has been taken keeping in mind the January 26 incident when protesters reached the Red Fort and entered the monument on January 26. According to a traffic advisory shared by police, eight roads including Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover — will be closed for the general public from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m., the advisory said. Like every year, flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, microlight aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or para-jumping from aircraft are prohibited over the jurisdiction of the National Capital Territory of Delhi up to August 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/multi-layered-security-in-place-at-red-fort-for-i-day/article35907010.ece
14 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghan students at JNU fear going back, seek visa extension||Students from Afghanistan studying at Jawaharlal Nehru University — who are nearing completion of their courses — are a troubled lot as they fear going back to their country due to its current crisis. There are currently 12-13 students from Afghanistan studying at JNU. Three of the students secured admission last year but have not been able to attend classes on campus as they have not been provided visas to travel. With the JNU announcing admissions for the current year, students fear that they will not be able to avail the opportunity due to the crisis in Afghanistan. An Afghan national, studying at the School of Social Sciences, said he is nearing the completion of his MA course and his visa expires next month. He said he cannot afford the cost of the PhD programme at JNU for foreign students. “I have been staying on campus throughout the pandemic but now, as I am in my terminal year, I will have to leave. I fear going back to my country as the situation is highly dangerous there and is only deteriorating. My family too advised me to try to get an extension of my visa,” the student said. JNUSU writes to V-C The JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) said they will take up the issue with the administration and Union Ministries concerned to help the students. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said: “One of the students who secured admission last year is a woman. She approached us to help as she fears that she may have to discontinue her studies if she remains in Afghanistan.” The JNUSU, in a letter to the Vice-Chancellor, said with each passing day, the Taliban is gaining ground in Afghanistan. The union demanded that the students concerned be given permissions for their visas along with hostel accommodation on an urgent basis. “Other universities in Delhi have granted students in similar circumstances the requisite permissions for visa. But, the JNU is yet to do the same for its students from Afghanistan. The students have also written to the Dean of Students and other officials multiple times but did not get any reply,” the JNUSU alleged. The Dean of Students was contacted but did not respond. A female Afghan student, who secured admission in 2020 in MA Sociology at JNU, said she has finished one semester online but has been desperately reaching out to the administration for a letter that will help her get a visa to travel to India. “I have sent multiple emails, messages to the JNU administration, asking them for a letter to process my visa. I fear that the Taliban will strike the Kabul Airport soon. The Indian Embassy in Kabul has told me that they can process my visa within two days if I have a letter from JNU...I need a yes or a no from the university. If they say that they are not going to give me the letter, I will make plans to go elsewhere. All I need is an answer,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/afghan-students-at-jnu-fear-going-back-seek-visa-extension/article35906780.ece
14 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Assembly passes cow protection Bill||The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, seeking to regulate the slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle, was passed in the Assembly on Friday. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had tabled the Bill in the House on July 12. “The new legislation, replacing a similar Act of 1950, aims at forbidding the sale and purchase of beef in places other than those permitted by the competent authorities,” he said. The Chief Minister had earlier pointed out that the legislation would ensure that permission to sell beef is not granted in areas predominantly inhabited by Hindu, Jain, Sikh and other non-beef-eating communities or within a 5 km radius of a temple, satra (Vaishnav monastery) and any other religious institutions as may be prescribed by the authorities. Exemptions may be granted for certain religious occasions, he said. The law will prohibit a person from slaughtering cattle without obtaining the necessary certificate from a registered veterinary officer of a particular area. The veterinary officer “will issue a certificate only if he or she is of the opinion that the bovine, not being a cow, is over 14 years of age.” A cow, heifer or calf may be slaughtered only if it is permanently incapacitated. Also, licensed or recognised slaughterhouses will be allowed to butcher cattle, the legislation said. The new legislation will check transport of bovines within the State or outside, if valid documents are not made available to the authorities. There will, however, no restriction on ferrying cattle for agricultural purposes within a district or to and from registered animal markets for sale and purchase within the district. All offences under the new legislation will be cognisable and non-bailable, the law said. Imprisonment, fine Violating the law will entail imprisonment for not less than three years or fine that may vary from Rs. 3 lakh-Rs. 5 lakh or both. If anyone convicted under the new law is found guilty of the same or a related offence the second time, the punishment will be doubled. The legislation will extend to the whole of Assam and the term ‘cattle’ will apply to bulls, bullocks, cows, heifer, calves, male and female buffaloes and buffalo calves, the law said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-assembly-passes-cow-protection-bill/article35906772.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||BJP accuses AAP govt. of corruption in installation of high-mast national flags||The BJP on Friday accused the AAP government of seeking to extract monetary benefits through corruption in its bid to “politicise nationalism” in the Capital. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana questioned why the Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) had first issued a tender for double the amount allocated for the installation of the Tricolour at 500 locations across the city and then cancelled it. While Mr. Khurana alleged that the whole exercise reeked of corruption, the PWD said it would install 500 high-mast Tricolours across the Capital by the end of December and had invited fresh bids to execute the project. “You will remember friends that Arvind Kejriwal government, in this budget, had promised to install the national flag at 500 places in Delhi. Have you seen a single 35-metre flag installed by the Delhi government till now??” Mr. Khurana tweeted. “The reason seems to be clear and reeks once again of corruption. Rs. 45 crore in the budget, Rs. 85 crore in the tender. This tender too was cancelled,” Mr. Khurana added. According to PWD officials, earlier the height of high-mast flags was set at 35 metres but now there will be around 40 flags, which will be higher than 35 metres. However, remaining flags, out of the 500, will have the 35-metre height. The project is being executed by the PWD under Delhi government’s Deshbhakti Budget to celebrate India’s 75th year of independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-accuses-aap-govt-of-corruption-in-installation-of-high-mast-national-flags/article35907012.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||50 more COVID cases reported in city||The city reported just 50 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,36,988, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government. There was no death reported for the third consecutive day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,068. A total of 73,324 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.07%. Of the total cases, 14,11,452 people have recovered and there are only 468 active cases. No vaccine shortage The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the Capital on Friday morning would last for seven days and there were 4,81,240 doses of Covishield vaccine and 3,10,960 doses of Covaxin, as per another bulletin. A total of 1,33,646 vaccinations were done on Thursday and till now, 1,12,37,682 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city, the bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/50-more-covid-cases-reported-in-city/article35907013.ece
14 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||27% quota for OBC candidates in rural poll: BJD||Odisha’s ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Friday announced that it would set aside at least 27% seats for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in the forthcoming panchayat elections. With the announcement, the BJD probably became first political party in the country to provide 27% reservation to OBCs in any election. The declaration came two days after a BJD Parliamentary delegation met Home Minister Amit Shah demanding undertaking of caste-based census for identifying and enumerating the Socially and Educationally Backward Communities and Other Backward Classes. It had also emphasised on increasing of the reservation beyond the 50% ceiling by enacting a central legislation. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, senior BJD ministers Ranendra Pratap Swain and Arun Kumar Sahoo said, “The 27% reservation for OBC candidates will not be mandatory for the next panchayat election, but the party will also follow the reservation policy in future elections too.” “The political decision has been taken due to court restrictions and absence of central law. We call upon other parties to provide 27% reservation to OBC candidates and 33% to women in Assembly and Lok Sabha elections,” they said. Reservation for women The BJD had earmarked 33% reservation for women in the last Lok Sabha election. The State has a provision 50% reservation for women in three-tier panchayati raj institutions. “As there is no caste-based census available, the Supreme Court is strictly sticking to 50% reservation ceiling. Courts cannot force us to keep the reservation below 50% if we have a proper Census on castes,” said Mr. Swain. Due to the 50% upper limit in reservation, the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe communities enjoy reservation of 39% while OBCs get 11.25% reservation in Odisha he said. The Minister added that though the Odisha Reservation of Posts and Services for (Socially and Educationally. Backward Classes) Act, 2008 provides 27% reservation for OBCs, it could not be implemented due to court orders. Till date, 209 castes and sub-castes have been included in the OBC list in Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/27-quota-for-obc-candidates-in-rural-poll-bjd/article35906770.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||No evidence to confirm rape in Dalit girl case, police tell court||Delhi Police has told a court here that no evidence could be collected to confirm whether the nine-year-old girl was raped before allegedly being killed near Delhi Cantonment earlier this month. The investigating officer (IO) said the disclosure statements of the four accused have revealed that two of them — Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium and it’s employee Kuldeep Singh — had allegedly raped and killed the minor. The remaining accused persons — Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan (both employees at the crematorium) — had helped them cremate the minor, the IO told the court. “The IO has further admitted that neither any statement of any eyewitness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific, could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not,” the court noted in the order passed on August 12. Disclosure statements of the accused persons before police, unless supported by other evidence, is not admissible under law. Special Judge Ashutosh Kumar, meanwhile, awarded Rs. 2.5 lakh as “interim relief” to the girl’s mother. The court, however, did not grant further interim relief on the additional ground of the alleged rape of the victim, in view of the submissions of the IO and “in view of the fact that the investigating agency itself is not sure as to whether the victim was raped or not, the interim compensation qua the same is not allowed at this stage.” The judge granted the liberty to the parties concerned to move a fresh application regarding compensation for rape. A per the government scheme, the maximum compensation awardable in case of loss of life is Rs. 10 lakh. The court granted 25% of the compensation amount as interim relief. The court, meanwhile, sent the four accused, who were all known to the girl’s mother, to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-evidence-to-confirm-rape-in-dalit-girl-case-delhi-police-tells-court/article35906776.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||45 out of 3, 200 undertrials released on interim bail re-arrested, HC told||The Delhi government on Friday told the Delhi High Court that out of 3,200 undertrials — who were out of jail due to extension of their interim bail orders on account of the second wave of COVID — 45 have been re-arrested for different crimes, which is “not a significant number.” A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi, Rekha Palli and Talwant Singh, which was hearing a suo motu case on extension of interim court orders, was informed by Delhi government counsel Santosh Kumar Tripthai that the authorities have been “quantifying the data of arrested prisoners”. ‘Not “A total of 3,200 undertrial prisoners [UTPs] were released this year i.e the second wave of COVID-19. Out of these 45 were arrested for different crimes. It is not a significant number,” he said. Last month, the court had taken note of rising crime rate in the national capital and asked the Delhi government to file a status report on the impact of its orders extending interim bails granted to undertrials and convicts to decongest jails to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/45-out-of-32k-undertrials-released-on-interim-bail-re-arrested-hc-told/article35906778.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Equivalence granted to DBSE’s exams, certificates with recognised boards||The Delhi government on August 13, said the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) has been granted approval by the Council of Boards of School Education (COBSE) and the Association of Indian Universities (AIU), enabling the assessment conducted by the board to be valid for admission in higher education institutions. “Apex bodies have granted equivalence to DBSE’s examinations and certificates with other recognised boards. With this, DBSE is all set to affiliate schools, conduct examinations and grant certificates, which shall be treated as equivalent to the corresponding certificates issued by other recognised boards in India. This will enable the students from DBSE-affiliated schools to take admission in other boards and apply to universities,” the government said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said: “Collaboration with International Baccalaureate opens world-class opportunities for our children. With COBSE and AIU approvals, the DBSE is all set to transform learning assessment.” Universal recognition He added that with these approvals in place, students passing out of DBSE schools will have universal recognition and acceptance same as the certificates issued by the CBSE and other recognised boards. The marksheets and certificates issued by DBSE will be accepted by all the recognised boards and Indian universities. “On the grant of COBSE membership to DBSE, Secondary and Higher Secondary Examinations conducted and certificates issued by it would have equivalence to the corresponding certificates of other member-boards of COBSE,” read letter issued by COBSE, which is responsible for verifying genuineness/recognition of school education boards in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/equivalence-granted-to-dbses-exams-certificates-with-recognised-boards/article35906775.ece
14 August 2021||Malappuram,||Man gets 4 life terms for rape of minor daughters||In an extremely aggravated sexual assault case involving the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a court here in Manjeri sentenced a man for imprisonment until his death for repeatedly raping two of his minor daughters. Fast Track Special Court (POCSO) judge Prakasan P.T. on Friday sentenced the 55-year-old man to four life imprisonments and slapped a fine of Rs. 2.1 lakh considering the gravity of the crime he had committed. Of the two POCSO cases, the judgment was in connection with the rape of his 15-year-old daughter between 2014 and 2016. The verdict on the second case, in connection with the rape of his 17-year-old daughter in the same period, is set to be delivered on August 25. The case registered at Pothukal police station in March 2016 found that the accused had abused his daughters repeatedly during 2014-16, when he used to sleep with them after picking up flimsy quarrels with their mother. When the girls complained to their mother, he threatened to kill them. Prosecution counsel A. Somasundaran succeeded in proving him guilty at the court. Although he will have to undergo all the jail terms concurrently, he will be in prison until his death. “This has been one of the rarest of aggravated sexual offences we saw in recent memory,” said Mr. Somasundaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-gets-4-life-terms-for-rape-of-minor-daughters/article35906521.ece
14 August 2021||Kolkata,||Mukul Roy’s ‘faux pas’ embarrasses Trinamool||For the second time in the past week, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mukul Roy, who switched camp to the party from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the West Bengal Assembly election results, expressed his support to the BJP. Asked by journalists about the pending by polls in the State, Mr Roy said that he “will win again from Krishnanagar on a BJP ticket”. When media persons asked what will happen if he contests on a TMC ticket, Mr Roy added “that people will decide”. A few days ago, the veteran politician in a similar interaction with journalists had said, “The BJP will win convincingly in the Assembly by-polls. It will win in Tripura. There is not an iota of doubt in that”. Meanwhile, a section of political observers feel that Mr. Roy is making the statements to avoid any action against him under anti-defection law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mukul-roys-faux-pas-embarrasses-trinamool/article35906768.ece
14 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Two held in U.P. for making fake voter IDs||The Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested two persons, including a data entry operator working with the Electoral Roll Office of Election Commission from Saharanpur, for allegedly hacking into the Election Commission of India website and making 10,000 fake voter IDs, police said. Reacting to the development, the poll panel on Friday said its database is “absolutely safe and secure.” Vipul Saini, who was arrested on Thursday evening, has a degree in Bachelor Of Computer Applications and is a resident of Machcharhedi village in Nakud area of Saharanpur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-in-up-for-making-fake-voter-ids/article35906769.ece
14 August 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP Rasoi||East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir will launch the third “Jan Rasoi” community kitchen in his constituency’s Patparganj, which will provide healthy meals to everyone at Rs. 1 on August 20. In December last year, Mr. Gambhir had launched the first such kitchen at Gandhi Nagar, followed by another one at New Ashok Nagar. However, this will be unique as it has been developed by converting a vacant ‘Dhalav Ghar’ garbage storage unit into a modern kitchen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-bjp-rasoi/article35907011.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Power play||Add to your shopping list with Amit Aggarwal’s Catalyst. The new collection is inspired by fierce individuals such as pole dancer Aditi Singh and sculptor Tarini Sethi. Comprising 22 styles — from jumpsuits and capes to dresses — it features intricate hand-weaving and gradient printing on chiffon, linen and satin. The pret 2021 line will be available on amitaggarwal.com soon. And don’t miss Neeman’s new ReLive Knits, India’s first sneaker crafted from 100% recycled PET bottles. Rs. 3,299, on neemans.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/power-play/article35906752.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||ArtEast 2021||In its fourth edition, the fringe art festival has gone virtual and is exploring ‘Art as Storytelling’. “It will include contemporary and traditional forms,” says curator Kishalay Bhattacharjee, “from paintings and textile motifs that tell stories to photography — like Isaac Gergan who documents the spaces where stories are told in Ladakh [kitchens and where women dry apricot seeds].” Till August 22, on arteastfestival.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arteast-2021/article35906754.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Chat with Banerjee||“Dibakar Banerjee is as much a sociologist as he is a filmmaker,” states a post on FC Front Row. So who better than the maker of films such asKhosla Ka Ghosla,LSD: Love, Sex Aur DhokhaandOye Lucky! Lucky Oyeto share how to “tell stories that capture hearts and change minds”? Sign up for ‘The Art of Telling Political Stories’ today, at 5.30 p.m., on Zoom. in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chat-with-banerjee/article35906755.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Do Sunday right||The parades may be missing as independent India turns 75, but not the celebrations. Especially of the culinary kind. At Mumbai’s Bombay Canteen, order a banana leaf meal (Rs. 2,300) as part of their 7th Independence Day Daawat, with dishes like monsoonsaag(charred corn, spinach and amaranth),aloo launji(guttiandbadamipotatoes), and tri-colourbarfi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/do-sunday-right/article35906756.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Jee Le Zaraa||First there was the iconic road trip to Goa inDil Chahta Hai(it’s been 20 years, people!). Then there wasZindagi Na Milegi Dobaraand the boys taking on Spain in 2011. Now, it’s the turn of the girls. After taking “three years to align all our schedules”, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Alia Bhatt and Katrina Kaif are ready to take the car out. Farhan Akhtar, we have a lot of expectations!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jee-le-zaraa/article35906757.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Cursed encounters||Epic battles aside, theMahabharatais filled with dark narratives, especially curses. “These are pivotal points in the epic — like Gandhari’s curse on Krishna [that his entire clan would be destroyed in 36 years],” says V. Balakrishnan of Theatre Nisha.Accursed — Curses from the Mahabharata. August 16-20, at 7.30 p.m., on Google Meet. Tickets at Rs. 1,000 (for five days). 9677172897.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cursed-encounters/article35906758.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From Goa to Grimm||Make time for some retail therapy. Nicobar, the clothing and accessories brand, is in ‘A Goa State of Mind’ this season. Spot the bright, bold colours of the Konkan coast on a new range of dining and décor pieces. Portuguese-inspired architecture and Mario Miranda’s caricatures also make an appearance. From Rs. 1,250 onwards, on nicobar.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/from-goa-to-grimm/article35906759.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Artisans’ corner||National Handloom Day may be over, but you can still do your bit for our artisans. GoSwadeshi Online, the virtual marketplace GoCoop’s ongoing exhibition (till August 17) is showcasing a range of weaves and crafts from across the country. Think Bengal’s Tangail saris, Karnataka’s Molakalmuru silks, home linen and more. gocoop.com/goswadeshi. If you would rather shop textile art, Red Earth has a collection of door hangings, vintage borders embroidery patches and beaded artwork. From Rs. 2,500 onwards, on art.redearthindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/artisans-corner/article35906760.ece
14 August 2021||August 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival edit||Onam is around the corner, on August 21, while Raksha Bandhan is a day later. Get a head start on a traditional Malayali lunch with Kappa Chakka Kandhari’s Onasadhya - Feast in a Box. With staples likeinji puliandavial, andpayasamssuch aspaladaandchakka pradhaman, it serves five. Rs. 4,750 + GST, on kckonam.com. For Sunday’s festivities, stock uprakhisfrom House of Badnore (from Rs. 650), gift boxes from tea brand Vadham (Rs. 499 onwards), Bombay Shaving Company (from Rs. 727) and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/festival-edit/article35906761.ece
