15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM: Aug. 14 will be day to recall Partition trauma||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday declared that August 14 will be observed as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ to acknowledge the pain undergone by Indians due to the Partition of India in 1947. Taking to micro-blogging site Twitter, he tweeted, “Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.” The Prime Minister added that the day would remind Indians of the need to “remove the poison of social divisions”. “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment,” the Prime Minister tweeted. The Union Home Ministry also notified August 14 as the ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ in the Gazette of India after the announcement. It described the notification: “Whereas People of India while celebrating the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ salute those sons and daughters of our beloved Motherland who had to sacrifice their lives during the partition of India”. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-picks-august-14-to-recall-partition-trauma/article35920880.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India working for return of Karmapa||South Block is positively considering an outreach to the 17th Karmapa Ugyen Trinley Dorje, the Chief Minister of Sikkim said on Saturday. At a press conference in Gangtok, CM Prem Singh Tamang said the Karmapa, who left India in 2017 without any warning, may return “very soon” and the State is planning to send a delegation to the monk in this regard. The Karmapa is the leader of the Karma Kagyu branch of Buddhism. “We have got a positive reply to our demand that 17th Karmapa Ugyen Trinley Dorje be allowed to visit Sikkim at the earliest. We believe it will happen very soon,” said Mr. Tamang. The 17th Karmapa has a strong following in Sikkim, where he remains popular despite having stayed away from India for the past four years. Lama Dorje used to reside in his impressive monastery located near the Dhauladhar range in Dharamsala. But Sikkim has always maintained that he should be based in the State as he is the ceremonial head of the Rumtek monastery. The importance of the 17th Karmapa is expected to grow and he is likely to play a role in the efforts to find a successor to the Dalai Lama. The Sikkimese government is planning to send Minister of Ecclesiastical Department Sonam Lama as the head of a delegation to meet the 17th Karmapa abroad and bring him back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-working-for-return-of-karmapa/article35920877.ece
15 August 2021||Mumbai,||State records 5,787 new cases, 134 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 5,787 new COVID-19 cases and 134 deaths, including the highest (45) in Kolhapur region, taking the total case tally to 63,87,863 and the toll to 1,34,909, a Health Department official said. A total of 5,352 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 61,86,223. There are now 63,262 active cases in the State. The case recovery rate now stands at 96.84% and the fatality rate is 2.11%. Nandurbar and Bhandara districts now do not have a single active case. Notably, Dhule, Akola, Yavatmal, and Gondia districts, along with Jalgaon, Dhule, Parbhani, and Chandrapur municipal corporations did not report any new COVID-19 case during the day, according to the official.  Surge in Ahmednagar At 785, the Ahmednagar district reported the highest number of new infections in the State during the day, followed by Satara, with 744 cases. Among the eight regions of Maharashtra, Pune region reported the highest new cases at 2,481, followed by 1,238 in Kolhapur region. Nashik region added 980 infections, Mumbai region 733, Latur region 259, Aurangabad region 38, Nagpur region 31, and Akola region 27, the official said. According to the official, among the 134 fatalities from eight regions, the highest (45) were reported from Kolhapur region, followed by 44 fatalities from Pune region. The Aurangabad region did not report any fresh deaths. Nashik region reported 20 fatalities, Mumbai region 15, Latur region seven, Akola region two and Nagpur region one fatality, the official said. Mumbai saw 265 new cases and six deaths. Pune city added 285 cases, but no fresh fatality. Pune district has the highest number of active cases at 14,738 and also the maximum number of recoveries at 10,69,481 in the State, he said. With 2,14,215 new tests, the number of samples tested so far has gone up to 5,07,59,767, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-5787-new-cases-134-deaths/article35921402.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State to oppose vehicle scrappage policy||Kerala has decided to register its protest against the National Automobile Scrappage Policy unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Terming the policy unscientific and impractical, Transport Minister Antony Raju said here on Saturday that the State would formally convey its reservations about the policy to the Centre. “It is thoroughly unscientific and designed to benefit only private automobile companies,” he said. The Prime Minister had called it an important link in the circular economy and the waste-to-wealth campaign. The policy would play a vital role in the modernisation of the vehicle population by removing unfit vehicles from roads, besides creating thousands of jobs, according to him. Among other things, the policy advocates phasing out 15-year-old commercial vehicles and 20-year-old passenger vehicles. Noting that the new policy would dash the hopes of the common man to own a vehicle, Mr. Raju said a more scientific approach would have been to fix the kilometres run by a vehicle as the yardstick rather than the age of the vehicle. School buses “There are any number of vehicles which may be over 15 years old but have not covered that many kilometres. For example, school and college buses that run only in the mornings and evenings and do not ply on weekends and vacations,” he said. The Centre’s justification that the policy would help reduce pollution also is fraught with problems, according to the Minister. “If that were so, promoting the conversion of vehicles into LNG and CNG-fuelled ones would be more advisable,” he said. According to him, the previous Left Democratic Front government had conveyed its opinion on the policy to the Centre. “I understand that the State suggested that the distance run by a vehicle rather than its age be the criterion. We will reiterate our stand on this point,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-oppose-vehicle-scrappage-policy/article35921086.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Classes IX to XII to resume from August 23 in districts with less than 2% positivity rate||Focusing on micro-management of the pandemic, the State government has decided to open classes for IX to XII standard students from August 23 only in districts which have less than 2% positivity rate for COVID-19. The average positivity rate in the State during week August 7-13 was 1.08%. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said a decision would be taken at the end of August to commence classes from I to VIII. Night curfew The government, meanwhile, has decided to continue the existing guidelines related to the night curfew (9 p.m. to 5 a.m.) in the entire State for the next 15 days. Only five districts have recorded more than 2% COVID-19 positive rate. They are: Dakshina Kannada (3.98%), Udupi (2.42%), Chikkamagaluru (3.24%), Kodagu (2.71%), and Hassan (2.23%). Districts having more than 1 per cent positivity rate are: Chamarajanagar (1.29%), Shivamogga (1.26%), Mysuru (1.20%), Uttara Kannada (1.16%), and Bengaluru Rural (1.13%). The weekend curfew would continue in districts bordering Kerala (Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar) and Maharashtra (Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bidar, Kalaburagi). Based on the suggestions of experts, Mr. Bommai on Friday held a meeting with Ministers and senior officials. He said in case schools recorded more than 2% of positivity rate, such schools would be closed for one week and opened after sanitisation. Without vaccination, teachers and parents would not be allowed to enter the school premises, Mr. Bommai said. Students would be divided into two batches and each batch of students would be asked to attend classes on alternate days, which meant students would have to attend classes for three days in a week. SoP had been prepared for schools and colleges, Mr Bommai said. Genome testing centres The Chief Minister said officials had been instructed to open genome testing centres in the next three weeks in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi, Belagavi, and Hubballi for testing the Delta variant of the virus. Minimum 2-3 weeks were required to get the results of the tests, he said. There are only four genome testing centres in the State now. He said more testing for COVID-19 is to be done in the districts of Raichur, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Haveri, Tumakuru, Vijayapura, and Bengaluru Rural in the coming days. Stating that four crore people had been vaccinated so far, the Chief Minister noted that the State had 14.89 lakh doses and about 30 lakh doses would be obtained this month-end. A memorandum would be submitted to the Union Health Minister next week to increase the State’s monthly quota from 65 lakh doses to 1 crore. While only a few COVID-19 cases were reported after the first wave, the daily number of cases reaching 1800 in the second wave currently is a matter to be considered, he said, quoting experts. The Chief Minister said district-wise COVID-19 management plan would be prepared and implemented. Plans would be prepared based on deaths, positivity rate, and vaccination in each district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/classes-ix-to-xii-to-resume-from-august-23-in-districts-with-less-than-2-positivity-rate/article35920898.ece
15 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Hospitals refund money unduly charged from insured patients||Private hospitals in Rajasthan have refunded money to the tune of Rs. 36 lakh unduly charged from patients insured under the State government’s flagship health scheme, the Chief Minister’s Chiranjeevi Swasthya Bima Yojana, following an intervention by the Medical and Health Department. The universal health insurance scheme was launched here on May 1, 2021. The hospitals empanelled under the scheme have refunded the claim amount in 267 cases. Several of them pertained to the treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus, which had emerged as a major threat in the middle of the second wave and was subsequently added to the list of permitted procedures. Health Assurance Agency chief executive officer Aruna Rajoria said on Saturday that over 1.6 lakh people had availed themselves of cashless treatment under the scheme. The complaints pertaining to the patients being unduly charged by the hospitals are being examined and refunds initiated, she said. Lack of awareness Over 1.3 crore families, comprising nearly 80% of the State’s population, have been registered as beneficiaries of the scheme. However, several hospitals and even the beneficiaries were unaware of its provisions as it was introduced as the universal health insurance for the first time in the State. Ms. Rajoria said the confusion had resulted in several insured patients being unduly charged by some hospitals, despite the scheme giving an annual cashless insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh to every family. The flagship scheme has arrived as a major step towards ensuring social security for vulnerable sections by offering treatment of all diseases, including COVID-19. The Medical and Health Department has initiated several measures to avoid confusion in future and appointed consultants in the empanelled hospitals to assist beneficiaries and guide them to choose the most appropriate treatment options. A round-the-clock call centre has also been established to address any issue regarding the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-refund-money-unduly-charged-from-insured-patients/article35921165.ece
15 August 2021||KHAMMAM,||Three die after consuming liquor||Three villagers of Chandru Tanda in Tirumalayapalem mandal died after allegedly consuming liquor at a post-death ritual of their relative in the village on Saturday night. The exact identity of the deceased could not be ascertained immediately. The deceased were in the age group of 35 to 55 years, police said. The trio allegedly consumed liquor before eating food served at the post-death ritual at their relative’s house on Saturday night. They subsequently fell unconscious and two of them died while being shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Khammam. Another person died soon after reaching the hospital, sources added. The Tirumalayapalem police rushed to the hospital to determine the exact cause of their death. Police suspect that they might have died due to suspected food poisoning or consumption of spurious liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-die-after-consuming-liquor/article35921352.ece
15 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat to set up residential schools in PPP mode||To provide the best learning infrastructure to the students of grade VI to XII, the Gujarat government has announced a policy to set up residential schools of excellence on public private partnership (PPP) mode envisaging large campuses of 2,000 to 10,000 students. The initiative is in the primary to higher secondary education sector. The residential schools will admit students from the government and grant-in-aid schools selected through a State-level common entrance exam at the end of grade V. This is part of the World Bank funded Mission Schools of Excellence project the Gujarat government has undertaken to transform the education sector. “This policy aims at recognising, nurturing and hand-holding the most meritorious children studying in government and grant-in-aid schools across Grade I-V and providing them best quality of residential schooling from Grade VI-XII, free of cost,” stated the Education Department’s policy document. “The State government would pay to the project partners an all-inclusive Rs. 60,000 per student per year, with 7% annual increment, for meeting recurring expenses. The policy intends to create 1,00,000 students capacity in the next 2-3 years,” said Vinod Rao, Education Secretary. The project partners to be selected through bidding will be making all necessary investments for procuring land to set up campus and create digital infrastructure while the State will give money only after the students are admitted and the campus becomes functional. Exclusive curriculum The residential schools will have their exclusive curriculum and pedagogy which will be prepared in consultation with national and international boards. The Education Department is in talks with the international Cambridge Board to create a special academic curriculum. Aligned with the Centre’s education policy, the new residential schools will lay emphasis on bilingual medium from Grade VI-VIII to prepare the students for English medium from Grade IX onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-to-set-up-residential-schools-in-ppp-mode/article35921163.ece
15 August 2021||Kolkata,||TMC, BJP spar over ‘Khela Hobe Dibas’ on Aug. 16||The ruling Trinamool Congress and Opposition BJP are locked in a war of words over observing ‘Khela Hobe Dibas’ on August 16, with the latter saying the day is associated with communal violence on ‘Direct Action Day’ of 1946. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said in July that August 16 will be observed as ‘Khela Hobe Dibas’ and about one lakh footballs will be distributed across the State, and prominent sports personalities of the State felicitated. ‘Khela Hobe (Game will be played)’ was one of the most important slogans of the Trinamool Congress ahead of the Assembly elections in West Bengal earlier this year, which saw the party register an emphatic victory over the Bharatiya Janata Party. While the State government has grand plans of ‘Khela Hobe Dibas’, all senior BJP leaders have said that August 16 is linked to the memory of communal violence on ‘Direct Action Day’ of 1946. “August 16 is a blot on Bengal’s history. The day is horrifically remembered as Direct Action Day or Great Calcutta Killings, which led to the brutal killings of thousands of Bengalis,” BJP leader in State Assembly Suvendu Adhikari said on social media earlier this month. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has also raised the issue. “Peace and harmony are vital to flourishing of democracy. All steps that have potential to generate divisiveness in society must be contained. Expect @MamataOfficial to rise over partisan stance and take urgent call as regards date #KhelaHobe with public interest in mind,” Mr. Dhankhar had tweeted on August 11. The Trinamool Congress leadership, however, said August 16 has been chosen because of another incident on that day associated with a game that West Bengal is passionate about — football. Football riot A violent clash had erupted between the supporters of the two major clubs in the State — East Bengal Football Club and Mohun Bagan Athletic Club — on August 16, 1980, and over a dozen spectators were killed. The TMC leadership including Ms. Banerjee insist that the day has been chosen to honour the memory of sports enthusiasts who died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-bjp-spar-over-khela-hobe-dibas-on-aug-16/article35921108.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal approves roll-out of Deshbhakti Curriculum||On the eve of the 75th Independence Day, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal gave his nod for the roll-out of the ‘Deshbhakti Curriculum’, which he said would instil patriotism in young minds. The focus of the curriculum is to impart values, competencies and behaviours to students so they are equipped to “participate effectively in a culture of democracy”, the government stated. The framework has three primary goals: instilling a feeling of pride for the country, building awareness of responsibilities towards the country; and commitment to make a sacrifice for the country. “We kept on teaching physics, chemistry and maths for 70 years, no one thought of teaching children Deshbhakti. I am delighted that the Deshbhakti Curriculum will be launched in schools of Delhi to instil patriotism in young minds,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Deshbhakti Curriculum Committee submitted the framework after detailed deliberations and extensive consultation over the last two years. It was approved by the governing council of the State Council of Educational Research and Training on August 6. The curriculum also “aims to develop a deep sense of respect towards constitutional values and seeks to bridge the gap between values and action”. The implementation methodology will be child-centric via a five-stage process: discussion in class initiated by the teacher; classroom discussion among students facilitated by teacher; classroom activities usually as group work; homework to engage with the family; and community and self-reflection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-approves-roll-out-of-deshbhakti-curriculum/article35921164.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||135 lorry drivers, cleaners rescued from Krishna river||About 135 drivers and cleaners of sand lorries and tractors were rescued when the water levels in the Krishna river increased suddenly in the early hours on Saturday. About 50 supervisors and workers working on the sand ramp ran to safety from the rising water. Officials said 132 lorries and two tractors were trapped in the river. A private company had taken the sand ramp on lease and was excavating sand from the river. Pulichintala discharge Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said all vehicle drivers and cleaners were rescued and were safe. Water levels in the river rose when officials discharged flood water from the Pulichintala project and opened the gates of Munneru Vaagu in Telangana around midnight, the officials said. “The lorries and tractors went into Krishna river from Chevitikallu village in Kanchikacherla mandal to load sand on Friday night. Due to the flash flood, all the drivers and workers, along with the vehicles, were trapped in the flood,” Mr. Kaushal said. On receiving information about the same, Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Nageswar Reddy and Kanchikacherla sub-inspector J. Lakshmi rushed to the spot and arranged boats for them. “A team of fire personnel rushed to the spot, arranged boats and shifted all the drivers, cleaners and workers from the river,” said District Fire Officer I. Dharma Rao. The vehicles will be brought out once the flood water recedes, a police officer said. “There had been no warning whatsoever about the impending water surge and we went about our work. But we could not return because of the rising levels and our vehicles got stuck,” a few lorry drivers said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/135-rescued-from-krishna-river/article35920862.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kabul: govt. reviews plans to evacuate embassy||Amidst moves by other countries to secure their diplomats based in Afghanistan, the Indian government began a series of consultations on whether to scale down operations at its Embassy in Kabul. Taliban near Kabul The meetings on Saturday in New Delhi came amidst reports that the Taliban has taken territory around 50 kilometres from Kabul, while Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani said he is discussing how to “remobilise” the Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces to protect the capital and other cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kabul-govt-reviews-plans-to-evacuate-embassy/article35921161.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kabul: govt. reviews plan to evacuate embassy||Amidst moves by other countries to secure their diplomats based in Afghanistan, the Indian government began a series of consultations on whether to scale down operations at its Embassy in Kabul. The meetings on Saturday in New Delhi came amidst reports that the Taliban has taken territory around 50 km from Kabul, while Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani said he was discussing how to “remobilise” the Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) to protect the capital and other cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kabul-govt-reviews-plan-to-evacuate-embassy/article35921313.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||People will reject it: Pak.||The people of India will reject the ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ announced by PM Modi because it aims to divide Indians, said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-will-reject-it-pak/article35920899.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Oppn. slams ‘divisive’ move||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has started the campaign for the Uttar Pradesh poll, the Opposit- ion said in reaction to the announcement of August 14 as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’.Page 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-slams-divisive-move/article35920952.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Opposition creating hurdles to Dalit Bandhu’||Notwithstanding conspiracies of the opposition parties to stall the launch of Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad, the State government is committed to extending it to every eligible dalit family in the constituency, Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-creating-hurdles-to-dalit-bandhu/article35921235.ece
15 August 2021||hubballi,||Flag manufacturing unit is flying high again||After the pandemic-induced lockdown, the country’s lone BIS-approved national flag manufacturing unit of Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha at Bengeri in Hubballi is slowly returning to normality and there is a smile on the faces of those working there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flag-manufacturing-unit-is-flying-high-again/article35920900.ece
15 August 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmir runs out of flags||The BJP’s J&K HQ in Srinagar witnessed a rare beeline of people placing orders for the tricolour ahead of Independence Day as markets ran short of the flags in the Kashmir Valley this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kashmir-runs-out-of-flags/article35921107.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi borders sealed ahead of 75th I-Day||All Delhi borders have been sealed and nearly 30,000 police personnel have been deployed ahead of the 75th Independence Day. Security has been beefed up at strategic locations and a multilayered security cover has been put in place at Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-borders-sealed-ahead-of-75th-i-day/article35921314.ece
15 August 2021||Chennai,||‘Archakas’ of all castes get appointment orders||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday handed over orders to 208 people, including 24 trained archakas of all castes, for appointment at temples being managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. Priests have been appointed to temples, including the Meenakshi Sundareshwarar temple, Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/archakas-of-all-castes-get-appointment-orders/article35920954.ece
15 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Flag manufacturing unit is flying high again||After the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, the country’s lone BIS-approved national flag manufacturing unit of Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha (KKGSS) at Bengeri in Hubballi is slowly returning to normality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flag-manufacturing-unit-is-flying-high-again/article35921072.ece
15 August 2021||Mumbai,||HC stays provisions of new IT Rules||The Bombay High Court on Saturday partially stayed the operation of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The court said, “We have found that prima facie it is in intrusion of petitioner’s rights and goes beyond substantive law and the Information Technology Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-provisions-of-new-it-rules/article35921403.ece
15 August 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC stays provisions of new IT Rules||The Bombay High Court on Saturday partially stayed the operation of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The court said, “We have found that prima facie it is in intrusion of petitioner’s rights and goes beyond substantive law and the Information Technology Act.” A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni stayed Rule 9(1) and Rule 9(3) of the new IT Rules. The portion which is stayed brings Code of Ethics under the IT Rules and directs self-regulation by the publishers, self-regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the publishers and oversight mechanism by the Central government. The court said, “Rule 9 (observance and adherence to the code) prima facie seems to be against the freedom of speech. We have stayed Rule 9 (1) and (3).” “We may observe that as far as Rule 14 (inter-departmental committee) is concerned, no immediate urgency as committee is not set up. In these circumstances, the oversight committee itself has not taken effect. We urge petitioners to come as and when it is set up,” it added. Referring to Rule 16 (blocking of information in case of emergency), the court said, “We find no case is made out for a stay on Rule 16. Hence that is not stayed.” The court was hearing a petition filed by legal news website The Leaflet and a public interest litigation by journalist Nikhil Wagle. The petitions urged for direction from the court to restrain authorities from taking any coercive action against the petitioners for any failure to comply with the new rules. ‘Vague and draconian’ Senior advocate Darius Khambata, representing The Leaflet , argued that the rules go far beyond the permissible restrictions of freedom of speech and freedom of trade for a digital news publisher. They are vague and draconian and can have a chilling effect on free speech, so much so that they have to be stayed immediately, he said. Advocate Abhay Nevagi, appearing for Mr. Wagle, contended that the rules were arbitrary, illegal, irrational and unreasonable and contrary to the provisions of law, including Article 14 (equality before the law), Articles 19 (1) (a) (to freedom of speech and expression), 19 (1) (g) (to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-stays-provisions-of-new-it-rules/article35920828.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Parliament is the temple of democracy, says President||Parliament is the temple of democracy which provides the highest forum to discuss, debate and decide issues for the well being of the people, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Friday addressing the nation on the eve of the 75th Independence Day. President Kovind’s assertion is significant as it comes days after the monsoon session of Parliament ended on an acrimonious note, with the Opposition accusing the Narendra Modi government of “murdering democracy”.  Note of caution  Referring to the “terrible second wave” of the pandemic, the President said the country is yet to come out of its devastating effects and expressed “deep sadness’ over the loss of many lives. He, however, asserted that “no infrastructure, even of advanced economies, could withstand a crisis of such enormous proportions.” Mr. Kovind also urged the citizens for extra caution and not to let their guard down and vaccinate themselves at the earliest. The President also sought to address the issues raised by protesting farmers’ unions against the three farm laws saying “the series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our ‘annadata’ farmers and help them get better price for their produce”. Mr. Kovind also lauded the sportspersons for their ‘stellar’ performance in the Tokyo Olympics, noting that they brought the highest medal tally in India’s 121-year-old history of participation in the Olympics. Talking about the roots of democracy, he said, “When India won Independence 75 years ago, many sceptics thought democracy would not survive in India. Little did they know that roots of democracy were nurtured in this soil in ancient times, and even in modern times India was ahead of many western nations in offering franchise to all adults, regardless of any distinctions. “We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people.” The President said it is a matter of great pride for all Indians that our Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. “It will be a fitting statement of our outlook: It will honour our legacy while also walking in step with the contemporary world. It is more than symbolic that the new building will be inaugurated in the year of the 75th anniversary of Independence,” he said. ‘New dawn in J&K’ Stating that Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing the rise of a “new dawn” with the Centre starting consultations with various stake-holders, Mr. Kovind urged the people of J&K to realise their aspirations through democratic institutions. Talking about the Olympics, the President praised the women athletes and said India’s daughters have not only excelled in playgrounds overcoming many adversities but epoch-making changes are taking place in the participation and success of women in all walks of life. “In this success of our daughters, I see a glimpse of a developed India of the future.” Earlier in the day, he hosted a “high tea” at the Rashtrapati Bhavan cultural centre here for the Indian contingent that participated in the Tokyo Olympics 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-is-the-temple-of-democracy-says-president/article35920845.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid Taliban blitz, govt. reviews plans on embassy operations in Kabul||Amidst moves by other countries to secure their diplomats based in Afghanistan, the Indian government began a series of consultations on whether to scale down operations at its Embassy in Kabul. The meetings on Saturday in New Delhi came amidst reports that the Taliban has taken territory around 50 kilometres from Kabul, while Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani said he is discussing how to “remobilise” the Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) to protect the capital and other cities. According to sources, security assessments had earlier been in favour of keeping the Indian Embassy in Kabul fully operational, after consulates in Kandahar and Mazar e Sharif were closed and Indian staff flown out.  ‘Not to give panic signals’ On Thursday, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said there were “no plans” to evacuate staff from Kabul, the single remaining Indian mission that is operational in Afghanistan. Indian Ambassador Rudrendra Tandon is also in Kabul at present heading the mission, and officials have been keen not to send any “panic signals” that could compromise security as well. However, as the Taliban has made advances on several provincial capitals in the past two days, the U.S., the UK and Canada have decided to move their embassy staff out, and are sending supplementary security forces to Kabul to ensure a smooth exit. By Sunday evening the U.S. will have flown in about 3,000 soldiers for the effort, while the UK is sending about 600 troops. According to news agency reports, European countries like Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands have decided to close their embassies, while others like Finland and Sweden are scaling back the presence of their diplomats. Germany and France have also begun to fly out their staff from Afghanistan, despite assurances from a Taliban spokesperson that the group would “not target embassies or diplomats”. Safe compound In addition the U.S., the UK and other embassies belonging to NATO countries are expected to relocate some skeletal staff to the Kabul airport compound, and maintain diplomatic outposts there even if the city is overrun. This will mean that the security personnel levels at the diplomatic “Green Zone” in Kabul would be considerably lower, an official said. As a result, officials in the MEA, MHA and the National Security Council Secretariat are reviewing contingency plans in the event of a forcible takeover of Kabul by the Taliban, or if violent clashes break out in the capital. The Indian embassy has also been flooded with visa requests from Afghan citizens, and families with links to India, which will need to be processed by Embassy staff, which is another factor in the decision process, said the officials. Former Ambassador to Afghanistan Amar Sinha said while the security of Indian personnel is of “paramount importance”, it is also necessary to consider the timing of the decision carefully. “There is a dilemma of any hasty decision which will be very debilitating in terms of the morale. Recent U.S. intelligence reports providing timelines for the fall of Kabul have been a cause for panic already. There is also the consular angle and the need to meet the demand for visas for many friends of India. If time permits, we need to have a surge in this activity before bringing down our activity levels,” Mr. Sinha told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-taliban-blitz-govt-reviews-plans-on-embassy-operations-in-kabul/article35920851.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||PM’s move diversionary, divisive, says Opposition||Opposition parties on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has started the campaign for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, as they reacted to his announcement of observing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala shared a letter on Twitter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to his Pakistani counterpart, Imran Khan, on March 22 on the occasion of National Day of Pakistan. “The divisive duplicity exposed! Congratulate Pakistan on 22nd March, the day Muslim League (22/3/1940) passed the “Partition Resolution”; Congratulate Pak. on every 14th August; BUT…Start diversionary politics at home,” Mr. Surjewala tweeted. In a statement, Mr. Surjewala said the announcement was linked to the upcoming election in Uttar Pradesh and was a diversionary tactic when the country was reeling under inflation. “Fuel prices have crossed Rs. 100 per litre, cooking oil is for more than Rs. 200 per litre and cooking gas is now at Rs. 888 per cylinder. Since the government has done nothing creditworthy it is now preparing for a partition again,” he said. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said Mr. Modi was an expert in “doublespeak” and “hypocrisy”. “He offers platitudes while he and the toxic ecosystem he has nurtured do everything to polarise and divide, to spread venom and hate, and to use fear and intimidation as ins- truments of grabbing power and derailing governance.” Rather than observing a “remembrance day”, many leaders said it would have been better if the government worked to maintain communal harmony. “A true tribute to the sacrifice of our freedom fighters would be to ensure that there is no hatred, disharmony and violence among us in modern India,” NCP leader Majeed Memon tweeted. CPI general secretary D. Raja said the announcement was only for digging at the wounds that the country suffered. “Narendra Modi or the RSS have nothing to say on Independence struggle because they were never part if it. When Partition happened where was the RSS? It was Mahatma Gandhi who was trying to establish peace but he was killed. By who?” he said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “India refused to become a mirror image of Pakistan. Back then we had rejected the Hindu Rashtra and we rebuild the nation anew. The Prime Minister wants us to relive the horrors of Pakistan to stoke communal passions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-slams-divisive-diversionary-move-by-pm/article35920831.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nine military personnel awarded Shaurya Chakra||Nine military personnel were awarded Shaurya Chakra, the third highest peacetime gallantry award, one of them posthumously, while hero of 1999 Kargil conflict, Sub Maj (Honorary Lieutenant) Yogendra Singh Yadav, Param Vir Chakra (PVC), has been awarded the rank of Honorary Captain by the President on the eve of the Independence Day. “President Shri Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the Supreme Commander of the armed forces, has approved 144 Gallantry awards to armed forces, police and paramilitary personnel on the eve of Independence Day 2021,” the Defence Ministry said. These include one Ashok Chakra, one Kirti Chakra, 15 Shaurya Chakras, 120 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry). The President also awarded one Tatrakshak Medal (Gallantry) and three Tatrakshak Medal (Meritorious Service) to Coast Guard personnel for their act of conspicuous gallantry and meritorious service. In Honourary Commissions for Army personnel, the President has approved 337 Honorary Captains and 1,358 Honorary Lieutenants for Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO). All the six Shaurya Chakras from the Army were awarded for counter-terror operations in Jammu and Kashmir of which five of the personnel were with Rashtriya Rifles battalions. Captain Sachin Reuben Sequeira from the Navy and Group Captain Perminder Antil, Commanding Officer of a Su-30 MKI Squadron since January 2020, and Wing Commander Varun Singh, pilot in a Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Squadron, from the Air Force were awarded the Shaurya Chakra. According to the award citation, Late Capt Ashutosh Kumar from 18 Madras Regiment was recommended for Shaurya Chakra posthumously for “displaying indomitable courage and professional acumen of highest order in saving his fellow soldier’s life and eliminating hardcore terrorist with utter disregard to his own safety”. On November 8, 2020 Capt. Kumar was performing duties of the Ghatak Platoon Commander close to the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. On receipt of information of likely escape of terrorists, he proceeded to establish stops along the likely routes of escape and spotted the terrorists, the citation said. “Sensing grave danger to own troops and seeing the terrorist escape, officer with utter disregard to his personal safety and displaying grit of steel while being completely exposed to terrorist fire, took an aimed shot and brought down the terrorist at a very close range. In the ensuring gunfire, he sustained a gunshot wound and died on the spot.”  Hony Lt Yadav is the youngest to be awarded the PVC, the highest gallantry award, at the age of 19 for his actions during the 1999 Kargil conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-military-personnel-awarded-shaurya-chakra/article35920848.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||20 ITBP personnel awarded for valour in Ladakh||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday said 1,380 police personnel had been awarded medals on the occasion of the Independence Day this year. Among the Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) recipients are the 20 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel for their bravery during the eastern Ladakh skirmishes in May-June last year. Jammu & Kashmir Police Sub-Inspector Amar Deep and late Head Constable Kale Sunil Dattatraya of the CRPF have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry for their role in anti-terrorist operations; 628 other personnel have been awarded PMG. While the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service has been given to 88 personnel, 662 have got the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. The Home Ministry said 398 personnel were awarded for their gallant action in the Jammu & Kashmir region, 155 for their gallant action in the Left Wing Extremism affected areas and 27 in the northeast region. Among the gallantry award winners, 256 are from the Jammu & Kashmir police; 151 from the CRPF; 23 from the ITBP; 67 from the Odisha police; 25 from Maharashtra and 20 from Chhattisgarh. In a statement, the ITBP said: “Eight personnel have been awarded PMG for gallant act, meticulous planning and tactical insight, and for defending the motherland in Galwan Nalla on June 15, 2020. Six personnel have been awarded PMG for gallant action during a violent face-off on May 18, 2020, in Finger IV area. Six personnel have been awarded PMG for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on May 18, 2020.”  This apart, three ITBP personnel have been conferred PMG for their role in anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh.  Six CBI officials have been awarded the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service and 24 have got the Police Medal for Meritorious Service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-itbp-personnel-get-awards-for-bravery/article35920846.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Twitter unlocks accounts of Rahul Gandhi, Cong. leaders||A day after Rahul Gandhi accused Twitter of interfering with India’s political process, Mr. Gandhi’s account has been restored, a Congress leader confirmed to The Hindu on Saturday. Mr. Gandhi’s account was temporarily suspended last week after he tweeted pictures of the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi. Calling it a violation of the law, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights had complained to Twitter as well as the Delhi Police. Handles of all those leaders, who had shared the same picture as Mr. Gandhi, have also been unblocked. Mr. Gandhi is yet to tweet but Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore tweeted about the unblocking of his account. On Friday, in a video statement, Mr. Gandhi had cautioned that taking sides in a political contest will have “repercussions” for Twitter. “It’s obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It’s something that listens to what the government of the day says,” Mr. Gandhi had alleged. On Saturday, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, said locking an account was an extreme step. “Locking an account is an extreme step that infringes the freedom of expression of users. The rules can be upheld without such action. This may be a worldwide policy but I urge @Twitter to revise it forthwith. Its often selective application makes it worse. A rethink is overdue,” Mr. Tharoor said.  In the midst of being entangled in a high-profile political contest, Twitter has transferred its India head Manish Maheshwari. The company did not specify any reason for the change, and said Mr. Maheshwari will move to the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-unlocks-accounts-of-rahul-gandhi-cong-leaders/article35920835.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Courts in the country continue to differ on marital rape||Four years after the Supreme Court referred to Justice J.S. Verma Committee’s recommendation to make marital rape a crime, besides quoting from decisions of courts across the world that “a rapist remains a rapist and marriage with the victim does not convert him into a non-rapist”, Indian courts continue to take views on marital rape that are the polar opposite of each other. The recent response from courts to complaints of marital rape has been contradictory. When the Kerala High Court backed marital rape as a valid ground for divorce, a court in Maharashtra gave anticipatory bail to a man while concluding that forcible sex with his wife was not an “illegal thing” though she said it left her paralysed. In 2017, the top court, in Independent Thought versus Union of India , refused to delve into the question of marital rape while examining an exception to Section 375 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code which allows a man to force sex on his wife if she is above 15 years of age. However, in its judgment that declared “sexual intercourse with a girl below 18 years of age is rape regardless of whether she is married or not”, the Supreme Court highlighted that legislative immunity given to marital rape stemmed from the “outdated notion that a wife is no more than a subservient chattel of her husband”. Similarly, the Gujarat High Court has held that “a law that does not give married and unmarried women equal protection creates conditions that lead to the marital rape”. “It allows the men and women to believe that wife rape is acceptable. Making wife rape illegal or an offence will remove the destructive attitudes that promote the marital rape,” the court had suggested. Legislative amnesty to marital rape continues to survive in the statute book despite a gamut of decisions by the Supreme Court upholding the bodily integrity and privacy of women. The right to bodily integrity was recognised in the context of privacy in State of Maharashtra v. Madhukar Narayan Mardikar . Here, the top court observed that no one has a right to violate the person of anyone else, including of an “unchaste woman”. In Suchita Srivastava v. Chandigarh Administration , the top court backed a “woman’s right to refuse participation in sexual activity or alternatively the insistence on use of contraceptive methods”. The court has held that “rape is not only a crime against the person of a woman, it is a crime against the entire society”. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh , the court voiced the extent of trauma suffered by a rape survivor, saying “a murderer destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female”. The report submitted by the Justice J.S. Verma Committee of Amendments to Criminal Law of January 2013 had recommended the removal of the marital rape immunity. “A marital or other relationship between the perpetrator or victim is not a valid defence against the crimes of rape or sexual violation. The relationship between the accused and the complainant is not relevant to the inquiry into whether the complainant consented to the sexual activity. The fact that the accused and victim are married or in another intimate relationship may not be regarded as a mitigating factor justifying lower sentences for rape,” the committee had advised the government unsuccessfully. The report underscored the fact that marital rape immunity had been withdrawn in most foreign jurisdictions. In England and Wales, the House of Lords had held in 1991 that “marriage is in modern times regarded as a partnership of equals, and no longer one in which the wife must be the subservient chattel of the husband”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/courts-in-the-country-continue-to-differ-in-views-on-marital-rape/article35920836.ece
15 August 2021||Lucknow,||Legal provisions not being followed in rape cases: HC||The Allahabad High Court has expressed displeasure that in a “majority of cases” the legal provisions mandating that the statement of a rape survivor be recorded by a woman officer and that too through audio-video electronic means were not being followed by the investigation officers. The court has directed the Uttar Pradesh DGP and the Principal Secretary, Home Department, to issue guidelines to all district police chiefs to comply with the provisions within two months. The court also noted that the practice of recording a second statement of the victim under Section 161 of CrPC. after recording her statement under Section 164 was on the “higher side.” And in some cases, “conclusions are drawn by the Investigating Officer on the basis of second statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., ignoring the statement under Section 164,” it said. The statement under Section 164 would prevail over the statement under Section 161, the court ruled. Justice Sanjay Kumar Singh passed the order on August 11 while hearing the bail application of a rape accused from Prayagraj. The counsel for the accused, Bulle, said that on December 14, 2020, a statement of the victim was recorded under Section 164, in which she alleged that she was raped by Bulle and another man, Badal. However, the investigation officer, on December 7, recorded the second statement of the victim in which she alleged that only Bulle raped her, and that she had made the earlier allegation against Badal on the advice of her counsel. Badal was chargesheeted only under Section 366 of the IPC (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her for marriage). The accused side argued that there was no occasion for the investigating officer to record her second statement. The court observed: “In a criminal offence, one of the established canons of just, fair and transparent investigation is the right of accused as well as victim, therefore high responsibility lies upon the Investigating Officer not to conduct an investigation in tainted and unfair manner...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/legal-provisions-not-being-followed-in-rape-cases-hc/article35920838.ece
15 August 2021||Srinagar,||Anti-drone systems deployed in border areas of Kashmir||J&K saw stringent security measures in place, including anti-drone systems along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and heightened aerial surveillance in Srinagar, ahead of Independence Day. Meanwhile, four Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) operatives, planning to carry out attacks, were held in Jammu and an improvised explosive device (IED) was defused in Kishtwar, the police said on Saturday. An alert has already been sounded in Jammu after the intelligence inputs suggested that militants may try to carry out attacks on the I-Day. Security has been beefed up and anti-drone technology employed to keep a watch on movement of drones from across the International Border and LoC, officials said. The police claimed to have arrested four JeM operatives in Jammu. “The JeM terrorists were planning to collect arms dropped by drones and supply to active terrorists in the Kashmir Valley,” Inspector General of Police Mukesh Singh said. One of the arrested men were identified as Muntazir Manzoor, alias Saifulla from Pulwama. Manzoor’s truck was being used for transporting weapons to the Valley, the police said. The other three were Ijahar Khan, alias Sonu Khan from U.P., Touseef Ahmed Shah, alias Showket and Adnan from Shopian. They were tasked with procuring a motorcycle to trigger an IED blast in Jammu, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-drone-systems-deployed-in-border-areas-of-kashmir/article35920843.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Historical echo to Modi’s call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intention in announcing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remove disharmony finds an echo from 74 years ago, in a page of the Constituent Assembly debates. The incident recorded in the Assembly’s annals dates back to July 14, 1947. It had then been just over a month after Lord Mountbatten announced the partition of British India into two independent dominions of India and Pakistan in June 1947. Partition was a certainty, but Haji Abdul Sathar Haji Ishaq Sait, a member elected from the Madras Presidency, who was president of the Muslim League from Malabar, was present in the Constitution Hall to participate in the Constituent Assembly debates which Jawaharlal Nehru described as a “high adventure of giving shape, in the printed and written word, to a Nation’s dream and aspiration”. Dr. Rajendra Prasad, in the Chair, asked the members to present their credentials and sign the Assembly’s Register. The Secretary then called out Mr. Sait’s name. One of the members, Deshbandhu Gupta, intervened at that point. He asked whether it would not be “fair” to the House to have Mr. Sait first reveal whether he still subscribed to the “Two Nation Theory”. “I take it that, as a sovereign body, and in view of the Partition that has been decided upon, we should review the whole question and lay down that a Member who does not subscribe to the Objectives Resolution that has been passed cannot sign the Register,” Mr. Gupta told the Chair. The ‘Objectives Resolution’ was the resolve of the Constituent Assembly to frame a Constitution for a Sovereign, Independent, Indian Republic. Mr. Nehru had introduced the ‘Objectives Resolution’ as an indication “to ourselves, to those who look to this Assembly, to those millions in this country who are looking up to us and to the world at large, as to what we may do, what we seek to achieve, whither we are going”. After hearing out Mr. Gupta, Dr. Prasad said he had raised an “interesting” point, but indicated it was not worth taking any further. Dr. Prasad said Mr. Sait, an elected member of the Constituent Assembly, was clearly entitled to sit in the House as long as he did not resign. “Anyone who has been elected is entitled to sit in this House as long as he does not resign. Therefore, I do not think I can prevent any Member who has been elected duly from signing the Register,” said Dr. Prasad, who went on to serve as the first President of India. The record of the day showed that Mr. Sait was the first one to be called to sign the Register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/historical-echo-to-modis-call/article35920829.ece
15 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat govt. to set up residential schools in PPP mode||To provide the best learning infrastructure to the students of Classes 6 to 12, the Gujarat government has announced a policy to set up residential schools of excellence in public private partnership (PPP) mode envisaging large campuses of 2,000 to 10,000 students. The initiative is in the primary to higher secondary education sector. The residential schools will admit students from the government and grant-in-aid schools selected through a State-level common entrance exam at the end of Class 5. This is part of the ambitious World Bank-funded Mission Schools of Excellence project the Gujarat government has undertaken to transform the education sector. “This policy aims at recognising, nurturing and hand-holding the most meritorious children studying in government and grant-in-aid schools across grade I-V and providing them best quality of residential schooling from grade VI-XII, free of cost,” stated the policy document of the Education Department. Govt. to bear expenses “The State government would pay to the project partners an all-inclusive Rs. 60,000 per student per year, with 7% annual increment, for meeting recurring expenses. The policy intends to create 1,00,000 students capacity in the next 2-3 years,” said Vinod Rao, Education Secretary. The project partners to be selected through bidding will be making all necessary investments for procuring land to set up campus and create digital infrastructure while the State will give money only after the students are admitted and the campus becomes functional. The residential schools will have their exclusive curriculum and pedagogy that will be prepared in consultation with national and international boards. The Education Department is in talks with the international Cambridge Board to create a special academic curriculum. Aligned with the Centre’s education policy, the new residential schools will have emphasis on bilingual medium from Classes 6 to 8 to prepare the students for English medium from Class 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-govt-to-set-up-residential-schools-in-ppp-mode/article35920841.ece
15 August 2021||Kolkata,||From fighting cancer to COVID-19, a doctor’s battle against adversity||In 2003, not even two years that Dr. Rahul Jain had completed his MBBS, his life hit a wall: he was detected with osteosarcoma — a very aggressive malignancy of the bone — of the left knee. The entire leg from the left hip was removed by surgery, which was followed by chemotherapy. “I was told to drop medicine as a career. Some of the options given were to open a shop. Because I was more or less confined to the room for a year, I could reflect over life and death. The fact that I was immobile gave my mind the breathing space it wanted. I was no longer distracted by cinema halls and malls. I could read more. I discovered the Bhagavad Gita,” says Dr. Jain, now 45 and a well-known internal medicine specialist in the city, who has attended to nearly 4,000 COVID-19 patients so far, of them about 1,500 at the Bellevue Clinic, the hospital he’s attached to. “The Bhagavad Gita remains the most inspirational book I’ve have read. One shloka says: If you fight, you will either be slain on the battlefield and go to the celestial abodes, or you will gain victory and enjoy the kingdom on earth; therefore, arise with determination, and be prepared to fight! That motivated me. By then I was married for almost two years; my wife Vineeta stood by me firmly. I got a good prosthesis from a German company called Otto Bock and I could walk. My crutches became my trademark, my identity,” says Dr. Jain. In 2010, he joined MD at the same college where did his MBBS, R.G. Kar Medical College, and topped his batch. His climb to popularity was quick. The wide variety of his patients — from Governors to the common man — matched that of those sought his help, from journalists wanting quotes to trusting patients wanting advice on personal matters. “Patients I know routinely send me the biodata of prospective matches for their children. They ask me things like, ‘Is the boy suitable for my daughter?’ Or, ‘Will you come with me once and meet the boy?’ One man insisted I name his son. A liftman from my friend’s apartment complex gifted me a box of crayons and a drawing book for my son — just because I had saved his son from typhoid,” says Dr. Jain. Then, in early 2020, COVID-19 struck. “I have treated more than 1,500 indoor cases, hundreds in the critical care unit. I was not afraid for myself but afraid for my family members. Until January 2021 (when he got vaccinated), I used to sleep alone in a separate room. I would talk to my wife and son and to my parents through video calls on WhatsApp,” says the doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-fighting-cancer-to-covid-19-a-doctors-battle-against-adversity/article35921166.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||India working for return of Karmapa||The Sikkimese government is planning to send Minister of Ecclesiastical Department Sonam Lama as the head of a delegation to meet the 17th Karmapa abroad and bring him back. The decision to send Mr. Lama is being interpreted as a big turnaround by the Indian establishment as the announcement was made by Mr. Tamang a day after he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. The life of Ugyen Trinley Dorje has so far been eventful. He was born in Tibet but escaped to India at the age of 14 in a dramatic manner in 1999. The escape of the Karmapa from Tibet was a major setback to the Chinese government. The young monk remained in India till 2017 but often complained about travel restrictions that prevented him from moving across the country and abroad. He had complained that the residential certificate given to him by the government of India was insufficient as many countries in the world did not recognise the document which is usually granted to the Tibetan refugees in India. Dorje disappeared from India in May 2017 and was later found to be living in Europe and the U.S. He had reportedly acquired citizenship of Dominica, a Caribbean island state. It was reported that the monk had been living in a farm house in New Jersey gifted to him by a Chinese-Taiwanese couple. From the beginning of this uncertain phase, communication was maintained between Indian authorities and Dorje who in an interview to Radio Free Asia in 2017 had revealed that he was in talks with authorities for a return to India. A senior source in the BJP with knowledge of the Karmapa’s demands also substantiated the reports of the dialogue saying the outreach was blessed by the Dalai Lama as well. The person however said previous attempts to bring Dorje back did not succeed as the Research and Analysis Wing did not approve the move. Subsequently, sources had informed that India had toughened its position and had planned to de-recognise Dorje as the rightful claimant of the position of the 17th Karmapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-working-for-return-of-karmapa/article35920824.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition RS members refuse to chair the House||Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) members, who are part of the presiding panel in the Rajya Sabha, refused to chair the house in the monsoon session of Parliament, which ended on an acrimonious note on Wednesday. The presiding panel or the Vice Chairman’s panel in the Rajya Sabha has six members — the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bhubaneshwar Kalita and Surendra Nagar, the Biju Janata Dal’s Sasmit Patra, the Trinamool Congress’s Sukendu Sekhar Ray, the Nationalist Congress Party’s Vandana Chavan, and the Congress’s L. Hanumanthaiah. Ms. Chavan, Mr. Hanumanthaiah and Mr. Ray did not preside over the house in this session. On August 11, when the government pushed through the controversial General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 amidst a swarm of marshals restraining the Opposition, Mr. Patra was in Chair. Ms. Chavan said Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who drafts the roster for the presiding officers, had slotted in the Opposition members too for the session. “I felt that it wouldn’t be morally correct to sit on the Chair while my own colleagues are agitating.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-rs-members-refuse-to-chair-the-house/article35920830.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||PM picks August 14 to recall Partition trauma||It described the notification: “Whereas People of India while celebrating the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ salute those sons and daughters of our beloved Motherland who had to sacrifice their lives during the partition of India”. “Therefore the government of India declares August 14th as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of India of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition”, the notice said. As soon as Mr. Modi made the announcement, BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh tweeted that it was a laudable attempt to remember the tragedy sought to be whitewashed by proponents of the “Nehruvian legacy”. “More than 2 Cr people lost their life. Country lost a significant portion of its territory. Nehruvian legacy & its proponents tried to whitewash the tragedy fearing accountability. Country will always remember the tragedy & millions of sacrifices. #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay,” Mr. Santhosh tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-picks-august-14-to-recall-partition-trauma/article35920837.ece
15 August 2021||United Nations,||PM may attend UN session in person||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to address the annual U.N. General Assembly session in person on September 25, according to a provisional list of speakers released by the U.N.. The presence of world leaders in the U.N. headquarters here for the annual session will significantly depend on the global COVID-19 situation, particularly as the highly transmissible Delta variant rages in the U.S. and member nations. According to the first provisional list of speakers for the General Debate at the 76th session, Mr. Modi is the first leader listed for the day. In 2019, Mr. Modi travelled to New York for the session. Last year, he submitted pre-recorded video statements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-may-attend-un-session-in-person/article35920826.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||SG refuses nod for contempt against Katju||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has refused consent to a lawyer to initiate contempt action against former Supreme Court judge Justice Markandey Katju for his comments about the top court while deposing before a court in the U.K. in the Nirav Modi extradition case. “I deem it inappropriate and inexpedient to dwell much into the issues arising from the expressions used and perceptions projected by Justice Katju (retired) as he did so while giving his deposition as a witness before a court of law,” Mr. Mehta wrote to advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava in his letter on August 13. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal had refused to entertain Mr. Srivastava's plea in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sg-refuses-nod-for-contempt-against-katju/article35920873.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Efforts on to resolve LAC row: Rajnath||In eastern Ladakh, efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) through dialogue with China while situation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir remained under control in the last one year “due to our vigilance and indomitable valour”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. “The process of disengagement has been completed at some places,” Mr. Singh said on the standoff in the customary address to the armed forces on the eve of Independence Day. On the situation along the LoC, the Minister said, “Ceasefire violations have also come down since February 2021. The infiltration from across the border has stopped due to vigilance of the Armed Forces and paramilitary forces.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/efforts-on-to-resolve-lac-row-rajnath/article35920849.ece
15 August 2021||Lucknow,||Ex-IPS officer to contest against Adityanath||Former Uttar Pradesh cadre IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, who was given premature retirement, will be contesting next year’s State Assembly election against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, his family has announced. In a statement issued here, Mr. Thakur’s wife Nutan said it was a fight for principles.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-ips-officer-to-contest-against-adityanath/article35920825.ece
15 August 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Kinnaur landslip toll rises to 23||The death toll in the landslip at Nigulsari in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh has risen to 23, an official said. Six more bodies were recovered on Saturday, as the rescue operation continued for the fourth day. State Disaster Management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said nine people are still missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kinnaur-landslip-toll-rises-to-23/article35920833.ece
15 August 2021||Guwahati,||Fourth school bombed on Assam-Mizoram border||Unknown miscreants bombed a government-run lower primary school on the Assam-Mizoram border late Friday night, triggering tension after a brief lull. Officials in southern Assam’s Hailakandi district said the Sahebmara LP School was partially damaged. It is the fourth State-run school on the border to have been bombed since October 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fourth-school-bombed-on-assam-mizoram-border/article35920839.ece
15 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab makes negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination mandatory for entry into State||From August 16, Punjab will allow entry to only those who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or have a negative RT-PCR report, the State government said on Saturday. It will be applicable to all those who enter by road, rail or air, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, adding that if a person is found to not have either of these, RAT testing shall be mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-makes-negative-rt-pcr-report-or-full-vaccination-mandatory-for-entry-into-state/article35920853.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches assets of Aatash Norcontrol in graft case||The Enforcement Directorate has provisionally attached assets worth Rs. 134.38 crore of Aatash Norcontrol Limited for allegedly cheating the Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB). The company is said to have inflated the cost of the VTPMS (vessel traffic and ports management system) project, thus misleading the GMB into fixing higher tariff for navigation of vessels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-of-aatash-norcontrol-in-graft-case/article35920854.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests chartered accountant for involvement in bank fraud||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested a chartered accountant, Raman Bhuraria, for his complicity in a Rs. 3,269.42 crore bank fraud, allegedly by Shakti Bhog Foods Limited and others. The ED probe is based on a First Information Report registered by the CBI against Shakti Bhog Foods and others on the charge of cheating a consortium of 10 banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-chartered-accountant-for-involvement-in-bank-fraud/article35920855.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. mulls dropping minor punishments against police||In what could come as a major relief for police personnel in the rank and file, the State government is contemplating dropping minor punishments meted out under the disciplinary rules. According to sources, the police headquarters has called for the details of minor punishments handed to police personnel from the rank of police constable to Additional Superintendent of Police across the State. Beneficial move A formal announcement was expected from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin soon, the sources said, adding that a few hundreds of personnel in the force facing minor punishments stalling their career growth would be benefited by the move. “Though punishments issued after an inquiry into serious delinquencies would remain, others ordered in trivial matters like coming late for roll call, not being present at the place of deployment when superior officer visited the spot and not answering the calls in wireless network etc., may be dropped at the discretion of the State government,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Saturday. Punishments recommending ‘Deferred censure’, ‘Black mark’, ‘Censure’ and ‘Postponement of increment without cumulative effect up to three years’ were the details urgently called for from all cities/districts a couple of days ago, the sources said. Such punishments were issued to members of the Tamil Nadu Police Subordinate Services. Special units “While those servicing in special units like the Special Branch CID and the Directorate of Vigilance & Anti-Corruption may not face such punishments, it happens almost on a daily basis at the police station level and other police establishments. A punishment given under 3A of the Tamil Nadu Police Subordinate Service (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1955, would go into service records and affect increment and promotion prospects of the employee,” another police official said. Raising an appeal Though minor punishments are set aside on merits when appealed to senior police officers, the process was often time-consuming, resulting in the mental agony of the affected person seeking a fair inquiry after his/her explanation on the charge, the sources said. The Tamil Nadu police have a strength of about 1.25 lakh police personnel of which a majority belongs to the subordinate services.  Though punishments for serious delinquencies will remain, others ordered in trivial matters like coming late for roll call and not answering the calls in wireless network may go Senior police official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-mulls-dropping-minor-punishments-against-police/article35921004.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Archakas of all castes get appointed||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday handed over orders to 208 persons, including 24 trained ‘archakas’ of all castes, for appointment at temples being managed by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments. Priests have been appointed to temples, including at the Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam, the Oppiliappan Temple, the Meenakshi Sundareshwarar Temple, Madurai, and the Vayalur Murugan Temple. The government also filled 20 posts for ‘odhuvar’, 17 for ‘poosari’, one for mahout, two for garland stringers and one for umbrella carrier. The trained ‘archakas’ have been waiting for government postings at temples that are governed by the ‘agamas’ since 2008 when they finished classes at the Archaka training school in Tiruvannamalai. The State already has two non-Brahmin ‘archakas’ in temples run by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments. The first, Marisamy, was appointed in 2018 to an Ayyappan temple in Madurai and the second, Thyagarajan, to a Ganesha temple in Madurai in 2020. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu said it was Periyar’s dream that persons of all castes should become priests at temples, and it was former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi who had made it reality. “These appointments were made only after due processes were followed. They were interviewed and their knowledge of the agamas and rituals was tested,” he said. S. Prabhu, who has been appointed at the Vayalur Murugan Temple, said he had trained in 2007 and simultaneously completed B. Com at Annamalai University. “I had an opportunity to conduct pujas at temples in Singapore and Malaysia. I also acted as a priest for weddings and other functions. I am delighted to have got this posting, and will work hard,” he said. Suhanjana Gopinath, 28, who has been appointed as ‘odhuvar’ at the Dhenupureeswarar temple in Chennai, said she was extremely delighted to have been appointed. Her family, including husband and in-laws, were supportive of her. They planned to shift their home near the temple so that she could also take care of her child. “I studied under Karur Saminathan sir, and he wanted us to spread the message of Thevaram and Thiruvasagam among the people, which I will strive to do,” she said. V. Ranganthan, of the Tamil Nadu Association for Trained Archakas, said their long-standing demands had begun to fructify. “The DMK government, led by Mr. Stalin, has kept its word. The decades of pain and sufferings endured by trained archakas are being wiped away. We hope that more persons will be provided training and jobs at temples,” he said. HR and CE Secretary B. Chandramohan, Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran and religious leaders participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/archakas-of-all-castes-get-appointed/article35920986.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State government increases support for paddy, sugarcane||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced an increase in the incentive price for procurement of paddy of common and grade-A varieties. Grade-A varieties will be procured at Rs. 2,060 a quintal, and common varieties at Rs. 2,015. The government also announced the sanction of Rs. 150 a tonne in ‘special incentive’ to sugarcane growers. During his speech in the Assembly, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said that while the Centre had fixed Rs. 1,960 a quintal for grade-A varieties, and Rs. 1,940 a quintal for common ones, the Tamil Nadu government had increased the incentive price for paddy procurement from Rs. 70 to Rs. 100 a quintal for grade-A varieties and Rs. 50 to Rs. 75 for common varieties for 2021-22. With the announcement, the grade-A varieties will be procured at Rs. 2,060 a quintal, and the common varieties at Rs. 2,015 a quintal. This is expected to benefit about six lakh farmers. The government will incur an additional expenditure of Rs. 99.38 crore. Under the special paddy production plan, tarpaulins will be provided to farmers to reduce post-harvest losses. The scheme will be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 52.02 crore with Union and State government funds, he said. Considering the welfare of sugarcane farmers, the government had decided to sanction Rs. 150 for one tonne of sugarcane as a “special incentive”. It will be credited directly into the bank accounts of sugarcane farmers who supply sugarcane for the 2020-21 crushing season. “Through this, sugarcane farmers will get Rs. 2,900 a tonne as cane price,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. The State government has allocated Rs. 138.83 crore during 2021-22 for the benefit of one lakh sugarcane farmers. The transitional production incentive for sugarcane for the 2020-21 crushing season will be paid at Rs. 42.5 a tonne to farmers who have supplied sugarcane to mills. A sum of Rs. 40 crore has been allocated by the government for the implementation of this scheme, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-increases-support-for-paddy-sugarcane/article35920990.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘A half-a-century-old dream’||Social media users on Saturday welcomed the appointment of archakas from all castes to temples governed by agamas and managed by the HR & CE Department. Many termed it a victory of Dravidian ideology. A “half-a-century old dream come true” is how MP D. Ravikumar termed the appointment of ‘archakas’ from all castes. “Periyar strongly fought for the appointment of those wanting to be priests. Then it was Kalaignar who facilitated it by passing a G.O., amending the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act and waging several legal battles. Since there is no rule against the appointment of women as priests, they too should be permitted to do so,” he said. G. Babu Jayakumar, the author of a recent book on Periyar, said, “Periyar organised a meeting on the issue a week before he died. This has been a long battle, to see persons of all castes in the sanctum sanctorum.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-half-a-century-old-dream/article35920996.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Showcasing India’s journey through photographs||A special curation of historic photographs from The Hindu archives that capture the country’s journey over the last 75 years is being showcased in Chennai. The photographs will be displayed on a giant screen at the Pedestrian Plaza in Pondy Bazaar, T. Nagar, from 4 p.m. on Sunday. It will take viewers on a journey from 1947 to 2021, showcasing the good, the bad and the ugly, giving an insight into what made today’s India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/showcasing-indias-journey-through-photographs/article35920974.ece
15 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||President’s Medals for 24 police officers from Tamil Nadu||On the occasion of Independence Day, the Union government announced the award of President’s Medals for 24 officers of Tamil Nadu Police. Two officers- Vinit Dev Wankhede, Additional Director, General of Police State, Crime Records Bureau, Chennai and D. Jayavel, Commandant of Tamil Nadu Special Police X Battalion, Ulundurpet have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. Twenty two other officers will receive the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. The list included M.Manohar, Superintendent of Police(SP), Virudhunagar District, V.Balasubramanian, Deputy Commissioner of Police(DC) Central Crime Branch.III, Greater Chennai Police, M.Thillai Natarajan SP, Crime Branch CID-III, Chennai, M.Ananthan Commandant Tamil Nadu Special Police(TSP) I Battalion Trichy. T. Senthilkumar, Commandant , TSP VIII Battalion, New Delhi, M. Radhakrishnan Addl.Dy. Commissioner of Police, Armed Reserve-I, Greater Chennai Police , P. Sivan, Deputy Commandant , TSP, V Battalion, Avadi, R. Sushilkumar Addl. Superintendent of Police, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, Chennai. A. Natarajan, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Armed Reserve-I, Greater Chennai Police, J. Jayakaran Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP), Armed Reserve, Vellore District, S. Rajakaleeswaran, DSP, "Q" Branch CID, Thiruppathur, P. Karuppiah, DSP, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Virudhunagar, T. Gopal DSP, Special Branch CID, Chennai. S. Namasivayam DSP, Srivilliputhur Sub-Division, Virudhunagar District , N. Ramanathan DSP, Kallakurichi Sub-Division, Kallakurichi District, D. Selvakkan David, Inspector, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, SIC, Chennai , T. Sadhasivam Inspector of Police, Special Branch CID, Chennai , A. Welcome Rajaseelan, Inspector , Special Branch CID, Chennai. C.S. Gowri , Inspector, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Service Recruitment, Board, Chennai , V. Shanmugam Sub-Inspector of Police, Special Task Force, Erode, S. Ruban Sub-Inspector "Q" Branch CID, Coimbatore and S. Rangasamy, Special Sub-Inspector of Police, Vigilance and Anti Corruption, Headquarters, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presidents-medals-for-24-police-officers-from-tamil-nadu/article35921047.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,916 fresh COVID-19 infections||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,916 fresh COVID-19 cases on August 14, taking its tally to 25,86,885. Thirty-four people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,496. In Coimbatore, 223 people tested positive, when compared with 236 the previous day. Chennai followed with 219 cases, from 211 on Friday. Compared with the previous day, there was a small rise in infections in Erode, Salem and Chengalpattu — there were 185 cases in Erode, 130 in Salem and 116 in Chengalpattu. Thanjavur recorded 112 cases, while Tiruppur’s daily count dropped under 100, as 94 people tested positive. There were 72 cases in Tiruvallur and 68 in Tiruchi. The State’s active caseload stood at 20,427. These included 2,380 people in Coimbatore, 2,112 in Chennai and 1,800 in Erode. Another 1,866 people were discharged after treatment in the State. There were no deaths due to COVID-19 in 18 districts. Coimbatore recorded five deaths, while there were three fatalities each in Chennai and Vellore. Among the deceased were two women in their 20s who did not have co-morbidities. A 24-year-old woman from Ariyalur was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, and died on August 12 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 25-year-old woman from Tiruppattur was admitted to the Krishnagiri Medical College Hospital on August 4, and died on August 12 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 1,60,306 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the overall count to 3,96,45,946. A total of 3,71,891 people, including 2,15,251 in the 18-44 age group, were inoculated, taking the overall coverage to 2,44,25,788.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1916-fresh-covid-19-infections/article35920983.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No mention of major irrigation schemes, but agri budget a good start: Ramadoss||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Saturday said that a number of irrigation schemes should be implemented to ensure that the agricultural growth is achieved. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said he was disappointed with the absence of announcements regarding major irrigation schemes in the budget. “Furthermore, the agricultural department, which includes farming, water resources, co-operatives, rural development, animal husbandry, milk, fisheries, forest and food development, has been allocated Rs. 34, 220 crore. When compared to what is required, this is very less. The two departments, agriculture and water resources, should be allotted Rs. 50,000 crore to achieve 6% growth,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss, however, said agriculture was like the sea and admitted that its needs could not be satisfied in just one year. “The first agricultural budget…one could say that this is a good start,” he said. He also said that the procurement rates for grains and sugar cane announced in the budget were Rs. 2,015 and Rs. 2,900 per tonne. But farmers expected Rs. 4,500 for sugarcane and Rs. 3,000 for grain, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-mention-of-major-irrigation-schemes-but-agri-budget-a-good-start-ramadoss/article35921205.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||235 accused detained under Goondas Act in Chennai||As many as 235 accused have been detained under stringent provisions of the Goondas Act this year in the city till Friday. Twenty-four accused, including three Delhi-based online loan fraudsters, were detained under the Goondas Act over the course of a week from August 7, said the city police. The city police have been taking a series of preventive measures, such as tracing criminal elements, arresting them and detaining them. Shankar Jiwal, Commissioner of Police, Chennai, had issued detention orders against criminal elements so that they did not get bail easily for a year and commit more crime. The Goondas Act provides for preventive detention of accused in cases of murder, chain snatching, cyber crime, drug peddling, immoral traffic and sexual offence and bootleggers. “From January 1 to August 13, the Goondas Act was invoked on 153 accused, who were arrested on charges of murder and attempt to murder or causing public nuisance, 42 accused of theft, chain snatching and robbery, 17 cyber law offenders, 14 drug peddlers, three smugglers of PDS rice, four hoarders of life-saving drug Remdesivir and two accused under the POCSO Act,” said a senior police officer. From August 7 to 13, 24 accused persons who committed murder, attempts to murder, drug peddling and chain snatching were arrested, and the police issued detention orders.  From August 7 to 13, 24 accused were arrested and the police issued detention orders against them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/235-accused-detained-under-goondas-act-in-chennai/article35921045.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK, BJP welcome agriculture budget||The AIADMK’s allies in the Assembly — the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — welcomed the agriculture budget presented by the DMK government for the first time in history. But the AIADMK chose not to make a comment in the House on the agriculture budget. After Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam completed his Budget speech, among those, who spoke welcoming the exclusive budget for agriculture sector, were PMK president G.K. Mani (Pennagaram) and BJP MLA M.R. Gandhi (Nagercoil). Mr. Mani pointed out that his party had been presenting a separate budget for agriculture to the people of Tamil Nadu outside the Assembly every year for the past 14 years. Though his party members planned to bring a green shawl as a mark of welcome to the Budget, they “forgot” to do so as they were in a hurry. Plea for ‘Jai Hind’ Mr. Gandhi extended his greetings to the DMK government over the agriculture Budget but went on to request people to say ‘Jai Hind’ during the 75th Independence Day celebrations on August 15. AIADMK deputy floor leader and coordinator O. Panneerselvam, who was present in the House, chose not to make a comment on the agriculture Budget. Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was not present in the House at that time. All the DMK allies spoke commending the exercise.  PMK has been presenting a separate budget for agriculture to the people of Tamil Nadu outside the Assembly for the past 14 years G.K. ManiPMK president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-bjp-welcome-agriculture-budget/article35921005.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Circular on lateral entry into B. Tech, B.E. surprises colleges||Students who already have a B. Tech/B.E. degree may apply for another B. Tech or B.E. degree in another discipline or branch of engineering, the All India Council for Technical Education has said and advised the universities to make necessary provisions in their statutes. Candidates seeking such lateral entry may be given exemption from pursuing courses they have already done in their first undergraduate programme. Colleges have been advised to guide appropriately such students to complete other requirements of the second discipline. They would have to enrol in a college as the second discipline also involves practical component. According to the circular, the decision was made at the Council’s meeting in July. The candidate may complete the additional degree in two or three years “without compromising on the credit requirements in core discipline”. Confusion The circular has come as a surprise to the heads of engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu. R.M. Kishore, vice-chairman of RMK group of institutions said, “I do not think it will have its shine. It will create a lot of confusion among students.” S. Vaidhyasubramanian, vice-chancellor of SASTRA, also believes it would not benefit students. “Instead of allowing two engineering degrees at UG level which may lead to artificially hyped demand, either the existing UG degrees must be more interdisciplinary or comprehensive PG degrees like Systems Analysis and Design, Project Management, should be encouraged,” he said. Some institutional heads wondered if the decision was made to ensure all seats are filled in colleges. AICTE council chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe said there had been a demand from students but universities did not entertain such requests. “There was a demand of students who wanted to pursue degree in another discipline but universities were turning down stating there is no such provision,” he said. According to him only a few students may be interested in pursuing such degrees. “There are Mechanical Engineering graduates who may be interested in Electrical or Computer Science and Engineering. Metallurgy graduates may be interested in Mechanical Engineering. But why turn them away,” he asked. But K. Manivannan, secretary of Global Engineering Deans’ Council, has a different take. With technology evolving faster there is an increasing demand for candidates with multidisciplinary skills. “We are talking of robotics and automation. It is a combination of mechanical, electrical, electronics and CSE. Internet of Things is both about hardware and software. Digital manufacturing involves mechanical, electronics and computing knowledge. 3D printing is increasingly used in medicine. The ICMR has come up with 480 million data sets of COVID and is looking for persons to integrate data, do predictive analysis, forecast , all of which requires use of AI and data intelligence. It requires many verticals to be incorporated to provide a solution,” he said.  There was a demand from students who wanted to pursue degree in another discipline but universities were turning down stating there is no such provision||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/circular-on-lateral-entry-into-b-tech-be-surprises-colleges/article35921208.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election promises will be fulfilled, says CM||On completion of 100 days in office, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said in the Assembly on Saturday that his government would work hard in the next 100 days to win over those who had not voted for the DMK in the Assembly poll. Responding to greetings from allies of the DMK and the AIADMK in the House, the Chief Minister said he was concerned about the next 100 days. He said the greetings that came his way meant he had to do more in the coming days. “Those who did not vote for us in the Assembly poll will vote for us now,” the Chief Minister said. Recalling days when there were reports about the shortage of oxygen and beds in hospitals for COVID-19 patients, Mr. Stalin listed out the efforts his government took to contain the spread of COVID-19. As for the promises made in the DMK’s election manifesto, he said, “I don’t want to deceive you by saying that they have been fulfilled. We will definitely fulfil the promises in phases. This son of Kalaignar will implement them for sure.” While the State’s finances were “worrisome,” Mr. Stalin said with everyone’s cooperation, the government would overcome the challenges.  I don’t want to deceive you by saying that poll promises have been fulfilled. We will definitely fulfil them in phases M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-promises-will-be-fulfilled-says-cm/article35920987.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dryland scheme to benefit rain-fed farmers||The Tamil Nadu government will implement the Chief Minister’s Dryland Development Mission, and three lakh rain-fed farmers will benefit from it. The project will be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 146.64 crore, with Union and State government funds, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said in the Assembly on Saturday. “Use of new drought-resistant varieties and rainwater harvesting techniques will create a secure environment for rain-fed cultivation,” he said. Many small and marginal farmers in Tamil Nadu are engaged in dry farming. The scheme will be implemented on 3,00,000 hectares during the current year on a cluster basis. A cluster of 100 hectares of rain-fed land will be identified, where summer ploughing will be done, rainwater harvesting systems, such as farm ponds and contour bunding, will be created and bio-fertilizers and quality seeds of nutri-cereals, pulses and oilseeds will be distributed at subsidised rates, the Minister said. “In addition, financial assistance will be provided for planting high-value tree saplings, farm machinery, custom hiring centres and value addition machinery centres will be established in the selected clusters. Under this scheme, priority will be given to the villages which are covered under Kalaignarin anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam ,” he said.  Use of new drought-resistant varieties and rainwater harvesting techniques will create a secure environment for rain-fed cultivation M.R.K. PanneerselvamAgriculture Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dryland-scheme-to-benefit-rain-fed-farmers/article35920994.ece
15 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp at Alwarpet||Narayana Guruviah Chetty’s Estate Charities and Lions Club of Madras Park Town in association with Chennai Corporation will organise a COVID-19 vaccination camp at Ethiraja Kalyana Nilayam on TTK Road, Alwarpet, at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday. Mylapore MLA Dha Velu will be the chief guest. Residents are requested to bring their Aadhaar cards to participate in the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-at-alwarpet/article35920980.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chairs distributed to poor school students||In a tribute to former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, Madras Anchorage Round Table 100 (MART 100) andmakemychairs.comgave away 1,000 study chairs to underprivileged children in the country, according to a press release. MART 100’s chairman Rajesh said, “The COVID-19 pandemic has badly disrupted the education of school students. The plight of children of poor economic backgrounds is worse. Often, they have to sit on the floor and attend online sessions. This affects their attention and over time, children develop health issues because of the wrong posture.” “The chairs have superior ergonomics and are specially designed for long sitting hours, with high quality and durability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chairs-distributed-to-poor-schoolchildren/article35920978.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 officers get CM’s medal||The State government on Saturday announced Chief Minister’s police medals to 15 officers in recognition of their excellence in public services and investigation. Amaraesh Pujari, Additional Director-General of Police, Technical Services, Chennai; A. Amalraj, ADGP, Operations, Chennai; S. Vimala, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Intelligence Section, Greater Chennai Police; N. Navukkarasan, inspector, Fort Traffic police station, Tiruchi; and B. Prem Prasad, head constable, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police, will get the Chief Minister’s medal for excellence in public service. The following inspectors of police have been selected for the Chief Minister’s police medal for excellence in investigation: V. Selvi, Tirumayam all-women police station, Pudukottai district; K. Shanthi, Crime Branch CID, Kanniyakumari district; S. Ravi, Kumarapalayam, Namakkal district; G. Sayeelakshmi, Nesemony Nager circle, Kanniyakumari district; A. Amutha, Chathirakudi, Ramanathapuram district; V. Santhanalakshmi, Crime Branch CID, Dindigul; S. Srinivasan, Thirunavalur, Kallakurichi district; M. Kanagasabapathy, R.S. Puram, Coimbatore; and K Adivel, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli district; and P. Anandha Lakshmi, sub-inspector, Social Justice and Human Rights Unit, Salem district. The medals will be handed over to them by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin later at a function. Each of the selected candidates will get an 8 gm gold medal and Rs. 25,000 cash prize, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-officers-selected-for-cms-police-medal/article35920977.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on organic farming, protecting palmyra||The DMK government has turned its focus on developing organic farming, conserving traditional paddy varieties and protecting palmyra trees. Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam made announcements to this effect in the Assembly on Saturday. An Organic Farming Development Scheme will be implemented during the current year at a cost of Rs. 33.03 crore with Union and State government funds, he said. “Inputs for organic farming are essential. Arrangements will be made to make them available in agricultural extension centres. Quality control regulations will be enforced effectively to ensure the quality of organic inputs sold by private shops.” A list of farmers practising organic farming will be compiled at the block level and farms will be certified as organic, he said. To implement this, adequate awareness will be created among farmers, and training on organic certification will be provided. As part of the Palmyra Development Mission, 76 lakh palmyra seed nuts and one lakh palmyra seedlings will be distributed to farmers, with full subsidy, in 30 districts during the year. Importance will be given to undertaking research in palmyra at the Agricultural College and Research Institute in Killikulam, under the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. “The government will issue necessary orders to prevent the cutting of palmyra trees. The Palmyra Development Mission will be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 3 crore under the State’s funds,” the Minister said. Under the Nel Jayaraman Traditional Paddy Varieties Conservation Mission, steps will be taken to multiply the seeds of traditional varieties on 200 acres in the State’s seed farms, and distribute the seeds to farmers. The scheme will be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 25 lakh under the State’s funds.  The government will issue orders to prevent the cutting of palmyra trees. The Palmyra Development Mission will have an outlay of Rs. 3 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-organic-farming-protecting-palmyra/article35920988.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minor millets to be sold in ration shops||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced that minor millet rice would be procured by co-operative societies and distributed through the public distribution system (PDS) in cities like Chennai and Coimbatore. During his speech in the Assembly, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said, “Action will be taken to encourage value addition in minor millets and ensure a remunerative price to farmers.” Millet processing units will be established for minor millets produced by ethnic farmers in the Kothagiri area of the Nilgiris district. He said the Millet Mission would be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 12.44 crore with Union and State government funds. To increase the area, production and productivity of nutri-cereals and promote the cultivation of these crops in rain-fed areas, yield-enhancing strategies like distribution of quality seeds, mechanised sowing and application of bio-fertilizers will be implemented under the mission, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-millets-to-be-sold-in-ration-shops/article35920993.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Modern market will be opened in Chennai||A ‘Modern Agricultural Marketing Centre’ will be set up on an investment of Rs. 1 crore at Kolathur in Chennai to make farm fresh vegetables available to the people, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam announced in the State Assembly on Saturday. Farm products “The centre will house shops for farm produce, products of Farmer Producer Organisations, organic products and a solar-powered cold storage facility,” the Minister said while presenting the agriculture budget in the House. Compost would be produced through solid waste management with the vegetable waste received daily at the centre. “Through this centre, products will be sold to the consumers at fair prices, which will pave the way for the consumers and farmers to mutually get benefited,” he said.  The centre will house shops for farm produce, organic products and a solar-powered cold storage facility M.R.K. Panneerselvam Agriculture Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modern-market-to-be-opened-in-city/article35920965.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK flays govt. for not living up to electoral promises||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran, on Saturday, said the State’s agriculture Budget belied expectations of people for a mega road map for the improvement of the farm sector. In a statement, he pointed out that contrary to the ruling party’s electoral promise of fixing the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy at Rs. 2,500 per quintal, the MSP had been increased only to Rs. 2,015 per quintal. Likewise, there was no announcement on facilitating the payment by cooperative and private sugar mills of arrears of Rs. 1,200 crore to sugarcane farmers. Also, against the assurance of paying Rs. 4,000 per tonne, the government had announced a hike of mere Rs. 150 and kept the support price at Rs. 2,900 per tonne. The government did not bother about the long-standing demand of agriculturists for making use of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for farm work. Also, there were not many measures for the welfare of small and marginal farmers besides agricultural workers. Even though the initiatives regarding organic and natural farming were comforting, it remained to be seen how they were going to be translated into action. A mere exclusive budget for the farm sector could not be considered an achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-is-not-living-up-to-poll-promises/article35921006.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policeman among 3 held for mobile phone theft||The Aminjikarai police have arrested three accused, including a police constable, for allegedly stealing mobile phones. According to police, Vignesh, 27, of Pulla Avenue, Shenoy Nagar, lodged a complaint in the Aminijikarai police station stating that he lost his mobile phone on July 13, and a few other complaints were also lodged about mobile phone thefts. Taking this up for investigation, a special team was searching for the suspects. Using the IMEI number of a stolen mobile phone, the team traced the user. He had reportedly bought it from a man, Ramesh. On interrogation, Ramesh identified himself as a constable working in Central Prison, Puzhal, who got acquainted with remand prisoner Sibi, 29, of Anna Salai, who frequently indulged stole phones. Came out on bail After coming out on bail, Sibi continued to commit the offences at places where migrant workers stayed in Aminjikarai and Anna Nagar. He gave the mobile phones stolen from them to Ramesh who, in turn, sold them through another man, Karthik, in Burma Bazaar. Ramesh, Sibi and Karthik were arrested and several mobile phones were recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-including-constable-held-for-theft/article35920969.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Realtor arrested in cheating case||A 25-year-old engineering graduate was arrested in Coimbatore for cheating a woman and her family on the promise of marriage and escaping with Rs. 7 lakh from them. The accused has been identified as Surya, 25, a native of Bengaluru. He is said to be the son of an officer of the Intelligence Bureau. The police said that he was into the real estate business. A week ago, Surya took the woman with him to show a plot, took Rs. 7 lakh from her and left the place. A case was registered in Kanathur police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/realtor-arrested-in-cheating-case/article35920966.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Agriculture labourers ignored’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi general secretary and Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar on Saturday said the agriculture budget had left out farm labourers. He said the government was expected to look into the welfare of agricultural labourers when it announced a separate budget for agriculture but it had ignored them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-labourers-ignored/article35920968.ece
15 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Arms case: NIA conducts searches in Kerala, T.N.||The National Investigation Agency conducted searches at multiple locations in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the Vizhinjam arms recovery case. The teams conducted searches at seven locations, spread across Chennai and Tiruvallur districts in Tamil Nadu and Ernakulam district in Kerala, at the premises of accused and suspects involved in the trafficking of arms, ammunition and narcotics from Iran and Pakistan to Sri Lanka. The case was originally registered by the Vizhinjam police against six Sri Lankan nationals following their arrest and the seizure of 300 kg heroin, 5 AK-47 rifles and 1,000 live rounds of ammunition from their boat by the Coast Guard during patrolling off Vizhinjam in the Arabian Sea on March 18, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arms-case-nia-conducts-searches-in-kerala-tn/article35920981.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All decked up||The National Investigation Agency conducted searches at multiple locations in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the Vizhinjam arms recovery case. The teams conducted searches at seven locations, spread across Chennai and Tiruvallur districts in Tamil Nadu and Ernakulam district in Kerala, at the premises of accused and suspects involved in the trafficking of arms, ammunition and narcotics from Iran and Pakistan to Sri Lanka. The case was originally registered by the Vizhinjam police against six Sri Lankan nationals following their arrest and the seizure of 300 kg heroin, 5 AK-47 and 1,000 live rounds from their boat by the Indian Coast Guard during patrolling off the Vizhinjam in Arabian Sea on March 18, 2021. The NIA took over investigation and arrested two more accused persons Suresh and Soundarajan on August 2, 2021. During the searches, various incriminating documents, including books relating to Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), a proscribed terrorist organisation, seven digital devices including mobile phones, SIM cards and tablet were seized, the agency said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-decked-up/article35921207.ece
15 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vizhinjam case: NIA conducts searches in T.N. and Kerala||The National Investigation Agency conducted searches at multiple locations in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, in the Vizhinjam arms recovery case. NIA teams conducted searches at seven locations, spread across Chennai and Tiruvallur districts in Tamil Nadu, and Ernakulam district in Kerala, on the premises of the accused and suspects involved in the trafficking of arms, ammunition and narcotics from Iran and Pakistan to Sri Lanka. The case was originally registered by the Vizhinjam police against six Sri Lankan nationals following their arrest and the seizure of 300 kg of heroin, 5 AK-47 guns and 1,000 live rounds from their boat by the Indian Coast Guard on March 18, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vizhinjam-case-nia-conducts-searches-in-tn-and-kerala/article35921209.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chargesheet filed against Siva Shankar Baba, 3 others||The Crime Branch -CID (CB-CID) on Saturday filed a chargesheet against Siva Shankar Baba and three school teachers in a Chengalpattu court in connection with assaulting minor girls. In June, he was arrested by the CB-CID on charges of sexually assaulting girls of a residential school he founded on the city’s outskirts. The arrest was followed by the registration of three cases at the Mamallapuram all-women police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, following complaints from the alumni of the school. The Child Welfare Committee also initiated action against him. Later, the CB-CID took up investigation of the case. On Saturday, the CB-CID filed the chargesheet in the Mahila Court, Chengalpattu, and 40 witnesses were cited in it. Along with Baba, three women teachers Bharathi, Sushmita and Deepa were named as accused for abetting the crime, the police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chargesheet-filed-against-siva-shankar-baba-3-others/article35920963.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor Mira Mithun nabbed||Model turned actor Mira Mithun has been nabbed by the city police at a resort in Azhapula, Kerala on Saturday after she failed to appear for an enquiry in connection with a case booked against her. Recently, the Cyber Crime Police booked her for casteist slur. During an interview with a YouTube channel, Meera said that all the Scheduled Caste film workers should be kicked out of the industry. Based on a complaint from Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the Cyber Crime Police of Central Crime Branch booked her under seven provisions of Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meera-mitun-arrested-in-alappuzha/article35920984.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 573.24 cr. for agricultural research||The State government will allocate a budgetary provision of Rs. 573.24 crore to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University for undertaking its mandated functions of education, research and extension, through its constituent colleges and research stations, to achieve higher agricultural production and enhance farmers’ welfare. During his speech in the Assembly, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said the government would introduce agriculture and horticulture courses at the undergraduate level, in Tamil medium, for one batch in TNAU, Coimbatore, on an optional basis. A horticultural college will be inaugurated on 150 acres in Jeenur, Krishnagiri district, on an allocation of Rs. 10 crore. During 2021-2022, Rs. 34,220.64 crore was provided for their respective demands to the Agriculture Department and agriculture-related departments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-57324-cr-for-agricultural-research/article35920991.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man falls to death from ninth floor of building in Chintadripet||Manikandan, 50, working as an office assistant in the Electricity Board headquarters at Chintadripet, fell to his death from the ninth floor of the building. He was trying to catch his falling mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-falls-to-death-from-ninth-floor-of-building-in-chintadripet/article35921002.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter murdered||Sathish alias Sathish Kumar, a 32-year-old history-sheeter of Vanagaram, was on Friday murdered by his friend for demanding repayment of Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-murdered/article35920955.ece
15 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New video reveals assault in Dalit man forced to prostrate case||In a new twist to the incident at the Ottarpalayam village office near Coimbatore where a dominant caste man allegedly made a Dalit Village Assistant (VA) prostrate and apologise on August 6, a new video showed that the VA had assaulted the man a few minutes before the incident. After the video surfaced, the Revenue Department transferred the VA, P. Muthusamy, and the Village Administrative Officer (VAO), V. Kalaiselvi, to separate village offices in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. District Collector G.S. Sameeran said necessary criminal and disciplinary action will be initiated against the VA and the VAO based on the new video evidence. Annur police had registered two cases against the dominant caste man, K. Gopalsamy, for making casteist remarks against Muthusamy and for preventing public servants from discharging their duty. The incident happened after Gopalsamy had an argument with the VAO over an issue in his land document and Muthusamy intervened. Gopalsamy was booked after a video showed Muthusamy falling at his feet and apologising to him. Muthusamy had said in his complaint that Gopalsamy fell down while he was trying to make him sit on a bench at the office and the latter accused him of pushing down a dominant caste man. He alleged that Gopalsamy demanded he apologise for having pushed down a dominant caste man. The VAO’s complaint said that Gopalsamy prevented the government servants from discharging their duty. He was booked under different Sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IPC. A team headed by District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex had conducted an inquiry into the incident and her report said that there was evidence of Mr. Muthusamy falling at Gopalsamy’s feet and apologising. Revenue Department sources said that the VAO and the VA submitted false information to the inquiry team by not revealing Muthusamy’s assault on Gopalsamy, for which they will face disciplinary action. After the new video came to light, Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam (non-political) has demanded that the case against Gopalsamy be dropped and that the police book the VAO and the VA. Gopalsamy, a resident of Gobirasipuram near Annur, had lodged a complaint with the Annur police on August 6 evening stating that he was assaulted by the VA. The police are yet to register a case on the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-video-reveals-assault-in-dalit-man-forced-to-prostrate-case/article35921290.ece
15 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 223 cases, five deaths||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 223 new cases of COVID-19, registering a slight decrease from Friday’s 236 cases. The Health Department said the district had 2,380 active cases on Saturday and 197 persons had recovered. Five more persons from the district died of COVID-19 on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, taking the official toll to 2,217. Tiruppur district reported 94 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The rise in cases took the overall tally to 89,029. Two new deaths were reported as the district’s toll touched 885. The district had 920 active cases and 76 persons recovered in the district as on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 47 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 31,189. The number of deaths from COVID-19 increased from 186 to 187 in the Nilgiris on Saturday, while 482 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-223-cases-five-deaths/article35921295.ece
15 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Raids against Velumani will not affect BJP’s prospects in local body polls’||The recent raids carried out by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on properties linked to former Minister of the AIADMK S.P. Velumani will not affect the prospects of its ally, the BJP, in the upcoming local body elections, BJP State president K. Annamalai asserted here on Saturday. Mr. Annamalai told mediapersons at the party office here that the BJP was “always election-ready” whenever the local body polls would be held. As voters would consider only local issues in the local body elections, any campaign targeting Mr. Velumani by the DMK would have no impact, he said. Mr. Annamalai alleged that the DMK government carried out the DVAC raids due to “political animosity”. He, however, added that commenting on specific charges against the former Minister would be possible only after the filing of the chargesheet. While welcoming the reduction of petrol price by Rs. 3 in the State, the BJP State president said his party’s stand was to bring petrol and diesel under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), but the State governments “are not ready”. The DMK government was able to effectively tackle the second COVID-19 wave after coming to power by being “cordial” with the Central government, he said. Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan would begin his three-day ‘ Makkal Aasi Yatra’ (People’s Support Yatra) from Coimbatore on Monday, Mr. Annamalai said. The yatra, aiming to take the Central government’s schemes to the public, would cover Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts from Monday to Wednesday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raids-against-velumani-will-not-affect-bjps-prospects-in-local-body-polls/article35921068.ece
15 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cases foisted due to political animosity: Velumani||Arriving in Coimbatore on Saturday after the DVAC searches on his premises, former Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani alleged that the DMK government had foisted “false cases” on him and his relatives due to “political animosity”. In a brief interaction with mediapersons, Mr. Velumani asserted that he would face the cases legally in courts. “I was an important reason for the AIADMK remaining united and for the AIADMK government completing its term after the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. That is why the DMK leaders are angry with me,” he said. ‘No link with seized cash’ Mr. Velumani denied media reports linking Rs. 13 lakh cash seized during the raids to him and also the reports of the DVAC freezing his bank accounts following the raids. Mr. Veluman termed both “false information”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-foisted-due-to-political-animosity-velumani/article35921067.ece
15 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Budget 2021-22: Textiles to get a separate directorate||The State government will establish a Directorate of Textiles to give a fillip to the sector in the State. Finance and Human Resources Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan announced in hisbudget speech on Fridaythat efforts will be taken up to create better infrastructure for the textile sector with greater focus on technical textiles. The government will revitalise the Common Effluent Treatment Plants and set up new ones in Erode and Namakkal clusters. It will expedite works for Integrated Textile Parks in Tiruppur, Kancheepuram, and Erode. Textile products made in Tamil Nadu will be marketed as eco-friendly and environmentally-compliant ones. The government allocated Rs. 490.27 crore for 2021-2022 for the free sarees and dhotis scheme. As many as 1.81 crore sarees and equal number of dhotis will be distributed for Pongal and these will be woven by the handloom weavers in the State. Similarly Rs. 409.30 crore will be allocated to distribute free school uniforms for students in Classes I to VIII. Southern India Mills’ Association chairman. Ashwin Chandran said the announcement of creating a separate department for textiles considering the huge business size and also its growth in the coming decade, is a welcome move. Establishing textile parks and SIPCOT facilities will attract huge investments across the value chain of the industry. Indian Texpreneurs Federation said more investments are expected in the textile and clothing sector with creation of plug and play parks. The budget aims to increase manufacturing capacities in the State, said A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council. According to Raja M Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, setting up of new CETPs in Erode and Namakkal will go a long way for the growth of textile Industry. Constituting a separate Directorate for textiles will help focus more on the growth of textiles and garment sectors and exports. While the announcement on construction of labour quarters in Chennai and Coimbatore is a welcome move, Tiruppur should also get one such facility, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-budget-2021-22-textiles-to-get-a-separate-directorate/article35921051.ece
15 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment and madeup exporters welcome extension of RoSCTL||A. Sakthivel, chairman of the Apparel Export Promotion Council and president of Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said the extension of the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies on export of garments and made-ups with effect from January 1, 2021 is a step by the Union government towards achieving the vision of $400 billion merchandise exports. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a recent interaction with heads of Indian Missions abroad and key stakeholders of trade and commerce sector, including AEPC, had set an aspirational target of $400 billion in merchandise exports for the ongoing fiscal. The extension of RoSCTL till 31 March 2024, which was notified on Friday, was approved by the Union Cabinet on July 14, 2021 to make Indian textiles internationally competitive. Mr. Sakthivel said the scheme would ensure refund of embedded taxes, cesses and duties. It would help increase exports of textiles and apparels, attract additional investment and provide direct and indirect jobs to lakhs of people, especially women, he said. “The decision adds to the stability of the export policy of textiles. We now look forward to being a stronger global player with this continued RoSCTL support. The scheme will promote start-ups and entrepreneurs to start exporting their products. It will rejuvenate the textiles sector and, in three years, the Indian textile value chain can attain annual exports of $100 billion,” Mr. Sakthivel said. Tiruppur Exporters’ Association president Raja M. Shanmugham said the notification for implementation of the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies on Export of garments and made-ups and implementation of the scheme with effect from January 1, 2021 would help the liquidity-starved garment export industry. Speedy release of the scrips would enable the industry to recoup and become fully operational. Manoj Patodia, chairman of Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council, said continuation of the scheme for four years lays down the foundation for reaching the target of $100 billion exports in the textile and apparel sector. The exporters would also be encouraged to enter into long term contracts with their buyers in view of the stable policy which will lead to higher export growth. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, welcomed the announcement of RoSCTL guidelines for the garments and made-ups segments. However, the rest of the textile value chain was still waiting for the Government’s decision for the announcement of the RoDTEP Scheme to enable them to be fully competitive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-and-madeup-exporters-welcome-extension-of-rosctl/article35921048.ece
15 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for chain snatching||The Anamalai police on Friday arrested a 27-year-old man who snatched the chain of a 55-year-old woman.  K. Siyaz, a native of Palakkad district, was arrested for snatching the chain of P. Sundarambal of Sivan Kovil Street at Kaliyapuram near Anamalai. The police said that the woman came to offer prayers at Mariamman Temple at Vettaikaranpudur around 11 a.m. on Friday. The youth snatched her 4.5 sovereign gold chain and got away with it when she was washing her hands near the temple. The Anamalai police managed to arrest the man on the same day. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-chain-snatching/article35921297.ece
15 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Girl found dead near Anamalai, sexual assault suspected||A three-year-old girl was found dead in suspicious circumstances in a tribal settlement near Anamalai in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Though the doctors who examined the girl said she could have been sexually assaulted, the police said it could be confirmed only after the post-mortem. According to the police, a 20-year-old woman brought her three-year-old daughter to the Government Hospital at Vettaikaranpudur around 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Doctors examined the girl and informed her mother that she was already dead. They also informed the Anamalai police about the incident, as they found injuries on the private parts. The woman told the police that she left her daughter along with her husband’s elderly parents and went to the house of a relative in the neighbourhood to charge her mobile phone. The woman claimed that when she returned home, she found the child unconscious. But, during inquiry, the police found that she had not left her daughter with the elderly couple. A senior police officer said that a woman inspector was questioning the woman to get more details as there were contradictions in her statements. The autopsy of the girl is likely to be held on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-year-old-girl-found-dead-near-anamalai/article35920979.ece
15 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||26,400 litres of adulterated diesel seized in two months, 10 held||The Civil Supplies CID (CS CID) has arrested 10 persons and seized 26,400 litres of adulterated diesel in the last two months in the region. Vehicles seized A statement issued by the CS CID said that eight vehicles, including five tanker trucks, were seized for transporting adulterated diesel in Salem, Namakkal and Coimbatore districts during the special drive. In one of the cases, a CS CID team seized a tanker truck containing 4,000 litres of adulterated diesel at Sankagiri - Kuppanur junction in Salem district in the early hours of Friday. The truck came from Coimbatore district. The team arrested driver of the truck R. Mathiyazhagan, helper S. Selvam and its owner Inbaraj of Tiruppur. They were sent to judicial remand. In another case, CS CID personnel seized 4,000 litres of adulterated diesel from a tanker truck and a mini goods carrier fitted with a tank near Ettimadai on August 8. Drivers of the vehicles Sabapathy and Selva Karuppaiah were arrested.  The statement said that CS CID will initiate proceedings to slap provision of the Goondas Act against those who involve in the adulteration, transportation and sales of adulterated fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26400-litres-of-adulterated-diesel-seized-in-two-months-10-held/article35921293.ece
15 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two booked in cheating case||The Race Course police have registered a case against two persons who allegedly promised a man from Rathinapuri to arrange a job for his son in Poland. The police said that Prasanth and Bharathi of LP Career Solution at ATT Colony were booked based on a complaint lodged by R. Ravi of Rathinapuri. The complainant alleged that the accused received Rs. 2.20 lakh from him in 2019 to get a job for his son. However, the accused did not arrange a job or return the money. He alleged that the accused assaulted him and his wife when they asked them to return the money on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-booked-in-cheating-case/article35921296.ece
15 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for sexual assault||A 27-year-old man from Ramanathapuram district was booked by the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore central, for allegedly cheating and sexually assaulting a woman from the city. S. Sivakumar from Thiruvadanai in Ramanathapuram was booked on Friday based on a complaint lodged by a 23-year-old woman from K.K. Pudur. The police said that the accused was running a bakery at Sukrawarpet. The two were in a relationship for the last three years. The woman in her complaint alleged that the man sexually exploited her by promising to marry her and cheated her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-sexual-assault/article35921298.ece
15 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shops in market areas remain closed||Adhering to the district administration's restrictions on closure of shops in crowded areas on weekends, all the shops in the city’s busy market areas were closed on Saturday. Following an increase in COVID-19 cases in the district, Collector H. Krishnanunni had announced new restrictions from August 9 that allows shops to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. Also, restrictions were imposed on shops that function in crowded areas as it could turn into a source for the spread of COVID-19 during the weekends. Most of the textile shops and commercial establishments were located in Eswaran Kovil Street, TVS Street, Gandhiji Road, Old Central Theatre Road, Manikoondu and RKV Road in the city where people throng in large numbers on weekends for purchase. All the shops were closed on Saturday and in the absence of vehicle movement, streets in these areas wore a deserted look. Also, shops at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani textile market at Panneerselvam Park were also closed for the day. Likewise, shops at busy areas in Bhavani, Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam and a few other areas were also closed on Saturday. However, tea shops, hotels and vegetable shops functioned as usual in these areas, but the volume of business was very low. Members of the textile traders association said that after the lockdown norms were relaxed, their business was good only on weekends as people from across the district and nearby districts purchase textile items. They said that instead of closing shops for two days, they could be allowed to function either on Saturday or Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-market-areas-remain-closed/article35921061.ece
15 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Decision to set up turmeric research centre at Bhavanisagar hailed||Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam has announced setting up of a turmeric research centre at Bhavanisagar in the district on 100 acres and allotted Rs. 2 crore for the project. Presenting the budget, the Minister said that turmeric is a major crop cultivated in the district and the move will help in expanding the area under turmeric cultivation and pave way for more marketing opportunities. The previous AIADMK government in its budget presented in February, 2020, announced setting up of a special centre for turmeric in the district. However, the project did not take off. Turmeric is cultivated in over 13,500 acres covering Erode, Modakkurichi, Kodumudi, Bhavani, Anthiyur and Gobichettipalayam taluks that were irrigated by Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and Kalingarayan Canal. But, farmers said that it would be appropriate to establish the centre in Modakkurichi or Kodumudi where turmeric is cultivated in over 8,200 acres. K.M. Krishnamurthy, secretary of Kalingarayan Pasana Sabai, told The Hindu that the centre would serve turmeric farmers if it is established in Modakkurichi or Kodumudi where a majority of the farmers are cultivating the crop. C. Nallasamy, president of Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nala Sangam, said that the crop is widely cultivated in Kalingarayan ayacut areas and wanted the centre to be established in Kodumudi. Welcoming the separate budget for agriculture, Mr. Nallasamy wanted the practice of a separate budget to continue in the coming years. He expressed disappointment over the government’s failure to revoke ban on toddy tapping and also wanted crop insurance to be given for individual farmers. “Currently, only if crops in the entire revenue village are affected, compensation is provided. The system should change enabling individual farmers to claim for crop loss”, he added. He also wanted coconut oil, groundnut oil and gingelly oil to be sold at ration shops instead of importing palm oil and selling it at a subsidy. He also called for simplifying the procedure for obtaining crop loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-to-set-up-turmeric-research-centre-at-bhavanisagar-hailed/article35921056.ece
15 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||MP seeks widening of road underpass||With vehicles finding it difficult to use the 89-year-old road underbridge (RUB) near Kalaimadu Silai, Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi has urged the Railways to widen the subway to meet the growing vehicular population. The RUB was constructed in 1932 with a height of 3.5 m and width of 6 m on the Erode – Dharapuram and Erode – Karur Road near the Railway Colony. It is the key entry point for vehicles coming from Karur, Muthur and Poondurai areas. With increase in population and the expansion of the city and its outskirts, the subway failed to meet the vehicle population and another subway was constructed near it during 1996. Two-wheelers and four wheelers proceeding from Kollampalayam to Kalaimadu Silai are allowed to use the RUB, while buses and heavy vehicles are allowed to use the subway in both the directions. Due to low height, heavy vehicles cannot ply through the RUB and hence there is a long demand from the public to widen the RUB. Also, expansion of the city demands widening the RUB to ensure vehicle flow without hindrance. The MP recently met Ashwini Vaishnaw, Minister for Railways, and presented a petition urging the Railways to reconstruct the existing RUB at the earliest. He said that the RUB located on State Highways 83A is significant as the road connects with other southern districts. He said that the bridge was constructed then to cater to the requirements to accommodate road traffic that prevailed 89 years ago. “But now, the city has grown and road connectivity plays an important role in development”, he said. The MP said the Minister had assured to direct the railway officials concerned to coordinate with the Chief Engineer of the State Highways for carrying out a study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-seeks-widening-of-road-underpass/article35921053.ece
15 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released in LBP canal today||The government has ordered the release of water from Bhavanisagar Dam from August 15 into the LBP main canal to benefit 1.03 lakh acres in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts. A release said that water would be released from the dam from August 15 to December 12 for 120 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-to-be-released-in-lbp-canal-today/article35921062.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lakshadweep administration asks islanders to avoid travel to Kerala||The Lakshadweep administration has issued a travel advisory asking people to avoid travelling unnecessarily to Kerala where, it said, the COVID-19 cases have been rising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lakshadweep-administration-asks-islanders-to-avoid-travel-to-kerala/article35920964.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tight security ahead of Independence Day||Ahead of the 75th Independence Day celebrations on Sunday, the police have made elaborate security arrangements across the 10 southern districts, officials said here on Saturday. All the district SPs, sub-division DSPs, Inspectors and SIs of police across the south zone were providing bandobust to all vital installations from Friday night. Police were on the alert at various checkposts as a precautionary measure. Vehicle checks on the highways have been intensified and adequate personnel have been deployed to guard important statues of leaders in the southern districts. The officials said that due to COVID-19 pandemic, there were restrictions on the movement of public. Though the government had relaxed the guidelines, the standard operating procedures should be strictly adhered to. The police have been told to wear masks and use sanitizers while on duty. Security has been enhanced at major railway stations, bus stands and airports in Madurai and Thoothukudi. Around 10,000 police personnel would be on duty in the south zone and senior officials have appealed to the people to cooperate with the official machinery by following the COVID-19 protocol while moving in public places. When contacted, Inspector General of Police (south zone) T. S. Anbu said that for the past two days, security had been enhanced in all the districts. Due to the pandemic, police has denied permission for processions and rallies to mark the 75th Independence day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-strengthened-ahead-of-independence-day/article35921037.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Steps to improve moringa export through Madurai hailed||Traders’ associations in the city are delighted at the announcement on a new Moringa Export Zone across seven districts, with an Export Facilitation Centre in Madurai, by State government in its exclusive budget for the agriculture sector. S. Rethinavelu, president of the Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “The budget has schemes, subsidies and incentives for all districts in the State. It will prove to be beneficial for everyone from farm to fork. We are happy that the budget has taken into consideration some of the demands made by the chamber in the agri pre-budget meetings. Declaring Theni, Dindigul, Karur, Ariyalur, Tuticorin, Madurai and Tiruppur districts that contribute for about 73% of the total moringa pod production, as the Moringa Export Zone, is laudable. Also, the decision to set up an Export Facilitation Centre for moringa products in Madurai, would go a long way in expanding the acreage of moringa cultivation and thereby supporting the export of more than 30 value-added products of moringa.” The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry also hailed the proposed setting up of the Export Facilitation Centre in Madurai for moringa products at a cost of Rs. 1 crore which will meet the cost for infrastructure like dryers, leaf powdering machines and automatic packing system. N Jegatheesan, president of the chamber, said, “The government will be purchasing about 61,000 tonnes of pulses directly from the farmers and use them for distribution in fair price shops. It will help their livelihood.” He, however, said he was disappointed that no announcement was made on development of banana export in the State and jasmine export from Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-to-improve-moringa-export-through-madurai-hailed/article35921030.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC stays Single Bench order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted a stay on the Single Bench order that directed the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) to pay market value of a property in Virudhunagar district after it failed to construct a telephone exchange for which the land was acquired. A sale deed was executed in favour of BSNL in 2001. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar granted the stay. The case was adjourned by two weeks. The Single Bench had taken a serious view of the fact that the BSNL had not constructed a telephone exchange even after 20 years. While selling the land, the landowner had asked BSNL to name the building after his father. In its appeal, BSNL said that it was not given a reasonable opportunity. The landowner in the petition before the Single Bench only sought a direction to cancel the sale deed or re-convey the property. But, the Single Bench passed the order to pay the market value of the property or to re-convey the property. BSNL said that once a sale deed is executed in favour of the purchaser for consideration, then the title of the property is conveyed to the purchaser. Consequently, the vendor of the property is no longer having any right or title over the property. The original landowner has no legal or statutory right to seek re-conveyance or market value of the property, BSNL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-single-bench-order/article35921034.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Adheenam pontiff laid to rest||The 292nd pontiff of the Madurai Adheenam Sri Arunagirinathar was laid to rest on Saturday in the land belonging to the Adheenam in Madurai. Devotees, political and religious leaders paid their last respects on the mutt premises earlier in the day. The pontiff passed away at the Apollo Hospital in Madurai on Friday night. He was admitted to the hospital on August 9 after he developed respiratory complications. He was 77 at the time of his death. Born in Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai district, Sri Arunagirinathar had worked as a journalist with Murasoli. He joined the Dharmapuram Adheenam and later became the 292nd pontiff of the Madurai Adheenam. Sri Arunagirinathar is remembered as a custodian of peace and for his respect towards other religions and its leaders. The pontiff played an important role in addressing and resolving the 1981 Mandaikadu religious dispute in Kanniyakumari district. Members of Dharmapuram Adheenam, Thiruvavaduthurai Adheenam, Kamatchipuram Adheenam, Kundrakudi Adheenam, Velakurichi adheenam and other adheenams took part in the ceremony held on the mutt premises. The body was then taken out in procession along the Chithirai Streets around the Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and laid to rest at the land belonging to the Madurai Aadheenam near Munichalai junction. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy and Minister for Finance and Human Resource Management P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan paid their respects. Junior pontiff Sri La Sri Harihara Gnanasambanda Desika Paramacharya is likely to be the 293rd pontiff of Madurai Adheenam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-adheenam-pontiff-laid-to-rest/article35921012.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Khadi and handloom exhibition inaugurated||To commemorate the 75th year of India’s Independence, a khadi and handloom exhibition and sale, organised by Indian Railways and the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, was inaugurated at Madurai Railway Junction on Saturday.. The event was inaugurated by the Divisional Railway Manager, Madurai Division, P. Ananth. Other senior officials of the Indian Railways were present at the inauguration. The stalls have been put up near platform one. The exhibition will be open for two hours every day from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m and will go on for a month. The products that were on display at the exhibition include khadi dress materials and village industries products like honey and incense sticks. Similar exhibitions and sale of the khadi and handloom products were inaugurated at other railway stations across the country. In Tamil Nadu, it is being held in Madurai, Coimbatore and Chennai, said Divisional Director, Khadi and Village Industries Commission, R.P. Asokan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khadi-and-handloom-exhibition-inaugurated/article35921379.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Students urged to read Constitution and learn political structure||T. Ravichandran, Assistant Professor, Centre for Gandhian Studies, Gandhigram Rural Institute, requested students to read the Constitution and learn political structure. He was presiding over a webinar on nation building, by the 2TN Girls Battalion NCC, Madurai, and the NCC Unit of Lady Doak College. Dr. Ravichandran, a Gandhian, began his speech by recalling the glorious eve of our Independence day in 1947. He said, “People from around the country were excited to see the tricolors go up in the Red Fort for the first time. Our history of freedom struggle was not just a glorious one, but also a unique one. While great freedom struggle movements like the American War of Independence, the French Revolution and the Russian Revolution saw thousands of people being killed in wars, ours wasn’t the same. We lost some valuable lives, but never killed people. We suffered, endured and ended up triumphant.” Dr. Ravichandran also added that India needed economic independence which was Gandhiji’s vision. “Close to 8.5 crore people in India can be classified as extremely poor. We should prosper as a society, without economic and religious or caste-wise differences. Students should not fall prey to issues like communalism, and casteism or chauvinism,” he said. Capt. Dr. T Shantha Meena, NCC Officer, Lady Doak College, convened the webinar that was attended by principals and NCC cadets across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-urged-to-read-constitution/article35921041.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Khadi exhibition inaugurated||To commemorate the 75th year of Independence, a khadi and handloom exhibition and sale, organised by Indian Railways and the Khadi and Village Industries Commission, was inaugurated at railway junction here on Saturday. The exhibition will be open for two hours every day (7 p.m. to 9 p.m) and will go on for a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khadi-exhibition-inaugurated/article35921019.ece
15 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Extend pension scheme, say postal staff||Postal employees put forth their demands to the Centre at the 18th State conference of the All India Postal SC/ST Welfare Association here on Saturday. M. Mahalingam, the association’s Madurai region secretary, said, “One of the main agendas of the conference is to request the government to bring part-time postal employees in rural areas under the pension scheme.” Most of them come from economically weak background, so it would definitely help them. Mr. Mahalingam said reservations for SC/ST people in the postal department had to be adhered to properly and they should be given post elevation when they qualify for it.  M.K. Ahirwar, general secretary, presided over the discussion on the overall welfare of its members. Writer M. Gopinath will deliver a speech on the life and teachings of B.R. Ambedkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-pension-scheme-say-postal-staff/article35921033.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||College plants 40,000 saplings in a day||The Mepco Schlenk Engineering College in Sivakasi decided to make pre-Independence Day celebrations special by planting 40,000 saplings inside its campus on a single day. The college took an initiative last year to create a Miyawaki forest inside its campus, with the support of its alumni association. As part of the first leg of the programme, 11,530 saplings were planted during last year’s Independence Day and as part of the second leg, 6,133 saplings were planted three months later. Now, in its third phase, 40,000 saplings of about 150 species were planted in an area of 1 lakh square feet. Dr. S. Arivazhagan, the college’s principal said that an idea to explore the possibility of creating a Miyawaki forest was put forth three years ago and it became a dream come true due to the efforts of the alumni, faculty and students of the college. “Miyawaki technique helps in growing trees ten times faster and denser. It is a globally popular methodology and is successful in growing trees, irrespective of soil and climatic conditions. Our goal is to plant 1 lakh trees on the campus. It is efforts like these that helped us bag the TN Pollution Control Board’s Green Campus Award in 2019,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-plants-40000-saplings-in-a-day/article35921038.ece
15 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 135.25 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 639 cusecs and a discharge of 1800 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 68.09 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1549 cusecs and a discharge of 1,199 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,051 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35921032.ece
15 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Procurement of textbooks for students of Classes I to V delayed||Students will have to wait for a few more days to get their textbooks for the current academic year. The Department had placed orders with the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for textbooks for Classes I to V and was waiting for concurrence from the Finance Department to procure books for other classes. Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu that the Finance Department had given its concurrence to buy books for Classes I to V. “We will start distribution from next week probably. For other classes, we will be placing the order with the Tamil Nadu Text Book Corporation after a sanction from the Finance Department. We hope to complete the distribution by end of this month,” he said. The Department would incur an expenditure of around Rs. 5 crore to buy the books. “We will have to put in place a mechanism to avoid such delays every year,” Mr. Goud added. The department was planning to provide worksheets from this academic year to make learning easier. The worksheets would be kept in libraries, he said. Reopening of schools would be decided only after August 20. The Education Minister had agreed to take a decision after consulting the Lt. Governor and the Chief Minister, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procurement-of-textbooks-for-students-of-classes-i-to-v-delayed/article35921213.ece
15 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. registers one COVID-19 death and 101 fresh cases||The Union Territory has registered one COVID-19 death and 101 new cases in the last 24 hours, ending 10 a.m. on Saturday. The lone death was reported from the Mahe region, where a 72-year-old person succumbed to the virus at the Government Hospital, Thalassery, in Kerala. Saturday was the fifth consecutive day the COVID-19 case numbers went beyond the 100 mark. New admissions reported during the last 24 hours were made while screening 5,049 persons. As per the data released by the Health Department, the test positivity now stood at 2% and case fatality at 1.48%. Of the 101 new cases, 70 were reported in Puducherry, 15 in Mahe, 12 in Karaikal and 4 in Yanam. Currently, there are 936 active cases, including 737 under home isolation. The total number of people who succumbed to the virus in the Union Territory stands at 1,804 and the number of people infected is 1,222,03. So far, 7,575,68 persons had been vaccinated, data revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-registers-one-covid-19-death-and-101-fresh-cases/article35921215.ece
15 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements made for I-Day celebrations in Puducherry||The traffic police have made elaborate arrangements for the Independence Day celebrations at Gandhi Thidal on Beach Road. In a press note on Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Rahul Alwal said visitors coming at the northern side of the venue should park their vehicles on Campagnie Street, St. Martin Street, in front of the Romain Rolland Library and Law de Lauriston Street. Visitors coming to the pandhal at the southern side of Beach Road should park their vehicles on Subbaiah Salai and the stretch of Dumas Street between the Old Court junction and Old Port. Vehicles could also be parked on Bazaar Saint Laurant Street. People, who plan to attend the function, had been advised to follow COVID-19 protocols, Mr. Alwal said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-made-for-i-day-celebrations-in-puducherry/article35921217.ece
15 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Strategic collaborations will lead to self-reliance, says L-G||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said India could move rapidly towards self-reliance through strategic collaborations. Growth model The pandemic was an opportunity to create a growth model that takes everyone along by making more people part of the value chain, the Lt. Governor said while participating in a special focus session as part of Puducherry Vision 2022, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Friday. ‘Sky is the limit’ A release from the CII said Ms. Soundararajan stressed on self-reliance and on looking inwards for solutions. “When one is self-reliant, the sky is the limit. We need to work towards self-reliance. The government-business community participation could make all the difference,” the release said, quoting the Lt. Governor. She also stressed on the need to make the Union Territory green and pollution free. Chairman, CII, Southern Region, C.K. Ranganathan said creating an ecosystem that would give more opportunity for women in business was the key towards achieving inclusive growth. He also said investment in research, development and innovation would help in growth of economy. Chairman, CII Council, on India@75, Rajan Navani; chairman, CII, Puducherry, Vijaya Ganesh K.; and vice-chairman, CII, Puducherry, S. Sureender participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strategic-collaborations-will-lead-to-self-reliance-says-l-g/article35921218.ece
15 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Use pandemic to boost public education: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has urged the Puducherry government to recruit more staff to admit more students migrating from private institutions to government schools. Addressing a press conference after the CPI (M) secretariat and general council meeting on Saturday, Polit Bureau member G. Ramakrishnan said the economic impact of COVID-19 had forced several parents to shift their wards to government schools in the Union Territory. Rough estimate showed that the strength of students in government schools had increased from around 71,000 to 80,000 after the pandemic. But instead of using the opportunity, the government school authorities were adopting a discouraging attitude towards parents, he said. The school authorities are turning away parents by citing shortage of staff or making transfer certificates mandatory for admission. The manpower shortage could be addressed by recruiting more staff and the government should concentrate on increasing facilities in the institutions, he said. There was no need to make transfer certificates mandatory for admission as an Aadhar card would suffice. The Tamil Nadu government had directed schools to admit students in this way, Mr. Ramakrishnan said. The government should use the opportunity given by the pandemic to improve the public education system in the Union Territory, he added. Party local unit secretary R. Rajangam was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-pandemic-to-boost-public-education-cpim/article35921211.ece
15 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inspections conducted at sago units in Salem||A drive was conducted by Food Safety Department along with officials of related departments here to check adulteration in sago products. Officials from Sagoserve, Food Safety Department, Commercial Tax and police conducted inspections at sago units in the district to check for adulteration and adherence to various overnment regulations. According to Food Safety officials, the drive has been happening for the past two weeks and they have been inspecting sago industries here. R. Kathiravan, Designated Officer, Food Safety said that as instructed by the District Collector and the Commissioner of Food Safety, joint inspections are being conducted at sago units to ensure adherence to food safety standards. Dr. Kathiravan said that while some units have been following the regulations, adulteration was found in a few units and samples were lifted for tests. He said that 11-15 sago units were inspected by officials and 21 samples were lifted. About 80 tonnes of finished sago products and wet starch were seized by officials for suspected chemical adulteration. Officials from Sagoserve said that they would initiate stern action against units, if they receive any complaints regarding adulteration. Based on test results, action would be initiated against units. Officials said that sago units have been advised not to indulge in adulteration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspections-conducted-at-sago-units-in-salem/article35921064.ece
15 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Trains to run on diverted route||Two trains between Coimbatore and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus would operate in diverted route due to non-interlocking works at Rangepalli railway station, a release from the Salem Railway Division said. According to a release, train no.01013 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus – Coimbatore special train, scheduled to depart from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on August 16 and arrive at Coimbatore on August 18 will be diverted through Guntakal, Cuddapah, Renigunta, Jolarpettai and Salem instead of the scheduled route of Guntakal, Dharmavaram, Yelahanka, KSR Bengaluru, Hosur and Salem. Train no.01014 Coimbatore – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special train, scheduled to depart from Coimbatore at 8.55 a.m on August 17 will be diverted through Salem, Jolarpettai, Renigunta, Cuddapah and Guntakal instead of the scheduled route of Salem, Hosur, KSR Bengaluru, Yelahanka, Dharmavaram and Guntakal, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-to-run-on-diverted-route/article35921069.ece
15 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Action against panchayat vice-president sought||The president of Masinaikenpatti Panchayat petitioned against vice-president of the panchayat with the District Collector here on Friday. D. Mekala Devendran, president of the panchayat alleged that vice-president of the panchayat M.D. V. Arun Kumar is allegedly obstructing development works in the panchayat. Ms. Devendran charged that the vice-president and former secretary of the panchayat were relatives and Mr. Kumar accused her of causing the transfer of secretary. She charged that the vice-president has been obstructing sanitary workers from carrying out their works in the panchayat and threatened to stop their salary bills. The panchayat president requested the Collector to take necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-panchayat-vice-president-sought/article35921055.ece
15 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA rank lists released||Rank lists for admission to engineering and law programmes of SASTRA Deemed University were released on Saturday. They were prepared using JEE-Main (for engineering) and CLAT (for law) scores and the Plus Two aggregate for admissions without separate entrance examinations. However, the entire admission process has been split into two streams with Stream 1 (50% of seats based on JEE Main and Plus Two marks) and Stream 2 (50% of seats based on Plus Two marks only). While a student from Bengaluru topped the Stream 1 with a combined score of 99.01, 15 students shared the first position in the Stream 2 as they had secured 100 per cent aggregate in the Plus Two examinations, said a release.As far as the admission to the SASTRA School of Law, a Chennai-based student secured the first rank by scoring 98.6% in the Plus Two examinations and 76.5% in the CLAT examinations. The detailed rank lists are available on www.sastra.edu and the online counselling will start from August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-rank-lists-released/article35921013.ece
15 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA rank lists released||The rank lists for admission to engineering and law programmes of SASTRA Deemed University were released on Saturday. The lists were prepared using the JEE-Main (for engineering) and CLAT (for law) scores and the Plus Two aggregate for admissions without separate entrance examinations. However, the entire admission process has been split into two streams. Under stream 1, 50% of seats will be allotted based on JEE Main and Plus Two marks and under stream 2, 50% of seats will be based on Plus Two marks only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-rank-lists-released/article35921003.ece
15 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Electrification of Thattapparai to Meelavittan double track is over||Expressing satisfaction over the double track electrification project being completed between Thattapparai and Meelavittan, Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) (Southern Region) Abhay Kumar Rai said that from now on, more trains can be run here on Saturday. He conducted the motor-trolley inspection of the double track electrification project measuring a length of 7.4 kilometres between Thattapparai and Meelavittan, accompanied by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited director (Planning) Kamalakar Reddy, Divisional Railway Manager (Madurai) P. Ananth, chief engineer V. Thavamani Pandi and among others. In a brief chat with reporters, he said that there were a few minor works to be attended to. Otherwise, the double track project was largely completed. “In about four to five days, we will issue the completion certificate,” he replied. During the inspection, the CRS had pointed out certain aspects to be done on signalling and station remodelling works, the officials said and added that the Madurai-Thoothukudi project which was taken up in 2018, on an outlay of Rs. 11,822 crore had been completed. The Madurai-Thoothukudi second track work was likely to get over early next year. The doubling work between Madurai and Thoothukudi was taken up in phases, such as Vanchi Maniyachi and Madurai, Kovilpatti and Kadambur, and Kadambur and Gangaikondan. The speed trial was conducted in February 2021 and November 2020, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electrification-of-thattapparai-to-meelavittan-double-track-is-over/article35921040.ece
15 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Tidel Parks will spur growth’||The announcement by Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan in the Legislative Assembly on Friday that the government would establish Tidel Parks in tier-2 and tier-3 cities across the State would fuel growth in an uniform way, said D. R. Koteeswaran, secretary Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on Saturday. Appreciating the Budget, he said that setting up of IT Parks in Thoothukudi, Vellore and Villupuram was welcome and migration of educated youth to other cities and States may be prevented to an extent. The announcement to establish a furniture park in Thoothukudi would go a long way as the facility would provide jobs and also help bring in new investments, he said. The Finance Minister’s announcement that the government’s hand holding with MSMEs which wanted to raise equity capital from stock exchanges and the cost of listing, up to Rs. 30 lakh would be borne by the government has come as a fillip. At a time, when the economy was facing trouble due to many factors including the COVID-19 pandemic, the TN government’s approach would motivate the industry, Mr. Kodeeswaran said. Implementation of the single window system and bringing 100 more services under the single window portal by July 2021 and a further 110 services by March 2022 would help all categories of industries, he said and added that creation of nine new SIPCOT parks in industrially backward districts would give hope to the youth and neo-entrepreneurs. Upgrading 10 beaches by getting blue flag certification will enhance tourism in Tamil Nadu. Likewise, allocation of Rs. 433.97 crore for constructing six new harbours will boost the sea food exports further. Reduction of petrol price by Rs. 3 per litre would help two wheeler users. However, if diesel price was also reduced it would help in reduction of goods cost. The allocation of Rs. 5 crore to carry out archaeological excavations in Tamil Nadu, which is the highest among all States in the country is welcome. Declaration of Keeladi, Sivakalai and Kodumanal as protected archaeological sites would help attract tourists and improve tourism, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/establishment-of-tidel-parks-in-tier-2-and-tier-3-cities-will-spur-growth/article35921042.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers hail agriculture budget, sore over meagre hike in sops||The euphoria over presentation of the first Agriculture Budget of the State and its several initiatives notwithstanding, there was a tinge of disappointment among farmers’ representatives over a ‘meagre hike’ in incentives for paddy and sugarcane which they felt has fallen way short of expectations. The exclusive Budget for agriculture met with approval from one and all. “It augurs well for the sector. The initiative to increase the area of cultivation and various other schemes outlined in the Budget are very encouraging,” observed Mannargudi S. Ranganathan, secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association. He appreciated the Budgetary allocation of Rs. 2,327 crore for crop insurance and felt that this was probably the first time that such an allocation has been made. The initiative to promote organic farming and creation of a separate wing, measures to promote cultivation of millets, value addition and the plan to promote an agro-based industry corridor between Tiruchi and Nagapattinam were also welcomed widely by farmers. “It is heartening to find crops grown in all districts have been given equal importance. The move to promote cold storage facilities and motivate youth in farming are appreciable,” said another veteran farmers’ leader Mahadhanapuram V. Rajaram of Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association. Cauvery S. Dhanapalan, general secretary of Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, welcomed the move to establish a Nammazhvar Organic Farming Research Centre and introduction of Tamil medium instruction in TNAU. He suggested that the government provide reservation for wards of farmers in admissions to courses in agriculture /horticulture. He expressed disappointment over lack of announcement of a pension scheme for farmers. Farmers in general felt that the incentives announced for paddy and sugarcane fell much short of their expectations. “We expected at least the incentive of paddy to be raised to Rs. 500 a quintal of paddy” Mr. Dhanapalan said. The special incentive of Rs. 150 for sugarcane has also fallen short of expectations, said G. S. Dhanapathy, State general secretary, Farmers’ Forum of India. “We expected the procurement price to be increased to at least Rs. 3,000 and further gradual increases,” he said. “The DMK had promised to raise the procurement price of paddy to Rs. 2,500 a quintal and of sugarcane to Rs. 4,000 a tonne,” pointed out P. Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennidiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, and added that the government should ensure remunerative price for agriculture produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-hail-agriculture-budget-sore-over-meagre-hike-in-sops/article35921022.ece
15 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers welcome agriculture budget; sore over meagre hike in incentives||he euphoria over the presentation of the first Agriculture Budget of the State and its several initiatives notwithstanding, there was a tinge of disappointment among farmers representatives over the rather “meagre hike” in incentives for paddy and sugarcane which they felt has fallen way short of expectations. The exclusive Budget for agriculture met with approval from one and all. “It augurs well for the sector. The initiative to increase the area of cultivation and various other schemes outlined in the Budget are very encouraging for the sector,” observed Mannargudi S.Ranganathan, Secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association. He appreciated the Budgetary allocation of Rs. 2,327 crore for crop insurance and felt that this was probably the first time that such an allocation has been made. The initiative to promote organic farming and creation of a separate wing, measures to promote cultivation of millets, value addition and the plan to promote an agro based industry corridor between Tiruchi and Nagapattinam were also welcomed widely by farmers. “It is heartening to find crops grown in all districts have been given equal importance. The move to promote cold storages, value addition and motivate youth in farming are all appreciable,” said another veteran farmers' leader Mahadhanapuram V. Rajaram of Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association. Cauvery S. Dhanapalan, general secretary of the Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, welcomed the move to develop an agro industry corridor, the move to establish a Nammazhvar Organic Farming Research Centre and introduction of Tamil medium instruction in TNAU. Mr. Dhanapalan suggested that the government provide reservation for wards of farmers in admissions to courses in agriculture /horticulture. He expressed disappointment over the lack of announcement of a pension scheme for farmers. Farmers in general felt that the incentives announced for paddy and sugarcane fell much short of the farmers expectations. “We expected at least the incentive of paddy to be raised to Rs. 500 a quintal of paddy” Mr. Dhanapalan said. The special incentive of Rs. 150 for sugarcane has also fallen short of expectations, said G. S. Dhanapathy, state general secretary, Farmers Forum of India. “We expected the procurement price to be increased to at least Rs. 3,000 and further gradual hikes,” he said. “The DMK had promised to hike the procurement price of paddy to Rs. 2,500 a quintal and of sugarcane to Rs. 4,000 a tonne,” pointed out P.Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennidiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam and added that the government should ensure remunerative price for agriculture produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-welcome-agriculture-budget-sore-over-meagre-hike-in-incentives/article35921046.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Burning waste on roadside irks residents||Sporadic incidents of burning of solid wastes on streets and roads continue to pose hardship to city residents, particularly elders and children. According to sources, the Tiruchi Corporation has identified about 150 spots as vulnerable points where residents and traders dump waste on streets and roads. Most of the spots had garbage bins until they were removed a few years ago. City residents are not supposed to dump garbage in an open space but instead hand over domestic or commercial waste only to the garbage collectors, who visit door-to-door in each and every ward in the city. But a section of people continues to dump waste, including plastics, polythene carry bags, teacups and other hazardous waste at several vulnerable points of waste dumping in the city. There are complaints of irregular visits by garbage collectors for door-to-door collection. It is alleged that in some parts of the city, the collection vehicles visit once in three days. Similarly, they invariably refuse to remove garden waste and non-recyclable waste. With no other options, residents simply dump them on roadsides or old garbage bin sites. Though the sanitary workers transport waste from most of the identified dumping site, it is alleged that depending upon the situation and convenience a section of garbage collectors set fire to the garbage mounds. In some cases, residents, who could not stomach the foul smell emanating from the mounds, also set afire the garbage without minding the impact of it. The billowing smoke often troubles the residents. V.O.C Road, Tiruchi-Dindigul road at Karumandapam, Selva Nagar, Warners Road, Reynolds Road and Bheema Nagar are among the roads where garbage is frequently set on fire. Burning time What is irritating the residents is the timing of burning garbage. In most cases, the garbage mounds are burnt in the morning, when the residents go for a morning walk or jog. The fitness seekers, who include elders, have been forced to inhale the toxic and polluted air. “In spite of repeated complaints, the garbage heaps on our street are frequently burnt. It really troubles us,” says A. James of V.O.C. Street in Cantonment. Besides sensitising the sanitary workers, he said that warning boards must be kept at all vulnerable points against those burning garbage. Similarly, closed-circuit television cameras must be installed at all vulnerable points to identify the habitual offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burning-solid-waste-on-the-roadside-irks-tiruchi-residents/article35921016.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||COVID 19 vaccines would be administered at the following vaccination camps in the city on Sunday: Five hundred doses of Covishield would be administered at each of the camps at St. Antony School, Renga Nagar, Edamalaipattipudur; Corporation Elementary School, Valluvar Nagar, Varaganeri; Corporation Middle School, Keezha Kalkandarkottai; Syed Murthuza Higher Secondary School, Palakkarai; R. C. Middle School, Mela Kalkandarkottai; Urban Primary Health Centre, Thiruvanaikovil; Corporation Middle School, Sengulam Colony; Community Centre, Kallukuzhi; Satheesh Elementary School, Big Sourashtra Street, Tharanallur; St.Mary’s Nursery and Primary School, Ponmalaipatti; Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Puthur; and Divine Nursery and Primary School, TRP Nagar, Khajamalai. Seven hundred and fifty doses of Covaxin would be administered at each of the camps at Anna Nagar Pallivasal, North Kattur; E. R. Higher Secondary School, Chinthamani; Corporation School, Kuratheru; and St. Xavier School, Varaganeri. The camps will start at 9.30 a.m., a Corporation press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article35921423.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||340 fresh cases in Delta||The central region reported 340 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. A large percentage of the cases were contributed by Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. Seven deaths were reported in the region - two in Tiruchi and one each in Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. Thanjavur reported 112 fresh cases while Tiruchi reported 68. The district administration in Tiruchi has begun testing passengers from Kerala and will soon begin door-to-door testing of residents to keep a check on the spread of the infection. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts also saw a slight spike in the number of cases. Tiruvarur reported 42 and Nagapattinam 30 fresh cases. Pudukottai and Mayiladuthurai reported 22 fresh COVID-19 each. Twenty four patients tested positive in Karur district on Saturday. Ariyalur reported 15 fresh cases, while Perambalur continued to report less than 10 fresh cases. On Saturday, five patients tested positive in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/340-fresh-cases-in-delta/article35921025.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Reduction in State levy on petrol hailed||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to reduce the State levy on petrol by Rs. 3 has been largely welcomed by consumers. “While welcoming the reduction of the levy (on petrol), we expect the union government to indulge in competitive politics and reduce its levies by Rs. 5,” said S. Pushpavanam, secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu. Welcoming the presentation of the the paperless interim financial statement, Mr. Pushpavanam observed that the Finance Minister had spelt out the direction for the next 10 years. However, he had failed to take hard decisions. After having identified electricity, transport and agriculture as areas of huge losses, he should have restricted the subsidy outgo, he observed. Rather than starting new government colleges which may take years to settle down as competent units, the Finance Minister would do better to focus on improving the quality of secondary and higher secondary education with recruitment of quality manpower and intensive training, Mr. Pushpavanam said. While strengthening infrastructure of courts, the Finance Minister must ensure all district courts and consumer fora are made fit for virtual hearing, he said. The allocation to strengthen the heath infrastructure of the State was welcomed by M. A. Aleem, Member, District Welfare Fund Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduction-in-state-levy-on-petrol-hailed/article35921044.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Head Constable suspended for slapping an aged man||Murugan, a Head Constable, from Aranthangi in Pudukottai district who was transferred to Tiruchi following a video clip of him slapping and abusing an aged person went viral on Friday, was placed under suspension on Saturday. The incident occurred on August 10 during the course of the inquiry that was conducted by Murugan attached to Aranthangi police station. According to sources, Arumugam of Rathinakottai village near Aranthangi had lodged a complaint in connection with a land dispute between him and Radhakrishnan who is said to be the relative of the former and from the same village. Radhakrishnan was subsequently called for inquiry on the basis of the complaint. During the inquiry, a verbal duel broke out and the head constable allegedly abused Radhakrishnan and slapped him. The incident which was captured on video went viral on some of the social media platforms. Following the incident, Superintendent of Police of Pudukottai Nisha Parthiban conducted a preliminary enquiry about the veracity of the video clip and the policeman involved in it. Based on her report, the Deputy Inspector General of Police Radhika transferred Murugan to Tiruchi on Friday. Subsequently, Superintendent of Police of Tiruchi P. Moorthy has placedthe Head Constable under suspension pending a departmental inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-suspended-for-slapping-an-aged-man/article35921014.ece
15 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 71.75 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 6,343 cusecs and the discharge 14,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article35921018.ece
15 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested on charges of attempt to kill daughter||The Avinashi police on Saturday arrested a man on charges of attempting to murder his 19-year-old daughter at Avinashi in Tiruppur district allegedly for her inter-faith marriage. The police said that Priyanka married Mohamed Yasin (25) in July. On Saturday, she was alone in the house as her husband went to work. Her father, R. Pooraja (52), visited her around 2.45 p.m. He allegedly slashed her neck with a paper cutter and fled the spot. Based on the information from the neighbours, Yasin and his mother rushed home and took her to Avinashi GH for first aid. She was subsequently referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Her condition was stable, the police said. On a complaint from Yasin, Avinashi police arrested Pooraja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-on-charges-of-attempt-to-kill-daughter/article35921292.ece
15 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Home Guards constable arrested||The Tiruppur North All Women Police on Friday arrested a City Home Guards constable on charges of sexually assaulting a woman in Tiruppur. Home Guards constable Jyothikrishnan (29) was allegedly in a relationship with a 26-year-old woman. He had borrowed Rs. 1.5 lakh from her and had been avoiding her since. On Wednesday, she attempted to take her life at her residence. Based on her complaint, the police booked the accused and remanded him in judicial custody. The City Home Guards will initiate departmental action against the accused.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-guards-constable-arrested/article35921049.ece
15 August 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||60% of displaced families get new houses||Little over 60% of families in Tiruvarur district, who were displaced from their habitats in view of implementation of the Asian Development Bank (ADB)-assisted Vennar Irrigation System Improvement Project, have been given new houses. Sources said 1,237 dwelling units along the six major irrigation channels in the Vennar system passing through Tiruvarur district were identified as encroachments and were asked to choose either cash compensation or move into 370 square feet dwelling units proposed under the ADB project. While 486 families opted for cash compensation, 751 preferred to accept the new house offer. Out of the 751 families, 318 families have already moved into the dwelling units constructed at Pinnavasal, Vengaramperaiyur, Puzhuthikudi, Velur-Manali, Kokkaladi, Korkkai, Thittanimuttam, Vikrapandiyam and Thalaikkadu hamlets. The keys for 143 houses constructed at Alivalam, Pazhayankudi, Aalathur, Kunniyur, Arichandrapuram and Thiruvidaivasal village panchayats were handed over to the displaced families on Wednesday by Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan. As far as disbursement of cash compensation was concerned, Rs. 7.76 crore have been disbursed to 451 beneficiaries so far. The Rs. 960.66 crore project is being implemented to strengthen embankments of six major irrigation water channels - Arichandranadhi, Adappar, Pandavaiyaru, Vellaiyaru, Valavanarkaalvai and Vedaranyam Kaalvai in Vennar river system passing through Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts – so as to make them resilient to floods and also to upgrade the water regulators, sluices and pump stations of these irrigation channels. To boost the water management, the local community would be involved in planning and delivery of water services and warning systems and flood risks maps would be drawn to help local communities respond proactively and effectively during any exigency. Further, the Tamil Nadu Water Resources Department personnel would also be trained on effective water management and prevention of flood risks as part of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-of-displaced-families-get-new-houses/article35921011.ece
15 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||27 new virus cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,447 with 27 new cases reported on Saturday. While 47,004 people have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 342. The district’s death toll is 1,101. In Ranipet district, 23 persons tested positive and the total rose to 42,229. In Tirupattur district, 13 new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,442. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 41, taking the tally to 52,724. Out of this, 51,611 patients have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 470.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-new-virus-cases-reported-in-vellore/article35921203.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When screens replace schools||Innovations in education have provided options to students in the last one-and-a-half years that they might have not had access to in the past when technology was neither this advanced nor this widespread. But up ahead are further challenges, and there’s a need to get comfortable with blended learning modes as we prepare to live in a world where the threat of pandemics is real, alive and constant.  The unprecedented closure of schools and colleges in March 2020 meant educational institutions across Tamil Nadu had to scramble to figure out alternatives and ensure that learning continued. For teachers, students and other stakeholders, the last 18 months have been dedicated to a massive overhaul of the education system without any preparation or warning — exploring viable ecosystems for alternate learning, overcoming concerns about access and infrastructure, revamping teaching methodologies to suit these alternate methods and viable assessment patterns. Private schools and colleges, where most students had fairly good access to data and infrastructure, started off with teacher training and preparing resources for virtual learning. “When we realised that this would not be a short break from school for the students, the first thing we did was to train our teachers in batches so that they could familiarise themselves with the platforms available, preparing resources, and recording video lessons,” said Lakshmi Prabha, principal, Prasan Vidya Mandir. As a semi-urban school, Ms. Lakshmi Prabha said they had to prepare material across formats, ranging from two-minute videos to audio podcasts, keeping in mind access and devices available at home. Given the circumstances, evolving and adapting to the new norm soon began across schools and colleges based on the student strength, access and resources available. Educational institutions and the Tamil Nadu Education Department recognised the need to innovate and address learning gaps that continued as the pandemic put the brakes on normal academic schedules. Innovations galore From online classes by senior professors to video lessons and setting up cameras in classrooms, colleges adopted several methods to take lessons to the students. Initially, access to smartphones and data and internet connectivity was an issue for college students. Some had to share their mobile phones with their school-going siblings. But, by and large, they have fared better as they had access to laptops. Senior faculty members had special sessions and in some instances, students also did their internships online. The challenges, however, were in providing hands-on experience in practical classes and the experience of being in college amid peers. “Initially, I depended on a data card but we have since installed a modem and I use the mobile phone for classes only. To file assignments, I use the laptop,” said Bhavani, a third-year B.Com student of a government arts and science college in Chennai. The government’s Kalvi TV, launched in 2019, helped to address the lack of laptops and mobile phones for online learning for a majority of students of government and aided schools over the last year. The State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) prepared video lessons for all classes and telecast them from June 2020. It has continued for the current academic year. School teachers have relied on these telecasts. M. Jegadeesan, headmaster, Government-aided Higher Secondary School, Kottaipatti, said his school encouraged students to regularly see the telecast. “Our students come from a cluster of 60 villages in Peraiyur taluk in Thirumangalam in Madurai district and many families cannot afford the luxury of a television set. We identified 200 students who had no device and grouped them with those who had access to at least one device, so that the children could study together,” he said. Several government school and private college faculty members used social media to circulate video lessons, notes, assignments and even question papers to their students. T. Arulanandam, State auditor, Tamil Nadu High, Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association, said many teachers were sharing video lessons from Kalvi TV through WhatsApp groups. “There were concerns about parents taking phones with them to work, and students unable to attend online classes. So our teachers made 30-40 minute video sessions, which are then sent via WhatsApp since most students don’t have laptops and depend on smartphones,” said Uma Devi, headmistress, Government Higher Secondary School, Thumbaipatti, Madurai district. Going the extra mile Where online classes were possible, teachers have reworked schedules to enable students to attend. At the Panchayat Union Middle School at Pirattiyur in Tiruchi, headmistress K. Asha Devi said 70% of the students were able to attend classes online or access video lessons. “Teachers gave up their weekends and scheduled classes on Sundays so that the children could access their parents’ mobile phones.” Some colleges developed standardised procedures for online classes. N.R. Alamelu, principal of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College, Coimbatore, said the college’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell evolved a protocol. Students and faculty received separate sets of instructions and an online meeting was held with parents. Apart from the suggestion of appropriate gadgets, the faculty members were instructed to take attendance during the class session. Another college installed a system of evaluating the faculty members’ performance and gave feedback on improving their presentation. Though faculty members rely on slide shows to explain lessons for subjects such as mathematics, physics and other science subjects, cameras are installed for students to watch the teacher writing equations and solving problems. In his college, all lectures are available for students to follow up and learn at their pace, says Ajeet Kumar Lal Mohan, chairman of the AJK College of Arts and Science. Lalitha Balakrishnan, principal of M.O.P. Vaishnav College, Chennai, felt that online learning opened up many avenues. “We have incorporated and integrated Swayam courses in our curriculum as per the UGC’s norms,” she said. “The mode of delivery, ICT-enabled platforms and use of tools like Blendspace have made learning more interesting and satisfying.” Getting better Students, too, are pleased with their teachers’ efforts. In the last two academic years, classes had become more interactive, said R. Shivani, a computer science and engineering student. “From being a monologue in the beginning, it is now more interactive. We are able to ask questions, request the faculty member to explain a concept once again and attend quizzes. The difference between online and offline classes is not much. As there are only three lectures of one-and-a-half hour duration each a day, it is not stressful,” she said. Some in her class who do not have the advantage of a separate room are helped by other students when they miss out a point or two and call for clarification. The roadblock While access to infrastructure, including devices for learning and data availability and connectivity, continue to be a roadblock stories have emerged of teachers visiting students in remote areas to teach. Lack of internet connectivity and power supply in 38 habitations in the hilly areas of Talavadi, Kadambur and Bargur in Erode district hinder access to online education. At Gundri in the Kadambur hills, students walk 2 km daily and sit by the forest roadside, where connectivity is available, to pursue their studies. In the central region, students in the hills of Pachamalai in Tiruchi district do not have a proper mobile network. “We gather around five students a day and teach them since we do not want them to lose touch with education,” said Vasantha Chitravelu, a government-aided primary school teacher at Andarkadu in Vedaranyam, which doesn’t have good internet connectivity. In hilly and remote areas such as Valparai, where internet and television facilities are not available, teachers have been visiting over 4,000 students to take classes. Though to a large extent, academic development has continued, the social and cultural development of students has suffered a setback, college teachers said. While Central government institutions like the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras managed to conduct their annual cultural and technical festivals online, thanks to the robust financial support from alumni and the management, students of State-run institutions have lost out. This is a cause for concern, the heads of the institutions said. Cultural and co-curricular activities at colleges help students develop interpersonal skills. Principals, including B.L. Shivakumar, regret that students have lost the opportunity to be in physical classrooms, which is the starting point for grooming young adults. P. Wilson, principal of Madras Christian College, which is known for its cultural events and has a vibrant theatre and musical culture, rued that the pandemic had robbed the students of the opportunity to develop that special connection with their college. “Every institution has its unique traditions and practices that are cherished by students as memories to be carried for life. Students play a major role in conserving those traditions and redefining them for enrichment over a period. It is these experiences that shape the institutional perception and, in turn, serve as an investment for the future. Cultural continuity can also be referred to as the maintenance of the traditions and social structures that bring stability to a society.” He added, “It is not education in terms of academic excellence that makes up the personality but co-curricular and extracurricular activities the students are involved in and the student autonomy that they enjoy as part of their administration set-up that makes them cherish the nostalgic moments even after decades in their life,” he said.  Students and teachers may have adapted themselves to changes in the learning-teaching process but the parents are deeply disappointed with the way exams have been conducted. “What is the point in conducting online exams by letting students be themselves after having covered the portions through a virtual classroom session? The rather ‘farcical’ evaluation of students that leaves them nowhere in terms of knowledge or skills has meant precious little for their future,” said Kavitha, a parent. The next step As institutions continue to remain shut for the second academic year and worries abound about students losing out on yet another year of learning, both the government and the educational institutions alike have concerns about the growing learning gap. The School Education Department, recognising the gap, has suggested a refresher course for students whenever campuses reopen. In a mammoth exercise, the Department has initiated a computer skills training programme for over 2 lakh teachers earlier this month to enable them to handle computers and explore various platforms to take virtual classes better. The teachers hope the government will take steps to address the digital divide. The Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association recently appealed to the government to consider distributing tablets to students, in line with the free laptop scheme for senior school and college students. For a brief time that educational institutions reopened earlier this year, the government as well as schools and colleges themselves explored the possibility of having both physical classes and online learning because of safety norms that do not permit large groups of students gathering on campus at the same time. While access is still a major problem, especially in rural areas, systematic and sustained community initiatives have been the need of the hour to reach out to children. “For primary students of government and aided schools, the School Education Department can start a community or neighbourhood initiative, under which teachers and social organisations can help with basic reading, writing and activities for children. We need to develop resources for the same,” said Patric Raymond, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation. Underscoring the need to look beyond e-learning, Mr. Raymond said a sustained approach was needed to ensure that learning continued. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association has urged the government to restore the daily 2GB free data scheme for students. “In fact, free data must be enhanced by a minimum of an additional GB to ensure online interface for five hours a day,” said P. David Livingstone, zonal secretary, Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association. ( With inputs from Soma Basu in Madurai, Karthik Madhavan and R. Akileish in Coimbatore, P.V. Srividya in Hosur, S.P. Saravanan in Erode , Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem and Kathelene Antony and R. Krishnamoorthy in Tiruchi)   For primary students, the School Education Department can start a community or neighbourhood initiative under which teachers and social organisations can help with basic reading, writing and activities for children Patric Raymond General secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-screens-replace-schools/article35921009.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||185 cases in Erode district||Erode district on Saturday reported 185 new COVID-19 cases taking the total tally to 96,087. While 132 persons were discharged, 1,800 continue to be under treatment. As many as 130 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 129 cases were indigenous and 19 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, two deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 62 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. A 65-year-old man from Namakkal succumbed to the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/185-cases-in-erode-district/article35921058.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||President’s medal for 24 officers from T.N.||On the occasion of Independence Day, the Union government announced the award of President’s medals for 24 officers of Tamil Nadu Police. Two officers- Vinit Dev Wankhede, Additional Director, General of Police State, Crime Records Bureau, Chennai and D. Jayavel, Commandant of Tamil Nadu Special Police X Battalion, Ulundurpet have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. Twenty two others will receive the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. The list included M. Manohar, Superintendent of Police (SP), Virudhunagar; V. Balasubramanian, DC, Central Crime Branch III, Greater Chennai Police; M. Thillai Natarajan, SP, Crime Branch CID-III, Chennai; M. Ananthan, Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP) I Battalion, Tiruchi. T. Senthilkumar, Commandant, TSP VIII Battalion, New Delhi; M. Radhakrishnan, Addl. Dy. Commissioner of Police, Armed Reserve-I, Greater Chennai Police; P. Sivan, Deputy Commandant , TSP V Battalion, Avadi; R. Sushilkumar, Addl. Superintendent of Police, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, Chennai. A. Natarajan, Asst. Commissioner of Police, Armed Reserve-I, Greater Chennai Police; J. Jayakaran Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Armed Reserve, Vellore district; S. Rajakaleeswaran, DSP, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Thiruppathur; P. Karuppiah, DSP, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Virudhunagar; T. Gopal, DSP, Special Branch CID, Chennai. S. Namasivayam, DSP, Srivilliputhur Sub-Division, Virudhunagar district; N. Ramanathan, DSP, Kallakurichi Sub-Division, Kallakurichi district; D. Selvakkan David, Inspector, DVAC, SIC, Chennai; T. Sadhasivam, Inspector of Police, Special Branch CID, Chennai; A. Welcome Rajaseelan, Inspector , Special Branch CID, Chennai. C.S. Gowri , Inspector, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Service Recruitment, Board, Chennai; V. Shanmugam, Sub-Inspector of Police, Special Task Force, Erode; S. Ruban, Sub-Inspector, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Coimbatore; and S. Rangasamy, Special Sub-Inspector of Police, Vigilance and Anti Corruption, Headquarters, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presidents-medal-for-24-officers-from-tn/article35921023.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Budget seeks to boost T.N. farming profile||The government would implement a scheme called Kalaignarin Anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam in a span of five years to ensure overall agricultural development and self-sufficiency in all villages. To be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 250 crore with State funds, the scheme will cover over 12,000 village panchayats. During 2021-22, it will be implemented in 2,500 village panchayats. Prior to the implementation of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s decision to bring 11.75 lakh hectares of fallow land into cultivation in the next 10 years, preliminary surveys have been carried out in 36 districts, and 19.31 lakh hectares have been identified. The State government will implement the scheme to promote solar pumps to meet the increasing demand for electricity for well irrigation in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/budget-seeks-to-boost-tn-farming-profile/article35921001.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 1||All through his speech, the Agriculture Minister quoted heavily from various Tamil texts, which referred to agricultural produce from ancient Tamil society. The verses from literary texts were quoted in Tamil, as far as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-1/article35920997.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 2||When Chief Minister M.K. Stalin entered the Assembly hall on Saturday morning, his party MLAs greeted him by thumping their desks to mark the completion of 100 days in office. However, there was no visible decoration in the Assembly hall to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-2/article35920998.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 3||While reading from his prepared speech, the Agriculture Minister paused on multiple occasions, expecting a thumping of desks from party MLAs. At times, he did not hesitate to request: “I could use some claps!” His party members did not let him down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-3/article35920999.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 4||DMK MLA T.R.B. Rajaa was the sole legislator in the House who sported a green shawl to mark the first exclusive Budget for agriculture. When Speaker M. Appavu acknowledged him for his gesture, the MLA, elected from the Delta region, thanked the Chair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-4/article35921000.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Independence Day celebration: District Administration - S.Sivarasu, Collector, hoists the national flag, Armed Reserve grounds,9.05 a.m.; Tiruchi Corporation - Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman, hoists the tricolour, Corporation office, 9.05 a.m.; BHEL – S.V.Srinivasan, General Manager (in charge), BHEL, Tiruchi, unfurls national flag, Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Kailasapuram, 8 a.m.; Desiya Sindhanai Kazhagam and Shrimati Indira Gandhi College - Independence Day, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose 125th birth anniversary and Bharthiar centenary celebrations, Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, L.Murugan, virtually inaugurates exhibition, 11.15 a.m.; Department of Posts - A.Govindarajan, Postmaster General, Central Region, Tamil Nadu, hoists the national flag, Head Post Office campus, 8.30 a.m.; Sundarraj Nagar, Highways Colony and Kavery Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association - flag hoisting, K. Jayabalan, presides, near Corporation Park, 8.30 a.m., book exhibition by New Century Book House, 7 a.m. to 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article35921424.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||When students, workers, and intellectuals joined forces||Bangalore (now Bengaluru) may not be a city that is found highlighted in the annals of India’s struggle for freedom, but the flavour of the movement here and the players in it were distinct, say researchers and historians, as the metropolis wakes up to 75th Independence Day on Sunday. The spirit of the national struggle in Bangalore was marked by a huge participation of textile mill workers and students, along with Congressmen, in several movements for abouttwo decades. From two sides Though it was low key compared to other big cities of the time, the freedom movement saw the participation of intelligentsia, including students, teachers and lawyers, with the boisterous voice coming from the trade unions representing the textile mills that dotted the city’s landscape back then. If the study circles, patronised by the intelligentsia, played their role in the dissemination of ideas through booklets and pamphlets, the mill workers and students provided the strength on the ground, making it an eclectic mix. “The Congress-led national movement was sluggish in Mysore (now Mysuru) generally, though fairly visible and active in Bangalore, KGF, and Bhadravati. By the 1940s, there was greater Congress presence, and in Quit India Movement in 1942, Bangalore was the scene of quite a lot of strikes by labourers in support of nationalist demands, as well as by students,” said historian Janaki Nair. Central College, Government Engineering College, Law College, and Maharani’s College provided platforms for like-minded teachers and students, and workers of Binny Mills, Raja Mills and Minerva Mills actively supported the movements. The late freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy, a Congressman who passed away recently, has recollected in his memoir Nenepina Surali Tegedaga about the Congress-led freedom movement, especially the Quit India Movement, with the support of Left leaders. “Bengaluru did not witness much violence or mammoth protests. The Congress was seen as being cordial to the Wadiyars of Mysore, whichmuted the response. Unlike presidencies, Mysore was also not under the direct rule of the British. Autonomously, trade unions and students were opposed to the colonial rule,” recalled G. Ramakrishna, an English professor, author, and associate of many freedom fighters. Early days Earlier to this phase of ferment, a Congress committee had been formed in Bangalore in 1921. The Khilafat movement (1920-1922) found widespread support among the Hindus and Muslims in both the city and Civil and Military Station. In 1921, mob violence erupted in a protest against the visit of the Prince of Wales. This period also marked multiple visits of Mahatma Gandhi, with his first visit coming in May 1915, soon after his return from South Africa. His address attracted thousands, and one such public meeting at Glass House in Lalbagh in August 1927 is believed to have attracted 50,000 people. Even as visits of moderate national leaders influenced freedom fighters in Bangalore, literature with revolutionary ideas of Bhagat Singh and Chandrashekhar Azad made their way into the student and youth circles in Bangalore. Mysore Bank Square witnessed several protests, but barring a few, they were non-violent. Dr. Nair identifies two waves of strikes in 1942. The first following the arrest of Gandhiji was short-lived, spontaneous, and marked by an alliance between school/college students and workers. The primary attack was on government property. Five people were killed in one police firing on mobs.  Next wave The second wave followed regular meetings of workers in Malleswaram and Srirampuram. “More local leaders, and workers themselves organised these strikes which were for specific labour demands,” said Dr. Nair. Binny, Minerva and Mysore mills workers were on strike for nearly one and a half months. Workers showed extraordinary strength during the Quit India Movement, but by November the spirit of Quit India had waned, not just in Mysore but all over, she said. Several important sites of the movement in the city, such as the mills, have all but disappeared, while some such as Bannappa Park or Mysore Bank Circle carry little bearing the stamp of history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/when-students-workers-and-intellectuals-joined-forces/article35920944.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP chief empowered to implement strict rules||With the COVID-19 positivity rate at 0.75% in Bengaluru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta had been given full powers to implement strict rules and norms in case the positivity rate breaches 2%, and more than 40% of oxygen beds were occupied. The BBMP has been instructed to be keep ready ICU and oxygen beds for children and adults in case the numbers rise in the city, Mr. Bommai said. The BBMP has clarified that not all inter-Statetravellers have to produce a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours. In keeping with the current guidelines issued by the State government, this is mandatory only for travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra, as both the States have reported an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Advisory to RWAs D. Randeep, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health), told The Hindu that the civic body’s advisory to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), which was issued recently, had stated that residents coming from Kerala and Maharashtra had to either produce a negative RT-PCR report or undergo testing and remain under mandatory home quarantine till the results are declared. “The civic body cannot be issuing revised guidelines every time a State is added to the list of those reporting increasing COVID-19 cases. Hence, the advisory was generic in nature and had mandated the RWAs to adopt the latest guidelines as and when issued by the State government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-chief-empowered-to-implement-strict-rules/article35920904.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It is time for innovation in Lok Adalat system, says Chief Justice Oka||It is time for innovation and development of new ideas to take forward the system of Lok Adalat, a successful tool for alternative dispute resolution process, said Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka, on Saturday. He said it was time that the litigants in motor vehicle accident claim cases were told about the settlement facility available through Lok Adalat at the stage of filing of claim petition before the tribunals. He was participating in the inaugural ceremony of the day-long Statewide Mega Lok Adalat organised by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA). The Chief Justice said that even the petitions filed in the civil courts for higher compensation in land acquisition cases need not wait for several years till the cases reach the stage of framing of issues as these cases could be referred to the Lok Adalat at the initial stage itself. The cases in which either the litigants or the insurance companies show no interest for settlement should be taken up immediately for hearing for final decision on claims, he said. It is also important to extend the scope of Lok Adalat to settle commercial disputes in the commercial courts by taking assistance of experts such as chartered accountants and others, he added. A.J. Sadashiva, a retired judge of the High Court and the first executive chairperson of KSLSA, who inaugurated the Mega Lok Adalat, emphasised that the KSLSA should give priority to educating people, particularly women, on their rights and liabilities in law. He recalled the legal awareness programmes conducted during late 1990s in the State. Justice Aravind Kumar, a judge of the High Court and executive chairperson of KSLSA, said that Karnataka has been successful in amicably resolving a large number of cases through Mega Lok Adalats because of a well-set SOP involving stakeholders in judiciary and the public authorities, and getting through to the litigants through various modes, including the media, advocates, and paralegal volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-time-for-innovation-in-lok-adalat-system-says-chief-justice-oka/article35920940.ece
15 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam: Students of THiS institutions do well||Many schools, which are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme, boasted 100% pass in the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations, results of which were announced on Monday. Many students got high grades in the examinations. Shantinikethana School, Girinagar, achieved 100% pass 16 years in row with 15 of 48 students securing distinctions. Surabhi J., with 97.28% was the topper. For the 15th consecutive year, Oxford English High School, Nagarabhavi achieved 100% pass and 11 of 60 students secured A+ grade. Hema K., with 98.56% stood first. The New Cambridge School, Vijayanagar, achieved 100% pass with 40 of 300 students securing distinctions. Vachana Chandrika H.D. with a score of 621 marks stood first. All 85 students at Mahila Seva Samaja School, K.R. Road passed and 10 students got A+ grade. Devi Vyshunavi with 97.12% emerged topper. For the fifth consecutive year, Lourdes High School, Nandini Layout achieved 100% pass with 16 of 118 students getting A+ grade. Mahesh R., by securing 97.76% stood first.For 17 years in row, Auden Public School, Girinagar achieved 100% pass with one of 11 students getting A+ grade. Pravallika M with 91.36% emerged topper. For the eighth year, SJR Public School, Rajajinagar achieved 100% pass with 13 of 84 students getting A+ grade. Akshita R., secured 99.04% to emerge topper. Sri Vidya Mandir High School, Malleswaram achieved 100% pass with 79 of 211 students getting A+ grade. Amit Prakash with 625 marks shared the top spot in the State with 156 other students. All 111 students at St. Anthony’s Church School, Gangondanahalli, passed and four students got A+ grade. Shama H., with 93.76% was the topper.In St. John’s High School, Papareddypalya, six of 47 students got A+ grade. Kiran L and Sachin Gowda U S., both secured 97.12% to emerge toppers. In Jnanabodhini School, Seshadripuram, all 39 students passed and one student got A+ grade. Sanjana S., with 90.4% stood first. In St. Claret School, Jalahalli, all 222 students passed and 32 students secured A+ grade. Sri Valli S V., with 614 marks was the topper. All 159 students at Seshadripuram High School, Yelahanka New Town, passed and 27 students got A+ grade. Nagashree Avadhani and Sriram B., both scored 623 marks to emerge toppers. For the ninth consecutive year, St. Dominic Savio School, Govindapura, achieved 100% pass results. In all 3 or 40 students got A+ grade. Miranda English School, HAL 3rd Stage, too achieved 100% pass with 86% students passing in first class. Suchitra with 504 marks stood first. Sophia High School, Old Airport Road, achieved 100% pass results. Deepa S., with 603 marks was the topper. Sree Cauvery School, Indiranagar, achieved 100% pass with 37 of 124 students securing distinctions. In all 70 students passed in first class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-exam-students-of-this-institutions-do-well/article35920915.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two from Karnataka get President’s medal||The following police officers/personnel of Karnataka State have been conferred with President’s Police Medal for distinguished service and police medal for meritorious service by the President of India on the occasion of Independence Day.  President’s medal for distinguished service: Umesh Kumar, IPS, ADGP, EO, CID, Bengaluru; and Arun Chakravarathy J., IPS, ADGP, ISD, Bengaluru.  Police medal for meritorious service: M.V. Ramakrishna Prasad, Commandant, 3rd Bn., KSRP, Bengaluru; Venkatesh Naidu K.S., ACP, Malleswaram Sub-division; Ravi P., ACP, Chickpet Sub- division; Naveen Kulkarni, Deputy Superintendent of Police State Intelligence, Bengaluru; Siddaraju G., PI Thalaghattapura Police Station, South division; M.J. Dayanand, PI, ACB, Bengaluru; Shankargouda Patil, CPI, Kalaburagi Rural Circle, Kalaburagi; S.B. Malagi, Special RSI, KSRP Training School, Kangralli, Belagavi; S.E. Geetha, WPSI, State Intelligence Bengaluru; D.S. Govardhana Rao, Special ARSI, 3rd Bn. KSRP, Bengaluru; Mohana, ASI Cyber Crime Police Station, Mangaluru city; Rama Naik, ASI, Wireless, Bengaluru; Mohammed Munnavar Pasha, CHC, Jayanagar PS, Tumakuru; S.P. Kerutagi, Special RHC, 4th Bn. KSRP, Bengaluru; B.S. Dada Ameer, AHC; 29, DAR, Ballari; V. Somashankar, AHC, APTS Yelahanka, Bengaluru; R. Kumar, CHC: 299, Computer Sec. Chikkamagaluru; Syed Abdul Khadar, Spl. RHC, 3rd Bn. KSRP, Bengaluru; Gopalappa Denvendrappa Kotabagi, CHC: 1497 CCRB, Hubballi-Dharwad city. Home Guards, Civil Defence medal The President of India has conferred award of the Home Guards and Civil Defence medal for meritorious service to the following officers/ officials of Karnataka on the occasion of the Independence Day: Ajmal Shakeeb Mohammed Commandant (HG); Surendra Kumar Nareppa Chaldiganahalli, Platoon Commander (HG); Jagannatha Kariyappa, Platoon Commander (HG); Nimbana Gouda, Senior Platoon Commander (HG); Rajesh Shankaranarayana Makkam, Divisional Warden (CD) and Mohan Krishnappa, Divisional Warden (CD).  Fire services  The following officers and personnel from the Karnataka State Fire and Emergency Services have been awarded the President’s medal for their meritorious service: B.P. Krishnappa, Fire Station Officer, Hiriyur Fire Station, Chidananda D. Mane, Assistant Fire Station Officer, Belagavi Fire Station, Meer Mahamad Gouse, Leading Fireman - 1244, Bantwal Fire Station, K.R. Manjunath, Fireman Driver - 1748, Tirthahalli Fire Station and Prashanth, Fireman Driver - 1693, Hebbal Fire Station, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-from-karnataka-get-presidents-medal/article35920931.ece
15 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on August 17 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the areas serviced from 220/66/11-kV Yarandahalli MUSS in view of carrying out maintenance and other emergency works. According to a Bescom press release, the areas to be affected are Kachanayakanahalli, Jigani Link Road, Bommasandra, both sides of Bommasandra Industrial Area, Phase 1 and 2, behind D-Mart, ACC Road, Suprajith Road, SLN Nagar, Infosys Colony, Yarandahalli, R.K. Township, and Sriramapura village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article35920917.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reva varsity launches ‘One student, one tree’ drive||To mark the 75th Independence Day, REVA University has launched ‘One Student, One Tree’ campaign. It will hold a year-long Independence Day-themed celebrations. REVA University will plant 15,000 saplings in various parts of India by August 2022, starting from Bengaluru through the tree plantation drive ‘REVA Vanamahotsava’, an initiative for a greener nation. Each school will celebrate the spirit of a free country through an event every month until the Independence Day in 2022, stated a press release. In the first phase, students residing at REVA hostels and faculty members of REVA will be roped in to plant around 3,000 saplings. The plantation drive will be carried out in association with the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reva-varsity-launches-one-student-one-tree-drive/article35920901.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to develop 5,000 recharge wells||To commemorate the 75th Independence Day, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has committed to develop 5,000 recharge wells in all parks in the city as well as plant 75,000 saplings. The drive was launched by civic chief Gaurav Gupta at Freedom Park. The 5,000 recharge wells will be created in all of the 1,300 parks in the city to avoid rainwater run-off and to recharge the groundwater table. There already were 24 recharge wells at Freedom Park, and six more are being planned. Each well will be 12 feet in depth and 4 feet in circumference, which will hold approximately 4,000 litres of water. With 5,000 recharge wells, nearly 2 crore litres of water can be saved. The BBMP has identified locations where the 75,000 saplings will be planted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-develop-5000-recharge-wells/article35920924.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,632 new cases||Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,632 fresh cases of COVID-19, which takes the total number of infections to 29,28,033. Data from the Health and Family Welfare Department showed that Dakshina Kannada recorded the maximum number of cases at 411, followed by Bengaluru Urban with 377. Among other districts, Udipi had 169 new cases. Several districts, including Gadag, Bidar and Yadgir, reported no new cases. Twenty-five people succumbed to the infection across the State, taking the death toll to 36,958. Dakshina Kannada saw the maximum number of deaths at seven. As many as 1,612 people were discharged on Saturday across Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1632-new-cases/article35920909.ece
15 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Elephant takes a stroll in Mudigere town||A wild tusker took a stroll in Mudigere town in the early hours of Saturday, leaving residents in fear and shock. The animal was seen in the town between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. Its movements have been captured in CCTVs installed by shops in the town. A few local people spotted the animal and informed the forest officials. The officers with the help of local people succeeded in driving the animal out of town. The animal was last seen near Halase village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-takes-a-stroll-in-mudigere-town/article35920945.ece
15 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Joy of Giving Week’ observed at INS Vikramaditya||As part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, INS Vikramaditya celebrated the week leading to the Independence Day as ‘Joy of Giving Week’ by conducting various programmes. According to a press release issued by the naval base at Karwar, the initiative aimed at encouraging the ship’s crew in acts of generosity by giving donations, time, and engaging in simple acts of kindness. The activities included giving aid to three schools in Uttara Kannada district, blood donation by 75 personnel to Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences, planting of 75 saplings, and cleaning a 7.5-km stretch of the beach within the naval base. This apart, 750 personnel of INS Vikramaditya enthusiastically participated in a 7.5 km run. The crew donated over four lakh rupees towards buying essential items for Raghavendra School, Saraswati Vidyalaya, and Asha Niketan School for the Hearing Impaired in Karwar. Seventy-five personnel from the ship worked for over 75 hours at Asha Niketan School, Karwar, to beautify and paint the school and also install a solar water heater. Capability enhancement of Raghavendra Residential School for Special Children and Old Age Home, Yallapur, was undertaken by providing 25 beds and essential commodities. Heads of these institutions and teachers lauded the initiatives, the release said. INS Vikramaditya, the aircraft carrier of the Indian Navy, based in Karwar Naval Base, is one of the most powerful military assets of the nation and is the flag ship of the western fleet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joy-of-giving-week-observed-at-ins-vikramaditya/article35921078.ece
15 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KRS to field candidates in all HDMC wards||With the State Election Commission announcing the calendar of events for elections to municipal corporations, the Karnataka Rashtra Samiti (KRS) has decided to field candidates in all the wards of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC). State treasurer of KRS K.B. Aravind told presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday that the party’s main aim was to give clean governance and to root out corruption at all levels of administration. Despite decades of independence, basic amenities had remained a mirage in many areas and the party would like to set things right, he said. Mr. Aravind said that candidates with clean image will be fielded by the party. Already 29 candidates have been finalised for the wards in Dharwad and the list of candidates for Hubballi will be finalised in a couple of days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krs-to-field-candidates-in-all-hdmc-wards/article35921076.ece
15 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||No proposal for bus fare hike, says Transport Minister||Admitting the financial crunch caused by the rise in fuel prices, Transport Minister B. Sriramulu said that there was no proposal before the government to hike bus fares in the State. “We are aware of the rising prices of fuel. Yet, we are not going to hike bus fares to maintain the revenues. COVID-19 has worsened the financial condition of the people and the government doesn’t want to add to their woes. We will take such decisions that would not affect people further,” Mr. Sriramulu said after holding a meeting with transport officials at the Regional Transport Office in Ballari on Saturday. He also announced that a driving training centre and seizer yard to keep the seized vehicles would shortly come up on about 10 acres in Ballari. When asked about the complaints that those in the State-owned transport corporations who recently led the employees’ agitation for better benefits were targeted and transferred to different places as punishment, the Minister said that he would look into the issue and assured that no employee would face any of such inconvenience. When asked about Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh’s discontentment over the allocation of his portfolio, Mr. Sriramulu said that he had already talked to Mr. Singh and exuded confidence that the issue would shortly be resolved. “After hoisting the national flag at Hosapet to mark the Independence Day on Sunday, Mr. Singh would leave for Bengaluru and discuss the issue with party leaders,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Minister visited the Ballari Depot of Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (KKRTC) where KKRTC Managing Director M. Kurma Rao briefed the Minister on the status of the company and the initiatives taken for improving the services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-proposal-for-bus-fare-hike-says-transport-minister/article35921075.ece
15 August 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Now, Vajpayee’s name dragged into controversy||Dragging the names of late leaders to score political points continued on Saturday, with Congress MLA Priyank Kharge talking about the former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee to hit back at BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi who had earlier spoken lightly of India’s first Prime Minister Jawahralal Nehru. Responding to Mr. Ravi who had said that the Congress may open hukka bars in Nehru’s name in their office, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and MLA for Chittapur, Mr. Kharge, asked whether the BJP government would name bars and liquor outlets after the late BJP veteran “considering that he used to consume alcohol”. Responding to Mr. Ravi who had made the comment citing that Nehru smoked, Mr. Kharge said, “Is smoking a crime? Do none in the BJP smoke? It is said that [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee used to consume alcohol. Does the BJP name bars and liquor centres after him? Nehru and Vajapayee are statesmen and we should not talk lightly about them. All the major institutions in the country were built in the Nehru period and they carry his name. The BJP has no institution built under its seven years of rule to name after its leaders. That is why they are into name-changing business,” Mr. Kharge said. He also took exception to a flyover in Bengaluru being named after Hindutva icon V.D. Savarkar. Third wave Pointing to the possible the third wave of the COVID-19, Mr. Kharge criticised the government for its “poor preparedness” to handle the situation while raking up issues that were irrelevant. “Experts have time and again cautioned that the third wave of the pandemic might severely hit children. But, the government is displaying indifference by making no preparations. It is holding meeting after meeting. Kalaburagi district administration is in a sound sleep in this regard. Only 9% of the targeted group in the district is vaccinated with the second dose,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-vajpayees-name-dragged-into-controversy/article35920919.ece
15 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Steps being taken to add more teachers in KK’||B.C. Nagesh, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, said that measures will be taken to appoint more teachers to balance the teacher-student ratio in Kalyana Karnataka. “I am aware of the fact that the number of teachers in the KK region is inadequate. We will shortly come up with a decision to appoint more teachers to maintain a good teacher-student ratio,” he told presspersons in Kalaburagi on Saturday. On the government’s decision to start physical classes for class IX and higher, the Minister said that the decision was driven by the fact that the online classes were not reaching around 40% of the students in rural areas. “COVID-19 is on the decline in rural areas. Online classes are not accessible to around 40% of the students in rural areas forcing them to lag in the learning process. Considering these facts, we have decided to reopen the classes for class XI and higher on an experimental basis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steps-being-taken-to-add-more-teachers-in-kk/article35920937.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases against infected persons if found in public||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday warned of registering cases against COVID-19 positive persons and their contacts if they were found roaming in public. Presiding a virtual review meeting here, Dr. Rajendra asked officials to keep as many infected persons as possible at the COVID Care Centres instead of home isolation. Whoever is allowed to be isolated at home, should strictly be monitored by officials concerned that they strictly comply with the quarantine norms, he said. During his virtual meeting with district and taluk level officers, Dr. Rajendra asked officials to follow directions of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and visit houses of infected persons. If the infected persons and their contacts are found roaming around, the same should be visually recorded and an FIR should be registered against them. Officials were asked to shift COVID-19 positive pregnant women in the locality to the nearest government hospital. Care should be taken that there are no deaths of any positive patient. Because of gradual increase in the test positivity rate, Dr. Rajendra asked officials to increase the number of RT-PCR tests. On an average, 15,000 RT-PCR tests should be done every day and this should not stop on Sundays and government holidays, he said. Directing officials to strengthen tracing of primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients, he said staff from the Education Department should be involved in this task. Adequate number of masks, sanitisers, gloves, PPE kits, and other essential items should be made available across primary health centres and other government health facilities. Officials should be on the field to effectively implement the weekend lockdown. Those in need of vehicles and ambulances should forthwith take sanctions and make arrangements. Arrangements should be make to take services of technicians wherever there is a need. The recreational centres have been closed and hotels and liquor outlets have been permitted to function with 50% of the capacity. Realising the seriousness of the situation, Dr. Rajendra asked officials and other government staff to function responsibly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-against-infected-persons-if-found-in-public/article35921396.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||School admissions: Sirsi, DK top the list||With admission of 98.3% and 98.1% of the targeted 1.1 lakh and 3.18 lakh students, Sirsi and Dakshina Kannada education districts respectively ranked first and second in terms of admission of students to government and other schools so far this year. According to the Students Achievement Tracking System, as of Thursday, as many as 1.08 lakh students have been admitted to class 1 and other classes in schools in Sirsi district while 3.12 lakh students have been admitted in Dakshina Kannada. Chitradurga comes third with admission of 2.51 lakh, which is 98.08% of the target of 2.56 lakh. In all, 98.14 lakh children have been admitted in schools across the State and this was 93.01% of the target of 1.05 crore. There are 29 districts whose achievement are between 92% and 97%. It includes Karwar education district that has reported 99,757 admissions (97.86%), followed by 1.85 lakh in Gadag (97.62%), 2.55 lakh in Yadgir (97.43%), 1.54 lakh in Udupi (97.19%), 5.20 lakh in Chikkodi (97.14%), 2.87 lakh in Koppal (97.12%) and 2.75 lakh in Haveri district (96.99%). The Bengaluru Urban North and Bengaluru Urban South districts are placed at 11th and 12th position with admission of 5.31 lakh (77.19%) and 8.22 lakh (76.09%). Of the admission to government schools, Udupi district ranks top with admission of 59,123 students (103%), followed by Dakshina Kannada with 99,633 (101%), 97,112 in Mandya district (100%), 1.96 lakh in Koppal district (99.87%), and 1.74 lakh in Yadgiri district (99.52%). Dakshina Kannada Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said this year there is marked increase in admission to government schools in the district and other parts of the State. In Dakshina Kannada, it is 7% more to number of students admitted in government schools last year. Among the reasons for this increase include the inability of parents to pay fees in the private schools, he said. Prakash Anchan, convener of the association formed to save government schools, said a good number of students of over 300 private schools that were closed, were admitted in government schools. “People also have faith in the quality of education in government schools,” Mr. Anchan said.  Total admissions in schools as of Thursday: 9,81,4042 Admissions in govt. schools: 44,53,032 Admissions in aided schools: 11,97,526 Admissions in unaided schools: 38,91,542||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-admissions-sirsi-dakshina-kannada-top-the-list/article35920923.ece
15 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Manipal girl for Special Olympics in Austria||Archana Jaivittal M.J. from Asare, a home for the specially challenged being run by Archana Trust and Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), is all set to participate in the Special Olympics World Championship Dance Sport 2021 at Graz, Austria, on August 19 and 20. She will be the sole representative from India in this category. Ms. Jaivittal is prepared for a 90-second classical solo category performance at the competition. Through her long journey within Special Olympics, she made India proud when she bagged a bronze in swimming at the SOAP Regional Games held in 2013. She repeated the feat in the Abu Dhabi World Games 2019 winning another bronze. She is eager, and confident, to participate in this new category of Dance Sport that has once again brought her to the spotlight. She left for Graz last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manipal-girl-for-special-olympics-in-austria/article35921155.ece
15 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||17-yr-old boy rescued||The Railway Police rescued a 17-year-old boy from Bengaluru at the Udupi Railway Station on Friday. According to a press release, the boy had left his house in Bengaluru and boarded a train. The Railway Protection Force personnel found him without ticket on the train and deboarded him at the Udupi Railway Station. Then, Prabhakar Achar and Yogish Shetty from the Udupi District Child Protection Unit took the boy to the Child Welfare Centre. Following counselling, CWC president Ronald Furtado ordered to place the boy in an institution in Udupi, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-yr-old-boy-rescued/article35921156.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DC to address concerns of traditional fishermen||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday reportedly promised to address the concerns of traditional fishermen being affected by the coastal berth project at Bengre near here, including alternative space for berthing boats and houses for eight fishermen. A statement from Phalguni Sampradayika Meenugarara Sangh, Bengre, here, said Dr. Rajendra directed the Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner and the tahsildar to issue orders handing over land identified for berthing boats from the Ports Department to the Fisheries Department in three days. He also asked both the departments to rehabilitate eight families losing their houses for the project at the same village. Besides asking officials to resolve the problems of those engaged in drying fish at the place now identified for coastal berth, the DC also directed officials to ensure jobs generated from the coastal berth project were given to project displaced people. Traditional fishermen had been protesting the project saying it would displace them without any alternative arrangement and had berthed their boats at the project site. The Ports and Fisheries Departments had attempted to evacuate protesting fishermen using police force; however, the protesters did not budge. The district in-charge Minister had held two rounds of meetings with the fishermen and the district administration. Fishermen had agreed to leave the protest if he administration provides alternative place for berthing traditional boats and accommodation to the affected families. Accordingly, Dr. Rajendra scheduled his visit to the project site on Saturday, inspected the alternative place for berthing boats, houses getting affected by the project, and the like. He travelled by boat from Kasba Bengre to Thota Bengre and then to the river mouth to assess the impact of the project, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-to-address-concerns-of-traditional-fishermen/article35921394.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fr. Roche to be declared ‘Servant of God’ today||The Udupi Diocese has made all arrangements to declare Holy Priest Fr. Alfred Roche, fondly known as AmchoPadryab, as the Servant of God on Sunday, in recognition of his service to society. The declaration ceremony would be conducted by Udupi Bishop Gerald Issac Lobo at 8 a.m. at the Holy Family Church, Brahmavar, where Fr. Roche had served as the first Capuchin parish priest and where he was laid to rest. Servant of God is the first step in designating an individual who is being investigated by the church for possible canonization as a saint, said a release. Upon declaration, Fr. Roche will be the first from Udupi diocese and the second person of Karnataka origin, to be declared as Servant of God. The first one was Mgr. Raymond Francis Camillus Mascarenhas, former vicar feneral of the Diocese of Mangalore and Founder of Congregation of the Sisters of the Little Flower of Bethany. He was declared Servant of God in 2008. Fr. Roche was born Peter John Roche in Moodahadu under St. Peter’s Church Barkuru on April 3, 1924. After completing his primary and high school education in Moodahadu, Sastan and Milagres Kallianpur, he joined the Capuchins in 1944 and received the name Alfred. He was ordained priest on April 11, 1951 at Kotagiri. He was the first Capuchin parish priest of the Holy Family Church of Brahmavar in 1956 at a time when the region was reeling under poverty, illiteracy etc. He later went on preaching the word of God and living a life of pious, humble Capuchin as parish priest in Binaga and Lower Kasarkod in Karwar Karwar where he is already considered a Saint. He came back to Brahmavar in mid-90s after his retirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fr-roche-to-be-declared-servant-of-god-today/article35921397.ece
15 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||580 new cases in Udupi, DK||Dakshina Kannada reported seven COVID-19 deaths and 411 new cases on Saturday. There are four containment zones in Mangaluru taluk and two zones in Belthangady taluk. With 371 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 3,682. The test positivity rate was put at 3.73%. A fine of Rs. 1,03,01,970 has so far been collected in 84,663 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported one death and 169 new cases. With 9,102 people vaccinated on Saturday, a total of 13,05,417 have received vaccine in Dakshina Kannada so far of which 9,93,378 received the first dose while 3,12,039 received second dose||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/580-new-cases-in-udupi-dk/article35921398.ece
15 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru man beats COVID-19 after 104 days of hospital stay||After spending 104 days in two different hospitals battling COVID-19 in the second wave, Murugesh, a resident of Ittigegud here, was discharged from the hospital after finally testing negative. The lengthy fight against the virus and the successful recovery from an acute condition has become a sort of a case study for doctors, who have described it as one of the rarest cases of recovery after prolonged ICU stay, suffering from severe complications due to COVID-19. Though he has been discharged, his ordeal is still not over as he has to overcome the serious damage caused to his lungs. Murugesh, 42, who is into wood works, has to be on oxygen support for at least a month. Out of 104 days of hospital stay, he was under aggressive intensive care for 93 days. The determined fight of doctors and nursing staff is highly commendable, said the patient’s family. Murugesh had to be given 60 to 70 litres of oxygen per minute to keep him alive. His oxygen necessity has now dropped to 6 to 8 litres per minute, which is said to be managed at home. The patient defeated COVID-19 not once but twice as he was reinfected during the course of treatment. He first tested positive on April 29 and was hospitalised on May 1 after his condition worsened. His wife and two children had also tested positive but recovered under home isolation. Due to severe lung infection, Murugesh’s CT severity score showed 25/25, which stunned doctors. His saturation level had dropped to as low as 30%. Unable to get a non-invasive ventilator at the State-run K.R. Hospital, Murugesh was rushed to a private hospital near the palace here where he was in critical care unit for nearly 33 days and thereafter, tested negative. He had to be shifted to another private hospital in Jayalakshmipuram because of complications but eventually tested positive again. His condition turned critical and he ended up in the ICU yet again for over 60 days. Girish Kumar S., consultant in internal medicine, who closely monitored the case and coordinated with doctors treating him at the private hospitals, said Murugesh’s case could be one of the longest hospital stays for a COVID-19 patient in the State or perhaps in South India. He also successfully overcame ICU psychosis and superbug infection. The intensivists and physicians took the case as a challenge and saved him, he said. “Murugesh suffered serious inflammation triggering fluid build-up in lungs. He is on anti-fibrotic drugs for preventing pulmonary fibrosis. His dependence on oxygen had to be taken care of at home by his family,” said Dr. Girish, while thanking Dr. Gururaj, Dr. M.K. Aiyappa, the nursing staff, and physiotherapists for their support in saving the patient. The family so far spent nearly Rs. 25 lakh on his treatment even though half of it was taken care of by the government under Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST). Unable to foot the bills after the SAST benefit was halted after Murugesh tested negative on August 7, the family decided to shift him to home and take care of his oxygen needs. His daily expenses will come up to Rs. 6,000-Rs. 7,000 daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-man-beats-covid-19-after-104-days-of-hospital-stay/article35920908.ece
15 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA to construct 1,960 flats||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will construct 1,960 flats at a cost of Rs. 452.60 crore on the lines of BDA apartments in Bengaluru. The MUDA members have given their consent for the project which now requires a formal clearance from the State government. MUDA Chairperson H.V.Rajeev told media persons on Saturday that the 1,960 units will comprise 1,008 1-BHK apartments and 952 2-BHK units which will be constructed in Vijayanagar 4th stage, Dattagalli Ist stage (on the High Tension Double Road close to Sri Ramakrishna Statue Circle) and Dr.B.R.Ambedkar Nagar in Satgalli B zone. While the 1-BHK units will cost around Rs. 14.83 lakh, the 2-BHK units will cost between Rs. 29.94 lakh and Rs. 33.80 lakh. In reply to a question he said as such a project is being taken up for the first time, the seniority of the existing site applicants will not be considered and people will have to apply afresh. “The seniority of apartment aspirants will be maintained separately from those who apply for the new project as not all may be keen on buying or living in flats’’, said Mr. Rajeev. Though priority will be to those living or residing in Mysuru, the rules governing the distribution and allocation will be similar to what is being followed by the BDA and will be drafted after due consultations, he added. The registration fee for 1-BHK units will be Rs. 1,000, Rs. 2,500 for units measuring upto 50 sq metres and Rs. 5,000 for units more than 50 sq metres. An online demand survey will be conducted in due course through Indian Housing Federation for the group housing project, said Mr. Rajeev. With regard to the quality of construction, he said it will be superior to the privately built apartments and the MUDA will enter into an MoU with various suppliers to ensure that the quality was not compromised. The timeline for completion of the project is within one year from the date of securing government approval. The project will also give a fillip to the affordable housing concept. The MUDA’s vertical growth concept was in the pipeline since many years as the city’s horizontal sprawl is considered to be unviable with conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes. Besides, the distance to commute to and from the city will entail other issues. Also, the MUDA was finding it difficult to develop and allot sites given the land crunch and hence the decision to promote multi-storeyed apartments. In connection with this, the MUDA members and officials had paid a visit to a few apartment units constructed by the BDA in Bengaluru last year. Drinking water The MUDA has also decided to augment the drinking water supply to the city by ramping up the capacity of the existing system at Bidargodu. At present, only 60 MLD of water was being supplied from Kabini through the Bidargodu project and the MUDA has decided to harness its installed capacity of 180 MLD at a cost of Rs. 145 crore. It will be executed by the KUWSDB for which the MUDA has decided to release Rs. 70 crore in the first instalment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-to-construct-1960-flats/article35920930.ece
15 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA to get feasibility study done for MRTS||If all goes well, Mysuru may get a viable mass rapid transport system (MRTS) without entailing the heavy cost of a metro rail system in place in major cities, including Bengaluru. The MetroNeo is being touted as a more energy-and cost-efficient model for a city of the size and population (nearly 1.5 million) of Mysuru. Hence the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will engage RITES to conduct a feasibility study to implement either the MetroNeo or MetroLite project for Mysuru. Both the projects have been mooted for tier-2 and tier-3 cities by the Centre to provide greater mobility for which Rs. 18,000 crore has been earmarked in the Union Budget. While 80 per cent of the cost will be borne by the Centre, the State will pitch in with 10 per cent while the MUDA has to bear the remaining 10 per cent. MUDA chairman H.V. Rajeev said the project wouldhelp meet the mass transportation requirement of the city for the next 50 years or more. The cost of laying 1 km of conventional metro project has been pegged at Rs. 150 crore and is obviously unviable for a city such as Mysuru. But MetroLite is expected to cost about 40 per cent of the conventional metro while the MetroNeo will cost only about 25 per cent of a full-fledged metro, according to Mr. Rajeev. The MetroNeo will have rubber-tyred coaches powered by overhead electric traction. It will have dedicated corridors and will run on road and not on tracks, besides having a capacity to handle a one-way peak hour traffic of 8,000 passengers. Some of the tier-2 and tier-3 citcities already in the race to implement MetroLite or MetroNeo include Gorakhpur, Jammu, Srinagar, Rajkot, Vadodara, Dehradun, and Coimbatore, while Nashik is already set to be the first city to implement MetroNeo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/feasibility-study-for-mrts-in-mysuru/article35920928.ece
15 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Couple found charred to death in car||A young couple was found charred in a car in Mamballi village in Chamarajanagar district’s Yelandur taluk on Friday evening. Police identified the deceased as Kanchana, 20, a nurse employed in Chamarajanagar district hospital, and Srinivas, 23, a driver. The bodies of the couple, who were reportedly in a relationship, were found charred in the car parked on the Mamballi-Kinakahalli road. Police suspect that the duo may have ended their lives due to hurdles in their love life. The couple hailed from Mamballi and the fire incident is believed to have taken place when they were proceeding to their native village on Friday. Further investigation is underway. Superintendent of Police Divya Sara Thomas visited the spot.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-found-charred-to-death-in-car/article35921151.ece
15 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane growers call off their indefinite stir||The sugarcane farmers of Mysuru, who began an indefinite demonstration in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru on Saturday, called off their agitation after Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham assured them of convening a meeting of their representatives and sugarcane mill owners on August 17. The sugarcane farmers began their demonstration around 11 a.m. to press for their demands including increasing the fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane. But, Joint Director of Agriculture, Mysuru, Mahantheshappa, visited the demonstration site and assured the farmers that a meeting to resolve their woes will be held next week while urging them to call of their agitation. The farmers initially refused to call off the agitation by citing the district administration’s failure to respond to their representations submitted thrice in the last one month after which Mr. Mahantheshappa left the venue. But, when he returned a little while later, the Deputy Commissioner spoke to farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar on Mr. Mahantheshappa’s mobile and promised to convene a meeting with the sugarcane mill owners and the farmers’ representatives on August 17 after which the agitation was called off. Mr. Shanthakumar regretted the failure of the authorities to increase the FRP for sugarcane by citing COVID-19 and lockdown. During 2018-19, the FRP for sugarcane had been fixed at Rs. 2,850 for a tonne. The government, which has been promising to increase the farmers’ income, has instead increased the prices of fertilizers and diesel, which has led to a sharp rise in the cost of production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sugarcane-growers-call-off-their-indefinite-stir/article35920938.ece
15 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Freedom fighter honoured||In a rare gesture, Shilpa Sharma, CEO of the zilla panchayat, and a team of officials honoured a freedom fighter at his residence in Kodekal village of Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district on Saturday. On the event of the 75th Independence Day, the team visited Sangappa Mante, 96, and honoured him on behalf of the government. “Mr. Mante expressed his inability to receive the award at district headquarters due to his old age. Thus, we decided to honour him at his house,” Ms. Sharma told The Hindu.  “I am happy to receive the felicitation given by the government,” Mr. Mante said. Taluk Panchayat executive officials of Surpur and Hunsagi and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freedom-fighter-honoured/article35921080.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Classes IX to XII to resume from Aug. 23||Based on the suggestions of experts, Mr. Bommai on Friday held a meeting with Ministers and senior officials. He said in case schools recorded more than 2% of positivity rate, such schools would be closed for one week and opened after sanitisation. Without vaccination, teachers and parents would not be allowed to enter the school premises, Mr. Bommai said. Students would be divided into two batches and each batch of students would be asked to attend classes on alternate days, which meant students would have to attend classes for three days in a week. SoP had been prepared for schools and colleges, Mr Bommai said. Genome testing centres The Chief Minister said officials had been instructed to open genome testing centres in the next three weeks in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi, Belagavi, and Hubballi for testing the Delta variant of the virus. Minimum 2-3 weeks were required to get the results of the tests, he said. There are only four genome testing centres in the State now. He said more testing for COVID-19 is to be done in the districts of Raichur, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Haveri, Tumakuru, Vijayapura, and Bengaluru Rural in the coming days. Stating that four crore people had been vaccinated so far, the Chief Minister noted that the State had 14.89 lakh doses and about 30 lakh doses would be obtained this month-end. A memorandum would be submitted to the Union Health Minister next week to increase the State’s monthly quota from 65 lakh doses to 1 crore. While only a few COVID-19 cases were reported after the first wave, the daily number of cases reaching 1800 in the second wave currently is a matter to be considered, he said, quoting experts. The Chief Minister said district-wise COVID-19 management plan would be prepared and implemented. Plans would be prepared based on deaths, positivity rate, and vaccination in each district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-ix-to-xii-to-resume-from-aug-23/article35920914.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Classes IX to XII to resume from August 23 in dists. with less than 2% positivity rate||Students would be divided into two batches and each batch of students would be asked to attend classes on alternate days, which meant students would have to attend classes for three days in a week. SoP had been prepared for schools and colleges, Mr Bommai said. The Chief Minister said officials had been instructed to open genome testing centres in the next three weeks in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi, Belagavi, and Hubballi for testing the Delta variant of the virus. Minimum 2-3 weeks were required to get the results of the tests, he said. There are only four genome testing centres in the State now. He said more testing for COVID-19 is to be done in the districts of Raichur, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Haveri, Tumakuru, Vijayapura, and Bengaluru Rural in the coming days. Stating that four crore people had been vaccinated so far, the Chief Minister noted that the State had 14.89 lakh doses and about 30 lakh doses would be obtained this month-end. A memorandum would be submitted to the Union Health Minister next week to increase the State’s monthly quota from 65 lakh doses to 1 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-ix-to-xii-to-resume-from-august-23-in-dists-with-less-than-2-positivity-rate/article35921082.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrations/article35920922.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Key names||Among the prominent freedom fighters in Bengaluru were K.T. Bhashyam Iyengar, M.S. Krishnan, H.S. Doreswamy, N.D. Shankar, M.C. Narasimhan, K. Hanumanthaiya, C.B. Monnaiah, J.R. Lakshman Rao, and M.A. Sethu Rao. People such as writer D.V. Gundappa were deeply influenced by Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/key-names/article35920941.ece
15 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||MP seeks Vigilance probe into NH relaying||A.M. Ariff, MP, has written to Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas seeking a Vigilance inquiry into the relaying of the National Highway (NH) 66 between Aroor and Cherthala in the district. The road work was carried out in 2019 when G. Sudhakaran was the Public Works Minister. Mr. Ariff stated that the 23.66-km stretch was reconstructed with a three-year guarantee but had developed potholes in less than a year-and-a-half. “The work was carried out using new technology. The condition of the highway stretch started to deteriorate a year after the relaying. It is now in a pathetic condition. Contractor and employees are responsible for it,” he said. The work was carried out under the supervision of the State Public Works Department (NH wing) at a cost Rs. 36 crore sanctioned by the Centre. ‘An honest Minister’ Mr. Ariff said he did not allege any corruption in connection with the road work. He said Mr. Sudhakaran was an honest Minister. The contractor should be asked to repair the stretch. The letter seeking a probe into the work carried out during the tenure of Mr. Sudhakaran comes at a time when a two-member commission appointed by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State committee is looking into the lapses and complaints regarding the Assembly election campaign of the Left Democratic Front in the Ambalappuzha constituency. Although the party’s district leaders had levelled charges against the former Minister in connection with the campaigning, the CPI(M) denied that the probe was aimed at any individual. Mr. Sudhakaran, who won from Ambalappuzha thrice in a row in 2006, 2011, and 2016, was denied a ticket to contest the poll in 2021 after the party imposed a two-term limit. He has been accused of remaining inactive during the campaign of CPI(M) candidate H. Salam.  The work was carried out in 2019 when G. Sudhakaran was the Public Works Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-seeks-vigilance-probe-into-nh-relaying/article35921124.ece
15 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Marker gene for heat tolerance in cattle identified||A group of scientists have identified a marker gene for heat tolerance in cattle which can go a long way in mitigating the impacts of climate change on the livestock. The marker gene, christened ATP1A1, has been found in a collaborative study by a multidisciplinary team of researchers from Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, and Australia. The findings were recently published in Animals , an international journal published from Switzerland. “The world is warming. We need animals that can tolerate warming climate. One way to address the issue is selecting heat-tolerant animals. Identification of marker genes is an important step in selecting a superior germplasm that can resist increasing heat,” says Muhammed Elayadeth-Meethal, Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Genetics, KVASU, the lead author of the study. Livestock in general are both contributor and victim of global warming. Animal production contributes to global warming as livestock produce the major share of greenhouse gases such as methane, carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide. Enhanced heat and humidity also causes stress to animals. Termed heat stress, it accounts for loss in growth, production, and reproductive efficiency. The research was done by comparing heat tolerance of Vechur, an endemic dwarf bovine breed of the State, and cross-bred cattle. The research team is now aiming to utilise the findings for breeding climate-smart animals. “We live in a climate-changing world which needs to mitigate and adapt. The Global Farm Platform was established to link multidisciplinary research and farm facilities across the planet to seek solutions for sustainable ruminant livestock production in light of these growing challenges and threats,” Prof. Michael Lee, senior author and former Head of Site, Rothamsted Research, UK, says. Heat stress “This work to seek an understanding of the mechanisms for heat tolerance within cattle will help provide a pathway to realise greater selection of animals which are more suited to heat stress and therefore improve animal performance, which will ultimately reduce emissions and improve animal welfare,” says Dr. Lee, who is at present Deputy Vice Chancellor of Harper Adams University, U.K. “In the study, it was found that ATP1A1 expression was significantly associated with heat tolerance in different populations. Additionally, we emphasise the potential use of ATP1A1 as a tool for marker assisted selection for heat tolerance,” say the authors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marker-gene-for-heat-tolerance-in-cattle-identified/article35921144.ece
15 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUCET exam likely in Sept.||The Central University Common Entrance Examination (CUCET 2021) for various integrated, undergraduate, postgraduate, and MPhil courses in 12 central universities across the country, including the Central University of Kerala (CUK), is expected to be held in September, said M. Muraleedharan Nambiar, CUK Examinations Controller and CUCET nodal officer, here on Thursday. There will be more than 150 examination centres in different States. There would be more than 10 centres in the State for the computer-based exam, he told mediapersons. The Central University of Punjab, in collaboration with the National Testing Agency, is coordinating the entrance examination for admission to 307 postgraduate and 63 undergraduate courses in 12 universities. Of these, one undergraduate course, 26 postgraduate courses, and three PG diploma courses are available at the CUK. Admission in the Central University of Kerala is to 1,384 seats for various courses including Economics, English and Comparative Literature, Linguistics and Language Technology, Hindi and Comparative Literature, International Relations and Political Science, Malayalam, Public Administration and Policy Studies, Social Work, Education, Zoology, Biochemistry, Chemistry, Computer Science, and Environmental Science. Postgraduate courses include Genomic Science, Geology, Mathematics, Botany, Physics, Yoga Studies, LLM, Public Health, MBA, MBA (Tourism and Travel Management), M.Com and Kannada. While there are diploma courses in Yoga, NRI Laws, and Hindi. The only degree course in the CUK is International Relations at the capital centre in Thiruvananthapuram. For details, contact 04672309467, 04672309466 or email admissions@cukerala.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cucet-exam-likely-in-sept/article35921093.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand for strict screening of lorries at State’s checkposts||With a number of goods carriers from other States openly flouting Motor Vehicles Rules and crossing over to Kerala bearing hidden number plates, missing tail lamps and illegal alterations such as extending length and width to hold more cargo, the demand is rife that the government ready infrastructure and post more personnel to screen them at checkposts on the State’s borders. “Even as Motor Vehicles Department officials face flak for inadequate screening of national permit and other lorries at checkposts, few know that it is extremely tough to keep tabs on a few thousand lorries that cross into the State every day. The alleged anomalies detected in recent raids at a few checkposts are an eye-opener,” said official sources. The sources said the government and the Transport Department must ready infrastructure such as CCTVs at least a km away from each checkpost so that the real-time feed of vehicles could be monitored from the checkpost or even from the office of the Transport Commissioner in Thiruvananthapuram. It would also deter unscrupulous officials from accepting bribes and duty omissions, they added. Physical verification Such surveillance on roads leading to the checkpost will help intercept them as they arrive at the checkpost. Physical verification could be done of such lorries and other vehicles, and penalty imposed for offences like improper or hidden number plates, missing lights, reflectors and illegal alterations, which have a bearing on public safety. In addition, weighbridges must be readied at all checkposts, including minor ones, to keep tabs on overloading. Deputing a couple of officials to monitor the live CCTV feeds would tremendously help lessen the number of accidents, including hit-and-run ones involving lorries that have hidden or illegible number plates, said sources. Generating e-challans, whereby the direction to remit penalty is sent to the address of the vehicle owner, becomes next to impossible if the number plate is hidden or is illegible. State president of the All Kerala Registered Truck Operators’ Association Anoop K.A. too demanded augmenting of infrastructure and personnel at checkposts to act as a deterrent against gross rule violations by national permit and other goods carriers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-strict-screening-of-lorries-at-states-checkposts/article35921269.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Encroachments remain a hurdle to restoring canals||Unchecked encroachment remains a bottleneck in the restoration of the Edappally and Thevara-Perandoor canals in the city. The action plan submitted by the joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for the rejuvenation of the canals took note of the issue of encroachment. However, the report submitted in the first week of August has not mentioned the timeline for identifying and clearing the encroachment. “Large number of encroachments are seen along both sides of the canal[s], which act not only as sources of faecal contamination but result in decreasing the width of the canal, thereby leading to clogging and hindering free flow of water,” it said. Quoting the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) for rejuvenation of major canals in the city, the report stated that the canals would be restored to their original width and condition by desilting and clearing obstructions and improving the canal system by constructing side-walls and levelling up. However, the time schedule of the action plan has not outlined the strategy to identify and remove the encroachments while it pointed out that the outlets discharging sewage into the canals will be shut down by June 15, 2022. A sanitation survey is progressing to identify illegal outlets from households and commercial establishments. Water holding capacity Studies conducted by the Cochin University of Science and Technology had found that the unscientific land development projects reduced the water holding capacity of the canals. The construction of apartments, business establishments, and houses near the canalhad resulted in the shrinking width of the canals, it said. A report prepared by the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre had stated that the encroachments were threatening to make the Edappally canal non-navigable. The width of both the canals is only around 10 metres in various spots, against the original width ranging between 45 metres to 60 metres. Mayor M. Anilkumar said a decision had already been taken to rejuvenate the Thevara-Perandoor canal under the IURWTS with the available minimum width. The role of the Kochi Corporation was to ensure penal and other measures to check pollution of the canals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroachments-remain-a-hurdle-to-restoring-canals/article35921374.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||As road repair work lags, public ire mounts against PWD, Corpn.||Public ire is mounting against the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Kochi Corporation since a number of roads and bridges the agencies own are in dilapidated condition. The inordinate delay in repairing them has in turn made potholes and undulations bigger, causing accidents and traffic snarls in the city. While the agencies have been resorting to excuses such as high water table and trenching for potholes developing on roads, they are unable to cite any excuse for potholes developing on bridges like the 2-km-long Kundannoor-Thevara Bridge (also called UP Bridge) within two months of it being resurfaced. The resurfacing was done after a two-wheeler rider lost his life in a pothole-related accident. The claim by a senior official of the PWD (NH wing) that potholes on the bridge were repaired a few days ago turned out to be false, as plenty of potholes could be seen on Saturday. ‘Shoddy upkeep’ Ernakulam District Residents’ Associations’ Apex Council (EDRAAC) general secretary M.T. Varghese said the bridge had almost always remained undulated and ridden with potholes due to shoddy upkeep. The same agency was responsible for the state of affairs beneath the Kundannoor flyover, which was ridden with severe undulations and got flooded even in moderate downpour. “Most PWD officials are content with the status quo and are unwilling to adopt technological and climate-resilient innovations. The easiest and most cost-effective way is to ready a mobile repair unit which can fill potholes using cold-mix bitumen, even during rainy weather. Its service can be availed across the city. This preventive maintenance will go a long way in preventing potholes from becoming bigger and causing accidents. Such patchwork does not need heavy machinery like road rollers,” said Mr. Varghese. The Mattancherry BOT Bridge too is in bad condition since its tar-coating has given away over almost the entire bridge. The entry from the Palarivattom side to the Vyttila flyover that was commissioned in January too has sunk a few inches, with the result that motorists encounter a jerk as they enter the structure. Bridges in the suburbs too are in bad shape. Manhole slabs The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Ernakulam Vikasana Samithi too have demanded speedy measures to repair potholed roads and bridges and to ensure that manhole slabs are at the same height of roads, since they were causing accidents. “An elderly woman who was commuting by autorickshaw died earlier this year after the vehicle overturned when it encountered a sewage manhole which was at a lower level than the rest of T.D. Road,” said Gopinatha Kamath, general secretary of T.D. Road Residents’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-road-repair-work-lags-public-ire-mounts-against-pwd-corpn/article35921369.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Keel laid for three floating border outpost vessels||The keel laying of three floating border outpost vessels (FBOP) being built by the Cochin Shipyard for the Border Security Force was conducted on Saturday. Mohammed Yousaf, Commissioner, Customs, was the chief guest. Patrol boats The three FBOPs, each with a length of of 46 metre, are part of a series of nine vessels being built for the water wing of the BSF. These vessels are designed in-house by CSL and classed under Indian Register of Shipping. Each FBOP is equipped with four fast patrol boats, which can be launched and hoisted using its own davit system. The vessels will act as a floating base for the flotilla of fast patrol boats and will supply petrol, fresh water, and provisions to the patrol team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keel-laid-for-floating-border-outpost-vessels/article35921103.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Unauthorised structures along Konothupuzha to be removed||The district administration has initiated steps to remove encroachments along the Konothupuzha as part of efforts to restore the river to its original condition. Identifying boundary  District Collector Jafar Malik has asked the Survey Department and the local bodies to jointly ascertain the boundary of the river and report on the encroachments on both sides of the waterbody within a week. The violators will be served a week’s notice before clearing the encroachments. The river rejuvenation work would be completed in two phases, he said. The building permit of households and commercial establishments discharging sewage into the river will be cancelled. The action will be taken as per the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The long-term projects for rejuvenating the river will be completed in six months. The government has given its nod for a Rs. 20.85-crore project proposed by the Irrigation Department for the restoration of Konothupuzha. The administrative sanction from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development is pending. The Haritha Keralam Mission and the Agriculture Department will promote paddy cultivation on the banks of the river. The State Pollution Control Board had found illegal discharge of sewage into the river from high-rises and vehicle service stations. It had issued closure notices to two such stations that had dumped wastewater without installing proper effluent treatment plants. Four apartments were found operating sewage treatment plants without the permission of the Board while the system in one apartment was faulty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unauthorised-structures-along-konothupuzha-to-be-removed/article35921375.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,243 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 2,243 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. Nearly 2,200 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 39 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 11.68%. As many as 19,212 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Saturday. A total of 24,619 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2243-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35921367.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pokkali cultivated in 434 ha in district||Despite adverse conditions, more than 434 hectare has been brought under pokkali rice cultivation in the district, according to a communication from the State Public Relations Department. Pokkali is a variety of rice that has a geographical indication and is known for its ability to grow in salty water. Pokkali rice is largely cultivated in the coastal areas of Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Thrissur districts. The pokkali rice cultivation does not deploy synthetic fertilizers and grows in natural conditions. However, there have been allegations that the rice variety is being pushed out by a lobby of shrimp farmers who want to continuously use the rice fields for aquaculture against the prescribed crop cycle of one fish and one rice cycle. A shortage of workers, difficulties associated with mechanisation of farming activities and extreme climatic conditions have affected pokkali rice cultivation of late. The Rice Research Station in Vyttila under the Kerala Agricultural University, cooperative societies, Pokkali Land Development Agency and farmers’ collectives have been trying to make quality seeds available for farming operations in the pokkali fields. About 10 acre has been brought under cultivation in Kottuvally panchayat to make pokkali seeds available to farmers in the coming years, said the communication. Vyttila, Vyttila-6 and Chettivirippu are some of the more popular varieties of pokkali seeds. The communication said that 120 hectare had been brought under cultivation in Ezhikkara panchyat while Paravoor, Kalamassery, Vyttila, Njarakkal and Mulanthuruthy blocks too had areas under pokkali rice cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pokkali-cultivated-in-434-ha-in-district/article35921370.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bamboo Corporation to diversify products||The Kerala State Bamboo Corporation has said it would expand cultivation of bamboo in about 500 acres in various places to increase bamboo resources in the State. The cultivation will be taken up initially in the Aaralam farm as well as the campus of the Aligarh Muslim University in the State, said K. J. Jacob, who stepped down as chairman of the corporation on Friday. He said that the corporation had joined hands with the Cochin University of Science and Technology to use bamboo fibre to produce sturdy furniture and other products. He said that the work on the project was expected to produce good results to enable the corporation to diversify its products. The corporation is in the midst of churning out office products that can replace plastic products. The project involves a move to replace most of the plastic office products like files, file holders, pen stands and other office stationery with bamboo products, which will help the corporation increase its turnover by about Rs. 5 crore per year. Mr. Jacob said that there were bamboo products to replace most of the plastic materials now being used in government offices, including curtains. Cloth curtains or curtains made of plastic materials could be replaced with bamboo curtains. Even light weight chairs and tables from bamboo boards were affordable products that could be deployed in public offices, he said. The initial response from government offices had been good, considering the quality of the products that were biodegradable. The move to use bamboo products would be a nature-friendly initiative against the accumulation of used plastic materials. The expansion of bamboo cultivation was to make more of the reed available for various products in the State and to create awareness about the environment-friendliness of the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bamboo-corporation-to-diversify-products/article35921102.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lakshadweep islanders told to avoid Kerala trips||The Lakshadweep Administration has issued a travel advisory asking people to avoid travelling unnecessarily to Kerala where, it says, the number of COVID-19 cases has been rising. The advisory, issued on August 12, says the Union Territory of Lakshadweep has just 42 active cases of COVID-19 whereas the situation in Kerala is different, which increases the risk of infection to people travelling to and from Kerala. People returning to the islands from the mainland should undergo seven days of quarantine at the institutional facility or at their homes. They would be tested for COVID-19 after the quarantine period, the order issued by District Collector S. Asker Ali said. For those who had taken both doses of COVID vaccine, just three days’ quarantine was enough, said the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakshadweep-islanders-told-to-avoid-kerala-trips/article35921371.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Suspected oil discharge detected in Periyar||A suspected oil discharge was detected in the Periyar river close to the Pathalam bund in Eloor on Saturday evening. The long stretch of the oil discharge was visible clearly near the regulator-cum-bridge in Pathalam. Officials from the Environment Surveillance Centre of the State Pollution Control Board collected samples from the upstream and downstream of the river. The local residents alleged that the illegal discharge was from the industrial units in the region. They suspected that the oil spill may trigger fish kill in the river. Fishermen had complained on several occasions that the fish wealth in the region had declined considerably owing to the increased pollution. The residents suspect that the recent decision by the Irrigation Department to seal the mouth of the pipeline connecting the river and Edayattuchal paddy fields may have resulted in the direct discharge of effluents into the river. The department had closed the channel after it was found that the water was flowing from the fields into the river. With water levels receding in the summer, the pumping of water from the river was not possible as the mouth of the pipeline was situated above the water level. The investigations by the board and the department had also found illegal discharge from unknown sources into the pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspected-oil-discharge-detected-in-periyar/article35921373.ece
15 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sreejesh to be adventure tourism ambassador||Olympian P.R. Sreejesh will be made brand ambassador of adventure tourism in Kerala, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the Varapuzha-Kadamakudy road that was resurfaced using BMBC and developed with a walkway and parking space here on Saturday. He said the immense tourism potential of Kadamakudy would be tapped as part of which road connectivity was being improved. Later, he said a tourism master plan would be developed for Vypeen, while interacting with tourism stakeholders in the region. A mobile app having cultural and other details of different unexplored locales will be launched this year.  He also visited the ancestral home of social reformer Sahodaran Ayyapan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreejesh-to-be-adventure-tourism-ambassador/article35921270.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||FACT records Rs. 40-crore profit for first quarter||The public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals and Travancore has recorded a net profit of Rs. 40 crore for the first quarter of the current financial year. According to FACT sources, the company had a profit before tax of about Rs. 100 crore even as the Board of Directors of the company gave the green signal to raise the retirement age of current employees from 58 to 60 as well as pay the salary arrears of the wages revision which had come into effect in 2017. FACT sources said that the decisions had been taken in view of the significantly positive performance of the company. The decision to pay salary arrears from 2017 will benefit 1,800 employees. FACT had recorded an operational surplus of Rs. 352 crore during the financial year 2020-21, which is a record achievement. The company had a business turnover of Rs. 3,259 crore during 2020-21 against Rs. 2,770 crore in 2019-20. Over the past three years, FACT has been continuously in profit. The company was in profit during 2018-19, 2019-20, and 2020-21. The total profit is Rs. 1,490 crore. The PSU had produced 8.61 lakh tonnes of Factamfos during the last year in comparison to the 8.45 lakh tonnes in the previous financial year. Caprolactam production is expected to increase the company turnover this financial year.  Meanwhile, apprehensions have been expressed by sources in the trade unions about the profitability of the company during the current financial year in the wake of the rising cost of raw materials and the cost of natural gas. It is learnt that LNG will be sourced at much higher rate that last year's level and the near doubling of the cost of the feedstock will be a drag on its profitabilitydespite the company management and employees gearing up to meet any challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fact-records-rs-40-cr-profit-for-first-quarter/article35921271.ece
15 August 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Online training on milk products||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training session on manufacturing value-added products from milk. Tomorrow The event will be held on August 16 and those who want to attend should register their names on 9947775978, said the Principal. For details, contact 04762698550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-on-milk-products/article35921128.ece
15 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications for MBA||The TKM Institute of Management has invited applications for admissions to the 27th full-time (accredited) MBA batch. Online applications can be submitted through the official website of the institute. For details, visit www.tkmim.ac.in or call 8075246005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-for-mba/article35921129.ece
15 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,234 cases in Kollam||Kollam district reported 1,234 new cases of COVID-19 and 662 recoveries on Saturday. Of the new cases, 1,229 contracted the virus through local transmission. The other infected include one NRI, two persons from other States, and two health workers. At present the district has 28,895 persons under observation. Alappuzha reported 1,150 COVID-19 cases. The test positivity rate for the day was 10.8%. The new cases include 1,134 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 13 others remains unidentified. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 10,065, with 1,275 recoveries on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1234-cases-in-kollam/article35921125.ece
15 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||He flags disrespect to the tricolour||When the country celebrates its Independence Day every year, an additional responsibility falls on Eby J. Jose, a native of Pala. This 49-year-old, on a mission to uphold the dignity of the tricolour, will scan a wide assortment of media reports and video footage on the country-wide celebrations to mark the day. Upon finding any instance of disrespect to the national flag, he feels obliged to take up the issue and pursue it till the end, going by the provisions of the National Flag Code of India, 2002. On many an occasion, his intervention has forced celebrities to go for a course correction. On the list are the likes of Sachin Tendulkar, Shashi Tharoor, and L.K. Advani. If he notices a violation of the flag code, Mr. Jose writes to the persons concerned directly with a request to rectify the error. “Most people disrespect our flag out of ignorance and are ready to accept the mistake. But I am not loath to pursue a legal dispute if they are not ready to rectify the error,” said Mr. Jose, who is the chairperson of the Mahatma Gandhi National Foundation. He learned about the National Flag Code of India from former Minister A.C. Shanmughadas and has been on the campaign since 1996. His endeavours have won praise from the High Court too. In 2019, he wrote to the Prime Ministers of both India and Israel, demanding action against a liquor manufacturer that used the image of Mahatma Gandhi on its liquor bottles. “My campaign covers our national icons, including the Father of the Nation. Any attempt to disrespect these icons brings disgrace to the nation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/he-flags-disrespect-to-the-tricolour/article35921131.ece
15 August 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||Harassment of woman: probe begins||The district police have launched a probe into an incident in which unidentified persons called a woman at Vakathanam here over phone and sent her vulgar messages. The action follows an intervention by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who on Saturday posted a message on social media warning the culprits of stern action. The incident came to light after the woman released a video on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harassment-of-woman-probe-begins/article35921126.ece
15 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Despite fund crunch, TDB to pay bonus||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has decided to give bonus and festival allowance to its employees for the Onam season despite a drastic decline in its revenue since the COVID-19 outbreak. N. Vasu, TDB president, said the board would to pay the festival allowance and bonus at the rates announced by the State government. However, the TDB employees will not be eligible for the Onam advance of Rs. 15,000 announced for the government employees. “The payment of bonus and festival allowance will put an addition burden of Rs. 3 crore on the board,” said Mr. Vasu. The restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 have severely impacted the revenue source of the TDB with the board suffering a loss of over Rs. 600 crore since March 2020. With around 5,500 employees on its rolls and almost the same number of pensioners, it incurs a total monthly expenditure of around Rs. 50 crore. In view of the declining cash reserves, which is now less than Rs. 5 crore, the TDB has approached the State government seeking more assistance. The board is also exploring ways to diversify its finances while rationalising the expenses. Official sources said efforts were on to check the alleged diversion of devotees’ contributions from the TDB exchequer at some temples. The board has completed a preliminary verification of its gold reserves as part of its plan to monetise gold that is not used for daily temple rituals and which do not have antique value. “A preliminary verification has shown that a little over 500 kg of gold is available, but a few more aspects have to be clarified. On completion of the process, a petition will be moved with the Kerala High Court seeking its permission for converting them to gold bonds, which will fetch an annual interest of 2.5%,” said Mr. Vasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-fund-crunch-tdb-to-pay-bonus/article35921100.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CU exams a double whammy for students||Students of the University of Calicut have a double whammy: on the one hand, their academic work is becoming more exam-oriented, and the pandemic has delayed the conduct of exams for a large section of them on the other. According to functionaries of Unaided Colleges Principals Council, each undergraduate student writes at least 34 exams in a year, including internal tests, in two semesters. In three years, they write 102 exams. Varughese Mathew, president of the council, pointed out that only 70 working days would be available in a semester. Teachers are forced to provide lessons in capsule format. Exam duty and answer script evaluation also take up the time of teachers. Earlier, he had said that students had to write only 15 exams in a year. Now, a majority of them do not get time for extra-curricular activities such as National Service Scheme events or National Cadet Corps camps. “The Minister for Higher Education had promised to set up three commissions to overhaul the higher education sector. They should study these issues,” he added. Meanwhile, another section of students are concerned over the pandemic-induced delay in the conduct of exams. Sources said though the fifth semester classes had begun for undergraduate students, exams for the third and fourth semesters were yet to be completed. Students are now forced to learn lessons that they studied one-and-a-half years ago. Since the university has not announced the exam schedule, teachers and students are worried if the exams will be held simultaneously. Sources said the university accorded priority to winding up exams for final year students. However, those who are entering the second year of their courses have not written not even one exam so far. There are many who could not follow the chapters being taught in the online mode. When exams are held, students will have to learn everything together. If they fail, supplementary exams are held only after the end of the course. Some teachers are demanding that the syllabus be cut and exams be held at the earliest. Mahatma Gandhi University is holding the third semester exams for undergraduate students now. The University of Kerala and Kannur University have concluded the exams.  Each undergraduate student writes at least 34 exams in a year, including internal tests, in two semesters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-double-whammy-for-varsity-students/article35921096.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online competitions, bike rides to mark I-Day fete||This is not how we could have celebrated the country’s 75th Independence Day. While living with COVID has its own limitations, there are several bright spots in the picture where organisations and individuals are making the most of the available facilities. Apart from the usual district-level Independence Day parades and official programmes, which are led by Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran on Sunday, the district administration has announced a fancy dress competition to attract young minds. The online competition is for children of 6 to 10 age group. They could dress up as freedom fighters and post photos on social media with the hashtag #fancydresschallenge or post a comment on the District Collector’s post on the topic on his Facebook page before August 17. Meanwhile, a group of woman bikers in the city chose the occasion of Independence Day to go on a ride to Wayanad. Around 25 riders under the aegis of CRF Women On Wheels set off from Kozhikode on Saturday evening. However, they made sure that each of them are vaccinated or had an RT-PCR negative certificate. A club at Chelannur in the district is celebrating Independence Day in a unique manner. Ship Club is organising a 75-km marathon, 75-km cycling, and a 750-metre swimming competition to mark the occasion. Interestingly, the club received the award for the best agricultural club in the district during the first lockdown. Members of the club are also engaged in activities such as kayaking, sailing, and trekking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-competitions-bike-rides-to-mark-i-day-fete/article35921091.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students on a mission to study lives of leaders||A group of students from Chennamangallur Higher Secondary School, Mukkom, Kozhikode, are on a project to study the mission and vision of 11 national leaders from Rabindranath Tagore to Mohammed Abdurahiman, with the running theme being ‘freedom’. According to E. Hasbulla, coordinator of the club, eight girls and four boys are part of the project titled GIANTS under the mentorship of teachers of the department of English. The school authorities said the objective was to equip students with thinking skills for scaling greater heights in intellectual and academic spheres. Mohammed Sadaf is exploring the life of Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first Prime Minister. He has read widely about Nehru from primary and secondary sources. He has done e-mail communications with members of the Nehru family, including Rahul Gandhi, as well. Jans from the science stream, who is writing about Mahatma Gandhi, had a chance to communicate with Rajmohan Gandhi, historian and grandson of Gandhi. Nimras, a girl from the humanities stream made use of her social media skills to collect Subhashini Ali’s email address and phone contact and managed to collect some valid observations about Captain Lakshmi, her mother and leader of the Rani Jhansi regiment of the Indian National Army led by Subhas Chandra Bose. The project had begun with a brainstorming session on freedom headed by A.M. Shinas, writer and faculty member of history at KKTM Government College Pullut, Kodungalloor, Thrissur. A session on writing history was arranged next, where Mujeeb Rahiman of Government Arts and Science College, Kozhikode, spoke. Students were given additional support by history teachers, most of whom are PhDs, from different colleges in the State, as external supervisors. Students are directed to submit their drafts periodically so as to give them necessary guidance. As of now, they have submitted three drafts prior to their presentation at a seminar to be held on August 15. Academic M.N. Karassery will open the event titled The Idea of a Nation. Former principal of the school Mohammed Ali Kootil will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-on-a-mission-to-study-lives-of-leaders/article35921092.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt to rehabilitate families in Kolattukunnu Colony||It was hard to believe that there was a place such as Kolattukunnu Colony in the heart of Kozhikode city when the media highlighted the issue. The 19 houses in the colony are no more than makeshift structures covered with flex sheets and old sarees. The condition of the toilets is even more deplorable. However, the media focus has brought relief to the residents of the colony. The State government has decided to offer three cents of land and houses to 15 families in the colony under the PMAY-LIFE project. The land will be allotted from the 1.2 acre under the Public Works Department in Nellikkode village. They will also be provided basic facilities such a toilets, drinking water, and electricity connection that they were craving for a long time. The Human Rights Commission intervention in the issue in May this year was the turning point for the colony. It had asked the District Collector and Secretary of the Social Justice Department for a report on the plight of residents. The officials had visited the colony and submitted recommendations to the government. While 15 families will move to the new premises, the other four too will be considered for rehabilitation in the same place while the remaining land, which originally belonged to the PWD, will be used by Kozhikode Corporation for the LIFE project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-rehabilitate-families-in-kolattukunnu-colony/article35921095.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML defers its crucial meeting||Even as the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is beset by severe internal problems, uncertainty appears to be looming over a crucial working committee meeting of the party in Kozhikode. A meeting of a 10-member subcommittee in Kozhikode on Saturday, comprising State leaders and legislators, to fix an agenda for the working committee meeting was deferred for various reasons. Leaders attributed the inability of legislators to turn up maintaining COVID-19 protocol as one of them. In fact, the subcommittee was constituted last month in view of the beginning of the 20-day Assembly session on July 22. So far, the 100-member working committee, the highest-decision making body of the party, has not met to evaluate the Assembly poll results. Sources said the party leaders were delaying the meeting fearing criticism from members on various issues ranging from favouritism in the selection of candidates and poor performance in the polls, especially in Kozhikode and Kannur districts, and the shrinking vote share even in party strongholds in Malappuram district. Doubtlessly, a senior party functionary said, the IUML was the only party that had not reviewed the election results. Plausibly the powers that be in the party, including general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, would be unable to effectively stonewall queries. The deferment of the working committee meet also assumed significance against the backdrop of Syed Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, the party’s State president Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s son, accusing Mr. Kunhalikutty of political hegemony and financial mismanagement of the party-owned Muslim Printing and Publishing Company that brings out the Chandrika daily. There may be more factionalism waiting to happen with growing disenchantment with the leadership, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-defers-its-crucial-meeting/article35921134.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2,440 new COVID cases in Kozhikode||As many as 2,440 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. According to the District Medical Officer, 2,404 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission of infection, and the source of 24 others is not known. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) is 18.04%. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for the largest number of locally acquired infections at 487, followed by Vadakara 74, Koduvally 69, Ulliyeri 55, Atholi 53, and Kunnamangalam 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2440-new-covid-cases-in-kozhikode/article35921087.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sedentary habits behind lifestyle diseases: survey||That lifestyle diseases are prevalent more among those who follow a sedentary lifestyle than those who are physically active is a given. But their incidence is 62% and 9%, respectively, as per the results of a survey carried out in Palakkad and Malappuram districts. The survey titled ‘Prevalence of lifestyle diseases: Comparison with respect to gender, locale, age and lifestyle’ was done by V. Nandya, an assistant professor with the Department of Physical Education, University of Calicut. The study found that the prevalence of lifestyle diseases in urban areas was 37.14% compared to rural areas where it was 33.85%. “Inactivity may diminish life expectancy not only by predisposing to ageing-related diseases, but also because it may influence the ageing process itself,” the survey quotes a report in the January 29, 2008 issue of The Archives of Internal Medicine . Among males, it was 35.87% and females 31.48%. Almost 36.67% among non-vegetarians were found to have such problems, while only 28% among vegetarians had them. Lifestyle problems were found to affect senior citizens more, as 72.5% of the respondents said they had one thing or the other. In the 20-40 age group, the incidence was 9.76%, and it was 38.46% in the 40-60 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sedentary-habits-behind-lifestyle-diseases-survey/article35921097.ece
15 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold seized from Calicut airport||The Air Intelligence Unit of the Customs on Saturday seized 2.545 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.22 crore from two passengers who arrived from the United Arab Emirates at the Calicut international airport. The gold, in the form of compound, was concealed inside the rectum of the passengers and also lined inside the pants worn by them. Upon extraction, the compound yielded 2.545 kg of 24 carat gold, Deputy Commissioner T.A. Kiran said. The passengers are from Thirunavaya and Tirur in Malappuram district. They were travelling on an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah. Their arrests were recorded and they were released on bail, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-seized-from-calicut-airport/article35921145.ece
15 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Police crack coop. bank heist||Scripting a brilliant story of investigation, a team of the district police has cracked the sensational cooperative bank heist at Chandranagar near here on July 25. The team led by DySP P. Sasikumar arrested Nikhil Ashok Joshi, alias Paresh, 51, from Satara in Maharashtra. Paresh was found leading a luxury life at his homeland after burgling seven-and-a-half kg gold and cash of over Rs. 3 crore. The police team zeroed in on him after examining over 120 surveillance camera footage, hundreds of phone calls, and vehicle movements. Paresh broke into the Marutharoad Cooperative Rural Credit Society Bank at Chandranagar on July 24 night and made away with gold and cash by the dawn of July 25. The bank staff noticed the heist when they came to open the bank on July 26 after two holidays. Paresh had destroyed the alarm and surveillance cameras. He also took away the CCTV hard disk. He had broken into the bank after disconnecting the power supply. He had used a battery-operated driller and hydraulic cutter. Huge challenge The heist posed a huge challenge for the police as the burglar had left virtually no piece of evidence. The investigators first determined the exact time of the heist by decoding a micro chip within the electricity meter. Paresh was found to have entered the bank between 9.30 p.m. and 10 p.m. and snapped the internet connection. Then the police focussed on surveillance camera footage, phone calls, and vehicle movements made on July 24 night. A Maharashtra-registered car and the vague image of a man found in different CCTV footage provided the vital clue. Searches were conducted in hotels in Palakkad, Coimbatore, Thrissur, and Malappuram districts. The police could reach the culprit by following that car and the image. Paresh reportedly admitted the crime and said he had sold off the gold at Satara. The police said he stayed in Kerala for about a month planning and executing the burglary. His internet search history found that he had selected only cooperative banks with minimal security and had checked on cooperative banks at Nallepilly, Chittur, Puthunagaram, Koduvayur, Alathur, Vadakkanchery, Kottekkad, Attassery, and Mannarkkad. Paresh reached the Chandranagar bank demanding change for Rs. 2,000 a few days before the burglary and studied the interior. The police said he behaved like a professional and displayed great patience in executing the heist. Wanted person He was wanted in connection with several cases in Maharashtra and Goa. He used to spend the loot for luxury life in star hotels and parties with friends. He had also headed a five-member terror gang titled Supari Killers in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-crack-coop-bank-heist/article35921274.ece
15 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Aranmula boat race to be held||A meeting convened by Health Minister Veena George here on Saturday decided to conduct the Aranmula Uthrittathi boat race in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. Addressing a meeting of representatives of the Palliyoda Seva Sagam, the Minister directed that those participating in the race and rituals must have received at least one dose of vaccine. They should also undergo COVID-19 testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aranmula-boat-race-to-be-held/article35921135.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: Steps for risk-free tourism activities||The government has initiated effective measures to resume tourism activities hit by COVID-19 in a safe manner, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. He was speaking after inaugurating the week-long virtual Onam celebrations organised by the Tourism Department on Saturday. Resilience Mr. Vijayan said the State tourism sector had showed tremendous resilience by outliving back-to-back crises since 2016. But as long as the COVID-19 pandemic prevailed, the State had to live with it and develop tourism too. “We have put in place arrangements for revival of tourism in a risk-free manner where vaccinated people will receive vaccinated tourists. We have also made serious efforts to keep tourism destinations pollution-free and those have yielded good results.” The Chief Minister lauded the Tourism Department for choosing ‘universal humanity’ as the theme for the ‘Global Pookalam’ competition being held as part of the festival and providing an online platform for Keralites around the world to join the event. In the wake of the COVID-19 situation, the festival is being organised in virtual mode, using audio-visual and social media to instil a spirit of celebration aimed at offsetting the general slowdown amid the pandemic. The entire festival will be livestreamed on various online platforms. Minister for Tourism P. A. Mohamed Riyas, who presided over the online function, said the Onam celebrations were being conducted not only to spark a festive mood among the people and make commercial businesses active but also to provide a source of income for thousands of struggling artistes. “In the pandemic scenario, the virtual Onam celebrations will be a new experience for all. The Global Pookkalam competition will spread the message of unity among Malayalis living in various parts of the world.” The Minister said performances and programmes would be telecast/broadcast through major visual media and FM radio channels. Videos would be streamed through Kerala Tourism’s YouTube channel and other social media pages. Pookalam Participants for the Pookalam competition can register on https://www.keralatourism.org/. Individuals, organisations/associations in any part of the world can vie for honours by arranging the flower carpet and uploading its image on to the website. They can also share the pictures over social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-activities-being-resumed-cm/article35921276.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Zika outbreak under control, says Minister||Zika virus (ZIKV) infection outbreak in the State has been brought under control, an official statement issued by Health Minister Veena George said here on Saturday. Link to capital No cases of ZIKV infection have been reported from any part of the State since the past one week or more. Of the total 66 cases of ZIKV infection reported in the State, 62 were from the capital district, two were from Ernakulam one each were reported from Kottayam and Kollam districts. All cases had an epidemiological link to Thiruvananthapuram None of those who tested positive are under treatment now and none of those who tested positive for ZIKV developed serious disease. The fact that the State health administration could control the outbreak and contain it mostly to one district is a major achievement, Ms. George’s statement said. Also, the intensive vector control drive launched by the Health Department with the help of local self government and Revenue Departments to control ZIKV infection also helped the control of dengue and chikungunya As part of the widespread ZIKV surveillance, 9,18,753 people were screened . Health workers visited 1,569 persons who had reported fever with body ache and rashes and the samples of 632 who were suspected to have Zika infection were tested out of whom 66 tested positive. As ZIKV infection affects pregnant women adversely and poses the potential risk of congenital microcephaly in the infants born to them, all pregnant women with fever were screened. Of the 4,252 pregnant women screened for ZIKV, six women tested positive. Only one newborn had to be kept under surveillance but the infant did not have any congenital issues, the statement said. It was on July 8 that the first case of ZIKV was confirmed in the State in a 24-year-old pregnant woman at Parassala in the capital district. About 13 health workers in a private hospital in the city had also tested positive for ZIKV Alongside intensive vector control measures, diagnostic facilities to detect ZIKV were arranged in all three government medical colleges, State Public Health lab and NIV Alappuzha Vigil to continue While the current outbreak has been brought under control, intermittent rains and the perennial presence of Aedes vector species meant that the vigil would have to be continued, the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zika-outbreak-under-control-minister/article35921275.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PCC finalises district Congress presidents||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has finalised the persons for the post of District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents. Meanwhile, KPCC president K. Sudhakaran has denied media speculation that the powerful ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups headed by former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala had voiced reservations about the selection. (Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala have since expressed their strong protest to the Congress high command. They reportedly accused Mr. Sudhakaran of jumping the gun and finalising the list in their absence in New Delhi.) Mr. Sudhakaran told reporters in New Delhi on Saturday that groups were relics from the party's past. They were history. No leader had given any list to the KPCC. However, the KPCC had factored in the opinion of every leader. Ultimately, merit and not factional allegiance determined the selection. The process was exhaustive and took months to complete. Mr. Sudhakaran, KPCC working presidents Kodikunnil Suresh, P.T. Thomas and T. Siddique, and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan met Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi. Tentative list They handed over the tentative list to All India Congress Committee general secretary Tariq Anwar. AICC president Sonia Gandhi would screen the list and announce her decision soon. Mr. Sudhakaran said he was not aware whether Mr. Chennithala or Mr. Chandy had sought an appointment with the AICC leadership. “I am holding a screwdriver to repair a dismantled mechanism,” he added. A party insider said the KPCC had to factor in group loyalties in DCC president selection to some measure, or it risked planting the seeds of discord within the organisation. Merit, age, caste demographic and favour of group leaders had a bearing in varying degrees on the KPCC's final list of DCC president nominees. So did social media adeptness, oratorial and organisation skills. The leader said some murmurs of disagreement were inevitable. However, the AICC was against any public statements. It has given the KPCC the mandate to crack the whip on party discipline. The emphasis on party discipline was evident in the suspension of ‘A’ group leader P.S. Prasanth for disparaging the party for his failure in the Nedumangad constituency in the recent Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcc-finalises-leaders-for-dcc-presidents/article35921139.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keeping his father’s memory alive||As the nation celebrates the 75th Independence Day on Sunday, the son of a member of Subhas Chandra Bose’s Indian National Army (INA) is seeking the government's help to display a certificate issued by the INA Enquiry and Relief Committee to his father 73 years ago as a museum exhibit. R. Sulochanan of Cherukunnam, Varkala, wants the Central Government to exhibit the certificate issued to his late father N. Ramakrishnan, a Sepoy in the 2/1 Infantry Regiment of the INA, at the museum dedicated to the freedom struggle proposed by the Centre or at a museum honouring Netaji. “Father was among the INA soldiers who were arrested in 1945 and held at the Central jail in Rangoon. He was transferred to the central jail in Madras in 1946. He was later brought to Thiruvananthapuram and released, although he continued to be under observation as he was trained to use weapons,” says Mr. Sulochanan, a former assistant engineer at the University of Kerala, who preserved the certificate. After his discharge from the INA, Mr. Ramakrishnan joined the Railways as a gangman (track maintainer). In 1948, he was asked to report to Madras for the certificate. The certificate notes that Mr. Ramakrishnan enrolled in the INA in September 1943, and was discharged on April 4, 1946, after World War II ended. The certificate attests to his character as ‘Very Good.’ Mr. Ramakrishnan retired from the Railways in 1976 and passed away in 1979 leaving behind his wife Chellamma and children Thulasibai, Mohandas and Sulochanan. “Back then, the INA soldiers were not even treated as freedom fighters,” notes Mr. Sulochanan, now 63. Mr. Ramakrishnan's enrollment in the INA makes for an interesting story. He was a running a textile shop in Singapore. Several of his relatives, in fact, were in Singapore at the time. “He was inspired by Netaji's speech and sold his shop to a Chinese and enrolled in the INA. His elder brother found the shop closed one day and was shocked to know what his younger sibling had done,” says Mr. Sulochanan. Although the INA is now part of history and his father is no more, Mr. Sulochanan keeps their memories alive in the local residents' association which he founded and named after Netaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-his-fathers-memory-alive/article35921415.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies to tackle unemployment: Minister||The second phase of the People’s Plan Campaign (Janakeeyasoothranam) will take forward the lessons from its implementation in the first 25 years, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V.Govindan has said. Addressing a press conference here on the year-long celebrations to mark the silver jubilee celebrations of the movement, he said that it strengthened decentralised democracy in the State. Mr.Govindan said that one of the major aims of the local bodies in the coming years would be to tackle joblessness. For this, they have to shift focus towards job creation, with specific targets for the local bodies. Another plan is to attract the young generation to Kudumbashree by promoting entrepreneurial ideas from young women. To promote sports at the local level, panchayat-level sports councils will be set up. At least one good playing ground will be ensured in every panchayat. “If decentralisation of powers has to become complete, the Union government should be sharing some of its powers to the State government and the State should pass on some of it to the local governments. However, the Union government is not only refusing to share some of its powers, a shift is being brought about in the federal system. Even powers under the State list are being shifted to the concurrent or central list. In Kerala on the other hand, the State has empowered the local bodies,” he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on August 17 inaugurate the one year-long silver jubilee celebrations of the People’s Plan campaign, at a function to be held in the capital. Former Ministers, planning board members, political leaders, personalities from the fields of arts, literature, culture and journalism will take part in the event. All people’s representatives and officials who have been part of the People’s Plan over the past 25 years will take part in events at the local level. International-level and national-level seminars on the People’s Plan programme will also be held during the year-long celebrations. Mr.Govindan dismissed allegations that the Indian National League (INL), a constituent party of the Left Democratic Front, has been kept away from the 25th anniversary celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-to-tackle-unemployment-minister/article35921277.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Boost for Balaramapuram weavers||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan inaugurated a Balaramapuram handloom expo at Jawahar Balbhavan here on Saturday. Mr. Muraleedharan said the expo organised by NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) and CISSA (Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action) reinforced Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to protect lives and livelihoods. The Minister said after last year’s dismal Onam sales, NABARD and CISSA tried to revive the popular Balaramapuram handlooms. It was part of these efforts that handloom products were exported to foreign countries, including the U.S. The handloom sector will help spur the development of Thiruvananthapuram, which was lagging behind many other State capitals, he said. As Kerala’s growth prospects lay in the tourism sector, a model weavers village must be set up so that visitors were exposed to Balaramapuram handloom and could go and see experience it firsthand. The Minister honoured veteran Balaramapuram weavers P. Krishnan, R. Nelson, Appulose, C. Jayarajan, A. Ramachandran, V. Maniyan, L. Yashoda, and Vijayan on the occasion. The handloom expo is being held to provide a boost to the struggling weavers of Balaramapuram. Handlloom products can be purchased from here directly, without the presence of middlemen. NABARD deputy general manager P. Balachandran presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boost-for-balaramapuram-weavers/article35921411.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City youth’s docu enters records books||Cyclone Ockhi claimed scores of lives, leaving many families in the city’s coastal areas devastated. Young Aldo A. Clement who lost an uncle in the cyclone had first-hand experience of tragic loss. From his desire to share his experience and that of many others was born Aakama (‘Aa Kattum Mazhayum’), a 15-minute short film that has now earned him a Grandmaster certification from Asia Book of Records for being the youngest to direct a short film based on cyclone Ockhi at the young age of 17 years and 11 months. He also has received an India Book of Records certificate. Aldo, who is now a second-year BCom. student of St. Joseph’s College, Bengaluru, says he had been working on the film for almost a year during his schooling at St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School here when the first lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 was announced, and the script and even some of the cast had to be changed in keeping with restrictions and safety protocols. The four days of shooting with limited cast and crew at Poonthura was quite a challenge, but Aldo was sure he wanted to base it on Ockhi. His close friends and schoolmates Naveen B. Raj and Akash J.S. handled the cinematography, Akash Shanavas editing, Ajmal Jaleed music. All the production work, under the banner of Team i crew, had to be done by them on their laptops, with only the dubbing done in a studio. The cast too comprised his school friends. The film was shot on a tight budget, with the friends dipping into their own resources, and even Aldo’s sister’s scholarship money. The film was uploaded on YouTube a year ago and promoted by a few directors and actors on their social media accounts. His school was a huge support, says Aldo who has acted in a few scenes in Udaharanam Sujatha and was associated with the directorial team. Team i crew’s earlier short film on the dangers of cyberspace Ennilninnu Akalekku had won the State Institute of Educational Technology’s four awards, including the award for best scriptwriter. After his studies, Aldo wants to pursue his passion for films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-youths-docu-enters-records-books/article35921417.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||19,451 cases in State||Kerala registered 19,451 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,39,223 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 13.97% on the day. ICU and ventilator occupancy is fluctuating daily, though the general trend is upwards. ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients in both public and private hospitals in the State was 2,032 on Saturday, while the number of those patients requiring ventilator support was 785. The State’s active case pool had 1,80,240 patients, with 19,104 patients reported to have recovered. The cumulative case fatality is rising and now stands at 18,499 with the State adding 105 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. Total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID-19 now stand more or less stabilised at 28,297. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 36,71,541 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,038, followed by Thrissur 2,475, Kozhikode 2,440, Ernakulam 2,243, Palakkad 1,836, Kollam 1,234, Alappuzha 1,150, Kannur 1,009, Thiruvananthapuram 945, Kottayam 900, Wayanad 603, Pathanamthitta 584, Kasaragod 520, and Idukki 474 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19451-cases-in-state/article35921137.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bulk reporting of vacancies to PSC||More than 3,000 vacancies were reported to the Public Service Commission (PSC) in the last week before the expiry of 493 rank lists on August 4. In addition, 5,100 provisional vacancies have been reported, which will be filled subject to final orders from the court. The bulk reporting of vacancies from various departments happened following a directive from the State government to department heads to calculate and report all the vacancies that will open up at the entry cadres, from promotions that would happen due to retirements at senior levels in the near future. In addition, a two-member committee headed by the Chief Secretary is there to ensure that vacancies in government departments and institutions are reported promptly to the PSC. The final week leading to the expiry of rank lists had witnessed a series of protests from rank holders demanding for an extension of the rank lists. As per data gathered from the PSC, a total of 3,110 vacancies were reported to the commission in the last week. The maximum number of 1,333 vacancies were for the LD clerk post. In the Last Grade Servant category, 1,035 vacancies were reported, taking the total number of postings to 8,188. The least number was for the driver post with 71 vacancies, taking the total possible driver postings to 1,219. “The government issued instructions that all such possible vacancies have to be calculated and reported immediately, which led to bulk reporting towards the last week of expiry of the list,” said a PSC official. A majority of the 3,110 vacancies will be filed at the earliest. In some posts, like those in the State Archives, the rules state that the willingness of the job aspirant has to be sought before advice is made. The 5,100 provisional vacancies also will be delayed, as these are dependent on a final order from the court. The PSC and the government had maintained that extension beyond three years is not possible as per Article 13 of the PSC Rules of Procedure, 1976.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bulk-reporting-of-vacancies-to-psc/article35921141.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DRIP Phase II to cover 31 dams||The rehabilitation of 16 dams under the Water Resources Department and 15 managed by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is being taken up in the second phase of the World Bank-assisted Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP Phase II). The Centre, various States, and World Bank had signed a $250-million project on August 5 to support the long-term dam safety initiative. Across India, the project covers around 120 dams across 10 States. Works to the tune of Rs. 240 crore will be carried out on Water Resources dams in this phase. The KSEB has cleared an allocation of Rs. 150 crore for Phase II (Rs. 90 crore) and Phase III (Rs. 60 crore). The DRIP Phase II will cover the Malampuzha, Pothundi, Chulliyar, Meenakara, Kanjirapuzha, Malankara, Kallada, Peechi, Neyyar, Walayar, Kuttiyady, Karappuzha and Mangalam dams and the Pazhassi, Maniyar and Bhoothathankettu barrages under the Water Resources Department. Works include strengthening of the concrete structure of the Kuttiyady dam and the renovation of the Karapuzha and Kanjirapuzha dams. Additionally, spillover works from DRIP Phase I on the Neyyar, Kallada and Peechi dams also will be taken up. The second phase covers 15 dams under six hydroelectric projects managed by the KSEB. Work on seven dams under five hydel projects will be taken up in the third phase. Major initiatives planned under Phase II included the grouting works on the Sholayar dam and the strengthening of the Poringalkuthu dam, a KSEB official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drip-phase-ii-to-cover-31-dams/article35921142.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pesticide used to clean spoilt rice: Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan has urged the government to prosecute Supplyco officials in Kottarakara who allegedly tried to palm off worm-infested rice to the public by rinsing the food grains with a lethal pesticide. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan he said local people had apprehended Supplyco officials red-handed. He urged Mr. Vijayan to order a police inquiry. Ideally, the government should book the errant officials for culpable homicide, not amounting to murder. He said the toxic food grains reached people through the PDS. The warehouse officials routinely used aluminium phosphate to rid grain silos of pests. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil termed the controversy politically motivated. He told The Hindu that warehouse staff routinely used aluminium phosphide tablets for fumigation. He said the staff ensured the grain sacks were hermetically sealed. The Food Corporation of India had approved the method. A group of people had created a ruckus when the process was on in the warehouse in Kottarakara. Nevertheless, the government has ordered an inquiry to detect the quantum of damaged food grains and fix responsibility for lapses in stock preservation at the Supplyco godown in Kottarakara. He added that the Director of Civil Supplies has also been instructed to conduct a thorough inspection of all such facilities across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pesticide-used-to-clean-spoilt-rice-satheesan/article35921104.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Strict action on homemaker’s complaint on harassment over phone: CM||Strict action will be taken on the complaint of a homemaker whose phone number was circulated by anti-social elements, resulting in insulting calls and a lot of suffering, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Mr. Vijayan, in a Facebook post, said the guilty would be identified and brought to book. Modern communication technology should be used for the good of society and progress. Using it to harm or insult others would not be tolerated. Activities that went against a person’s freedom and privacy would not be allowed, the Chief Minister said. Stricter steps would be taken to check the misuse of technology. As those responsible for such actions were completely anti-social, the police would fetch them maximum punishment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-action-on-homemakers-complaint-on-harassment-over-phone-cm/article35921407.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight security ahead of I-Day celebrations||The City police have intensified security and surveillance in view of the Independence Day celebrations in the State capital on Sunday. Central Stadium, the venue of the Independence Day parade, have also come under tight security measures with 200 police officers including Inspectors guarding the premises. Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the stadium has been divided into four zones led by an Assistant Commissioner for effective surveillance. Each zone has been further divided into two sectors. Besides, seven special striking forces have also been deployed in various parts of the city on account of the observance. Attendance for the parade has been restricted to 250 invitees. The programme will remain off bounds for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-security-ahead-of-i-day-celebrations/article35921419.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for theft||A 42-year old man has been arrested by the Medical College police for allegedly burgling a spare parts shop in Kannammoola a month ago. The accused, identified as Suresh of Cheriyakonni, purportedly broke into the shop in Avittam road in Kannammoola along with an accomplice Rajan on July 4. The duo soon had fled after stealing spare parts, batteries and other items that were kept in the store. Two arrested The Medical College police have arrested two people for an alleged attempt to burgle a paint shop in Kesavadasapuram two weeks ago. The police identified the accused as Aslam, 25, of Kollam and Amjath Khan, 43, of Perukavu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-theft/article35921420.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Over 5 lakh people given vaccination||Kerala administered COVID-19 vaccine to 5,08,849 persons on Saturday as part of the intensive vaccination campaign launched from August 14-16. This is also the second consecutive day that the State is administering over 5 lakh doses on a single day. On Friday, the State had administered the vaccine to 5.6 lakh persons. The districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kozhikode administered over 50,000 doses on Saturday. The campaign had been primarily launched by the Sate to ensure that all above 60 years in the State were administered at least one dose of COVID vaccine. Anyone over 60 years of age, if they have been left out of the vaccination campaign, should get in touch with the nearest health worker, the Health Department said. So far, Kerala has administered 2,39,22,426 doses of COVID-19 vaccine, of which 1,72,66,344 are first doses and 66,56,082 are second doses. Till date, 48.7% of the population has been delivered the first dose and 18.79%, the second dose. Kerala also received 2,91,080 additional doses of Covishield vaccine on Saturday, an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-5-lakh-people-given-vaccination/article35921138.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held for murdering elderly man||The Medical College police on Saturday arrested three people for allegedly murdering an elderly man few days ago. The accused were identified as Chandran, 55, of Kottamukku, Binu , 47, of Prasanth Nagar, and Santhosh, 33, of Neerazhi Lane. They have been accused of murdering 85-year old Surendran of Manchadi after barging into his house on Thursday. The incident is suspected to be linked to a feud among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-murdering-elderly-man/article35921412.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Onam kits for welfare homes||The government has issued orders for distribution of Onam kits to residents of registered and unregistered homes for the destitute and orphans, welfare institutions, welfare hospital, convents, ashrams, and mental health centres in the wake of COVID-19 spread. The distribution will begin this month, with one kit for four persons. Supplyco has also been asked to give the kits to transgender persons who did not figure on any ration card after verifying their Aadhaar card. People in tribal settlements who have to travel far to get their ration in the wake of lack of transport facilities will get the Onam kits, monthly foodgrain quota, and kerosene directly in their settlements as part of the government’s mobile ration shop project. Based on the details of such settlements, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil will inaugurate the distribution of kits and ration for this month in Thiruvananthapuram in the Podiyakkala tribal settlement at Vithura on Sunday. The kits have reached 26,48,800 people so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-kits-for-residents-of-welfare-homes/article35921101.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||945 new cases in capital||The district recorded 945 COVID-19 cases and 1,174 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 9,768. The test positivity rate stood at 7.4%. Among the fresh cases, as many as 874 were attributed to local transmission of the infection. Two health workers were among those who tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 33,765 people under quarantine. As many as 3,409 people have succumbed to the disease in the district. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared a new micro-containment zone in Parandakuzhy colony area in Parandakuzhy ward in Pazhayakunnummel grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/945-new-cases-in-capital/article35921409.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor extends I-Day greetings to Keralites||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has extended his greetings to Keralites on Independence Day. “I extend my warm greetings and best wishes to the people of Kerala and other Keralites all over the world on the 75th Independence Day of our beloved nation. As citizens of the world’s largest and vibrant democracy, it is our duty to cherish our freedom and equality and strive to ensure greater dignity for every citizen, by upholding the loftiest democratic values. Let us honour the memory of the patriots who sacrificed their lives for our freedom, by strengthening India’s march towards greater progress, self-reliance and inclusiveness. On this 75th Independence Day, I wish everyone a brighter, healthier and more prosperous future,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-extends-i-day-greetings/article35921098.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reject divisive forces, CM tells people||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that Independence Day was an occasion for the people to reject communally divisive nationalism and embrace secular and socialist principles enshrined in the constitution. He said majoritarian fascism threatened anti-imperial and liberal views that informed India’s storied independence struggle. The people should muster the willpower to prevent fascism from usurping India’s idea of nationhood. He said the people should breathe meaning into the word ‘Independence.’ They should shun inhumane politics and strive to make their land liberal, humane, tolerant, prosperous and peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reject-divisive-forces-cm-says-in-i-day-message/article35921099.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man blows himself up||A 46-year- old man died in Venjaramoodu on Saturday after unintentionally blowing himself up with a crude explosive that was apparently meant to threaten his wife. Muraleedharan of Thembamoodu was killed in the incident that occurred when he rushed to his house in a drunken stupor with the explosive following a dispute with his wife. While running towards the house, he slipped and fell on the courtyard. This caused the explosive to blow in his hands, the Venjamoodu police said. The deceased, who used to work in a quarry, was killed on the spot. The body has been shifted to the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-blows-himself-up/article35921413.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caution on juice jacking||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have issued caution against new-age financial frauds such as juice jacking that could find several gullible victims divulging their banking credentials. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, who has been leading a month-long sensitisation programme to educate the public on the modus operandi of financial fraudsters, threw light on the possibility of charging port of mobiles being used to transfer data (or files) in public mobile charging points. Juice jacking involved the unsolicited installation of unknown applications or malware when mobile phones are connected to unverified charging ports. By gaining access of the phones, fraudsters will be able to control, access and steal sensitive data, e-mail, SMS and saved passwords. The public have been advised against using public charging ports and cables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-on-juice-jacking/article35921418.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,000 farmers’ markets to be opened||The Agriculture department will organise 2,000 farmers’ markets for Onam as part of government-led market intervention during the festival, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. The markets will be open for four days from August 17 to August 20. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally inaugurate the initaitive on August 16. Agricultural produce procured at a 10% higher price from farmers in the State will be made available to customers through these markets at 30% subsidised rates. Good Agricultural Practices-certified vegetables and fruits procured from farmers at a 20% higher price will be sold at a 10% discount to the consumers. Items produced under the Subhiksham Surakshitham scheme and other organic cultivation programmes will be sold in special packs with the GAP label. Vegetable kits costing Rs. 100 will be available at the markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2000-farmers-markets-to-be-opened/article35921421.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DUK launches PG admissions||Digital University Kerala (DUK) has commenced admissions to its first postgraduate batch in MTech and MSc. The university offers PG on-campus courses in cutting-edge areas that cater to the demands of Industry 4.0. The AICTE-approved master’s programmes include MTech in Computer Science and Engineering with specialisations in Connected Systems and Intelligence, AI, and Cybersecurity Engineering and MTech in Electronics Engineering with specialisations in AI Hardware, Signal Processing and Automation. Details on admissions and courses can be had athttps://duk.ac.in/ admissions2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-launches-pg-admissions/article35921140.ece
15 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kudumbashree Onam expo begins||Kudumbashree district-level Onam mela began at Nenmanikkara on Saturday. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu inaugurated the mela and Puthukkad MLA K.K. Ramachandran presided over. The Kudumbashree District Mission, Nenmanikkara panchayat, Startup Village entrepreneurship programme, Kodakara block, and the Nenmanikkara CDS are jointly organising the fair. Products of 49 Kudumbashree groups will be displayed at 20 stalls. Kudumbashree District Mission coordinator K.V. Jyothish Kumar explained about the mission’s fairs. COVID protocol “Onam melas will be held at 100 community development societies (CDS) in the district by maintaining the COVID-19 protocol. Through this mela, we intent to reach the products of Kudumbashree units, vegetables produced by Kudumbashree groups, and value-added products to consumers at a reasonable price,” Mr. Jyothish Kumar said. Such fairs have been organised to encourage entrepreneurship among Kudumbashree Mission workers, he added. ‘Celebrate Safe Onam with family and Kudumbashree’ is the slogan of this year’s Onam mela. Onam fairs will not be held at micro-containment zones. In such areas, Kudumbashree workers will distribute products according to order. The products displayed at the fairs include pickles, chips, bags, artificial ornaments, shampoo, handlooms, beauty products, and craft items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-onam-expo-begins/article35921201.ece
15 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Minister felicitates toppers of special school||Minister for Higher Education and Social Justice R. Bindu felicitated students of the National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (NIPMR), who passed SSLC and Plus Two examinations, and their parents and teachers at a function at the institute on Saturday. While seven students cleared the SSLC examination, one student passed the Plus Two examination. The students had been admitted into various public schools as part of efforts to provide them inclusive education. P. Davis, president, Thrissur district panchayat, presided over the function. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister expressed hope that the achievement of the students would be a motivation for differently abled children. The Minister also inaugurated a back pain and joint clinic and the revamped website of the NIPMR at the function. The clinic will function from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on Fridays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-felicitates-toppers-of-special-school/article35921268.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Countdown on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/countdown-on/article35921106.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for Independence Day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-for-independence-day/article35921273.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Suspended zest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspended-zest/article35921147.ece
15 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ward volunteer ‘commits’ suicide||A suicide letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was purportedly written by Porala Mahesh, 24, a ward volunteer in the 9th Municipal Ward of Rayadurg Municipality in the district, who allegedly committed suicide on Thursday, but it surfaced on social media on Saturday morning. He highlighted the travails of ward volunteers, who get Rs. 5,000 per month as honorarium, which was insufficient to support a family or for his own living. He requested the Chief Minister to ensure other volunteers did not meet such a fate. He is survived by four sisters. The police said they were investigating the origin of the letter and if it was written by Mahesh. There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ward-volunteer-commits-suicide/article35920881.ece
15 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illegal stock of sandalwood unearthed||The Anantapur police on Saturday unearthed a large stock of illegally procured sandalwood in the United Oil Industry located at Basavanapalli village in Amarapuram Mandal, along with sandalwood oil valued at Rs. 1.27 crore. Superintendent of Police K. Fakkeerappa Kaginelli at a press conference along with District Forest Officer Sandeep Krupakar Gundala said that on reliable information received by the Forest Department, the police and forest personnel conducted a joint operation from August 1 and checked the entire permitted stock of the factory and unearthed 3,983 kg of chopped sandalwood pieces, for which there were no documents, which was brought from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “The Kerala police had registered a case against a consignment when it was being transported from Mallapuram without obtaining permissions from the Forest Department, Transport, and the Andhra Pradesh officials for stocking the same on their premises for converting it into sandalwood oil,” Mr. Fakkeerappa added. The police would dig deep into the business carried out in the past and find out for how long such illegal activity was going on, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illegal-stock-of-sandalwood-unearthed/article35921177.ece
15 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case filed against pharma assistant for ‘harassing’ ANM||A criminal case has been filed against a pharma assistant of Narpala Primary Health Centre for allegedly sexually harassing a village-level health worker (Auxiliary nurse midwife). Narpala Sub-Inspector of Police U. Venkata Prasad said that an ANM from Nayanapalli in the mandal lodged a complaint against one Imtiaz with the police alleging sexual harassment for the past two years. Cases have been filed under Section 354 A and 354 B. Notice has been served on the pharma assistant and he is being questioned, the SI said. The male colleagues of the ANM handed him over to the police at the time of filing the First Information Report. They demanded immediate suspension of the pharma assistant as he was allegedly harassing them every time they went to the PHC store for collecting material related to their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-filed-against-pharma-assistant-for-harassing-anm/article35921176.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka will let districts decide on curbs||Karnataka on Saturday decided to delegate powers to manage COVID-19 to the districts, instead of taking a Statewide call on restrictions. It also decided not to open schools in districts with a test positivity rate (TPR) above 2%. The decisions came as the Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19 felt that the second wave was not over. “We cannot formulate a Statewide COVID-19 management plan. It should be district specific,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told presspersons after a meeting with experts. The experts expressed concern that the TPR was hovering between 1,600 and 1,800 cases a day. Towards the end of the first wave, cases had dropped to 300 a day. It was decided to increase vaccination and testing in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Mysuru, Hassan, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Bengaluru Rural. Genome testing would be set up in three weeks in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi and Belagavi. As of Saturday, 4 crore people had been vaccinated and the State had a stock of about 15 lakh vaccines. It would receive 30 lakh by the month end, Mr. Bommai said. “We are getting 65 lakh vials every month, which should be increased to one crore,” he said. Schools would be opened from September 23 and not August 23, with classes to be held in two batches. Karnataka on Saturday logged 1,632 fresh cases and 25 deaths, taking total infections and fatalities to 29,28,033 and 36,958, the Health Department said. The TPR for the day was 1.04%. Kerala registered 19,451 new cases on Saturday when 1,39,223 samples were tested. The TPR was 13.97% for the day. The State had 1,80,240 active cases. It added 105 recent deaths to its toll. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 3,038, Thrissur 2,475, Kozhikode 2,440 and Ernakulam 2,243. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,535 new infections and 16 deaths on Saturday. Tamil Nadu recorded 1,916 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 25,86,885. Thirty-four people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,496. In Coimbatore, 223 people tested positive, when compared with 236 the previous day. Chennai followed with 219 cases, from 211 on Friday. Compared with the previous day, there was a small rise in infections in Erode, Salem and Chengalpattu — there were 185 cases in Erode, 130 in Salem and 116 in Chengalpattu.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Chennai bureaus & PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-will-let-districts-decide-on-curbs/article35920857.ece
15 August 2021||BHIMAVARAM ( WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Twin blasts ahead of Jagan’s programme trigger panic||Two blasts, which occurred during Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s tour here in West Godavari district, put the police on tenterhooks on Saturday. An explosion, which occurred in an open area in the town, created panic in the area. Alert sounded Police sounded an alert and stepped up security as Mr. Reddy was scheduled to visit the town at around 11.20 a.m. on Saturday. A cow that was grazing in the vicinity was critically injured in the blast. A crater was formed due to the impact of the blast. Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma, Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Veeranjaneya Reddy and other officials rushed to the spot and launched an inquiry. Eluru range Deputy Inspector-General of Police K.V. Mohan Rao said the explosion occurred on Friday evening. An expert police team and personnel from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) visited the spot and collected samples.  In another incident, a tanker exploded while unloading some chemical at a shrimp pond on the outskirts of the town on Saturday. A shed was damaged. Police registered a case and are trying to find out the exact reasons for the blast, Mr. Mohan Rao said. Mr. Reddy attended Unguturu MLA P. Vasu Babu daughter’s wedding in the noon. A host of Ministers, MPs, MLAs and other VIPs attended the function along with Mr. Jagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-blasts-trigger-panic-in-andhra-pradesh/article35920860.ece
15 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget seeks to boost T.N. farming profile||In its first exclusive budget for agriculture presented in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Saturday, the DMK government announced a slew of schemes to boost Tamil Nadu’s agriculture profile over the next 10 years. Among them were schemes for judicious use of irrigation water, solar-powered pumps, and a scheme named after former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi for overall agricultural development and self-sufficiency in villages. Presenting the Budget on the day when the DMK completed 100 days in office, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said he dedicated the Budget to the farmers protesting in New Delhi against the three new farm laws. He said the inputs were taken from farmers when he visited Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Krishnagiri and other areas on the advice of the Chief Minister. A scheme for judicious use of water will be executed on an outlay of Rs. 982.48 crore with State funds and the Union government’s contribution. Under it, the government will identify small and marginal farmers who possess irrigation facilities and promote drip irrigation in a cluster approach to cover the increased area under cultivation, and enhance production. It is proposed to install micro-irrigation structures in 1.5 lakh hectares. The government would implement a scheme called Kalaignarin Anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam in a span of five years to ensure overall agricultural development and self-sufficiency in all villages. To be implemented on an outlay of Rs. 250 crore with State funds, the scheme will cover over 12,000 village panchayats. During 2021-22, it will be implemented in 2,500 village panchayats. Prior to the implementation of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s decision to bring 11.75 lakh hectares of fallow land into cultivation in the next 10 years, preliminary surveys have been carried out in 36 districts and 19.31 lakh hectares has been identified. The government will implement the scheme to promote solar pumps to meet the increasing demand for electricity for well irrigation. On an outlay of Rs. 114.68 crore in State and Union government funds, off-grid-standalone solar-powered pumping system, 5,000 solar pumps, up to a capacity of 10 horsepower with 70% subsidy, will be installed during 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-seeks-to-boost-tn-farming-profile/article35920951.ece
15 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrest of forest staff in red sanders’ smuggling creates flutter||The arrest of four forest department personnel, including a driver, two beat officers and an outsourcing worker, by the Valmikipuram police on Saturday, on charges of conniving with red sanders smuggling network has created a flutter in the police and forest department circles. Circle Inspector Nagarjuna Reddy said that during the last couple of months, surveillance on the movement of red sanders operatives was intensified along the transit routes from the Seshachalam Hills. On arrest of a notorious Tirupati-based operative, who was earlier arrested under the PD (Preventive Detection) Act, it was revealed that he entered into a deal with the driver of the forest department working in Tirupati. The driver, in turn, reportedly formed a network with three other forest personnel working at a forest check-post in KV Palle mandal. Modus operandi Their modus operandi was to facilitate free movement of vehicles carrying red sanders logs through the check-post and allegedly collect hefty bribes. The smuggling operatives too reportedly preferred the route to transport the logs to temporary dumps. The Valmikipuram police sent the four accused for remand, and took up further investigation. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East) G.G. Narentheran said that three of the arrested forest personnel were attached to the check post Nutanakalva in K.V. Palle mandal between Rajampeta and Tirupati forest divisions. Earlier, in March this year, the Kadapa police arrested a forest protection watcher for involvement in red sanders smuggling in Pullampeta mandal. In June, 2015, seven forest personnel, including six base camp staff and an assistant beat officer, were held on charges of assisting the red sanders network near Ontimitta in Kadapa district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-forest-personnel-held-in-red-sanders-case/article35920865.ece
15 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension in Piler as officials pull down illegal constructions||Tension gripped Piler and surrounding areas on Saturday as the revenue officials escorted by a heavy police force began pulling down illegal constructions that came up in government lands. On the instructions from Sub-Collector (Madanapalle) Jahnavi, the revenue authorities in Piler commenced the exercise in the early hours, reportedly giving little time for the inmates to vacate the premises. The drive was more focused on the structures which came up along the Piler-Tirupati road. Expecting public protests, the authorities had drafted a huge police force from all over Madanapalle division and posted them at all vulnerable areas in and around Piler. The latest development is seen as a backlash of political allegations that the ruling YSR Congress Party leaders had resorted to large-scale encroachment of government lands in Piler, Madanapalle and several prime areas as far as Anantapur district border, worth over Rs. 500 crore. Senior TDP leader N. Kishore Kumar Reddy was at the forefront to make the allegations, besides issuing a warning that he would resort to legal recourse to protect the government lands. A police officer said that removal of encroachments in government lands would be continued till the process is fully completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-in-piler-as-officials-pull-down-illegal-constructions/article35921180.ece
15 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||President’s Police Medal for Chittoor police officer||Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) of Chittoor district N. Sudhakar Reddy has been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service(PPMDS), on the eve of the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. A 1991 batch officer, Mr. Sudhakar Reddy has a career spanning about three decades, having served in various divisions of Rayalaseema police districts. He is known for accomplishing daring assignments, prominent among which is seizure of red sanders dumps, and recovery of the precious wood worth over Rs. 1,000 crore. When he was the circle-inspector in Tirupati urban district, Mr. Sudhakar Reddy was instrumental in the arrest of around 100 red sanders smuggling operatives in December 2013. This led to further intensification of surveillance on the inter-State borders with Tamil Nadu. In August 2020, Mr. Sudhakar Reddy, then Deputy SP (special branch), led the operation to arrest offenders from Madhya Pradesh involved in the theft of Rs. 8 crore worth mobiles from a running truck near Nagari in Chittoor district. In 2010, the police officer was deputed to Anantapur district to handle faction feuds in Hindupur and Tadipatri. So far, he had received about 400 cash rewards, 30 appreciations, Indian Police Medal and Uttama Seva Pathakam. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sudhakar Reddy said the award enhanced his responsibilities, and attributed his success to team work in all his endeavours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/presidents-police-medal-for-chittoor-police-officer/article35921179.ece
15 August 2021||HARIDASPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veedhi Badi concept catching on in TS||Boyini Pallavi is about 12 years old. She has completed her seventh class and will enter eighth class once the schools are reopened. Like many others, she could not attend school for past one year or so. Many of them were almost distanced from regular education, being in the middle of Corona pandemic. There are about 30 children in the age group of 6 to 10 years who got completely accustomed with play instead of books. At the same time no one in the village was sure when the schools get reopened and even then whether it is safe or not in view of resurfacing of Corona cases. Village Anganwadi teacher Esumani evolved a new idea to keep children on track and as part of that three Veedhi Badis were opened, which has become a centre of activity for education. At each Veedhi Badi, about 10 students of neighbouring houses are getting educated for two hours in the evening. They are being taught numericals, Telugu and English alphabet and small words and sentences. Alphabet, numbers and words were written on a wall board so that it will be easy for students to learn. “They play with me and when I teach they hear the class sincerely. They also say alphabet and words,” says Pallavi. “We will also teach them when time permits. If not, we will observe how the class is going on. We will also have a regular interaction with them,” said Boyini Suneetha, mother of Pallavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veedhi-badi-concept-catching-on-in-ts/article35921184.ece
15 August 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flag manufacturing unit flying high again||After the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, the country’s lone BIS-approved national flag manufacturing unit of Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha (KKGSS) at Bengeri in Hubballi is slowly returning to normality and there is a smile on the faces of those working there. The lockdown and subsequent restrictions had led to a situation wherein the KKGSS found it difficult to pay wages as production had to be stopped for want of orders. “Our biggest retail outlet is in Bengaluru and it recorded a huge drop in sales last year. But this year, it has been better,” KKGSS secretary Shivanand Mathapathi told The Hindu.  April to July is the period that the KKGSS records its annual sales. While it was around Rs. 56 lakh between April and July in 2020, it has risen to Rs. 92 lakh for the same period this year. During the first wave of the pandemic, the flag unit had to be closed for a few months as Bengeri locality was declared a containment zone and various restrictions had to be followed. “There were no fresh orders and the workers too were afraid. As the raw material suppliers, including the Khadi Sangha at Tulasigeri in Bagalkot district, were in the red zone, the sangha faced several problems last year,” Mr. Mathapathi recalled. However, this year’s sales are low when compared to the pre-pandemic period, when they used to be in the range of Rs. 1.5 crore to Rs. 2 crore. But, the workers at the khadi unit are happy that now they are at least in a situation where regular wages are assured. All put together, the khadi workers involved in the flag manufacturing process at Tulasigeri in Bagalkot district and at Bengeri in Hubballi amount to over 350. About 95% of these workers are women.  [During the first wave of COVID-19], there were no fresh orders and the workers too were afraid. As the raw material suppliers were in the red zone, we faced many problems last year Shivanand Mathapathi, Secretary, arnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flag-manufacturing-unit-flying-high-again/article35920864.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS-Genco makes most of June-July heavy flood||Heavy flood into the Krishna Basin projects this water year, considered the best in recent past, has helped Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Ltd (TS-Genco) to generate a record 752 million units of low-cost energy in June and July helping the two power distribution companies (Discoms) reduce power purchases from private producers proportionately. TS-Genco’s hydel generation was 160.9 MU in June and 591.1 MU in July and it was no where near the generation possible this year in the five previous years. “In tune with the State government policy to keep hydel generation at possible peak level to feed the demand from agriculture sector and by following the met forecast, we have started hydel generation early and the rain gods blessed our efforts by bringing in copious flood into projects,” a TS-Genco official unwilling to be quoted said. He explained that hydel generation in June and July was 11 MU and 381.9 MU in 2020, 0 and 6.9 MU in 2019, 8.1 MU and 116.3 MU in 2018, 0 and 1.7 MU in 2017 and 9.45 MU and 61.63 MU in 2016, respectively. It was possible as the arrival of flood into Jurala was nearly 377 tmc ft, it was 375 tmc ft in Srisailam and 154 tmc ft into Nagarjunasagar and 60.5 tmc ft into Pulichintala projects during the two months. But for the COVID-induced delay in reviving the fourth unit of 6×150 MW Srisailam Left Hydro Electric Station, damaged in fire in August last year, the hydel generation by Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Ltd would have been much higher during the first two months of this water year. ‘Stopping waste’ “Andhra Pradesh was hell bent on stopping hydel generation being done by Telangana at Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala alleging that it would end allowing precious water flow waste into the sea. “However, our decision to carry on the lowest cost of power generation based on the forecasts of flood holds good now as over 43 tmc ft of water had to be let out towards sea as of August 1 after all projects in the basin attained full reservoir level and have become surplus,” the Genco engineer told The Hindu . Dispute Along with the lingering row over sharing Krishna water, the dispute over hydel generation too dates back to formation of Telangana State with the bifurcation of combined Andhra Pradesh. In less than a month after the State formation, the Centre had transferred large chunks of Telangana land, seven mandals of the erstwhile Khammam district, to AP along with the 460 MW Lower Sileru hydro-electric project, where power generation is possible almost round the year, in spite of Telangana’s objections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-genco-makes-most-of-june-july-heavy-flood/article35921083.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oppn. creating hurdles to Dalit Bandhu’||Notwithstanding the conspiracies of the opposition parties to stall the launch of Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad, the State government is committed to extending the scheme to every eligible dalit family in the constituency in single-phase, Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao has said. “Instead of creating hurdles and making demands to give Rs. 50 lakh per family against Rs. 10 lakh planned by the State government, they (BJP leaders) could use their influence and get the remaining Rs. 40 lakh per each beneficiary family from the Centre”, Mr. Harish Rao suggested to BJP leaders, including its State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. ‘Creating confusion’ If that happens, people would do ‘paalaabhishekam’ (a traditional and sacred ritual performed to deities during special prayers/puja) to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in addition to extending support to BJP in the State, Mr. Harish Rao said speaking at Huzurabad on Saturday. Alleging that BJP leaders were trying to create confusion, doubts and misgivings among dalits about Dalit Bandhu, the Minister said such doubts would be blown away once the scheme started reaching the beneficiaries. Similar doubts were expressed by BJP and other parties when Rythu Bandhu was launched from Huzurabad but the investment support under the scheme was being given irrespective of the COVID-19 impact on the economy. Dalit Bandhu would be extended to 20,000 families in Huzurabad and the selection of beneficiaries would be through a transparent process at gram sabha in the presence of special officers, sarpanch, MPTC and ZPTC members, the Minister said. Ridiculing the opposition parties’ argument that the State government had announced Dalit Bandhu only because of by-election to Huzurabad, Mr. Harish Rao said as Minister of Finance he had announced Dalit Empowerment Scheme during the budget speech and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had announced that it would be in addition to SC, ST sub-plan. The opposition parties were writing to the Election Commission and filing petitions in the High Court seeking halt to the launch of Dalit Bandhu although the notification for the by-election was yet to be issued. People, including those of the dalit community, were watching the developments, the Minister cautioned the opposition parties. On the day of the launch on August 16, the Chief Minister would distribute cheques to 15 families. The Chief Minister’s public meeting would be held from 2 pm to 4 pm. Mr. Harish Rao along with Minister G. Kamalakar and others inspected the public meeting site at Shalapalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-creating-hurdles-to-dalit-bandhu-harish/article35921183.ece
15 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held on charge of stealing Nandi idol from Bikkavolu temple||The East Godavari district police on Saturday arrested two members of a gang on the charge of stealing a Nandi stone idol from the Golingeswara temple at Bikkavolu village in the district on the night of August 6. The temple complex is a protected monument of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The arrested were identified as Chukkapalli Prasad and Kundala Venkatesh of Prakasam district. Addressing the media here, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said, “The four-member Guntur-based gang is led by Prasad, an MCA graduate. The accused have chalked out plans to steal idols and sculptures from 15 historic temples in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana expecting the presence of some precious material in them.” “On the night of August 6, the accused had broken the Nandi idol, but dumped it as they did not find anything precious inside it. Basing on the details provided by the arrested persons, the pieces of the idol were found near G. Maamidada village, near Kakinada,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu. “Search is on for the two other accused – Guvvala Bhaskara Reddy of Ongole and P. Ravi of Nellore,” he added. The accused had targeted temples located in Guntur, Nellore, Ongole, and Prakasam in Andhra Pradesh and Jagityala in Telangana. The police registered cases against the two accused and produced them before the local court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-on-charge-of-stealing-nandi-idol-from-bikkavolu-temple/article35921222.ece
15 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,140 litres of Anganwadi milk seized while being diverted to Odisha||The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Chintoor) authorities and Revenue officials on Saturday busted an agency that was allegedly diverting milk to Odisha from a stock point in Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district. The milk was meant for supply to the Anganwadis for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers under the YSR Sampoorna Poshana programme. ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana said the agency was found diverting the milk to Odisha by road. A detailed investigation was on. Two vehicles had been seized and two persons were being investigated by the police. Yetapaka Deputy Tahsildar S. Subba Rao said 1,140 litres of milk was allegedly being diverted from Gundala stock point to Odisha via Bandirevu, the last village in Andhra Pradesh on the Andhra-Odisha border. The authorities seized the milk while the accused were loading it into another vehicle. The police, Integrated Child Development Services authorities and ITDA officials are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1140-litres-of-anganwadi-milk-seized-while-being-diverted-to-odisha/article35921223.ece
15 August 2021||KANCHIKACHERLA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood water discharged without warning, say workers||It was a miraculous escape for the 200-odd workers engaged in sand mining in the Krishna river at Chevitikallu village in the district on Saturday when flood water was discharged reportedly without giving any alert. About 132 lorries and two tractors were still stuck in the flood water, when reports last came in, at the sand ramp taken on lease by a private company. “We climbed up the lorry cabins and shouted for help. The road laid to the ramp got washed away and the vehicles were caught in the flood water,” the rescued lorry drivers later said. Kanchikacherla Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) V. Rajakumari, who monitored the operation, said that the flood occurred suddenly when 75,000 cusecs of water was discharged from the Pulichintala project, besides inflows from Munneru and Kattaleru streams from Telangana. “As usual, we went into the river around midnight to load sand. Suddenly, flood water surrounded our vehicles and the road laid to the ramp got washed away in the early hours. It’s a rebirth for us,” says a driver Rama Krishna. No human loss Many drivers, cleaners, workers and supervisors from Ibrahimpatnam, Kondapalli, Vijayawada, Nandigama and Kanchikacherla were working at the ramp, said Kanchikacherla SI J. Lakshmi, who visited the spot. Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal said, “We rescued all the persons and prevented human loss. I appreciate all the officers who participated in the operation. A police picket has been arranged to prevent local people from venturing into the river, which is in spate.” “There was no alert on Saturday, which we usually get during floods. We got stuck in the river for about four hours. Police and fire personnel and local boat owners reached the spot and rescued us,” said a worker Rama Rao. The MRO said the operation would continue on Sunday to bring out the lorries from the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-water-discharged-without-warning-say-workers/article35921427.ece
15 August 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Project for adoption of stray dogs in Kerala||When there are frequent reports of dogs being harmed or beaten to death, the Panoor municipality and Thalassery unit of the Indian Veterinary Association are implementing a project aimed at reducing the number of stray dogs, protecting them, and encouraging people to adopt the animals. Veterinary surgeon Anil Kumar, under whose supervision the project called “Our village, our dog” (Nammude Nadu, Nammude Nayi) is being implemented, said they would find volunteers in each area of the municipality and arrange for the stray dogs to be fed. Sterilization In the initial phase, the project would concentrate on Panoor town, after which it would be extended to the Panoor zone and later to Panoor municipality. Once these volunteers got friendly with the dogs, they would take the male dogs for sterilization. They would be returned to the same place after the procedure. In addition, all dogs would be vaccinated against rabies. Identification He said each dog would have a collar with relevant details fixed around its neck. This way, one could identify the dogs. People, especially youngsters, were not ready to adopt native dogs and were more fascinated by foreign breeds. Mr. Kumar said that as long as the dumping of food waste and improper garbage disposal continued, the street dog menace would continue. Awareness He said there was a good response to the initiative and many people had contacted them to adopt the dogs in their area. More awareness had to be created among the people, he said. Those interested in collaborating with the project may contact 9447216981.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/project-for-adoption-of-stray-dogs-in-kerala/article35920870.ece
15 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe on to locate missing jewellery from Kerala temple||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has launched a probe to locate the missing portions of a gold jewellery piece, which forms part of the Thiruvabharanam (sacred jewellery) of the presiding deity at the Ettumanur Mahadeva temple in Kottayam. Officials said here on Saturday that nine gold-plated beads of a rudraksha rosary, which contained 81 beads and 21 grams of gold, were found missing during a stock verification by the newly appointed head priest last month. The verification, carried out in the presence of TDB officials, including an assistant commissioner, reportedly brought to light the presence of a new gold chain among the jewellery. Based on the finding, the TDB Vigilance held a preliminary verification at the temple. Later, a probe was announced by the Thiruvabharanam Commissioner. Loss pegged at 7 g TDB president N. Vasu has sought a report on the episode. “A preliminary verification has pegged the loss at seven grams of gold and a probe is on to ascertain whether a theft indeed took place. Efforts are also on to confirm whether an unaccounted gold chain was among the Thiruvabharanam,” he said. The board has also sought explanation on an alleged attempt by a few officials to hush up the case, which came to light at least a month ago. “The new head priest was appointed early last month and the verification of stock must have occurred soon after. The board received a report on the suspected theft only recently,” added Mr. Vasu. Sources said a few other valuable items, including a silver pot used for daily rituals, were also missing. To confirm this, a complete verification of stock is being carried out at the temple. The sacred jewellery of the main deity, used for rituals daily, are usually in the head priest’s custody while the TDB maintains a register of the ornaments. The articles that are not used daily are kept in a strong room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-launched-to-locate-missing-jewellery-from-temple/article35920858.ece
15 August 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya Kanuka kit to greet students on reopening day||Over 2.71 lakh students in SPSR Nellore district are in for a change when they enter their schools on the reopening day(August 16), as at least 1,060 government schools in the district have got a facelift, thanks to additional funds under the flagship scheme of ‘Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu’. The schools have got running water in washrooms, a fresh coat of paint, new fans and tubelights, safe drinking water, new furniture, new chalkboards and a play ground with sports equipment. Overseeing the arrangements on Saturday, District Education Officer T. Ramesh said: “We will welcome students with Jagananna Vidya Kanuka kit.” The kit comprises three pairs of uniforms, textbooks, notebooks, two pairs of socks, a pair of shoes, belts, and a school bag for each student. While students from classes I to V would be provided a pictorial dictionary, those in classes VI to X will get a Oxford English to Telugu dictionary. The DEO expected the strength of students in State-run schools, which at present is 2,71,498, to go up as fresh admissions would also be taken up from August 16. Vaccination drive for teachers Talking about the vaccination programme, Mr. Ramesh said: “We plan to cover over 16,000 school teachers under the vaccination programme. All teachers, except those advised against by the doctors for various reasons, will take the jab.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-kanuka-kit-to-greet-students-on-reopening-day/article35921182.ece
15 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers demand increase in quota for cultivation||Tobacco is back in favour among growers in the drought-prone areas in Prakasam and Nellore districts, as the growers realised a better average price during the truncated tobacco auctions this year. Enthused by this, the growers in the two districts have demanded an increase in the quota for cultivation ahead of the Tobacco Board’s production policy meeting on August 16, to make good of the economies of scale to withstand the global competition. Thanks to a favourable grade out-turn, tobacco growers got a better average price for their produce this year. They got stable prices for bright grade varieties and significant increase in the prices of medium and low grade varieties compared to the previous year, though the auctions this year were crippled by COVID-19 imposed break for three weeks during the peak marketing season and exporters not entering the market in a big way. The average price realised this year for 68.3 million kg was Rs. 143.3 per kg when compared to Rs. 115.86 per kg for the 83.9 million kg sold in the previous year, as the bright grade varieties accounted for a majority of the crop this year when compared to low grade varieties dominating the grade out-turn in the previous year, according to Tobacco Board sources. The drastic reduction in the per barn quota for the farmers last year had put paid to their hopes of taking advantage of the economies of scale, said a group of farmers in Ongole. The Tobacco Board at its meeting on Monday should allow at least 45 quintals per barn for each registered farmer, said a farmer Ramanjaneyulu from Ongole II auction platform. The Central Tobacco Research Institute had recommended an optimum curing capacity of 55 to 60 quintals for the farmers to cultivate the export-oriented crop in a profitable manner, opined another farmer V.V. Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-growers-demand-increase-in-quota-for-cultivation/article35921193.ece
15 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 COVID deaths in Nellore dist.||Three more persons succumbed to coronavirus in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases dipped below 4,000 in the region for the first time during the second wave of coronavirus. For the second day in a row, Prakasam district registered zero deaths during the period. As many as 318 persons got infected in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative count in the region to over 2.69 lakh. As many as 481 persons recovered during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-covid-deaths-in-nellore-dist/article35921175.ece
15 August 2021||PEDANA (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalamkari designs win national award for Andhra block maker||Pedana-based 59-year-old wooden block maker Kondra Gangadhar, who has won the Shilp Guru Award-2018, has earned the honour for his craftsmanship in creating three wooden blocks with teak wood – Arch, Mango, and Pandu designs. He is among the 10 awardees for 2018 announced on Friday by the Ministry of Textiles for their remarkable contribution in the field of handicrafts. Mr. Gangadhar also received a national award in 2002 through the hands of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. Shilp Guru is the country’s highest award in the field of handicrafts given to artisans aged above 50. It is presented by the President of India.  “The three works are traditional Kalamkari designs. I worked for 60 days to carve them out of the wood procured from the Bastar forest in Chhattisgarh,” said Mr. Gangadhar, who has kept the Machilipatnam Kalamkari art alive in Pedana town. “I am delighted to become the first wooden block maker from the Telugu States to win the Shilp Guru Award. I hope this recognition will help revive the glory of the wooden block method of Kalamkari that is on the brink of extinction in Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Gangadhar told The Hindu . Biggest unit Mr. Gangadhar, who had migrated from the Telangana region in the 1980s, has been running one of Asia’s biggest wooden block-making units here. Along with his brother Narasaiah, he has also been grooming young artisans. “The achievement was possible due to the constant encouragement from traditional Kalamkari artisans like Pitchuka Srinivas, for whom I have created ‘Tree of Life’ and Buddhist series in recent years,” Mr. Gangadhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalamkari-designs-win-national-award-for-andhra-block-maker/article35921191.ece
15 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s vehicle scrappage policy is unscientific: Raju||Kerala Transport Minister Antony Raju on Saturday described the National Automobile Scrappage Policy unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “unscientific”. Mr. Raju said the State government would formally convey its reservations about the policy to the Centre. “It is thoroughly unscientific and designed to benefit only private automobile companies,” he said. Launching the policy on Friday, the Prime Minister had called it an important link in the circular economy and the waste-to-wealth campaign. The policy would play a vital role in the modernisation of the vehicle population by removing unfit vehicles from roads, besides creating thousands of jobs. Among other things, the policy advocates phasing out 15-year-old commercial vehicles and 20-year-old passenger vehicles. Mr. Raju, however, said a more scientific approach would have been to fix the kilometres run by a vehicle as the yardstick rather than the age of the vehicle. “There are any number of vehicles that may be over 15-years-old, but have not covered that many kilometres. For example, school and college buses that run only in the mornings and evenings,” he said. The Centre’s justification that the policy would help reduce pollution was also fraught with problems, according to the Transport Minister. “If that were so, promoting the conversion of vehicles into LNG and CNG-fuelled ones would be more advisable,” he said. According to him, the previous LDF government had conveyed its opinion on the policy to the Centre. “I understand that the State suggested that the distance run by a vehicle rather than its age should be the criterion. We will reiterate our stand on this point,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centres-vehicle-scrappage-policy-unscientific-raju/article35920868.ece
15 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muraleedharan slams Left MPs||Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Saturday dared left MPs from Kerala to substantiate their allegation that the Central government had brought outsiders into the Rajya Sabha in the guise of House Marshals to "manhandle" the Opposition. “I will do their bidding if the Opposition MPs can prove their claim,” he said at a press conference here. Mr. Muraleedharan said the Left MPs had created chaos in the House on the last day of the monsoon session. The Rajya Sabha was considering the General Insurance (Amendment) Bill. He furnished photographs of MPs sitting on the table of the Rajya Sabha general secretary. “The Left MPs had attempted to re-enact the vandalism their party colleagues had infamously unleashed in the Kerala Assembly in 2015. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, who spearheaded the violence, is their model. The MPs are alumni of the Sivankutty school of parliamentary conduct. They have shamed Kerala,” Mr. Muraleedharan said. He denied the government had contracted an Israeli software firm to provide intrusive mobile phone malware to snoop on Opposition leaders. The scandal was a bogey raised by the UPA to tarnish the NDA, he said. Mr. Muraleedharan said the allegation against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan detailed in the Customs showcase notice to UAE gold smuggling case accused was severe. He said the State government had given diplomatic protection to a contract employee of the UAE consulate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muraleedharan-slams-left-mps/article35920867.ece
15 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD complains against 18 social media users||The TTD Vigilance and Security personnel have lodged a police complaint against 18 social media users for allegedly trying to defame the religious institution and for hurting the sentiments of the devotees. While two users – ‘Janasena party’ and ‘Pandu Buddhala’– had allegedly posted false and disparaging content on their Facebook and Twitter accounts that the State government had secured a loan by pledging 1,500 kg of gold belonging to Lord Venkateswara with the SBI, 16 others allegedly shared the “baseless content.” The Vigilance officials said the “maligned posts” were a deliberate attempt to besmirch the image of government and the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-complains-against-18-social-media-users/article35920936.ece
15 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 cases booked in fake challan scam, says official||Special Chief Secretary of Revenue (Registration) Department Rajat Bhargava has said the State exchequer was found to be robbed of nearly Rs. 5.43 crore through fake challans submitted in the Sub-Registrar Offices (SROs) as on August 13 and a sum of Rs. 1.37 crore has been recovered. The highest amount swindled by officers and employees in collusion with document writers was Rs. 3.81 crore in the purview of the Deputy Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Vijayawada, of which about Rs. 72 lakh has been recovered. The second highest loss was Rs. 1.09 crore in Kadapa and Rs. 19.60 lakh has been recovered. Mr. Bhargava told media persons here on Saturday that 10 criminal cases were booked in nine districts and an inquiry was on to expose the true magnitude of the scam. More than 65 lakh documents were being scrutinised and so far over 700 documents were found to have major discrepancies that led to the financial loss. Complex process Stamp papers, CFMS challans, franking, demand drafts, endorsements, e-stamping and consolidated payment (of stamp duty) were the different modes through which the stamp duties were paid and they were causing difficulties in reconciliation. Besides, the department regulates and administers the registration of marriages under the Hindu and Special Marriages Act, the Indian Partnership Act, the A.P. Societies Registration Act, the A.P. Chit Fund Act, the Notaries Act and the Non-Trading Companies Act and collects fees, penalties and user charges under the head of account (1475–200) on other business services. “Further, the department collects surcharges on sales, gifts, exchanges, mortgages with possession and perpetual leases for transferring properties in claimants’ names,” said Mr. Bhargava, hinting at the complexity of transactions and the cumbersome procedures of monitoring the collections made by the SROs that probably resulted in the leakage of substantial revenue. Various types of adjustments and modes of payment of duties were not only leading to complexity in the reconciliation of government receipts but also non-tallying of the CFMS figures with department figures, Mr. Bhargava said, adding that buyers of stamp papers were also under the scanner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-cases-booked-in-fake-challan-scam-says-official/article35921429.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10.4% decline in COVID-19 cases in last fortnight||The State reported 1,535 new infections and 16 new deaths due to COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally increased to 19,92,191 and the death toll reached 13,631 with a recovery rate of 98.40%. With the 2,075 new recoveries in the last day, the total recoveries increased to 19,60,350. The number of active cases came down to 18,210, according to the bulletin by Health Department. More than one-third of the State’s COVID infections in the last fortnight (August 1 to 14) were reported in just two districts of East Godavari (5,011 cases) and Chittoor (3,873). Another one-third of the cases were reported in Nellore (3,068), Krishna (2,751) and Guntur (2,424), while eight districts altogether reported only 8,889 infections during that period. A total of 26,016 infections were reported in the last fortnight. It was 10.45% lesser than 29,053 reported in the previous fortnight (July 18 to 31). Also, the deaths came down from 262 to 254. Test positivity rate in the last fortnight was 2.51% and in the previous one it was 2.70%. Of the total deaths since August 1, over 50% were reported from Chittoor, Krishna and East Godavari, and no death was reported in Vizianagaram district. Kurnool reported only two deaths, while Kadapa reported six and Srikakulam reported seven deaths, according to the bulletin. Among the districts, in the fortnightly comparison, only three districts, Guntur, Srikakulam and East Godavari, saw a rise in cases while 10 districts saw a decline. Anantapur and Prakasam reported over 35% lesser cases, while Guntur reported 13.8% more cases. The positivity rate of the 69,088 tests conducted in the last one day was 2.22%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/104-decline-in-covid-19-cases-in-last-fortnight/article35921187.ece
15 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 2.62 lakh houses being built in Jagananna Colonies||Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana has said that the government has undertaken the construction of 2,62,216 houses in the G+3 format for the urban poor in the YSR Jagananna Colonies, and it is targeted to complete 50,000 houses every six months. The total project cost is Rs. 21,167.86 crore. Of the total cost, the Central government’s share is Rs. 3,933.24 crore and the State’s share is Rs. 12,644.34 crore. The remaining amount (Rs. 4,590.28 crore) is the contribution of the beneficiaries. Addressing a gathering at the AP-Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (AP-TIDCO) head office after administering the oath of office of its Chairman to J. Prasanna Kumar on Saturday, Mr. Satyanarayana said the houses were being built in 177 colonies in 88 municipalities. All basic amenities were planned to be provided in a two-year time frame with priority to drinking water, roads and electricity. Mr. Prasanna Kumar said he was grateful to the Chief Minister for appointing him as Chairman of AP-TIDCO, saying it was an opportunity to serve the poor. Efforts would be made to complete the construction of houses at the earliest, he said. Endowments Minister V. Srinivas, Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu, YSRCP leaders Devineni Avinash and Satrucharla Parikshit Raju, and TIDCO MD Ch. Sreedhar and General Manager Harinath Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-262-lakh-houses-being-built-in-jagananna-colonies/article35921188.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to dedicate to people first phase of Nadu-Nedu tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will dedicate the first phase of the Mana Badi - Nadu-Nedu programme to the people of the State and launch its second phase on August 16 at the Zilla Parishad High School in P. Gannavaram mandal of East Godavari district. The Ministers, MLAs, MLCs and senior district-level Education Department officials will do the honours at their respective places. Vidya Kanuka Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will also launch the second phase of the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka for the academic year 2021-22 at the same event. Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar has communicated to the District Collectors to make arrangements for dedicating the first round of Nadu-Nedu and launch of the second round of Vidya Kanuka by the respective in-charge Ministers at the district headquarters, by the MLAs and MLCs at the constituency headquarters, and under the supervision of a senior district-level officer at the mandal headquarters. The programme should be arranged in schools covered under the Nadu-Nedu Phase I, and members of the parents’ committees should be invited to be a part of it. Unveiling of pictures Photographs of the schools displaying the 10 components under the Nadu-Nedu, preferably comparing the past with the present, and plaques with details of the first and second rounds of the programme should be unveiled by the dignitaries. This would be followed by the distribution of school kits under Vidya Kanuka under biometric authentication. COVID-19 protocols such as wearing mask, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distance should be mandatory, said Mr. Rajasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-dedicate-to-people-first-phase-of-nadu-nedu-tomorrow/article35921195.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. should explain how it spent the loans: TDP||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Saturday said that the YSRCP government owed an explanation to the people on how it had spent the Rs. 2 lakh-crore it borrowed in a short span of its rule. In a statement, Mr. Atchannaidu said that the YSRCP government had borrowed Rs. 2,00,139 crore up to July 31 of 2021. This was in addition to the revenue of Rs. 75,000 crore the government made by increasing taxes, he added. The government had also received more funds from the Centre when compared to its predecessor, the TDP leader claimed. “Considering the overall picture, the YSRCP government’s financial position in 2019-20 was far better than that of the TDP’s in 2014-15,” he argued. There was no development in the State, Mr. Atchannaidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-should-explain-how-it-spent-the-loans-tdp/article35921196.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor extends I-Day greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan conveyed greetings to the people on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. This I-Day is being celebrated all over the country as ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, Mr. Harichandan said adding that the day was a remembrance of the freedom fighters, who sacrificed their lives for the country. Pledge for the cause “Independence Day is a re-dedication of peace, non-violence, truth and brotherhood. Let us pledge ourselves to re-dedicate for the cause of the nation building on this day,” the Governor said in a message on Saturday. Follow COVID-19 protocol. He appealed to the people to celebrate the I-Day by following the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-extends-i-day-greetings/article35921428.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s time to invest in pandemic prevention and preparedness’||The COVID-19 pandemic is the worst so far that the country and the world has seen in the 21st century and it is likely to persist till the entire world’s population is vaccinated or naturally infected, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Prof. Randeep Guleria has said. He was delivering the endowment lecture at the 41st Foundation Day Programme of GITAM Deemed to be University, here on Saturday. He observed that increasing urbanisation, loss of animal habitats, particularly cohabitation with humans, were the key factors for the rise of such pandemics in the 21st century. He mentioned that India had the third highest number of documented COVID-19 deaths in the world and it had affected livelihood, health, governance system, social fabric and the economy. He said COVID-19 pandemic was not over and it wouldn’t be the last pandemic. “We must prepare to face the future pandemics and it is time to invest in pandemic prevention and preparedness,” he said. Vaccine hesitancy Prof. Guleria said that social distancing, wearing of masks and vaccination were still the most effective public health measures to halt the spread of any pandemic. Vaccine hesitancy was a major obstacle for achieving vaccination coverage that was broad enough to result in herd immunity. There were over 60 candidate vaccines at various stages of human trials, and over 180 in preclinical trials. On the role of AIIMS during the pandemic, he said that 100 out of 178 proposals received on COVID-related intramural research were funded by the AIIMS research committee. GITAM president M. Sribharat said that GITAM Hospital treated 4,000 patients during COVID-19 pandemic. He presented the GITAM 41st Foundation Award to Prof. Randeep Guleria with a memento and Rs. 10 lakh cash prize. Appreciation certificates and cash prizes were given away to COVID-19 warriors. GITAM Deemed to be University vice-chancellor Prof. K. Sivaramakrishna, GITAM vice-president Prof. M. Gangadhara Rao, secretary M. Bharadwaj, GIMSR pro vice-chancellor Prof. C.V. Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-time-to-invest-in-pandemic-prevention-and-preparedness/article35921198.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All arrangements made for I-Day fete||The district administration made all arrangements for Independence Day Celebrations at the Police Parade Grounds in Visakhapatnam on Sunday. Agriculture Minister and in-charge Minister for the district K. Kannababu will attend the programme as chief guest and will hoist the national flag at 9 a.m. Later, he will address the gathering. Tableaux depicting various government departments have been arranged. The chief guest will also give appreciation certificates to government officials, NGOs and others for their services. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and other officials would attend the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-arrangements-made-for-i-day-fete/article35921454.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vaccine self-sufficiency by year-end’||By the end of the year, India will be self-sufficient in terms of vaccines. Already, local manufacturers such as Serum Institute of India that makes Covishield and Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covaxin, have scaled up their production, Director of AIIMS Randeep Guleria has said. The government has also given its nod to other manufacturers such as Zydus Cadila and Moderna, to market their vaccines. It is now up to them to study and work out how to market them and talks are also on with Pfizer and others, he has added. Mr. Guleria, who was here in connection with a programme on Saturday, told The Hindu that at least 50 crore people had received at least one vaccine dose, and by year-end at least 70% of the population was likely to be inoculated. According to him, as per the sero survey, about 60% of the population had developed antibodies, be it by vaccination or naturally after having suffered from COVID-19. ‘Normalcy by next year’ “Though the virus will continue to trouble us for some more time, by mid next year things should settle down and we may get over the ‘new normal’ and come close to pre-COVID ‘normal’,” Mr. Guleria opined. But it all would depend on the effect and speed of vaccination and people following the COVID-19 protocols. On the presumed third wave, he said the second wave was still to settle down as the country was recording about 35,000 to 40,000 cases every day, and the third wave might set in any time, following the unlock. However, the third wave might be a milder one with fewer deaths and less hospitalisation. He also cautioned about the possible threat of virus mutation and its capabilities to develop an immune escape mechanism. “We need to strengthen our surveillance, testing capabilities, genome sequencing, containment policy and monitoring and containing the hotspots,” he said. Impact on children On the vulnerability of children during the third wave, he said, “Children are susceptible with the opening up of the lockdown, but at the same time study suggests that they may not be affected that much, as their immune system will protect them. Only children with underlying diseases may be vulnerable.” Bharat Biotech and other companies were in the final stages of developing a vaccine for children and that should complete the vaccine cycle, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-self-sufficiency-by-year-end/article35921199.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports one death and 65 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 65 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,54,208. The death toll also rose to 1,064 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the same period. Seventy-six persons recovered from the coronavirus. Consecutively for the third day, the number of daily recoveries were fewer than 100. According to the COVID-19 update, the total number of recoveries stands at 1,51,731, which is around 98.3 % and active cases stand at 1,413.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-one-death-and-65-new-covid-cases/article35921451.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good amount of immunity in country: Guleria||The Visakhapatnam Chapter of Public Relations Society of India (PRSI) felicitated renowned pulmonologist and Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, Randeep Guleria, here on Saturday for his outstanding services in the field of medicine and his untiring initiatives in the fight against COVID-19. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Guleria said that amid growing concerns over the possibility of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, there was a reasonably good amount of immunity in the population of the country. Appropriate behaviour He urged the people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour in a bid to flatten the virus curve in the country. Visakhapatnam Chapter Chairman P.L.K. Murthy, treasurer N.V. Narsimham and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-amount-of-immunity-in-country-guleria/article35921452.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last-minute preparations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-minute-preparations/article35921431.ece
15 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Blankets distributed||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel of the Tippapuram-based B/151 battalion on Saturday distributed blankets, solar lamps, mosquito nets and groceries to poor people of Tippapuram, a remote village in Charla mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency, bordering Chhattisgarh. According to a press release, J P Meena, Deputy Commandant, B/151 Central Reserve Police Force battalion, and others participated in the Civic Action Programme. Several poor people mainly belonging to Adivasi families took part in the programme. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Meena called upon the inhabitants of the predominantly tribal village to follow COVID-19 safety norms to protect themselves from coronavirus infection, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blankets-distributed/article35921266.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A Muslim freedom fighter who was dead against Partition||It was the time when Hindus and Muslims joined hands to fight for India’s freedom, and Darul Uloom at Deoband in Uttar Pradesh and scholars of the Islamic seminary played a vital role. So much so that those who opposed the strong anti-partition stand of celebrated freedom fighter Maulana Hussain Ahmed Madani, who taught hadith (tradition of Prophet Muhammad) at the institution, termed it ‘anti-Muslim’, and even sought a rescinding of a grant to the seminary from the State of Hyderabad. Documents preserved at the Telangana State Archives and Research Institute reveal that on August 22, 1938, one G.H. Siddiqui from Bijnore had complained to Prime Minister of Hyderabad, Sir Akbar Hydari, saying that Maulana Madani had unfurled a Tricolour, which he claimed was a Congress flag, atop his allotted quarters. He then proceeded to describe the seminary as an ‘institution which has now become a political centre of anti-Muslim religious propaganda and is now, no more an institution to give pure Islamic education’. He then sought to know whether it would be possible to briefly stop the annual grant to teach a ‘lesson’ to the staff. Sir Hydari’s handwritten note, polite in tone and tenor, found its way to the Vice Chancellor of the seminary, Maulana Shabbir Ahmed Usmani, another celebrated Islamic scholar, to know whether this was true, even as he requested him to investigate the matter. In his response, Maulana Usmani said that not only was the incident true, but the small flag that was once atop the quarters was replaced by a much larger one. The maulana, whose political leanings were diametrically opposed to those of Maulana Madani, supported the creation of Pakistan and eventually moved there. He had pointed out that the incident had happened in his absence. While Madani’s office had responded to inquiries, he himself had not. The letter shows that there was not much that Maulana Usmani could do. In the letter he writes, “Esteemed sir, you may remember that as I have previously informed you that 10 or 11 years ago, when my predecessors appointed the maulana as principal of the institution, they had accepted all his conditions, that his political activities and leanings would not be restricted.” Academic and author Shamsul Islam, in his book “Muslims Against the Partition of India”, writes that Maulana Madani, who was fiercely against partition, was famous for saying in 1937, nearly a year before the incident as mentioned in the letter to Sir Hydari, that ‘nations are based on homelands, not religion’. Speaking to The Hindu , noted cleric and president of Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind (Arshad Madani group) Maulana Arshad Madani, who is the freedom fighter’s son, opined that the staunch opposition to partition was a result of foresight, and conviction in peaceful coexistence of communities. “He was of the strong opinion that partition would not auger well for Muslims in India and Hindus in Pakistan. He believed that for 1,300 years, both communities lived next to each other without problems. We saw what happened after partition. He was imprisoned for a total of nine years, including in Sabarmati jail, and in Matla,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-muslim-freedom-fighter-who-was-dead-against-partition/article35921248.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tight security for Independence Day||Ahead of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, the Hyderabad city police have intensified security arrangements in the city. Hundreds of police personnel, including senior IPS officers, would be deployed in various 'hot spots’, including historic Golconda Fort where Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will hoist the tricolour. The police officials did not reveal the detailed security arrangements for the I-Day. The recent arrest of two alleged Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists by the National Investigation Agency from the city in connection with Bihar's Darbhanga blast case is said to be one of the key reasons. “We don’t have any specific intel, but everything is part of routine security arrangements for I-Day celebrations,” a senior police officer said. However, sources maintained that over 100 CCTV cameras were installed and integrated with the Command and Control Centre at the Hyderabad city police headquarters and over 700 traffic personnel will be deployed for duties en route Golconda. They will also regulate general traffic as Mr. Rao, his Cabinet colleagues, politician, bureaucrats and others would be going to Golconda fort through various routes. The traffic police have also issued diversions in majors roads leading to Golconda fort. Security would also be tightened at public places such as places of worship, Pragathi Bhavan, Telangana Bhavan, BRK Bhavan, Necklace Road and parks. Additional forces would be deployed at all three major railway stations - Secunderabad, Nampally, and Kachuguda -- and bus station -- MGBS, JBS, Uppal, Kukatpally as a preventive measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thick-security-blanket-for-independence-day/article35921232.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t trust car and kite: Revanth||Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy has asked the minorities not to trust the car (TRS symbol) or the kite (AIMIM symbol) as ultimately the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was benefiting with their association. Mr. Reddy said only the Congress had the strength and the desire to fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his policies, and supporting the TRS was supporting the BJP. He was speaking at the “Aqliyaton Ki Lalkar” (Minorities garjana), organised by the TPCC Minorities department chairman Shaik Abdullah Sohail. The TPCC president said the meeting was organised to explain to the minorities how the TRS was deceiving them. “We want to hit the TRS but Asaduddin Owaisi is in between,” he said referring to AIMIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi. Mr. Revanth Reddy reminded that it was the Congress that provided 4% reservations to minorities that had benefited thousands of poor Muslims. On the other hand KCR promised 12% reservations to them and did nothing. “You have to choose your real supporter.” He said KCR had neither provided the promised Double Bedroom Houses to the minorities nor the financial support. Now at least KCR should give Rs. 10 lakh loan to minorities and they would pay back Rs. 12 lakhs with their hard work. “It is time to send the car to Jummerath Bazaar,” he said referring to popular bazar in the old city where the scrap is sold. Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy urged the minorities to ensure TRS defeat if they want to defeat the BJP at the Centre as both parties have an understanding to support each other. He also said K. Chandrasekhar Rao had betrayed Muslims in safeguarding the Wakf properties. TPCC Campaign Committee Chairman Madhu Yaskhi, TPCC working presidents Geetha Reddy and Anjan Kumar Yadav, former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir and senior leaders Sravan Dasoju and Aamer Javeed were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-trust-car-and-kite-revanth/article35921262.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||30% opt millets for health||Despite knowing too well that healthy food helps to lead a quality life, many of us struggle to adopt healthy food options such as millets. If you too are struggling with this, you are not alone. Around 40% of 15,139 people located in seven urban localities of India said that family eating custom was a reason for not eating more millets. And 22% of the respondents cited taste as the reason. But there are many who eat millets. If you are looking for some encouragement or push to adopt millets into your diet, here are their reasons: around 305 of the respondents cited prevalence of health problems including but not limited to diabetes, heart conditions, bone health, and general health as a reason. The other reasons cited for consuming the healthy food option was weight loss (15.1%) and its taste (14.6%). These were some of the findings from a study titled ‘Assessing Millets and Sorghum Consumption Behaviour in Urban India: A Large-Scale Survey’ published in Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems on Friday. The study was coordinated by Telangana based International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). It included face-to-face survey of over 15,500 people. After cleansing data, 15,139 observations were subjected to analysis. The respondents include 9,453 women and 5,686 were men, and their average age was 41.2 years. The survey was conducted in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Delhi, in August 2017. What do millets have? Apart from protein, depending on the variety and species, millets are also rich in minerals, such as iron, zinc, and calcium, which deliver health benefits to all age groups and genders, as per the published study. One of the obstacles which hamper adopting health food is methods to cook or in which form is the food available. The researchers have also found that 46% of the respondents said that they consumed millets in ready-to-eat products form and 38% ate porridge. “This represents an interest in modern convenience products as well as in easy-to-prepare traditional foods, hinting at market opportunities for products that are both convenient and culturally sensitive,” as per the researchers. ICRISAT’S director general Dr Jacqueline Hughes said that it is imperative for millet promoting initiatives to reach the whole population as these crops offer a multitude of benefits. “They help farmers build climate-resilience, contribute to environmental sustainability and offer a range of nutritional benefits, including addressing micronutrient deficiencies and helping manage lifestyle disorders such as diabetes,” said Dr Hughes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-opt-millets-due-to-health-issues/article35921239.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Karimnagar farmer creates map with rice saplings||On August 15, as India celebrates its 75th Independence Day, Pedda Kurumapally village in Karimnagar district will etch its name in history with a unique flag hoisting ceremony. Its award-winning farmer Mavuram Mallikarjun Reddy will hoist the Tricolour near an India map made of rice saplings on his farm. Mallikarjun has planted kalabati — a black rice variety — saplings to create an India map of 50 feet in length (measured north to south) at his farm. Done as part of the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, Mallikarjun calls it a farmer’s way of celebrating Independence Day. He has also created images of Mahatma Gandhi, ICAR (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) and Swachh Bharat with kalabati saplings planted on his two-acre farm. “It is my unfulfilled wish from last year and I didn’t want it to remain that way,” says Mallikarjun, who began working on it in June. As preparation, he took A4 size printouts of the Indian map, folded them on sides, and calculated the distance of each side from its centre. He then converted the distance from centimetres to feet and used a hose pipe to create a rough figure of the map. With his father Mavuram Laxma Reddy’s guidance from atop a water tanker, Mallikarjun planted the saplings in the field. He first created a small map of 15 feet length for practice and after some success, he planted saplings on 50 feet. By August 15, the saplings will complete 41 days and the paddy will be ready for harvest in around 120 days. From August 15 onwards, Mallikarjun plans to hoist the Indian flag every morning and take it down in the evening for 365 days. “It is a proud moment for my family,” says Mallikarjun who pays tribute to the ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ slogan with this initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-creates-map-with-rice-saplings/article35921242.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NRI, friend in India chronicle history of Independence||History is intriguing when a Non-Resident Indian explores it in association with an Indian due to conflicts in the perspectives given the two societies they live in. And when two youngsters explore the same with an open mind, it’s bound to throw up a new perspective. This is precisely what a 70-minute audio book on “A Brief History of Indian Independence – from the Mughals to the Mahatma”, written and narrated by London-based Ayur Pulle and city-based Aarush Kumbhakern, is all about. The Class 12 students released their book recently marking the 75th Independence year of India. Inspired by his mother Neelima Penumarthy, teenager Ayur started exploring history quite early. He teamed up with Aarush, a city student with similar interests in history, who was introduced by Babitha Srikumar, Neelima’s friend. After a series of conversations over Skype and exchange of notes, they finally recorded it in India. Ayur had already narrated an audio book on Ramayana along with his elder brother in 2019. This audio book takes listeners through the Indian kingdoms from the mountainous Afghanistan to the serene backwaters of Kerala, and from bustling Mumbai in the west to Cambodia in the east. It traces the history of Islamic rulers conquering it and the establishment of Mughals. The entry of East India Company and Britishers ruling for over 200 years before finally Indians gained Independence through a peaceful struggle led by Mahatma Gandhi. The engaging narration makes it an enjoyable listen and so is the effort to concise such vast history into a 70-minute audio book. “The idea is to communicate the Indian Independence and relive the story through young voices and not to make it controversial. So, they avoided some contributions,” Neelima explains. The audio book has impressed foreigners also. Director of Editorial and Production, Calibre Audio – a British company, Emma Scott said her limited knowledge of this area of history have been enlightened. She learned about “The Sepoy Mutiny” and also increased her understanding about Mahatma Gandhi. She has now agreed to distribute the audio book to people with muscular disease. The audio book is available on StoryHour UK Youtube Channel and also Audible UK and Audible USA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nri-friend-in-india-chronicle-history-of-independence/article35921245.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB team observes ‘excess work’ than needed||The three-member committee constituted by the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on the directions of the National Green Tribunal is learnt to have observed that works undertaken at the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) site were in excess for the purpose of preparation of a Detailed Project Report. In its report on the inspection of RLIS site in Kurnool district, the team clearly felt that the work done so far was in excess of what is required in general for preparing a Detailed Project Report (DPR) as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Jal Shakti for the preparation of DPR of irrigation and multi-purpose projects. The team visited various components of the project at the site. Report to NGT After several postponements and objections of Andhra Pradesh, the reconstituted team undertook the visit on August 11 so as to furnish the report toNational Green Tribunal before August 16, when the contempt petition filed by Telangana government is to be heard. The visit was necessitated to know whether there is any violation of the undertakings given by AP and the directions given by MoJS. Approach channel In its observation on the approach channel, the team was understood to have noted in its report that the channel was completely submerged under water now as the water level in Srisailam reservoir was at 884.8 feet on the day of the visit. The Chief Engineer of AP concerned had informed the team that the channel has been excavated partially to the extent of about 30% of total excavation. However, the excavation levels have not reached the bed level of 800 ft. The team could not ascertain the extent of excavation undertaken due to submergence but observed that a ledge of about 15 metres has been kept un-excavated between forebay and approach channel to prevent the entry of water into the excavated area of the forebay. On the component of forebay, the team observed that a major portion of it with the full length of 237 metres has been excavated to varying depths and the depth of excavation was observed to be in the order of about 150 ft to 180 ft towards pump-house. Further, it was observed that shotcreting on the walls of the forebbay has also been carried out. Further, the team was understood to have observed that the pump-house pit of 250 metre length and 40 metres in width has been excavated up to 730 ft level and the levels were observed to be below the level of invert of delivery tunnels. The support to rock-mass in the form of shotcreting with pattern of rock-bolting was observed on the vertically excavated walls of the pump-house. On the delivery main tunnels, the team was said to have noted that 10 out 12 tunnels have been excavated up to 35-50 metres length for erection of 5-metre diameter pipeline along with shotcreting at initial area/face of the tunnel. The team comprised Member Secretary of KRMB D.M. Raipure, Member (Power) L.B. Muanthang and Director (HCD) of Central Water Commission Darpan Talwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krmb-team-observes-excess-work-than-needed/article35921259.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teenager reunited with family, thanks to Aadhaar||A teenager, who went missing four years ago, was reunited with his family by the Madhapur police and Aadhaar Centre on Friday. The youngster, K Sandeep, 19, from Bodu village in Tekulapally of Bhadadri Kothagudem district, went to school and did not return home in 2018. Then a missing case was registered in the local police station and two years later it was closed due to -- no progress. Reportedly, the boy left the village and came to Hyderabad in search of work. Soon, he met a sweeper and requested her to look for a job and since then he was living with her. Recently, he decided to go to Chennai in search of work and applied for Aadhaar card at an enrolment centre in the name of Surya. While processing his application, the UIDIA people found that the fingerprints were matching with an Aadhaar card which was issued at Bhadadri Kothagudem district and alerted Madhapur police. The police later found that a missing case was registered against the boy and called his parents. However, when the boy’s father reached the police station, the former failed to recognise him, which forced police to probe deep and verify all the documents. And finally, they came to the conclusion that Surya is the same 16-year-old boy who went missing in 2018, and reunited him with his family. “UIDIAHyderabad is happy to announce the Reunion of a missing Boy with his parents with the help of #Aadhaar in #Telangana missing since 2018. #Thankyou #TeamAadhaar #WeCARE #FeelingHappytoServe,” Aadhaar Office Hyderabad tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenager-reunited-with-family-thanks-to-aadhaar/article35921256.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A parade of 75 boats||EME Sailing Association along with Secunderabad Club organised a spectacular parade of 75 boats sailing off together from the start line at Hussainsagar with the Tricolour on top of each boat on Saturday. This was part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations blending with Hyderabad Sailing Week, which was formally inaugurated by Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The grand spectacle of the sail parade was one of the major highlights of the evening. The opening ceremony of the prestigious Hyderabad Sailing Week-2021 and the Laser National Championship was conducted under the aegis of EME Sailing Association (EMESA) and the Laser Class Association of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-parade-of-75-boats/article35921357.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BusinessLine quiz is back but virtually||The Hyderabad regional round of BusinessLine Cerebration Quiz will be held today (August 15) virtually at 4 p.m. This will be part of the eighteenth edition of the quiz which is back and this time in virtual mode. Yet keeping the essence of the on-ground format for our readers to experience. BusinessLine’s Cerebration 2021, one of India's premier corporate quiz championships is designed for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students, and MBA aspirants. The preliminary online quizzing was scheduled from August 4 to 11 to shortlist top six from each of the six cities of Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai & Delhi and witnessed more than 6,000 participants. Now, for the regional Hyderabad round, the following six participants will battle it out and one of them will qualify for the grand finale on August 28. Participants selected for Hyderabad regional round to be held today (August 15) at 4 p.m. are: · B Naveen Kumar, Sai Mitra Constructions · Vishnu Santhosh S, HPCL · Surya Prakash, Indian Bank · Siddharth Mishra, Cognizant · Shivani Panda, Amazon · Kapinjal Chowdhury, TCS Get ready to showcase your knowledge and stand a chance to win the most coveted intellectual title and take-home prize money worth up to Rs. 1.5 lakh (first prize Rs. 75,000, 2nd prize Rs. 50,000, 3rd prize Rs. 25,000) Quiz enthusiast can login to witness the top 6 battle it out by registering at https://bit.ly/BLQUIZ21 or scan the QR Code The event is sponsored by: · Title sponsor: Union Bank of India · Powered by: CFA Institute · In Association with: ManageEngine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/businessline-quiz-is-back-but-virtually/article35921363.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two RPF officers get IPS medal||Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel of the South Central Railway (SCR) - K.S. Hara Prasad, Divisional Security Commissioner (DSC), Guntur division, and K. Benaiah, Inspector, Secunderabad Post, Secunderabad division, have been awarded the prestigious Indian Police Medal on the occasion of 75th Independence Day on Saturday. Mr. Hara Prasad unearthed and busted several criminal gangs resulting in recovery of railway material worth lakhs of rupees with 21 cases booked, arrest of 22 touts and seizure of 481 railway journey tickets valued Rs. 4.46 lakh. Mr. Benaiah led from the forefront which resulted in busting of numerous criminal gangs, including crime against railway property with cent per cent recovery, a press release here said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-rpf-officers-get-ips-medal/article35921253.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corona warriors were freedom fighters||Over a century old Ravuri Arjun Rao and his wife Manorama are corona warriors who were freedom fighters from Gudiwada in Krishna district in the real sense. It is apt to discuss about them on Independence Day eve as they continue to wear nothing but khadi till today. Their marriage was consummated at Sevagram Ashram of Mahatma Gandhi near Wardha in Maharashtra on March 13, 1948, months after Gandhi’s assassination. Arjun Rao is 101 years old and Manorama, eldest daughter of well-known atheist Gora, is 93. Both of them were arrested by the British government during the Quit India movement at Vijayawada and lodged in Alipore Camp jail near Bellary. Gora had expressed his desire with Gandhi to get Manorama married to Arjun Rao as he was impressed with the youngster’s commitment to equality, caste and religion less society. Gandhi wanted to test Arjun Rao before the marriage. So, he picked him up from Vijayawada and assigned him duties at Sevagram Ashram. It was during Arjun Rao’s stay at the ashram that Gandhi conceded the former’s marriage with Manorama as desired by Gora but it could not be performed in his presence as he was assassinated by then. Instead, then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Jayaprakash Narayan and Vinobha Bhave were among those present. The couple had five children — Milao, Chunao, Sadik, Suez (only daughter) and Power. The last named is a doctor at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad with whom the aged couple were staying after testing positive and recovered completely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corona-warriors-were-freedom-fighters/article35921355.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana adds 420 new COVID cases||From over one lakh samples a day, the Health department is testing around 80,000 to 90,000 samples in a day for the last one week. Of the 87,355 samples examined on Saturday, 420 were diagnosed with coronavirus. Three COVID patients died. The fresh 420 cases include 71 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 47 from Karimnagar, 39 from Warangal Urban, and 29 from Medchal Malkajgiri. No case was recorded in Narayanpet, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district and Kamareddy. From March 2, 2020 to August 14 this year, a total of 2.33 crore samples were tested and 6,52,135 tested positive. Of the total cases, 7,606 were active cases, 6,40,688 have recovered, and 3,841 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-adds-420-new-covid-cases/article35921237.ece
15 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC loss put at Rs. 2,600 crore||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has sustained a loss of Rs. 2,600 crore. The transport juggernaut issued a statement that with buses off the road on account of the pandemic, there was a lack of revenue. Further, bank loan interest, and provident fund also increased during this period. In an effort to ameliorate the situation, Rs. 1,000 crore as a loan has been sanctioned. The first phase, Bank of India has released Rs. 500 crore and the second instalment of Rs. 500 crore will be released after a month. “After receiving the total loan of Rs. 1,000 crore, the TSRTC will approach the Honourable Chief Minister Sri K Chandrasekhar Rao for directions and advise on how to disburse the funds and thereafter the funds will be disbursed accordingly on priority basis,” the statement reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-suffers-loss-of-rs-2600-crore/article35921267.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Corporator held||Corporator of Meerpet Municipal corporation and his four associates were arrested by the Rachakonda police here on Saturday. The arrested are 10th ward corporator Mudda Pawan Kumar (36), and his associates Syed Arif Pasha (28) Shesh Bhatkar Anil Kumar (36), Aluri Vikas Varma (39) and Vemula Vijay (25), all residents of Meerpet. Police said that on August 12, they received a complaint from corporator Jilla Soundarya (27) stating that she and her husband were attacked during a meeting with Meerpet Muncipal Mayor and Deputy Mayor at Vidyavoni School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporator-held/article35921364.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Honour for police officers||Additional DGP (Women Safety, (I/C SHE Teams and Bharosa)) Swati Lakra along with DCP (Jangaon) in Warangal Commissionerate Banda Sreenivasa Reddy were two senior police officers from Telangana chosen for the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. The Central Government on Saturday announced the list of President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, Police Medal for Gallantry, President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service for 1,380 police personnel from across the country. DIG (Intelligence) V. Siva Kumar and Madhapur in-charge DCP Meghavath Venkateshwarlu were among 11 police officers who were named for Police Medal for Meritorious Service, while Sub-Inspector Gurram Krishnaprasad and 13 others were named for Police Medal for Gallantry from Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honour-for-police-officers/article35921254.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefs (2)||Minister for Culture and Tourism V. Srinivas Goud paid a visit to a unique exhibition named Aadya Kala organised by Prof. Jayadheer Tirumala Rao and Yatnik Arts at State Gallery of Art here on Saturday. Music instruments, artefacts, palm-leaf writings, and other material used by tribal communities were displayed at the exhibition. as a heritage treasure and for understanding of future generations. The Minister promsied a special museum to safeguard such material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefs-2/article35921260.ece
15 August 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||‘TRS giving encouragement to youth’||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Cinematography Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Saturday said the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi was the only party encouraging youth’s foray into politics. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was the one who gave opportunities to leaders such as Balka Suman, Nomula Bhagat and Gadari Kishore,” he said, adding the recent choice of TRS candidate for Huzurabad, Gellu Srinivas, was also in that direction. Addressing media persons at Yadagirigutta’s Hotel Haritha, after offering special prayers at Balalayam, he said Srinivas’s selection reiterates that youth are encouraged and also that active leaders and their contribution, even from the Telangana movement, were being recognised. Mr. Yadav, pointing to Eatala Rajender’s reported use of objectionable words such as “slave” against the TRS candidate, demanded apology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-giving-encouragement-to-youth/article35921258.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Paagal’ movie review: A bizarre story of finding love||The hero is on a mission to find love. He seeks a woman who will love him as much as his mother did. When he is barely an adolescent, he walks into the nearest girls’ school with balloons and declares his love to every girl who crosses his path. By the time he’s an adult, he has professed his love to around 1600 women. And the makers of this film thought this is cute, or funny, or both. It’s one thing to narrate a story of a boy who loses his mother and yearns for love and another to turn it into a bizarre romcom drama. After a restrained portrayal of an investigation officer in HIT (2020), Vishwak Sen gets to play a flamboyant romantic hero named Prem who can crack jokes, dance and shed tears. But it’s tough to take his character or intentions seriously in a story that gets stranger as it progresses. When his quest for love reaches naught in Hyderabad, someone tells Prem that women in Vizag are more amenable — love in as generous as the ocean, or something along those lines. In the very next scene, Prem is in Vizag. A woman who fits into the traditional mould, another who fits the stereotype of using a man like an ATM — all become part of the quest. The hero’s friends led by Mahes Achanta and eve teasers led by Rahul Ramakrishna become tools to unleash gags along the way. Out of the blue, a friend puts forth the notion that a plain Jane would easily fall for a handsome guy (I didn’t make that up) and soon, Prem is wooing a plus-size woman. A stream of body shaming remarks keep coming from the friends and eve teasers. To make this courtship look cool, Prem and the lady talk in high-pitched, loud voices because — hold your breath — that’s how romance happens in a Mani Ratnam film. My memory of Geetanjali will now remain scarred. As though this wasn’t enough, the romantic quest moves on to a prospective MLA played by Murali Sharma. A strange stalking happens in the garb of comedy and no, they are not gay. A last ditch attempt to salvage the story through an unexpected turn of events offers a chance at redemption. The film finds its rhythm when it focuses on the romance between Dheera (Nivetha Pethuraj) and Prem. She’s engaged to someone else but is willing to romance him for six months just to create beautiful memories for a lifetime. We know how such stories go. Paagal tries in vain to tie up all these segments together with philosophical-sounding lines about mother’s love.  (For longer version, check www.thehindu.com)   Paagal  Cast: Vishwak Sen, Nivetha Pethuraj, Simran Choudhary, Megha Lekha  Direction: Naresh Kuppili  Music: Radhan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paagal-movie-review-a-bizarre-story-of-finding-love/article35921252.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Spirit of freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spirit-of-freedom/article35921250.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||After the rain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-the-rain/article35921264.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Capital to soon boast of roads rivalling European standards||The Capital will soon boast of roads along European standards that will showcase the exquisite beauty and culture of the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday. Mr. Kejriwal made the announcement after inspecting beautification work carried out on the BRT Road (Chirag Delhi to Sheikh Sarai) which, along with modernity in design also offers a glimpse of patriotism and heritage. As part of the project to redesign 540 km of the city’s streets along international standards, a pilot stretch was developed at Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg by redesigning and beautifying the road between Chirag Delhi and Sheikh Sarai. “In the first phase of this project, 540 km of roads in the city will be beautified and redesigned as per European standards. The 800-metre-long stretch here is part of the pilot stage of the project. We have thoroughly inspected the entire pilot stretch and will discuss its shortcomings and strengths,” Mr. Kejriwal stated. “We will work on the next projects accordingly and begin with the phase one of redesigning 540 km of roads. The Delhi government, through the Public Works Department, has 1,280 km of roads under its purview and phase one of this project is being undertaken on roads of 100-feet width and higher,” the Chief Minister also stated. According to the government, Mr. Kejriwal had visited another sample stretch at Nehru Nagar on April 6 and expressed his desire to develop the roads of Delhi according to the European standard roads. Following this suggestion, the government stated, a part of the BRT Road from Chirag Delhi to Sheikh Sarai was selected for development as a pilot model. Room for planters “This part already had sidewalks and open granite floor spaces around the FOB. Sufficient room for planters has been provided here as well. The Public Works Department has developed this stretch of road on the lines of the design pattern of the T-3 approach road,” the government stated. “This 800-metre stretch from Chirag Delhi to Sheikh Sarai on the BRT Road has been completely modernised on the lines of European cities. Two statues of freedom fighters, Bhagat Singh and Rani Laxmi Bai, have been installed on the roadside to instil patriotism among the people,” it also stated. In addition, the government said, two fountains, artwork on the fob, 10 sandstone benches, a marble Buddha statue, a state-of-the-art information board, 10 steel elements, and sandstone art work have been done here. A cycle track and footpath have also been built on one side of the road. A large number of saplings have been planted to curb pollution, the FOB has been developed as a selfie point along with the development of cycle tracks, and seating arrangements have been made available at regular intervals.  The 800-m-long stretch here is part of the pilot stage of the project. We have thoroughly inspected the entire pilot stretch and will discuss its shortcomings and strengths Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-to-soon-boast-of-roads-rivalling-european-standards/article35921331.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pink Line metro trains to have new timings due to signal work||In a bid to integrate the recently inaugurated Mayur Vihar Pocket 1-Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stretch, with the existing signalling system, the first and last trains on the Pink Line will be regulated, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Saturday. While the first train from both ends of the Pink Line will begin at 6.30 a.m., half an hour after than the usual, the last train will start at 10 p.m. instead of the usual 11 p.m. The revised timings will begin from August 16 and normal services will be restored from September 11. In a statement issued, the DMRC said, “First train service from both ends — Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar — will commence at 6.30 a.m. instead of the present 6 a.m. Similarly, the last train service from both ends will start at 10 p.m. instead of the 11 p.m. at present.” Sunday exception The DMRC added that on Sundays, services from both ends will continue to commence from 8 a.m., as per the usual practice. However, the last train services from the two terminating stations will be at 10 p.m. instead of 11 p.m. Union Minister Hardeep Singh and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had, on August 6, flagged off this “missing link” on the 59 km-long Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar Pink Line. While the Pink Line became operational in 2019, construction work on the stretch could not be completed due to a land-related dispute in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pink-line-metro-trains-to-have-new-timings-due-to-signal-work/article35921333.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi borders sealed, security beefed up in city ahead of I-Day||All Delhi borders have been sealed and nearly 30,000 police personnel have been deployed ahead of the 75th Independence Day. Security has been beefed up at strategic locations and a multilayered security cover has been put in place at Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday. The police said COVID-19 protocol will be maintained, including social distancing and over 5,000 security personnel will be deployed at Red Fort alone. Anti-drone systems have also been installed at the Red Fort in view of the recent terror attack at IAF station in Jammu airport. In addition to that, over 350 cameras have been installed and their footage is being monitored round-the-clock through two police control rooms situated in and around the fort. Police personnel have been asked to keep an eye to ensure that no stray kites are seen in the areas around the Red Fort during the Independence Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-borders-sealed-security-beefed-up-in-city-ahead-of-i-day/article35921157.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Assembly to be illuminated for I-Day||The Delhi Assembly will be illuminated on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Assembly Secretariat announced on Saturday. According to an official statement, the Assembly will be thrown open from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. for visitors on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-assembly-to-be-illuminated-for-i-day/article35921332.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drunk SHO suspended for abusing sub-inspector||Station House Officer of Vijay Vihar police station has been placed under suspension for allegedly ill-treating a sub- inspector-rank officer, the police said on Saturday. A PCR call was received at 1 a.m. on Saturday at Vijay Vihar police station, wherein an SI alleged that he was on emergency duty and the SHO was abusing him in an inebriated condition. The SI, further, said that he would take his own life if appropriate action was not taken. Acting on the call, Assistant Commissioner of Police Prashant Vihar reached the spot and verified the details. It was revealed that the SHO had left the police station without making a general diary entry though permission for night rest was obtained by him over telephone around midnight. Further, public witnesses at the police station informed that the SHO was in an inebriated condition and had abused the SI. Subsequently, when the ACP called the SHO and asked him to return, he refused amounting to “gross insubordination”. During further search, 10 bottles of liquor were found in an almirah in the SHO’s room. The police said that the officer had been warned for his conduct earlier as well. The matter was brought to the notice of senior officers in the morning and the SHO was placed under suspension and sent to district lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/drunk-sho-suspended-for-abusing-sub-inspector/article35921335.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||City records 36.8° Celsius||The maximum temperature in the national capital on Saturday settled at 36.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season’s normal, according to the Meteorological Department. The minimum temperature settled at 26.8 degrees Celsius while the relative humidity recorded at 5.30 p.m. was 49%, MeT department officials said. The weather office has predicted partly cloudy sky for Sunday with the maximum temperature likely to settle around 37 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature is expected to be around 26 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the national capital recorded a high of 36.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-records-368-celsius/article35921334.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man tied up, thrashed for vehicle ‘theft’||A man was allegedly beaten up after being tied to a pole on suspicion of vehicle theft in north Delhi’s Burari on August 10. While the victim is yet to identified, legal action has been taken against three identified accused, the police said. The incident took place at 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday in Sant Nagar at Burari. “No PCR call was received in connection with the incident, however, a video of the incident was circulated. Based on that, we initiated an enquiry into the matter the same day,” a senior police officer said. In the video, a man is seen tied to a pole and being assaulted by a few people. He was later let off after a warning. Three men who were seen assaulting the man in the video were identified and notices have been issued to them to join investigation whenever called, the police said. The accused allegedly told the police that the victim was caught while he was trying to escape after stealing one of their rickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-tied-up-thrashed-for-vehicle-theft/article35921158.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Break monsoon’ phase likely to continue till August 18||The “break monsoon” phase in Delhi and adjoining areas in northwest India is likely to continue till August 18 and “good rainfall” in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the Capital, weather forecasters said on Saturday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the capital, has recorded a meagre 63.2mm rainfall in August so far against the normal of 123.1 mm,a shortfall of 49%, according to the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/break-monsoon-phase-likely-to-continue-till-august-18/article35921336.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Criminal arrested after exchange of fire||A 26-year-old man was arrested following an exchange of fire in south-west Delhi's Dwarka, officials said on Saturday. Rahul alias Kuldeep Kasana was allegedly the sharpshooter of Jitender and Ashok Pardhan gang and was wanted in a case of attempt to murder, they said. He had also jumped parole in a kidnapping case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/criminal-arrested-after-exchange-of-fire/article35921337.ece
15 August 2021||Mumbai,||Rajesh Tope calls for caution as Delta Plus death toll rises to five||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said all five people who have succumbed to the Delta Plus variant in the State so far had comorbidities and were over 65 years old. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Tope said, “We cannot confidently say that these deaths were only due to the Delta Plus variant. All the deceased had a number of comorbidities and were over 65 years. I, however, appeal to all to be alert and continue following COVID-appropriate behaviour.” The Minister said the Directorate of Medical Education and Research has been collecting 100 samples from every district to keep track of the spread of the variant. As per available data, the districts with most cases of the variant are Ratnagiri (12) and Mumbai (11), followed by Thane (6), Pune (6), Palghar (3), Raigad (3), Nanded (2), and Gondia (2). The districts of Chandrapur, Akola, Sindhdurg, Sangli, Kolhapur, Nandurbar, Aurangabad, and Beed have recorded one case of Delta Plus each. Mr. Tope said, “We are following the system of tracing and tracking. We are isolating high-risk and low-risk contacts, testing them, and if needed they are being treated.” The Minister said of these patients, 10 had taken both doses of the vaccine, while eight had taken only one dose. “Two have taken Covaxin, while the rest received Covishield,” he said. New vaccination record A record 9.36 lakh people were vaccinated against COVID-19 in Maharashtra till 7 p.m. on Saturday, said Additional Chief Secretary of State Health Department Dr. Pradeep Vyas. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Mr. Tope hailed the people behind the efforts that brought about this single-day vaccine administration high, which surpassed the State’s previous record of 8.11 lakh doses, which was set on July 3. An official statement said that Maharashtra had the capacity to vaccinate 10 lakh people per day and the drive can be expedited provided doses are made available in adequate numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajesh-tope-calls-for-caution-as-delta-plus-death-toll-rises-to-five/article35921112.ece
15 August 2021||Mumbai,||I-Day: security stepped up across Mumbai||Security across Mumbai has been tightened and the entire metropolitan force, including all police stations and other units, has been issued a general alert in view of the 75th Independence Day celebrations on Sunday, officials said. Important sites like the Mantralaya, the State secretariat where flag-hoisting events will be held, are being guarded by police personnel along with teams of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad. Specialised units are frisking people as part of anti-sabotage measures, a spokesperson of the force said on Saturday. Police stations have been told to enforce static deployment as well as patrolling, with local anti-terror cell units and beat personnel being tasked with gathering intelligence to avert any untoward incidents. Night patrols and ‘good morning’ squads, besides units of the Special Branch, Crime Branch, Protection and Security Branch along with Quick Response Team commandos are all part of an elaborate security blanket across the city to maintain law and order, officials said. An ‘all out’ operation was conducted through the night on Friday till the early hours of Saturday in the presence of senior personnel like the Commissioner, Joint Commissioners, and Zonal Deputy Commissioners. Nakabandi, combing operations and law and order manoeuvres were carried out. At least 67 personnel of the Maharashtra police were awarded medals for gallantry, distinguished service, and meritorious service on Saturday. As per a list released by the Ministry of Home Affairs, 25 police personnel from the State received the Police Medal for Gallantry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/i-day-security-stepped-up-across-mumbai/article35921114.ece
15 August 2021||Srinagar,||L-G lauds J&K police for getting highest bravery awards on I-Day||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and top police officers of the Union Territory on Saturday hailed the J&K police after its men bagged the highest gallantry awards in the country on the occasion of Independence Day. “(I am) Proud of bravery and sacrifices made by the Jammu and Kashmir Police in defending the sovereignty of the country. Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra, Shaurya Chakra and 257 police gallantry medals to JKP at the forefront of fight against militancy is commendable,” Mr. Sinha said. Out of the 1,380 police personnel awarded medals on the I-Day by the Ministry of Home Affairs, 257 were given to the officers and personnel of the J&K police. Assistant Sub-Inspector Babu Ram was selected for this year’s Ashok Chakra (posthumous), Constable Altaf Hussain Bhat for Kirti Chakra (posthumous) and Special Police Officer Shahbaz Ahmad for Shaurya Chakra (posthumous) for their act of bravery, valour and selfless sacrifice. Director General of Police Dilbag Singh also expresses gratitude to the L-G, Union Home Secretary and Union Home Ministry for due recognition of valour and sacrifice of the J&K police. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar said, “It is a matter of pride for the J&K police to find the nation recognising the service of outstanding merit beyond the demands of duty which the brave hearts of this force have rendered.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/l-g-lauds-jk-police-for-getting-highest-bravery-awards-on-i-day/article35921170.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Hues of patriotism||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hues-of-patriotism/article35921116.ece
15 August 2021||Kabul,||Afghan President vows to ‘remobilise’ forces||Afghanistan’s beleaguered President vowed on Saturday to prevent further bloodshed, as Taliban fighters closed in on Kabul after routing his armed forces over the past 10 days. In a recorded address to the nation — his first since the Taliban launched their sweeping offensive — Ashraf Ghani said he wanted to stop the violence “as a historic mission”. “I will not let the imposed war on people cause more deaths,” he said. The President gave no hint he would resign or take responsibility for the calamitous military collapse, but said the armed forces could be “remobilised” and consultations were taking place to try to help end the war. But he offered few specifics on what his administration was planning, with government control over Afghanistan all but collapsed. With the country’s second- and third-largest cities having fallen into Taliban hands, Kabul has effectively become the besieged last stand for government forces who have offered little or no resistance elsewhere. As the Taliban closed in on Kabul, panicked residents formed long lines outside banks, hoping to withdraw their savings. Some branches appeared to have already run of cash. Insurgent fighters are now camped just 50 km away from Kabul. Heavy fighting was also reported around Mazar-i-Sharif, an isolated holdout in the north where warlord and former Vice-President Abdul Rashid Dostum had gathered his anti-Taliban militia. The only other cities of any significance not to be taken yet were Jalalabad, Gardez, and Khost — Pashtun-dominated and unlikely to offer much resistance now. For Kabul residents and the tens of thousands who have sought refuge there in recent weeks, the overwhelming mood was one of confusion and fear. Muzhda, 35, a woman who arrived in the capital with her two sisters from Parwan, said she was terrified for the future. “I am crying day and night,” she said. “I have turned down marriage proposals in the past... If the Taliban come and force me to marry, I will commit suicide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-president-vows-to-remobilise-forces/article35920813.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The hard road to gold||In 2010, when the country was in a tizzy over the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi, a joint family at Khandra village, near Panipat in Haryana, was wondering how to control a restless, chubby kid. Neeraj Chopra, 12 then, kept pulling or tying up buffalo’s tails, disturbing bee hives and forcing those around to scream. Annoyed, his uncle took him to Panipat’s Shivaji Stadium with a plan to make him take up some sport. “I saw cricket, football, hockey and athletics there. But what I liked most was the group of men training with the javelin. I fell in love with it,” said Chopra, whose father Satish Kumar is a farmer. The flying spear which appeared to vanish into the sky fascinated him, soon he found he was good at it too. A couple of years later, he won the under-16 Nationals and began to think big. In June 2016, as he sat in his room at Spala, Poland, Chopra could feel his dream of going to the Rio Olympics slip through his fingers. Early that year, the javelin thrower had thrown a personal best 82.23m for the Guwahati South Asian Games gold and had hoped to make the Olympic qualification standard (83m) comfortably. But as he flew from one country to another, in a desperate bid to achieve qualification before the July 11 deadline, the strain began to show. He could not even come near his personal best. “I had four competitions in four countries, Germany, Poland, Belgium and Vietnam, in 20 days. My body is very tired,” a desperate Chopra told this writer from Poland one night that June. He did not make it to Rio but his worst moments taught him some of life’s best lessons. He began to understand his body’s limits, how crucial rest was and how to bounce back from disappointments for there were many painful if-only moments after that. On July 23, 2016, shortly after the Rio doors had closed, he gave an inkling of what he was capable of by winning the under-20 World Championships gold with a World record, 86.48m, in Poland. Watching him closely Gary Calvert, who had coached him to the under-20 Worlds title, realised how special Chopra was. In 2017, Calvert had a plan in place to make the youngster among the world’s best with targets of 90m in a year and 92 to 95m in two years. But Calvert did not last long. When he did not get a long-term contract, in May 2017 he left for China where he died a year later from a heart attack. In safe hands Calvert had wanted to leave Chopra in safe hands. And when JSW, which supports the youngster, sought advice, he suggested German Werner Daniels. In October 2017, after a disappointing London Worlds where he failed to make the final, Asian champion Chopra landed in Offenburg to train under the experienced Daniels. In April 2018, under Daniels’ guidance, Chopra won the Commonwealth Games gold in Australia — only the fourth Indian to do so after Milkha Singh, Krishna Poonia and Vikas Gowda — but the Athletics Federation of India was against the youngster returning to Germany. It had brought another German, former world record holder Uwe Hohn, as national javelin coach. Changing his coach for the third time in a year must have been tough but Chopra picked up valuable lessons from each one. He won the 2018 Asian Games gold in Jakarta with a national record (88.06m). He missed the whole of 2019, including Asians and Worlds, with an elbow injury that required surgery in May 2019 and Dr. Dinshaw Pardiwala removed bone fragments from his elbow joint and set him free. The postponement of the Olympics by a year proved to be a blessing. As he hit the recovery road, German biomechanics expert Klaus Bartonietz helped him. “It is fun to have Bartonietz around, his session are lively, he knows how to motivate me,” said the 23-year-old about his new coach. “He told me to enjoy the Olympics, to give my best in the first throw.” While the favourite Johannes Vetter had competed in 10 meets this season, Chopra did only three — probably with the anxious days before Rio in mind — and looked fresh in Tokyo. That helped and Chopra made history on August 7 giving India its first-ever athletics gold (with 87.58m) in Olympics in what was probably the country’s greatest triumph ever across sports. And while the Indian was all confidence, Vetter, who had a series of 90-plus throws this season, wilted under pressure worrying whether he had overdone things prior to Tokyo, and finished ninth. Everybody, from the government, SAI and the AFI, had played their part well. The restless little boy, whose eyes light up whenever he sees a Ford Mustang, who loves to go shopping, has brought home a precious piece of gold we all love to hold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-hard-road-to-gold/article35920815.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s voice of reason||‘China’s Dr. Fauci’ was how the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post described Zhang Wenhong, the Chinese epidemiologist who has become, for many in his country, the face of science during the pandemic. Both share similar traits, as straight-talking experts who explained, day in and day out, the science of COVID-19 to a worried public. Yet the similarities largely end there. Unlike Dr. Anthony Fauci’s leading national role, Dr. Zhang holds no such formal national position. Also unlike Dr. Fauci, who regularly took positions that were flatly in opposition to the Donald Trump administration, Dr. Zhang has had to pull off a far trickier tightrope walk -- in China, the national narrative of COVID-19 continues to be tightly managed by the ruling Communist Party. Delta variant After the initial delayed response in Wuhan, China was able to emerge last summer to some normalcy after months of one of the world’s most stringent lockdowns. A strategy combining lockdowns and an efficient test and trace system, coupled with continued bans on international travel, allowed China to escape a second wave unlike most countries. The country is, however, currently dealing with its biggest challenge since last year with the Delta variant. Millions are under lockdown, the most since the height of the pandemic. The strategy has appeared to work so far in curbing a mass spread of the Delta variant. It has also triggered an intense debate in China whether what’s known as its “zero COVID strategy” - referring to an approach that calls for stringent measures until cases are completely eliminated in any local cluster - is sustainable, while some of the rest of the world begins to open up. The Communist Party leadership has strongly backed that strategy, even as China surges ahead with vaccinating hundreds of millions of its citizens. There are political stakes too. Beijing sees it as a vindication of the China model and how it curbed COVID-19 while the rest of the world — in particular the U.S., China’s great rival — reeled. When Dr. Zhang waded into that debate recently, he discovered that tightrope walk has perhaps now become even trickier. On July 28, Dr. Zhang posted a long note to his newly acquired 3.7 million followers on Sina Weibo, the Twitter-equivalent that helped spread his popularity. "What we've been through is not the hardest part,” he wrote. "The harder thing requires the wisdom to live with the virus for a long time.” That prompted a strong backlash. Gao Qiang, a former health minister, posted a response shared by People’s Daily , hitting out at foreign governments for advocating “living with the virus” (in contrast, obviously, to China) and saying it was "surprising that some experts in our country have advised the nation to come up with strategies to coexist with the virus.” If a calm and measured approach won him praise, it has now brought controversy. Rise to fame Dr. Zhang, 52, was unheard of to most of the Chinese public before COVID-19. At Huashan, a major Shanghai hospital, he led the department of infectious diseases, a post through which he helped shape the Shanghai government’s widely praised response, which was seen as keeping cases low but without some of the more harsher measures seen elsewhere in China, which Dr. Zhang, on occasion, criticised obliquely. He advocated a disciplined but measured approach. “We hope to catch the rats without breaking the porcelain,” he wrote in one January 24 message, the South China Morning Post reported, adding that “if we pursue the goal of zero infection, life would be too hard”. Not fearing the virus has been a consistent theme. "There is now a growing belief that the epidemic will not end in the short term, and probably not in the long term,” he said in the now infamous July 28 post. "Most virologists in the world now accept that this will be an endemic virus and that the world has to learn to live with it.” Dr. Zhang made a cautious case for opening up, referring to President Xi Jinping’s signature diplomatic slogan of building “a community of shared destiny”, a marked contrast from the current walling off of the country. “The way China chooses in the future must be to ensure a community of shared destiny with the world,” he wrote, "to return to normal life, and at the same time to protect its citizens from the fear of the virus.” The July 28 post divided opinion. For some, it was irresponsible heresy that undermined China’s approach. For others, it reinforced his status as a voice of reason. Dr. Zhang, meanwhile, hasn’t posted since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-voice-of-reason/article35920818.ece
15 August 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to procure oxygen from India to ‘augment supply’||Sri Lanka will procure oxygen from India in the coming weeks to augment supply amid a raging fourth wave of COVID-19 in the island nation. The government has decided to purchase 100 metric tonnes of oxygen from India next week for its COVID-19 treatment centres, the state-run Daily News reported on Saturday, quoting the Secretary to the Ministry of Health. Official sources indicated that in additional to the initial commercial procurement, Colombo has also initiated bilateral discussions with New Delhi to explore ways to source more oxygen in the coming weeks. The details of the arrangement, likely commercial, are being worked out, they said. According to officials in Colombo, one consignment, procured commercially from a private supplier in India, is scheduled to leave for Sri Lanka in a few days by sea. Last month, Bangladesh imported 180 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) from India. In recent months, India sent consignments of oxygen to Indonesia and Nepal. Sharp rise in cases Sri Lanka is currently in the midst of its fourth wave of the pandemic, witnessing a sharp rise in daily COVID-19 cases — an average of 3,000 a day — and deaths reported in the past week. The country has reported a total of nearly 3.5 lakh cases since last year, and 11 % of those are currently active, according to data published by the Health Promotion Bureau. While medical experts have recommended strict restrictions on mobility to combat the current spike, the government on Friday said it was not going in for a country-wide lockdown. Meanwhile the Public Health Inspectors’ Union has asked people to “self-impose a seven-day travel restriction.” Although India was the first country to send vaccines to Sri Lanka earlier this year, New Delhi could not sustain the diplomatic outreach amid India’s devastating second wave. However, Sri Lanka has been purchasing other medical supplies from India to enhance its pandemic response. Since last month, Colombo has procured at least 4.5 million syringes from suppliers in India, according to a senior government official. According Dr. Hemantha Herath, Deputy Director General of Health Services, the supply of oxygen within Sri Lanka, mainly from two producers, was “adequate” to cater to the current requirement. “The country is importing oxygen to augment supply and be prepared for a shortage. We should work towards being self-reliant, so that we don’t have depend on external sources. Those countries may have a sudden requirement too during such a pandemic,” Dr. Herath told The Hindu . India faced an acute shortage of oxygen earlier this year, when several thousand lives were lost for the want of oxygen support at the right time. New Delhi obtained international assistance at the time to cope with the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-procure-oxygen-from-india-to-augment-supply/article35920816.ece
15 August 2021||Mexico City,||Venezuela govt., Opposition in talks||Venezuela’s government and Opposition launched negotiations on Friday in Mexico that were expected to focus on sanctions and elections to try to end a crippling political and economic crisis. Previous talks in the Dominican Republic in 2018 and Barbados the following year failed to resolve disputes centred on President Nicolas Maduro and Juan Guaido, the Opposition leader considered President by about 60 countries. Neither attended the inauguration ceremony at Mexico City’s National Museum of Anthropology in person. Instead representatives of the two sides signed a document agreeing to undertake “a comprehensive dialogue and negotiation process” mediated by Norway and hosted by the Mexican government. The memorandum of understanding mentions the need “for sanctions to be lifted,” the economy to be stabilised and any kind of political violence to be avoided. On Friday, Mr. Maduro hailed the signing in a tweet and thanked Mexico and Norway “for their efforts for the Peace of the Venezuelan people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/venezuela-govt-opposition-in-talks/article35920823.ece
15 August 2021||Port-au-Prince,||7.2 magnitude quake hits Haiti, at least 29 killed||At least 29 people were killed when a 7.2 magnitude earthquake struck Haiti on Saturday, and Prime Minister Ariel Henry said he was rushing aid to affected areas, where some towns were destroyed and hospitals were overwhelmed with wounded people. The epicenter of the quake was about 125 km west of the capital of Port-au-Prince, the U.S. Geological Survey said, and widespread damage was reported. Jerry Chandler, Haiti’s Director of Civil Protection, told the AP that the death toll stood at 29 and that teams will be sent to the area for search-and-rescue missions. Mr. Henry declared a one-month state of emergency for the whole country and said he would not ask for international help until the extent of the damages is known. He said some towns were almost completely razed, and the government had people in the coastal town of Les Cayes to help plan and coordinate the response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/72-magnitude-quake-hits-haiti-at-least-29-killed/article35920872.ece
15 August 2021||Lusaka,||Opposition leader leads in Zambia polls||Supporters of Zambian Opposition candidate Hakainde Hichilema have begun celebrating on Saturday as early election results show him leading in the tightly-fought, tense presidential race. Ignoring calls by the Electoral Commission for people to wait for the final results, young Opposition supporters drove through the streets of the capital, Lusaka, playing music and singing. They gathered at the headquarters of Mr. Hichilema’s United Party for National Development. Results from 31 of the country’s 156 constituencies has Mr. Hichilema in the lead with 4,49,699 votes to President Edgar Lungu’s 2,66,202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/opposition-leader-leads-in-zambia-polls/article35920819.ece
15 August 2021||IStanbul,||Death toll in Turkey floods rises to 44||The death toll from severe floods and mudslides along Turkey’s Black Sea coast has climbed to 51, the country’s emergency and disaster agency said on Saturday. The flooding demolished homes, severed at least five bridges, swept away cars and rendered numerous roads unpassable.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/death-toll-in-turkey-floods-rises-to-44/article35920821.ece
15 August 2021||Moscow,||Russia says all 8 die in water-bomber plane crash in Turkey||Russia on Saturday said all eight people onboard a Russian water-dropping plane died when it crashed in Turkey during firefighting. Moscow's Defence Ministry said five Russian servicemen and three Turkish nationals were killed in the crash.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-says-all-8-die-in-water-bomber-plane-crash-in-turkey/article35920822.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||ONGC net soars over eightfold as crude price offsets output drop||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) reported net profit soared by almost 800% in the first quarter of the current fiscal year after more than a doubling of oil prices compensated for a decline in crude production. Net profit in April-June at Rs. 4,335 crore was 772.2% higher than the Rs. 497 crore in the first quarter of the previous fiscal when demand as well as price had plummeted due to the COVID-19-related lockdown, the company said in a statement. The company got $65.59 for every barrel of crude oil it produced and sold in the first quarter of the 2021-22 fiscal as compared with $28.87 per barrel realisation in April-June 2020. Gas price was lower by a quarter at $1.79 per million British thermal unit. The company produced almost 5% less crude oil at 5.4 million tonnes in the quarter while natural gas output was 4.3% lower at 5.3 billion cubic metres. Oil, gas output slide Of the oil production, ONGC produced 4.6 million tonnes from fields it operates and another 0.55 million tonnes from those in joint ventures with other partners. Own production was down 4.2% and joint venture output declined 2.8%. ONGC’s own gas production slid 5.3% at 5.1 billion cubic metres while that of joint venture fields rose by a third to 0.2 billion cubic metres. Overall the gas output declined 4.3% to 5.3 billion cubic metres. Gross revenue rose 77% to Rs. 23,022 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ongc-net-soars-over-eightfold-as-crude-price-offsets-output-drop/article35920748.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We want to reignite business’||Mahindra Group, led by its flagship Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M), aims to unlock value through strong emphasis on financial discipline, a path its new leadership has chosen. MD & CEO Anish Shah , who took over the reins recently, elaborates in a video call on the strategy to achieve sustainable profit growth. Excerpts:  Where are you driving Mahindra to? In one sentence, it is to reignite value creation. And I said reignite because you would have seen many years of very high value creation for shareholders. And we often look back to the 2002 to 2018 period, where M&M was the best performing stock in the Nifty for 17 years. And we lost that somewhere along the way. We want to go back to the fiscal discipline and really re-energising, reigniting the business to create value for shareholders. What is the roadmap for sustainable profit growth? First, to take care of all the loss-making entities, either shut them down or turnaround or sell. That has been done. Second, to establish and maintain a strong fiscal discipline. That has been done as well. Third is to drive growth, which is underway. Which all businesses have been shut down? SsangYong [Motor Company of South Korea] is not shut down but we’re not putting in more money. The second is GenZe which was the U.S. bikes business. The third is Mahindra First Choice Services. The MANA business in the U.S. has been restructured. More recently, Hisarlar’s metal fabrication business in Turkey and our dairy business in Saboro have been sold. What is the experience and learning from SsangYong? We had certain technologies at SsangYong that we benefited from. The perspective of running a global company helped us. The downsides were the financial performance because it was a significant drag on capital and it really was never profitable through that time frame except for one quarter. What is the future of SsangYong? It will be an independent company. It is going through a court process [bankruptcy] right now and it is managed by the court. There are multiple bidders who have come in and one of them will win the bid and take the company forward. In the EV business you had the first mover advantage since the acquisition of Reva. Suddenly the Tatas entered from nowhere and now they have 70% market share in the EV segment. So what went wrong and what is your strategy? For EV, there are three key drivers. First is cost parity, second is range anxiety and third is charging infrastructure. For EV to be successful, all three are required. Today, for 2-wheelers and 3- wheelers that exists. That is not the case for 4- wheelers as yet. It will take some time, but we are looking at creating products that will be very strong in that space and coming out at the right time. So, it is not a game that we have given up leadership. Leveraging the Automobili Pininfarina brand, we are launching the Battista soon. It is a very high-end EV. The technologies from there will help us build better models in India. Now with every OEM having a portfolio of SUVs, how is Mahindra going to retain its domain in the market? As an Indian company, we have been able to deliver best and compete very well with all the global players. Now, we have 26 products lined up over the next five to six years. Nine of them are SUVs. We are at the drawing board [stage] right now. What is the strategy for the Mahindra group ? The trend will continue to be Farm Equipment and Auto, Tech Mahindra and Mahindra Finance. In M&M, some slightly smaller companies are doing extremely well. I will leave out the three listed entities, but we have Accelo which is into the business of auto recycling. It is very well-poised for growth and is likely to be one of the first that comes up to an IPO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/we-want-to-reignite-business/article35920742.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pace of apparel exports to key markets healthy’||Apparel exports to major markets such as the U.S., Europe, U.K., Saudi Arabia, Canada, Japan, and Australia were recording healthy growth and the sector would contribute significantly in achieving India’s $400 billion exports target for the current fiscal year, AEPC said on Saturday. Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) Chairman A. Sakthivel said apparel exports were picking up in every western market. “Exports to the U.S. increased by 22% during January-May 2021 as compared with the same period of previous year,” he said at the council’s 42nd Annual General Meeting. “India’s exports face a duty disadvantage of 9.6% for exports to EU vis-a-vis exports from other countries like Bangladesh, Cambodia, Turkey, Pakistan and Sri Lanka,” Mr. Sakthivel said. “In the U.K., Bangladesh continues to enjoy preferential trade benefits after the U.K.’s departure from the EU,” he added.  India’s exports face a 9.6% duty disadvantage for exports to EU vis-a-vis exports from other nations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pace-of-apparel-exports-to-key-markets-healthy/article35920744.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||NTPC seeks global EoI for hydrogen-natgas pilot||State-run NTPC Ltd. has invited a global ‘expression of interest’ to set up a pilot project on hydrogen blending with natural gas in city gas distribution. The expression of interest (EoI) follows the recent tenders floated by NTPC REL for green hydrogen fuelling station at Leh and NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. (NVVN) for procurement of Fuel Cell Buses. A dedicated 1.25 MW solar plant is also being set up at Leh by NTPC REL to power the hydrogen fuelling station. This pilot will be the first of its kind in India and would explore the viability of decarbonising India’s natural gas grid. NTPC, with its ambition of playing a key role in India’s transition to hydrogen economy, would later take this up at a commercial scale across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ntpc-seeks-global-eoi-for-hydrogen-natgas-pilot/article35920746.ece
15 August 2021||MUMBAI,||M&M unveils XUV700 at Rs. 11.99 lakh||Mahindra & Mahindra has unveiled XUV700, its latest SUV, priced from Rs. 11.99 lakh. Bookings will open before the festive season. The SUV will come in manual and automatic options and in five and seven-seater capacities. It will also be available in an optional All-Wheel-Drive. “The XUV700 marks the beginning of a whole new Mahindra and a new era for the SUV segment in India,” said Rajesh Jejurikar, ED, Auto & Farm Sectors. “We have raised the bar on best-in-class features, technology and design,” Mr. Jejurikar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mm-unveils-xuv700-at-rs-1199-lakh/article35920743.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Petronet net rises 22% on higher volumes||Petronet LNG Ltd. on Saturday reported a 22% rise in June-quarter net profit as it handled more gas volumes compared with the year-earlier period when a nationwide lockdown had shrunk fuel demand. Net profit in April-June came at Rs. 636 crore as compared with Rs. 520 crore earned a year earlier, CEO A.K. Singh said. The profit was, however, lower than Rs. 643 crore profit earned in January-March quarter due to the impact of COVID second wave, he said. Petronet saw import volumes picking up in Q1 of the current fiscal as compared with the year-earlier period, but it was lower than the preceding quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/petronet-net-rises-22-on-higher-volumes/article35920749.ece
15 August 2021||LONDON,||Root’s century drives England||England captain Joe Root was hardly perturbed during his undefeated knock of 132 but the Indian pace attack fared marginally better to make a few breakthroughs before the hosts reached 314/5 at tea on the third day of the second Test. With India struggling to dislodge Root, who has so far faced 237 balls, England has a good chance of surpassing the visitors’ first-innings score of 364, which will certainly give it a lot of psychological advantage going into the last two days. Tweaked stance As many as 97 and 98 runs were scored in first two sessions, signalling the plight of the Indian bowling attack, primarily due to Root, who has tweaked his stance with lesser trigger movement of back-foot. Along with Root, Moeen Ali (20 batting, 31b) was at the crease after Mohammed Siraj (3/71 in 23 overs) and Ishant Sharma (1/60 in 20 overs) did well enough to remove the set Jonny Bairstow (57 off 107 balls) and Jos Buttler (23 off 42 balls). However, Siraj was guilty of bowling too many short and wide balls on the day and a plethora of boundaries came quickly. Able ally Root, a nemesis of Indian bowlers since his international debut, was once again at his best as he attacked them from the start of the third day and found an able ally in Bairstow, as they added 121 runs for the fourth wicket before Siraj hurried the later with a short ball. Old warhorse Ishant, then, bowled a fuller delivery that nipped back in to breach Buttler’s defence. In between, Root ran a quick single to score his 22nd Test hundred and also became the first England captain to score five centuries in a season. Save Jasprit Bumrah (0/62 in 20 overs), none of the Indian pacers looked like troubling the duo, who scored boundaries at will to release the pressure in the first hour itself. Root started the first session with a square drive off Siraj to reach his third successive fifties in the series. Shami (1/87 in 21 overs) and Siraj during the first half an hour gave away at least six boundaries as skipper Virat Kohli had no clue about setting the field for the bad deliveries that the normally dependable Shami and the inexperienced Siraj bowled. There were only two maiden overs in that first hour of play in which 54 runs were scored and suddenly India, which was leading the charge on the first two days, went onto the back-foot. Bumrah bowled hard lengths with the old ball while Ishant, who was not played in the first Test, drifted too much on the pads, and Shami provided a lot of width for both Root and Bairstow to play their cuts and drives. Ravindra Jadeja bowled 14 overs but there was not much help for him too. Shaw, Suryakumar join Meanwhile, Young opener Prithvi Shaw and flamboyant batsman Suryakumar Yadav, who were included in the Test squad for the series, have joined the Indian team here. “Prithvi Shaw and Suryakumar Yadav have completed their quarantine period and have joined the team at Lord’s,” the BCCI’s media team stated.  England 342/7 England was 342/7 after 112 overs in the final session. Root was going strong on 152 and had Robinson (0) for company||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/classy-root-puts-england-ahead/article35920893.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajkumar retained men’s coach||Dronacharya Awardee and Virat Kohli’s coach Rajkumar Sharma retained his spot as Delhi men’s coach as the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) announced its list of coaches, selection committees and support staff for the 2021-22 season. However, the appointment of former India cricketer Ajay Sharma as under-19 coach has come as a surprise. Another former Test cricketer Manoj Prabhakar is the State bowling coach across age-groups.  The list: Coaches: Men: Rajkumar Sharma (chief), Gursharan Singh (batting) and Parvinder Awana (bowling); Under-23: Bantu Singh (chief), Hitesh Sharma (batting), V. Arvind (bowling).   Under-19: Ajay Sharma (chief), Sumeet Dogra (batting) and Shankar Saini (bowling); Under-16: Vijay Bahadur (chief), Narender Negi (batting) and Abhinav Bali (bowling); Under-14: Mahesh Sharma (chief), Chetan Sharma (batting) and Kartar Nath (bowling).   Women: Suman Sharma (chief), Ragini Malhotra (batting) and Khyati Gulani (fielding); Under-23: Neeru (chief), Neha Tanwar (batting) and Rishit Saini (bowling); Under-19: Latika Kumari (chief), Mandeep Kaur (batting) and Kuldeep Rawat (bowling).   Bowling coach: Manoj Prabhakar (men and women across age-groups).   High performance fitness director: Rajat Sharma (men and women across age-groups).   Selection committees: Men: Ashu Dani (chair), Chetnya Nanda and Rajeev Vinayak. Junior men: Mohan Chaturvedi (chair), Pradeep Chawla and Rajinder Singh Chawla.   Women: Jaya Sharma (chair), Asha Rawat and Renuka Dua. Junior women: Amita Sharma (chair), Deepti Dhyani and Vandana Gupta.   Physiotherapists: Parmeet Singh (men), Gajendra Kumar (u-23), Sohrab Sharma (u-19), Badrinath Prathi (u-16 & u-14, rehabilitation coordinator for all men’s teams); Deepak Surya (incharge, women’s teams), Surya Patel (women), Khyati Sharma (junior women), Sumit Saxena (COVID Control Officer with State teams).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajkumar-retained-mens-coach/article35921299.ece
15 August 2021||Chennai,||Super Gillies look to defend crown||Among the joys of watching this season’s TNPL has been M. Siddharth’s left-arm spin. Even as the pacemen have dominated the competition on some sporting Chepauk surfaces with good carry, Siddharth has made a distinct impression for defending champion Chepauk Super Gillies with his control and variations. Siddharth has explored the angles from over and round the wicket with the new ball, and bowled a rather vicious arm ball, such a key delivery for a left-arm spinner. He will be under sharp focus in the final on Sunday night, with the Super Gillies taking on a resurgent Ruby Trichy Warriors. Partnering Siddharth will be lanky left-arm spinner Sai Kishore, who has been a handful with his turn and bounce. With the willow, the Super Gillies have the organised Kaushik Gandhi, the skipper, and the explosive N. Jagadeesan, at the top of the order, followed by the delightful little shot-maker of footwork and balance, S. Radhakrishnan. Then there is the ageless game-changer R. Sathish. This said, Trichy Warriors is a tricky opponent. In paceman P. Saravana Kumar, it has someone who can strike, seaming the ball both ways. And left-arm spinner Rahil Shah, the skipper, is an experienced campaigner. Nidhish Rajagopal and Adithya Ganesh are two left-handers who have bailed the team out of pressure situations with calculated hitting. And Antony Dhas, a handy seamer and a power-hitter, can make a difference. Given the dew factor, chasing might be a better option.  This would be the our fourth final while this is the first for Trichy Warriors so I think we probably have the experience and whoever plays good cricket on the day will be the winner Hemang Badani CSG coach   I am excited because it’s the final, but I want to be grounded. We still are the underdogs. We will give it our 120%, see what happens Rahil Shah RTW captain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-gillies-look-to-defend-crown/article35920949.ece
15 August 2021||WROCLAW,||Indian cadet teams sweep||Indian compound cadet archers made a clean sweep of team titles in the World youth archery championships here on Saturday. Priya Gurjar, Parneet Kaur and Ridhu Senthilkumar combined to take the women’s team gold with a comprehensive 228-216 win over Turkey. Priya and Kushal Dalal joined hands to help India beat USA 155-152 and pocket the mixed team crown. The Indian men’s team, comprising Kushal, Sahil Chaudhary and Mihir Nitin Apar, defeated USA 233-231 for another title. Priya and Parneet claimed a silver and a bronze medal respectively in the women’s individual event. Priya is the first Indian archer to win three medals in a World youth event. India’s previous best performance came in the 2006 edition at Mexico where it won five medals, including one gold. Indian archers will also feature in recurve medal matches on Sunday.  The results:   Compound: Gold medal matches: Cadet women’s team: India bt Turkey 228-216; Cadet men’s team: India bt USA 233-231   Cadet mixed team: India bt USA 155-152; Cadet women’s individual: Priya Gurjar lost to Selene Rodriguez (Mex) 136-139.   Bronze medal match: Cadet women’s individual: Parneet Kaur bt Hallie Boulton (Gbr) 140-135 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-compound-archers-sizzle/article35920885.ece
15 August 2021||OLD TRAFFORD,||Man. United runs riot||Bruno Fernandes fired in a hat-trick in front of a raucous Old Trafford as Manchester United thrashed Leeds United 5-1 to get its Premier League season off to a flying start on Saturday. Mason Greenwood and Fred also chipped in goals in the second half. Paul Pogba also starred with four assists — one more than he managed in the whole of last season in the league — to help United run riot in front of their first full crowd in 17 months.   The results: Premier League: Manchester United 5 (Fernandes 30, 54, 60, Greenwood 52, Fred 68) bt Leeds 1 (Ayling 48); Burnley 1 (Tarkowski 2) lost to Brighton 2 (Maupay 73, MacAllister 78); Chelsea 3 (Alonso 27, Pulisic 40, Chalobah 58) bt Crystal Palace 0; Everton 3 (Richarlison 47, Doucoure 76, Calvert-Lewin 81) bt Southampton 1 (Armstrong 22); Leicester 1 (Vardy 41) bt Wolves 0; Watford 3 (Dennis 10, Sarr 42, Hernandez 67) bt Aston Villa 2 (McGinn 70, Ings 90+7-pen).   Friday: Brentford 2 (Canos 22, Norgaard 73) bt Arsenal 0.   Bundesliga: VfL Wolfsburg 1 (Weghorst 22) bt VfL Bochum 0; Union Berlin 1 (Awoniyi 7) drew with Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Diaby 12); Stuttgart 5 (Endo 30, Klement 36, Kempf 55, 76, Al Ghaddioui 61) bt Fuerth 1 (Leweling 90+3); Augsburg 0 lost to Hoffenheim 4 (Bruun Larsen 37, Adamyan 79, Rutter 87, Rudy 90+5). F riday: Borussia Monchengladbach 1 (Plea 10) drew with Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 42).   LaLiga: Friday: Valencia 1 (Soler 11-pen) bt Getafe 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-united-runs-riot/article35920892.ece
15 August 2021||Hyderabad:,||Salazaar well tuned to deliver in Nizam’s Gold Cup||Trainer Irfan Ghatala’s ward Salazaar, who is in fine nick, should score over his rivals in the Nizam’s Gold Cup (Gr. 2), the chief event of Sunday’s (Aug. 15) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  BAKHTAWAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.30 p.m.: 1. Flying Rudolf (2) Kiran Naidu 56, 2. N R I Sport (5) Uday Kiran P 56, 3. Sharp Mind (6) P. Gaddam 56, 4. Sye Ra (4) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 5. Wallop And Gallop (7) Deepak Singh 56, 6. Ashwa Pushkin (11) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 7. Good Tidings (1) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 8. Joy O Joy (9) Surya Prakash 54.5, 9. Muaser (3) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 10. Neffereti (10) Md. Ismail 54.5 and 11. Siri (8) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. MUASER, 2. ASHWA PUSHKIN,   3. WALLOP AND GALLOP   BAKHTAWAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.05: 1. Jean Lafette (4) P.S. Chouhan 56, 2. Paladino (11) Kiran Naidu 56, 3. Special Effort (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 4. Unsung Hero (2) Uday Kiran P 56, 5. Ahanu (6) P. Gaddam 54.5, 6. Deccan Valour (3) Md. Ismail 54.5, 7. Hard To Toss (1) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 8. Miss Little Angel (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. N R I Style (7) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Reining Queen (10) Gaurav Singh 54.5 and 11. Shelly Anne (9) Santosh Raj N R 54.5.  1. JEAN LAFETTE, 2. MISS LITTLE ANGEL, 3. HARD TO TOSS   MICA EMPRESS PLATE (1,200m) rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.40: 1. Sporting Smile (3) R.S. Jodha 60, 2. Lagos (2) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Southern Legacy (9) Ajinkya 58, 4. Xfinity (7) Nakhat Singh 57, 5. Scramjet (5) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 6. Chuckit (10) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 7. City Of Blossom (6) A.A. Vikrant 54, 8. N R I Magic (4) Uday Kiran P 52.5, 9. Mystery (1) B. Nikhil 51.5 and 10. Lockhart (8) P. Gaddam 51.  1. SCRAMJET, 2. LAGOS, 3. XFINITY   RAM TILAK PLATE (1,200m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Amyra (1) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 2. Just Incredible (4) B.R. Kumar 60, 3. Flying Jet (12) Santosh Raj N R 58.5, 4. Star Dancer (8) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 5. Fashion Universe (11) Akshay Kumar 53, 6. Southern Lady (7) S.S. Tanwar 53, 7. Lifetime (9) Surya Prakash 52.5, 8. One For All (6) Rafique Sk 52.5, 9. Win Vision (2) Ajit Singh 52.5, 10. Air Salute (10) N.B. Kuldeep 52, 11. Healthandhappiness (13) B. Nikhil 52, 12. Moringa (3) P. Gaddam 52 and 13. Lightning Fairy (5) Nakhat Singh 50.  1. FASHION UNIVERSE,   2. AMYRA, 3. JUST INCREDIBLE  5. BROWN JACK PLATE (1,400m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.50: 1. By The Bay (5) P.S. Chouhan 60, 2. Mark My Day (7) B.R. Kumar 60, 3. Siyavash (3) Ashad Asbar 59, 4. Good Connection (10) S. Zervan 58, 5. Royal Pal (9) Nakaht Singh 54, 6. N R I Blue (Ex: Blue Cruise) (11) B. Nikhil 53.5, 7. Urvasi (1) Koushik 53.5, 8. Dream Jewel (12) Ajit Singh 52.5, 9. Starwalker (2) P. Gaddam 52.5, 10. Crackershow (4) Rafique Sk 52, 11. Flamingo Fame (6) G. Naresh 52 and 12. Lorena (8) Md. Ismail 51.5.  1. GOOD CONNECTION,   2. BY THE BAY, 3. SIYAVASH   NIZAM’S GOLD CUP (Gr. 2) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o & upward, 4.25: 1. Salazaar (6) Sandesh 56, 2. Taimur (5) Bhawani 55, 3. Point To Prove (2) P. Sai Kumar 53.5, 4. North Star (4) P.S. Chouhan 52, 5. Roaring Tiger (1) Zervan 52, 6. Alluring Silver (3) Akshay Kumar 50.5 and 7. Bisate (7) Neeraj 50.5.  1. SALAZAAR, 2. ALLURING SILVER, 3. ROARING TIGER   STAR HAVEN PLATE (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Alluri’s Pride (Ex: Shivalik Meadow) (3) Akshay Kumar 62, 2. Hurricane (13) B.R. Kumar 62, 3. Astronaut (12) P. Gaddam 61.5, 4. Amaretto (1) Rafique Sk 60.5, 5. Berkeley (4) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 6. Acadian Angel (9) Kiran Naidu 57.5, 7. Big Day (10) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 8. Turf Monarch (6) Md. Ismail 57.5, 9. That’s My Speed (2) B. Nikhil 57, 10. Ice Berry (7) C.P. Bopanna 53.5, 11. Moka (11) Ajit Singh 53.5, 12. Hopscotch (5) Ashad Asbar 52 and 13. Moment Of Silence (8) Surya Prakash 50.  1. ALLURI’S PRIDE, 2. ACADIAN ANGEL, 3. BERKELEY  Day’s Best: SALAZAAR  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/salazaar-well-tuned-to-deliver-in-nizams-gold-cup/article35920887.ece
15 August 2021||Kingston,||Windies edge ahead||Pakistan was 56 for two in its second innings, a lead of 20, at lunch on the third day of the first Test against West Indies here on Saturday. Earlier, the host was dismissed for 253 in its first essay for a lead of 36 runs. The home side added just two more runs to their overnight total before Shaheen Shah Aridi struck to finish the innings with four for 59. On Friday, Kraigg Brathwaite’s ran himself out for 97 but the West Indies captain’s typically obdurate innings worked his team into a useful first innings lead. With support from Jason Holder (58) in a pivotal sixth-wicket partnership of 96, the home side rallied from the discomfort of 100 for five to 251 for eight at stumps, a lead of 34 runs.  The scores: Pakistan 217 & 56/2 in 22 overs vs West Indies 253 in 89.4 overs (Brathwaite 97, Holder 58, Afridi 4/59, Abbas 3/42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-pulls-ahead/article35920890.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Miserable day for Mendonca||Leon Mendonca suffered three straight losses on the second day of the Kramnik Challenge online rapid chess and tumbled to the 15th spot after the eighth round on Friday.   The results: Eighth round: Jonas Buhl Bjerre (Den) bt Leon Mendonca; Seventh round: Mendonca lost to Polina Shuvalova (Rus); Sixth round: Christopher Yoo (USA) bt Mendonca; Fifth round: Mendonca bt Yahli Sokolovsky (Isr).   Leading standings (after eight rounds): 1-2. Awonder Liang (USA), Nodirbek Abdusattorov (Uzb) (6 each); 3-4. Vincent Keymer (Ger), Christopher Yoo (USA) (5.5 each). 15. Leon Mendonca (2.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miserable-day-for-mendonca/article35920888.ece
15 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Narayanan in joint lead||Sixth seed S.L. Narayanan stayed in the title-hunt beating Serbia’s Luka Budisavljevic and sharing the lead with Latvia’s Igor Kovalenko at six points after seven rounds of the RTU Open chess in Riga on Friday. With two rounds to go, Arjun Erigaisi and Arjun Kalyan (5.5 each) were tied for the third spot with eight others. Aravindh Chithambaram, Nihal Sarin, D. Gukesh, Pranav Anand and Murali Karthikeyan (5 each) were among those sharing the 13th spot.  Leading results (involving Indians): Seventh round: Igor Kovalenko (Lat, 6) bt D. Gukesh (5); S.L. Narayanan (6) bt Luka Budisavljevic (Srb, 5); Arjun Kalyan (5.5) drew with Aram Hakobyan (Arm, 5.5); M. Karthikeyan (5) drew with Arjun Erigaisi (5.5); Nihal Sarin (5) drew with Grigor Grigorov (Bul, 5); Martin Stukan (Rus, 5) drew with Aravindh Chithambaram (5); Tomas Laurusas (Ltu, 5.5) bt Aditya Mittal (4.5); Pranav Anand (5) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa (4.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narayanan-in-joint-lead/article35920889.ece
15 August 2021||Male,||BFC takes on Club Eagles||Sunil Chhetri-led Bengaluru FC will face Club Eagles of Maldives in a play-off match of the AFC Cup here on Sunday. The winner of the playoff, scheduled to be played in May but postponed due to the pandemic, will advance to Group D of the 2021 AFC Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-takes-on-club-eagles/article35920891.ece
15 August 2021||Toronto,||Bopanna loses||Rohan Bopanna and Ivan Dodig of Croatia lost to third seeds Rajeev Ram and Joe Salisbury 4-6, 6-3, [10-4] in the doubles quarterfinals of the $3,487,915 ATP tennis tournament Toronto.   The results: $3,487,915 ATP, Toronto: Doubles (quarterfinals): Rajeev Ram (US) & Joe Salisbury (GBR) bt Ivan Dodig (Cro) & Rohan Bopanna 4-6, 6-3, [10-4].   $100,000 ITF women, Landisville (US): Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Katarzyna Kawa (Pol) bt Ankita Raina 6-3, 6-7(4), 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-loses/article35920895.ece
15 August 2021||KOCHI,||Indian team for u-20 Worlds||Javelin thrower Kunwar Ajai Raj Singh and long jumper Shaili Singh are among the promising faces in the Indian team for the under-20 World athletics championships which begins in Nairobi on Aug. 17.  The team: Boys: Nalubothu Shanmuga Srinivas (200m), Anu Kumar (800m), Sunil Joliya Jinabhai (3000m steeplechase), Tejas Ashok Shirse (110mh), Hardeep and Rohan Kamble (400m hurdles), Amit (10,000m race walk), Amandeep Dhaliwal (shot put), Kunwer Ajai Singh Rana and Jay Kumar (javelin throw), Vipin Kumar (hammer throw), Donald Makimaraj (triple jump), S. Bharth, Kapil, Abdul Razak, Sumit Chahal and S. Nagarjunan (4x400m relay). Girls: Priya H. Mohan and Summy (400m), Pooja (800m and 1500m), Ankita Dhyani (5000m), Agasara (100m hurdles), Shaili Singh (long jump), Baljeet Bajwa (10,000m race walk), Priya H. Mohan, Summy, Payal Vohra, Deepanshi, Kunja Rajitha (4x400m relay) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-for-u-20-worlds/article35921117.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Little Hearts enters super league||Little Hearts CA entered the super league with an 87-run win over Venus CA (Vellore) in the all-India YSCA cricket tournament held here.  The scores:   Guru Nanak College 201/6 in 30 overs (S. Ganesh 61, S. Aravind 59, R. Yash 40) bt Autolec RC 140 in 29.1 overs (K. Raja 49, Lokeshraj 3/17, Yudhiswaran 3/18). (Guru Nanak enters super league).   Little Hearts CA 198/9 in 30 overs (Roop Prasad 42, Anand Kumar 59, Sai Vigneshwar 3/28) bt Venus CA (Vellore ) 111 in 27.1 overs (Om Nithin 4/31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/little-hearts-enters-super-league/article35920946.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 10:41 IST,||Sudoku — August 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-15-2021/article35921797.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to Tokyo||A skill he picked up and honed ad interim , while waiting for an expected call from the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), has taken S Sukumar places, the latest being Tokyo. Capturing timeless images of triumph and disappointment at sports’ grand stand, the Olympics, Sukumar returned to Chennai from Tokyo early this week, the excitement still intact. Sports photography is his calling card today, but it all began as just plain fascination with freezing images. At IOB, 44 years ago, it did not take his colleagues long to notice his ability with the camera, which made him its unofficial photographer. It was a talent that would not stay confined to one institution. Other banks noticed it, and it eventually had Reserve Bank of India bestowing the official photographer status on him. It would lead to his KRAs being reframed, allowing him leeway in how he completed his regular work. With another spurt of initiative, Sukumar would become a valuable contributor to major news photo syndicates including Getty Images, the Press Trust of India and Agence France Press. He took up VRS to focus on his passion. While cutting his news photography tooth, he concentrated on portraits, as that provided huge learning opportunities. That many of his photos made it to magazine wrappers, including The Illustrated Weekly of India, was a shot in the arm. “I chose to remain a freelancer as working for an organisation would limit my opportunities. My photographs have been published in almost all publications,” reveals Sukumar, only ruing the fact that publications using syndicated photographs rarely acknowledge the photographer. His journey in sports photography began in 1984 when he covered the India-Australia match at Chepauk stadium. His achievements in it read like a shopping list: Summer Olympics, the Asian Games, FIFA World Cup, the US Open, Wimbledon, and MOTO GB in Malaysia. Besides, he has done coffee table books of Rio Olympics and an exclusive album on gymnastics especially for Deepa Karmakar. He has developed an album on Sania Naiwal as well, earning her appreciation. As he lugged his camera equipment to the various Olympic venues in Tokyo, there was the comfort that comes from not having to count costs. Air India had sponsored his tickets and Neyveli Lignite Corporation, his equipment. Through the years, his work had always invited sponsorships from companies in the State and several nationalised banks, either to buy equipment or to meet travel expenses, making more work possible. An American company Twisted Boots has been his sponsor for many years now, he says. At the Tokyo Olympics, he represented the United News of India. A lost opportunity to go to London Olympics through AFP was the turning point, discloses Sukumar. He went as a freelancer. “I struggled to arrange for Rs. 4.5 lakh for the trip. When I returned I organised an exhibition of my work and he recovered his expenses,” the photographer recalls. Through the years, including the time he was in the banking sector, Sukumar has splurged on purchase of camera equipment. “My wife was also a bank employee and she was supportive. But after watching my struggles my children did not want to take up photography,” says the 66-year-old. He has been organising vocational training for Corporation school students, and plans to revive it when schools reopen.  I chose to remain a freelancer as working for an organisation would limit my opportunities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-road-to-tokyo/article35920642.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The perils of motoring down OMR||Samuel Prabhakaran’s family placed him under curfew for his own safety. “I had to be back home before 8 p.m.,” recalls Prabhakaran, who retired from Air India. “In those days, some stretches in and around Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) were poorly-lit. Taking advantage of the darkness, robbers would waylay commuters.” This chilling account of what was then the IT-corridor in the making is from the early 2000s. The present Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road takes the cake for terror, Prabhakaran points out. “A rope would be tied across the road to trap those travelling late in the night. When I got delayed at work due to the late arrival of flights, I would avoid taking this road though it was a short-cut back home,” Prabhakaran reveals. Roads in and around OMR managed scored poorly on safety and connectivity. During the monsoons, they disappeared without a trace in stagnant rainwater. Despite the evident challenges, Vijay Shanthi’s Sri Jayendra Colony decided to brave it out. One of the first residential projects to come up on OMR, it came with more than 350 units spread across 15 blocks, and the promise of a new standard of living. “Roads inside the colony were so broad that three cars could move side by side,” explains Prabhakaran, adding that residents chose to gloss over the state of roads outside. “We knew the area had potential for immense growth and it was only a matter of time before it lived up to it. Besides, the city was getting congested and most flats would not fit into our budgets,” says Prabhakaran, who bought a flat at Rs. 870 per sq ft in 2001. Residents reveal that OMR was seen as the poor cousin of East Coast Road which was gaining ground as a residential belt. With the advent of TIDEL Park in the year 2000 and many software companies, the tide turned for OMR. V. Balasubramanian, an owner of a flat in F Block, had no preconceived notions about OMR when he invested in this community. On a visit to Sathyabama College, he and his family chanced upon the community and fell for it. “Even before we moved in, in 2002, the side roads leading to Perungudi had independent houses. You had shops selling an array of items including a multi-chain supermarket; and Nehru Nagar was a hub for small scale factories,” says Balasubramanian, who took voluntary retirement from AM Jain College, Meenambakkam. Urban infrastructure Balasubramanian remembers the Perungudi panchayat collecting segregated waste from the apartment complex. “I was secretary of the Association for a short time and we were given coloured bins to leave segregated waste at the entrance of the apartment for the conservancy staff to collect,” he says. Since they moved in, residents have been at the mercy of tanker lorries for water. “Water was available at five to six feet but the TDS being high, we are dependent on tanker lorries,” says Balasubramanian. In 1999-2000, Ramya Rani had the sense of being in an adventure when she drove to Professor Dhanapalan College of Arts and Science in Kelambakkam, where she was employed. The college operated a bus for the staff, as public transport was patchy and unreliable. “When the college bus did not turn up or we missed the bus, we depended on public transport,” says Ramya, remembering how 21H and 19C were the prominent services. Thanks to farm lands in the region, getting fresh produces of vegetables and fruits was never a challenge. Ramya illustrates: “For the kitchen in our college lab, we would procure watermelons at Rs. 2 each from nearby farms.”  Even before we moved in, which was in 2002, the side roads leading to Perungudi had independent houses. You had shops selling an array of items; and Nehru Nagar was a hub for small scale factories||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-perils-of-motoring-down-omr/article35920631.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||When painted storks made the sun their ally||A bird’s actions being its words, a birder is by default a Ray Birdwhistell, the anthropologist who collected “words” humans speak without their lips. However, playing Birdwhistell to avians is as facile as guessing ‘floccinaucinihilipilification’ in dumb charades. To better illustrate it, when a spouse’s non-verbal behaviour is interpreted, the feedback mechanism is usually instantaneous — for better or worse. As birds give two hoots about interpretations around their behaviours, seekers of avian esoterica can oscillate between warring conclusions. Take the case of the spread-out wing display. It covers the obvious and the not-so-obvious. What it signifies depends on the species, the season, the setting, the hour of the day and even the sternness of the sun. On August 11, around 2.30 p.m at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands, the sun was as friendly as a splitting axe — that is, to this writer. In contrast, a muster of 41 painted storks was luxuriating in the blinding sunlight, having gathered for a mass preening ritual that was punctuated with open-wing displays. When this writer discussed this sighting and the larger topic around it with him, Rishi Valley-based ornithologist V Santharam drew attention to how the black heron (also called the black egret) found in Africa illustrates that a creative oeuvre may be attached to spreading out the wings in non-flight settings. “There is a behaviour by some birds where they spread their wings to be able to better see food underneath by cutting out the blinding sunlight,” begins Santharam. “The black heron in Africa spreads out its wings like an umbrella to create shade, but for a different reason. The shade attracts fish and this bird catches it.” The context at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands is of an entirely hue, being one of post-meal preening. However, within this context nestle a variety of possibilities. Almost 50 years ago, in the quarterly ornithology journal The Auk dated October 1971 (Vol. 88), American zoologist Marvin Philip Kahl discusses the reasons storks spread their wings, collating findings from field studies by ornithologists, including his own, on the subject. Conditions in which thirteen stock species usually strike spread-wing postures are tabulated. One of the reasons listed in Kahl’s work lines up with what transpired that afternoon at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Wetlands. It is about “feather treatment”, as Kahl puts it, where the sunlight is allowed to work on the oily secretion generated by the uropygial glands (also called preen glands), converting it into valuable Vitamin D, taken in by the bird while preening itself with its beak. The painted storks at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshkands were alternating between spreading their wings and preening themselves, suggesting that this process was at work. “It must be part of an elaborate process of preening and spreading the oil from the preen glands across the feathers, and the sunlight working on the oil to produce Vitamin D, which is in turn consumed by the bird while preening,” Santharam explains. The other contexts in which a painted stork — and many other birds — would spread their wings were clearly absent that afternoon. The painted stork’s breeding season is well past, and there are no mates to be won. Painted storks do shade their young from piercing sun in this manner — what unfolded that afternoon is light years away from a nesting scene. Besides “feather treatment” with its attendant benefits, the performance had a social component to it. Birds take cues from one another and tailor their behaviours accordingly. After a bout of group wing-spreading, the birds would settle back into preening themselves, almost at the same time, suggesting how they were giving in to peer influence.  (’Field Notes’ is about tracking avian behaviour in their habitats)   The painted storks were luxuriating in the blinding sunlight, having gathered for a mass preening ritual||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-painted-storks-made-the-sun-their-ally/article35920638.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Where the Adyar flows slowly||The section of Adyar river in Kottur presents a deplorable picture, one that is completed by sewage discharge, garbage disposal and defecation. As shown in the photo, construction debris had gummed up the rainwater channel. T. D. Babu, founder, Spark, a city-based civic forum, underlines that sewage is being let into the river through a pipe fixed two years ago. The section in question, the riverside near the intersection of RS Sridhar Salai and Lock Street, Kottur, is littered with all kinds of trash and construction debris. The water is an unseemly, being yellow and green in colour. “While the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust (CRRT) and Public Works Department, along with Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, are taking steps to plug illegal sewer connections, it is surprising to see the discharge happening,” says Babu, adding that the authorities must penalise the offenders. The gates on the see-through wall, facilitated on the bunds of the river, are kept open throughout the day, facilitating unauthorised dumping of garbage on the bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-the-adyar-flows-slowly/article35920635.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Cobbling together a livelihood and a purpose||When he lost his job in March 2020, N. Raji would not sit around twiddling his thumb. Raji brushed up on shoe-mending and bag-making skills and went on to open a service station at Padur in OMR. “I was working as store in-charge with a multiplex on ECR when lockdown was announced and we went without work. Thankfully, the company paid us for a few months and I managed to run my family,” says Raji, a resident of East Coast Road. As the prospects of finding a new job were bleak, Raji turned to his old trade. He had worked as a shoe technician with Mr. Pronto, a bag and shoe repair company, for four years before moving out to set up his own outlet. In 2016, at Egattur, he opened Destra shoe and bag repair (the outlet’s name being inspired by an Italian brand famous for footwear). An artist friend drew the logo and Raji got the outlet listed on Just Dial. “I also got a website designed; it is now defunct,” says Raji. Things did not pan out as planned. The shop was not strategically located. Potential and past customers had difficulty locating it. “Although the landmark I gave in JustDial said it was opposite Hiranandani Upscale, my outlet was tucked well inside and customers would call me and I would fetch the item from them from the main road,” he says. Destra folded up two years later, and Raji even tried operating the business from his home for some time. “I learnt some of the basic skills from my first job and the rest I picked up on my own. Apart from bag and shoe repair, I undertake work on sofas and beds which I carry out going to people’s homes. Doing so helped me build a database of customers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cobbling-together-a-livelihood-and-a-purpose/article35920646.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Good tidings on the streets of Madras||In the 1960s, the Department of Posts established a presence on the streets of Madras to benefit people going through the 9to5 grind. It operated vans that functioned as mobile post offices well into the late evening hours, all the way up to 9 p.m largely for this segment. It was hardly a step-down in terms of services, offering exactly what one would expect of a regular postal office. A mobile postal office would be stationed at Besant Nagar, and it continued to function into the 1980s. A senior citizen and long-time resident of Besant Nagar, S Venugopalan recalls, “When I was residing at Abhiramapuram, my father would send me to carry out works related to postal services, including sending money orders, paying money into the postal account, and sending registered letters. The red vans — now running as ‘speed posts’ vans — would be stationed every day, between 7.15 and 7.45 p.m. near The Mylapore Club.” The services run by these mobile post offices included sale of stamps, issue of certificates of posting, and acceptance of air parcels. “The vans used to cover all parts of Madras. A time period will be set for each region. The vans would be deployed at strategic locations in a region. The mobile post offices were extremely popular with business people, who would visit them every day for transactions.” In 1976, when I moved to Besant Nagar, I encountered this facility in the locality. It functioned even after 1980. The van would be stationed near Maharaja Stores, adds Venugopalan. The mobile post office came with a slew of advantages, the most significant ones being that it operated all days of the week, Sundays and postal holidays included; and it began its service after counters at the various city post offices had closed.  The vans used to cover all parts of Madras. A time period will be set for each region. The mobile post offices were extremely popular with business people, who would visit them every day for transactions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/good-tidings-on-the-streets-of-madras/article35920656.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Pudupakkam residents seek desilting of Esa lake||Jasraj Nagar & Sai Baba Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has requested the Water Resources Department (WRD), a wing of the Public Works Department to desilt and deepen Esa lake which is situated adjacent to Jasraj Nagar and Sai Baba Nagar in Pudupakkam. As this exercise would help in increasing the storage capacity of the lake and also replenish the groundwater in Siruseri, Pudupakkam, and Padur regions. Next the association wants the WRD to remove prosopis juliflora, an invasive weed ( seemaikaruvellam in Tamil) that the waterbody is overrun with. Further, the bunds should be formed and strengthened and islands created within the lake to attract birds, say residents. “A walkway with a park should be laid. And native trees must be planted,” says A Devananth, a resident of Jasraj Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pudupakkam-residents-seek-desilting-of-esa-lake/article35920649.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Restore U-turn at Vijayanagar’||The U-turn at Vijayanagar junction on Taramani Link Road in Velachery needs to be restored. It was closed a few years ago to facilitate the construction of the twin flyover — a work that is still under way. This U-turn is of utmost importance for residents of Sarathy Nagar, Balamurugan Nagar, VGP Selva Nagar and Bhuvaneshwari Nagar. Motorists coming from Guru Nanak Salai and crossing Taramani Link Road enter these colonies via this U-turn opening at Vijaya Nagar junction. Since the U-turn’s closure, residents were using the U-turn opening near Tansi Nagar bus-stop located on the same Taramani Link Road to reach the aforementioned colonies. The Tansi Nagar U-turn is a kilometre away from the Vijayanagar U-turn. A month ago, the Tansi Nagar opening was closed. So, motorists coming from Guru Nanak Salai and bound for the colonies take the next U-turn which is located on the same Taramani Link Road, near TCS office. This entails covering a distance of two kilometres from the Vijayanagar U-turn. Residents are irked by this situation. Besides the time it consumes, taking a detour is not good for one’s wallet. Due to this, many motorists flout safety rules and drive on the wrong side of the road. Restoring the Vijayanagar U-turn would become even more imperative when schools reopen, because there is an institution in Sarathy Nagar and another at Seethammal Colony which are mainly accessed through Sarathy Nagar. Hence, I request the State Highways and the traffic police to do the needful at the earliest. V. Selvaraj is resident of Sarathy Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/restore-u-turn-at-vijayanagar/article35920655.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Repair fair||WasteWinn, a waste management company, along with Destra, is organising a repair fair on August 15 for residents of XS Real, a gated community in Padur. Residents can bring their shoes, bags, trolley bags and rolling chairs that need minor repairs. The work will carried out in their community. The idea behind the initiative is to encourage people to fix items that need minor repairs and not dump them in the landfill. “We plan to extend the repair fair to other gated communities, so that people do not have to venture out and also to inculcate the habit of reusing items in them,” says I Priyadarshini of WasteWinn. Gated communities that are interested can call 9790804922||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/repair-fair/article35920647.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Marrying innovation and tradition||SIGT (Southern Industrial Gauges and Tools) Private Limited in Kandanchavadi is a piece of local history. One of the early manufacturing plants to have been established on Old Mahabalipuram Road, it supplied a variety of machines, including tool-cutter grinders, motorised spindles and conventional rotators, for BHEL and Defence establishments. Ravi Ganesh, a director at the company and the second generation in the business, says his family started the unit in the 1960s. “The founders — B. Narayan Rao and B. Ganesh Rao— worked with SRP Tools, which they left to start a unit of their own. When they began, they ran something like a vocational centre to train employees,” says Ganesh. The 70s and 80s marks a purple patch for the company. “We were employing over 150 people in our early years, and finding labour was not a challenge as many from nearby villages sought work,” says Ganesh, adding that he joined the business in 1992 after completing his engineering course. With the recession of the 90s, the small-scale units on OMR were forced to change track. Later, the advent of Elnet Software and Tidel Park in 2000 changed the face of OMR, turning it into an IT hub. “Facit Asia (now Global Infocity), SRP Tools (where Holiday Inn is located) and Sushma Pneumatic (where Hotel Turyaa is present) were among companies that gave way to other businesses,” says Ganesh. A raft of small-scale units changed their businesses to take advantage of the fact that software giants were making OMR their new address. In 2015, the promoters of SIGT sold a major chunk of their space to a constructioncompany. “The lasttwo years have been tough on our business with the pandemic but we have to move on and we hope to restart soon,” he says. Ganesh adds that mechanical design has been the company’s strength and they are working towards digitising thedrawings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marrying-innovation-and-tradition/article35920633.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Pallikaranai bridge needs widening’||The Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations has requested the Water Resources Department to widen the mouth of Okkiyam Palam bridge on Pallikaranai marshland on Medavakkam-Sholinganallur Link Road. The mouth of the bridge is not wide enough to drain rainwater into the Buckingham Canal, which results in flooding at Perumbakkam. The rainwater from stormwater drain networks and excess water from lakes in the regions — Arasankazhani, Thazhambur, Sithalapakkam, Mambakkam, Medavakkam, Ottiyambakkam, and Perumbakkam — flow into the marshland, through Gandhi Nagar Co-operative Housing Society and enters the rainwater channel Okkiyam Madavu before draining into Buckingham Canal. “The bridge is around 30 feet long, and its mouth is not sufficiently wide to drain the rainwater and excess water from the lakes into the Buckingham Canal. Hence, the water flows in the reverse direction and flood residential localities such as Gurudev Colony, Indira Priyadarshini Nagar, Shanthi Nagar, Sekaran Nagar, Kailash Nagar, Moogambikai Nagar, and Perumal Nagar,” says N Nalla Sivam, treasurer of the federation. “Water flowing under the bridge will flow into the canal. But the water from the culverts and stormwater drain networks will not be able to flow freely. Even, the width of the network, near an institute is not wide enough. It takes time for the water to discharge into the canal. We have made several representations to the Water Resources Department, the erstwhile Kancheepuram District Collectorate, and Chengalpet District Collectorate, in vain,” adds Nalla Sivam. The federation has put forth another argument with respect to a proposed bridge. “We are not for it, because flooding can be severe if another bridge is constructed. It is planned at Nookampalayam. It will be 32 metres in length and 3.5 metres in height. The aim of the bridge is to avoid flooding at Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenement in Perumbakkam. But our contention is that the water from the bridge will also flow through the mouth of Okkiyam Palam (bridge) and cause massive floods. Hence, the mouth of the bridge should be widened at the earliest,” says K Sarangadass, Federation president. Besides, the Federation has sought the removal of the dense growth of water hyacinth and Prosopis Juliflora near the mouth of the bridge as these also hinder the free flow of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pallikaranai-bridge-needs-widening/article35920651.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Kudos to Venkatrathinam Nagar UPHC team’||My visit to the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) at Venkatrathinam Nagar in Adyar to take my COVID-19 shot has changed my views about government-run health centres for the better. The UPHC was tidy and its staff, cordial. The staff at the UPHC go beyond the call of their duty in helping people get vaccinated. My 73-year-old mother-in-law had to be vaccinated, but due to age-related ailments her mobility is restricted. So, the UPHC staff visited our house and gave her the shot. My mother-in-law got both the doses shile in the comfort of our home. Here, I would liked to thank Dr. C. Srilakshmi, Zonal Medical Officer, Zone 13 Adyar and her team for extending this service. I would also like to thank S. Sridharan, president of ROKA (Residents of Kasturibai Nagar Association) and Gokul of Fourth Main Road of Kasturba Nagar for facilitating the house visit. They did this not just for my mother-in-law but for other residents who are faced with restricted mobility. T. Sudarshan is a resident of Adyar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kudos-to-venkatrathinam-nagar-uphc-team/article35920653.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Furniture fair||Bilal Enterprises is organising a furniture expo till August 21 at T. Nagar. A press release says that the establishment has been in the business for the last 20 years and has a wide range of items from office to home furniture in various types of wood. At the expo, old furniture can be exchanged, added the release. Venue: JYM Kalyana Mandapam, Venkatanarayana Road, T.Nagar, Opposite Tirupatidevasthanam. Contact 7338923142||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/furniture-fair/article35920639.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||What is happening during Madras Week?||As part of Madras Week, here are some events that are being held virtually: Organiser:Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai A virtual exhibition on Madras household heritage will be held on August 28 For details, contact 9444 253 532 *** Organiser:Press Institute of India A virtual presentation by Chithra Madhavan on temples around Chennai (August 21; 7 p.m.); Nivedita Louis talks on ‘Women and Madras’ (August 22; 7 p.m.); and A panel discussion with professor Eugenie Pinto, Dr Bryan Peppin and Harry MacLure on Anglo-Indians (August 25; 7 p.m) The programmes will also be livestreamed onhttps://www.youtube. com/channel/ UC5KEDLHg2Gjj2_ 4aD-xsbJg *** Organiser:The Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry Talk on ‘Business in ancient Madras and modern Chennai’ on August 25; 6 p.m. Speakers are Sushila Ravindranath and Venkatesh Ramakrishnan; Pradeep Chakravarthy is the moderator. To register, mail madraschamber@ madraschamber.inor call 044-24349452/ 9940422956||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/what-is-happening-during-madras-week/article35920643.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Offer at pet shop||Dirty Petz, a shop that sells branded foods and accessories for pets, has come up with a 30-day offer called “1plus1”. According to a press release, services like grooming and boarding are provided. The outlet is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. For details, call 9150009691.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/offer-at-pet-shop/article35920640.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||How a triad was formed in Tambaram Sanatorium||The office of TNHB Colony (Phase I & II) in Tambaram Sanatorium is quaintly attractive, pleasantly outre and in an endearingly odd sense, avant-garde. Crowned by a thatched saddleback roof, the one-room office sits gently in the lap of nature, the vast open space around it marked by sparse but majestic greenery. A gigantic tamarind tree, probably predating the neighbourhood, towers over the pint-sized office. A circular brick boundary built around the tree seems an afterthought. Similarly circumscribed, a syzygium cumini (naaval maram) and a younger tamarind tree keep the behemoth company. Powered by solar energy, the office’s reliance on nature is strikingly evident. The unassuming structure is located on the winding TNHB Road. Raintrees stand sentinel on this road, offering a helpful suggestion about the neighbourhood’s age. Four decades ago, the raintree was a stock-in-trade option as an avenue tree. The lone staff at the office, Pattabiraman quietly goes about making preparations for an outdoor meeting, plonking down two chairs near the giant tamarind and keeping them sufficiently spaced apart. A Muthukrishnan, secretary of TNHB colony’s residents welfare association ambles in. Settling into the two chairs, we shoot the breeze, masks tucked in place. Muthukrishnan offers engaging snippets about the colony’s origins: It has a connection with two iconic institutions in Tambaram Sanatorium. Parked in that chair outside the RWA office, one cannot help noticing how the curvy TNHB Road traces the contours of the adjacent Government Hospital of Thoracic Medicine (in regular parlance, ‘TB Hospital’) like tight-fitting jean trousers. “TNHB colony was carved out of the Tambaram Sanatorium hospital. As per today’s revenue records, the patta for the entire area — consisting of 393 flats in Phase I & II — still stands in the name of TB Hospital. Since land was considered to be in surplus at the hospital, they decided to earmark a part of it for constructing these flats,” Muthukrishnan reveals how the neighbourhood is indirectly linked to the story of this famed hospital. That is just half the surprise. Take the other half of it. “When this housing project in Phase I & II was initiated, it was aimed at the Japanese engaged in collaborative projects from Japan at Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ),” Muthukrishnan repeats what he has heard, but swears by its veracity. Let us step back and take in the larger picture. MEPZ saw the light in 1984, having been instituted as an ambitious exercise to aggressively attract foreign direct investment. Viewed in this light, the account about the origins of TNHB Colony aligns with the rest of the picture. Besides, the pages of business history also show these accounts about this TNHB Colony’s origins are largely on target. In the pages of The Hindu , dated April 28, 1984, a report from Tokyo details then Tamil Nadu Minister for Law and Industries, C. Ponnaiyan’s efforts in Japan to woo foreign investors to “a 150-acre site near Tambaram Sanatorium”. It elaborated that the minister was on a world tour that took in Europe and the United States to invite foreign investors to establish units at MEPZ. The ‘Japanese’ word struck as a synecdoche indicative of the larger body of foreign investors and professionals from abroad that the government was trying to draw to MEPZ. Another report from the archives of The Hindu , dated August 28, 1985 suggests that the government went the extra mile in having these professionals feel at home in a literal sense. Here is one line from the report strongly suggesting this possibility: “More than 100 flats are expected to be ready by the end of December for occupation by the officers and staff of the units in MEPZ.” Another report by The Hindu in its edition dated February 19, 1987 settles the matter conclusively. Addressing the media, Development Commissioner of MEPZ T M Arumugam dwelt at length on development of infrastructure, particularly social infrastructure. He noted that the “first colony of 102 flats developed by the Housing Board, at a cost of Rs. 1.24 crores” was ready. He elaborated that another 288 flats, at the cost of Rs. 2.93 crores would come up in the second phase of the housing project. Together, they add up to 390 units. Muthukrishnan points out that much later three flats were added in the commercial spaces, bringing the total number of them in Phase I & II to 393 flats. Muthukrishnan says that as the target group of the housing project did not quite warm up to it, the government was eventually forced to look beyond them. “The government began offering the flats to the general public in 1986,” explains Muthukrishnan. One cannot argue with how oral history functions — there would be the inevitable crinkles around the pages, but it usually gets the essence of the matter right. Adequate amenities Muthukrishnan believes the colony received amenities that many others in the region have had to put up a spirited fight for, even decades later. “From the time the colony was established, Palar water is being made available to residents,” reveals Muthy Krishnan, touching upon early hiccups in the supply. “Residents went to the consumer court, and it was ruled that Phase I & II should be supplied two lakh gallons of water every day,” the secretary says. Driving down TNHB Road that snakes through the colony, one would get the faint impression of climbing a foothill on wheels. The neighbourhood is in fact partly situated on the foothills of Pachai Malai, whose sylvan character seems to have rubbed off on it. The apartment blocks are hedged by trees. The blocks stand noticeably below the roads. “The colony does not suffer water logging even during heavy rains because of the way TNHB had planned it. Besides, it is one of the first colonies in the region to have an underground drainage system,” says Muthukumar adding that Phase I & II of the colony comes under the jurisdiction of the Thiruneermalai Town Panchayat. While this writer considered the RWA’s quaint-looking, thatched and spartan office as one of the striking features of the neighbourhood, Association members consider it as not being quite commensurate with the neighbourhood’s profile. Muthukrishnan voices it: “There are no complaints except for the fact that the Association does not have its own building to house its office. We have plans to build it. We are approaching the revenue authorities for having a building of our own.”  The colony does not suffer water logging even during heavy rains because of the way TNHB had planned it. Besides, it is one of the first colonies in the region to have an underground drainage system||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-a-triad-was-formed-in-tambaram-sanatorium/article35920682.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to Tokyo||A skill he picked up and honed ad interim , while waiting for an expected call from the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), has taken S Sukumar places, the latest being Tokyo. Capturing timeless images of triumph and disappointment at sports’ grand stand, the Olympics, Sukumar returned to Chennai from Tokyo early this week, the excitement still intact. Sports photography is his calling card today, but it all began as just plain fascination with freezing images. At IOB, 44 years ago, it did not take his colleagues long to notice his ability with the camera, which made him its unofficial photographer. It was a talent that would not stay confined to one institution. Other banks noticed it, and it eventually had Reserve Bank of India bestowing the official photographer status on him. It would lead to his KRAs being reframed, allowing him leeway in how he completed his regular work. With another spurt of initiative, Sukumar would become a valuable contributor to major news photo syndicates including Getty Images, the Press Trust of India and Agence France Press. He took up VRS to focus on his passion. While cutting his news photography tooth, he concentrated on portraits, as that provided huge learning opportunities. That many of his photos made it to magazine wrappers, including The Illustrated Weekly of India, was a shot in the arm. “I chose to remain a freelancer as working for an organisation would limit my opportunities. My photographs have been published in almost all publications,” reveals Sukumar, only ruing the fact that publications using syndicated photographs rarely acknowledge the photographer. His journey in sports photography began in 1984 when he covered the India-Australia match at Chepauk stadium. His achievements in it read like a shopping list: Summer Olympics, the Asian Games, FIFA World Cup, the US Open, Wimbledon, and MOTO GB in Malaysia. Besides, he has done coffee table books of Rio Olympics and an exclusive album on gymnastics especially for Deepa Karmakar. He has developed an album on Sania Naiwal as well, earning her appreciation. As he lugged his camera equipment to the various Olympic venues in Tokyo, there was the comfort that comes from not having to count costs. Air India had sponsored his tickets and Neyveli Lignite Corporation, his equipment. Through the years, his work had always invited sponsorships from companies in the State and several nationalised banks, either to buy equipment or to meet travel expenses, making more work possible. An American company Twisted Boots has been his sponsor for many years now, he says. At the Tokyo Olympics, he represented the United News of India. A lost opportunity to go to London Olympics through AFP was the turning point, discloses Sukumar. He went as a freelancer. “I struggled to arrange for Rs. 4.5 lakh for the trip. When I returned I organised an exhibition of my work and he recovered his expenses,” the photographer recalls. Through the years, including the time he was in the banking sector, Sukumar has splurged on purchase of camera equipment. “My wife was also a bank employee and she was supportive. But after watching my struggles my children did not want to take up photography,” says the 66-year-old. He has been organising vocational training for Corporation school students, and plans to revive it when schools reopen.  I chose to remain a freelancer as working for an organisation would limit my opportunities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-road-to-tokyo/article35920688.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||When painted storks made the sun their ally||A bird’s actions being its words, a birder is by default a Ray Birdwhistell, the anthropologist who collected “words” humans speak without their lips. However, playing Birdwhistell to avians is as facile as guessing ‘floccinaucinihilipil ification’ in dumb charades. To better illustrate it, when a spouse’s non-verbal behaviour is interpreted, the feedback mechanism is usually instantaneous — for better or worse. As birds give two hoots about interpretations around their behaviours, seekers of avian esoterica can oscillate between warring conclusions. Take the case of the spread-out wing display. It covers the obvious and the not-so-obvious. What it signifies depends on the species, the season, the setting, the hour of the day and even the sternness of the sun. On August 11, around 2.30 p.m at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands, the sun was as friendly as a splitting axe — that is, to this writer. In contrast, a muster of 41 painted storks was luxuriating in the blinding sunlight, having gathered for a mass preening ritual that was punctuated with open-wing displays.When this writer discussed this sighting and the larger topic around it with him, Rishi Valley-based ornithologist V Santharam drew attention to how the black heron (also called the black egret) found in Africa illustrates that a creative oeuvre may be attached to spreading out the wings in non-flight settings. “There is a behaviour by some birds where they spread their wings to be able to better see food underneath by cutting out the blinding sunlight,” begins Santharam. “The black heron in Africa spreads out its wings like an umbrella to create shade, but for a different reason. The shade attracts fish and this bird catches it.” The context at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands is of an entirely hue, being one of post-meal preening. However, within this context nestle a variety of possibilities.Almost 50 years ago, in the quarterly ornithology journal The Auk dated October 1971 (Vol. 88), American zoologist Marvin Philip Kahl discusses the reasons storks spread their wings, collating findings from field studies by ornithologists, including his own, on the subject. Conditions in which thirteen stock species usually strike spread-wing postures are tabulated. One of the reasons listed in Kahl’s work lines up with what transpired that afternoon at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Wetlands. It is about “feather treatment”, as Kahl puts it, where the sunlight is allowed to work on the oily secretion generated by the uropygial glands (also called preen glands), converting it into valuable Vitamin D, taken in by the bird while preening itself with its beak. The painted storks at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshkands were alternating between spreading their wings and preening themselves, suggesting that this process was at work. “It must be part of an elaborate process of preening and spreading the oil from the preen glands across the feathers, and the sunlight working on the oil to produce Vitamin D, which is in turn consumed by the bird while preening,” Santharam explains. The other contexts in which a painted stork — and many other birds — would spread their wings were clearly absent that afternoon. The painted stork’s breeding season is well past, and there are no mates to be won. Painted storks do shade their young from piercing sun in this manner — what unfolded that afternoon is light years away from a nesting scene. Besides “feather treatment” with its attendant benefits, the performance had a social component to it. Birds take cues from one another and tailor their behaviours accordingly. After a bout of group wing-spreading, the birds would settle back into preening themselves, almost at the same time, suggesting how they were giving in to peer influence.  (’Field Notes’ is about tracking avian behaviour in their habitats)   The painted storks were luxuriating in the blinding sunlight, having gathered for a mass preening ritual||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-painted-storks-made-the-sun-their-ally/article35920665.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Cobbling together a livelihood and a purpose||When he lost his job in March 2020, N. Raji would not sit around twiddling his thumb. Raji brushed up on shoe-mending and bag-making skills and went on to open a service station at Padur in OMR. “I was working as store in-charge with a multiplex on ECR when lockdown was announced and we went without work. Thankfully, the company paid us for a few months and I managed to run my family,” says Raji, a resident of East Coast Road. As the prospects of finding a new job were bleak, Raji turned to his old trade. He had worked as a shoe technician with Mr. Pronto, a bag and shoe repair company, for four years before moving out to set up his own outlet. In 2016, at Egattur, he opened Destra shoe and bag repair (the outlet’s name being inspired by an Italian brand famous for footwear). An artist friend drew the logo and Raji got the outlet listed on Just Dial. “I also got a website designed; it is now defunct,” says Raji. Things did not pan out as planned. The shop was not strategically located. Potential and past customers had difficulty locating it. “Although the landmark I gave in JustDial said it was opposite Hiranandani Upscale, my outlet was tucked well inside and customers would call me and I would fetch the item from them from the main road,” he says. Destra folded up two years later, and Raji even tried operating the business from his home for some time. “I learnt some of the basic skills from my first job and the rest I picked up on my own. Apart from bag and shoe repair, I undertake work on sofas and beds which I carry out going to people’s homes. Doing so helped me build a database of customers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cobbling-together-a-livelihood-and-a-purpose/article35920690.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The harrowing drive from Pallavaram to Thoraipakkam||Samuel Prabhakaran’s family placed him under curfew for his own safety. “I had to be back home before 8 p.m.,” recalls Prabhakaran, who retired from Air India. “In those days, some stretches in and around Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) were poorly-lit. Taking advantage of the darkness, robbers would waylay commuters.” This chilling account of what was then the IT-corridor in the making is from the early 2000s. The present Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road takes the cake for terror, Prabhakaran points out. “A rope would be tied across the road to trap those travelling late in the night. When I got delayed at work due to the late arrival of flights, I would avoid taking this road though it was a short-cut back home,” Prabhakaran reveals. Roads in and around OMR managed scored poorly on safety and connectivity. During the monsoons, they disappeared without a trace in stagnant rainwater. Despite the evident challenges, Vijay Shanthi’s Sri Jayendra Colony decided to brave it out. One of the first residential projects to come up on OMR, it came with more than 350 units spread across 15 blocks, and the promise of a new standard of living. “Roads inside the colony were so broad that three cars could move side by side,” explains Prabhakaran, adding that residents chose to gloss over the state of roads outside. “We knew the area had potential for immense growth and it was only a matter of time before it lived up to it. Besides, the city was getting congested and most flats would not fit into our budgets,” says Prabhakaran, who bought a flat at Rs. 870 per sq ft in 2001. Residents reveal that OMR was seen as the poor cousin of East Coast Road which was gaining ground as a residential belt. With the advent of TIDEL Park in the year 2000 and many software companies, the tide turned for OMR. V. Balasubramanian, an owner of a flat in F Block, had no preconceived notions about OMR when he invested in this community. On a visit to Sathyabama College, he and his family chanced upon the community and fell for it. “Even before we moved in, in 2002, the side roads leading to Perungudi had independent houses. You had shops selling an array of items including a multi-chain supermarket; and Nehru Nagar was a hub for small scale factories,” says Balasubramanian, who took voluntary retirement from AM Jain College, Meenambakkam. Urban infrastructure Balasubramanian remembers the Perungudi panchayat collecting segregated waste from the apartment complex. “I was secretary of the Association for a short time and we were given coloured bins to leave segregated waste at the entrance of the apartment for the conservancy staff to collect,” he says. Since they moved in, residents have been at the mercy of tanker lorries for water. “Water was available at five to six feet but the TDS being high, we are dependent on tanker lorries,” says Balasubramanian. In 1999-2000, Ramya Rani had the sense of being in an adventure when she drove to Professor Dhanapalan College of Arts and Science in Kelambakkam, where she was employed. The college operated a bus for the staff, as public transport was patchy and unreliable. “When the college bus did not turn up or we missed the bus, we depended on public transport,” says Ramya, remembering how 21H and 19C were the prominent services. Thanks to farm lands in the region, getting fresh produces of vegetables and fruits was never a challenge. Ramya illustrates: “For the kitchen in our college lab, we would procure watermelons at Rs. 2 each from nearby farms.”  Even before we moved in, which was in 2002, the side roads leading to Perungudi had independent houses. You had shops selling an array of items; and Nehru Nagar was a hub for small scale factories||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-harrowing-drive-from-pallavaram-to-thoraipakkam/article35920686.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Chitlapakkam residents seek early reopening of crematorium||Chitlapakkam Anna Nagar West Residents’ Welfare Association has requested the Chitlapakkam Selection Grade Town Panchayat to resume operations at the gasifier crematorium at Balaji Avenue in Chitlapakkam. The crematorium had to be temporarily closed in 2019 to facilitate the construction of the cut-and-cover drain, a facility meant to mitigate floods in the locality, says S Chandrasekaran, the Association’s secretary. “At Balaji Avenue, the drain work got completed in mid-2020. From January 2021, the Chengalpet District Collectorate has been repeating the assurance that once the repair and maintenance works at the crematorium get completed, it would resume operations. We are clueless about the reasons for the undue delay,” says P Viswanathan, convener, Chitlapakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations Co-ordination Committee. Ever since the Balaji Avenue crematorium was closed, residents are making use of the gasifier crematorium in Chromepet on Grand Southern Trunk Road. Though there is another crematorium in Chitlapakkam (located opposite NSN School), it is of the manual type, and therefore, people prefer the gasifier crematorium at Chromepet, though it is located three kilometres away. According to an official from the Collectorate, the second wave of the pandemic caused disruptions in the maintenance work. “The work will be completed by the end of this month following which the crematorium will be reopened,” says the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chitlapakkam-residents-seek-early-reopening-of-crematorium/article35920664.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajakilpakkam residents want two lakes deepened||Federation of Residents’ Welfare Association of Rajakilpakkam has requested the Water Resources Department, a wing of the Public Works Department, to deepen Vengaivasal lake and Rajakilpakkam lake. In this regard, Federation members met Environment Minister Siva V Meyyanathan on July 5 and they handed over a petition to him. Copies of the same were sent by email to the Chief Minister’s Cell, Chenglepet District Collectorate and the Public Works Department. Further, discharge of sewage and kitchen sullage through stormwater drains and dumping of solid waste are ruining the waterbodies. The Federation wants the authorities to take measures to put an end to such practices. In July 2019, the Federation cleaned the Vengaivasal and Rajakilpakkam lakes with the permission of the erstwhile Kancheepuram District Collectorate. “The Federation carried out this exercise. Around 1500 resident-volunteers took part in it. While we cleared the waste pile-ups in Vengaivasal, a desilting exercise was carried out at the Rajakilpakkam lake, on the portion along Madambakkam Main Road. When we were about to start work on the other side, the --- Municipality assured us that the Public Works Department will take care of it. But the PWD is yet to start the desilting work,” says V. Seetharaman, the Federation’s secretary. The Federation also seeks a walkway with a fence around the waterbodies to prevent encroachments. “Once pelicans, darters and egrets could be spotted at the Vengaivaasal lake. Now it is hard to spot these birds. So, steps need to be taken to salvage these lakes,” says Seetharaman.  “In July 2019, the Federation had made sure that the lakes were cleaned.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rajakilpakkam-residents-want-two-lakes-deepened/article35920668.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Seed balls dispersed at hillock||The citizens group Chitlapakkam Rising recently carried out a pre-monsoon exercise at Pachai Malai, a hillock situated along Grand Southern Trunk Road near Tambaram Sanatorium. Members of the group dispersed around 300 seed balls (of trees like sara kondrai , pungai , poovarasu and malai vembu) across the hillock   Sunil Jayaram, a member of the group, says, “The hill is a rainwater catchment area for Chitlapakkam lake which is fed by rainwater. Hence this exercise. A similar exercise was carried out in September 2019 just before the onset of the north-east monsoon. We sourced the seed balls from a non-governmental organisation. This exercise did not happen last year due to the pandemic. We somehow managed to have it this year.” Children also took part in this drive. While trekking down the hillock, the children collected the plastic waste that was strewn across the hill. Further children also collected seeds of Pungai , Sarakondrai , Vembu , and seeds of other native trees in Chitlapakkam. “These seeds will be preserved is a mixture of clay and compost and then sown in the Nanmangalam Reserve Forest,” adds Jayaram. The seed-ball exercise is part of ‘Greening Chitlapakkam’ through which members of the citizens group have already planted more than 1,000 saplings, raised a Miyawaki forest at parks in Kumar Avenue, SBI Colony and on the premises of the Central Warehousing Corporation in Chitlapakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/seed-balls-dispersed-at-hillock/article35920672.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Chitlapakkam residents want roads mended before monsoon||Much ahead of the north-east monsoon, complaints about potholes are pouring in. Chitlapakkam residents point out that these troublesome potholes are not of recent origin, but those that got worse over the last one year. Gandhi Street, Raghavendra Salai, Kalyana Sundaram Street, Thirumurugan Salai and Pamban Swamigal Salai are among roads that offer motorists a nightmarish driving experience. Residents point out that the potholes have increased in size due to water stagnation and digging of roads by various service providers. Steps are not taken to relay the dug-up portions on these roads, which results in traffic congestion and minor accidents. K Dayanand, a social activist and a resident of Chitlapakkam, says that on these roads, motorists can lose their balance and take a tumble, especially after sunset. “I have mad many representations to the authorities concerned in Chitlapakkam Selection Grade Town Panchayat but no steps have been taken to relay the damaged portions. This condition has been prevailing for more than a year now,” he says. Dayanand says the newly-laid Chitlapakkam Main Road, Mahalakshmi Nagar-Chitlapakkam stretch have been dug up for cable-laying works. He adds: “If these roads are not mended at the earlier, they are going to pose motorists a greater challenge during the north-east monsoon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chitlapakkam-residents-want-roads-mended-before-monsoon/article35920677.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Repair fair||WasteWinn, a waste management company, along with Destra, is organising a repair fair on August 15 for residents of XS Real, a gated community in Padur. Residents can bring their shoes, bags, trolley bags and rolling chairs that need minor repairs. The work will carried out in their community. The idea behind the initiative is to encourage people to fix items that need minor repairs and not dump them in the landfill. “We plan to extend the repair fair to other gated communities, so that people do not have to venture out and also to inculcate the habit of reusing items in them,” says I Priyadarshini of WasteWinn. Gated communities that are interested can call 9790804922||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/repair-fair/article35920691.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A neighbourhood and a company||A change in name of R 11 Rayala Nagar Police Station located in Ramapuram — that is one of the requests the Ramapuram Social Welfare Federation placed before Maduravoyal MLA K Ganapathy at a meet in July. The Federation representing around 60 residents associations wants the police station to be renamed Ramapuram Police Station as it caters to whole of Ramapuram and not just Rayala Nagar. While there are many residential colonies in Rampuram, why should the police station be named after Rayala Nagar? Why wasn’t any other colony considered for the honour? P V Kishore, president, Rayala Nagar Welfare Association and vice-president of Ramapuram Social Welfare Federation, explains: “The answer is simple and straight. This police station was established sometime in the early 1980s, when Rayala Nagar was one of the more popular colonies in Ramapuram. In fact, I would say it was the first colony to be developed in Ramapuram. The police station therefore carried its name. Now, many other residential colonies have come up and hence, the call for a change in a name.” Kishore throws light on the fascinating story of how Rayala Nagar was born and developed. According to him, the neighbourhood is named after Rayala Corporation, the manufacturer of Halda typewriters. “I was an employee of the Corporation working in the assembly line. The employees’ union of Rayala Corporation identified the land in Ramapuram in 1974. It was then an orchard. The company bought the land from the real-estate developer, got it registered and demarcated the plots. Allottees were identified by the draw of lots. The value of each plot was treated as an interest-free loan, extended to the allottees. It was a kind and noble gesture from our company for which we are grateful to this day. This amount was recovered from the monthly salaries. In its heyday, which lasted till the mid-1980s, the company’s typewriters were in high demand. In addition to Tamil and English, typewriters in other Indian languages were manufactured, which placed Governments of other States among Halda’s prominent clients. To meet the increasing demand, workers had to be engaged beyond the normal working. That entailed doubled the wages. The union was also fine with it because that would would ease the repayment of the housing loan. It was a win-win situation for both the company and the employees. Hence, we chose to forgo our weekly two days off. We worked on all Saturdays and one Sunday every month,” says 74-year-old Kishore, who opted for the voluntary retirement scheme in 1990 offered by the company when it was going through a decline due to the advent of computers. Even though the land was bought in the second half of 1970s, the allottees started moving in only in the late 1980s. “We did not build the houses immediately, mainly because the place was rife with bootlegging. While some sold their properties for a good price others waited hoping the situation would change in the years to come. And that happened,” says Kishore who built his house in 1984. In 1985, Rayala Nagar Residents Welfare Association was formed. “The first issue we took up was with the erstwhile Pallavan Transport Corporation (now the Metropolitan Transport Corporation). We wanted a bus that would ply from Ramapuram to Broadway. That is how 18E route was introduced, mainly for the benefit of Rayala’s employees. The industry was at Guindy. It was operated during the rush hour. However, the service has become erratic and unreliable in the past few years. Next, we took steps to bring Aaavin’s milk booth which is not functioning now. We used to go to K.K. Nagar or Virugambakkam to buy groceries. Otherwise, we buy at Saidpet while returning from our office in Guindy. The locality witnessed rapid development after Ramapuram was merged with the Greater Chennai Corporation in 2012,” says Kishore. The Association also approached the court to ensure that land meant for the construction of a park was used only for that purpose. “I filed a petition at the Madras High Court requesting it to order the developer to hand over the OSR land to the government. The case went on for 14 years and a judgement in our favour was delivered in 2014,” says Kishore. Of the 220 to 230 employees who bought plots only 20 employee families are living here now, says Kishore.  “The value of each plot was treated as an interest-free loan, extended to the allottees”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-neighbourhood-and-a-company/article35920685.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Marrying innovation and tradition||SIGT (Southern Industrial Gauges and Tools) Private Limited in Kandanchavadi is a piece of local history. One of the early manufacturing plants to have been established on Old Mahabalipuram Road, it supplied a variety of machines, including tool-cutter grinders, motorised spindles and conventional rotators, for BHEL and Defence establishments. Ravi Ganesh, a director at the company and the second generation in the business, says his family started the unit in the 1960s. “The founders — B. Narayan Rao and B. Ganesh Rao— worked with SRP Tools, which they left to start a unit of their own. When they began, they ran something like a vocational centre to train employees,” says Ganesh. The 70s and 80s marks a purple patch for the company. “We were employing over 150 people in our early years, and finding labour was not a challenge as many from nearby villages sought work,” says Ganesh, adding that he joined the business in 1992 after completing his engineering course. With the recession of the 90s, the small-scale units on OMR were forced to change track. Later, the advent of Elnet Software and Tidel Park in 2000 changed the face of OMR, turning it into an IT hub. “Facit Asia (now Global Infocity), SRP Tools (where Holiday Inn is located) and Sushma Pneumatic (where Hotel Turyaa is present) were among companies that gave way to other businesses,” says Ganesh. A raft of small-scale units changed their businesses to take advantage of the fact that software giants were making OMR their new address. In 2015, the promoters of SIGT sold a major chunk of their space to a constructioncompany. “The lasttwo years have been tough on our business with the pandemic but we have to move on and we hope to restart soon,” he says. Ganesh adds that mechanical design has been the company’s strength and they are working towards digitising thedrawings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marrying-innovation-and-tradition/article35920687.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Order about road milling being ignored: Chitlapakkam resident||Third Main Road in Chitlapakakm is being relaid without proper milling. The scraping is not up to the mark. We can easily notice that the road is gaining height, which increases the risk of flooding and electrocution relating to heavy-vehicles like buses and lorries. Why can’t the contractor follow the rules? Why are the Panchayat officials not inspecting the work and enforcing the rules? This May, Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu directed the Highways Department and local bodies including corporations, municipalities and town panchayats in the State to ensure milling before road work. It is disappointing to see such a sensible order from the top official being igored. Sunil Jayaram is member of Chitlapakkam Rising, a citizens group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/order-about-road-milling-being-ignored-chitlapakkam-resident/article35920674.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Furniture fair||Bilal Enterprises is organising a furniture expo till August 21 at T. Nagar. A press release says that the establishment has been in the business for the last 20 years and has a wide range of items from office to home furniture in various types of wood. At the expo old furniture can be exchanged, added the release. Venue: JYM Kalyana Mandapam, Venkatanarayana Road, T.Nagar, Opposite Tirupati devasthanam. Contact 7338923142||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/furniture-fair/article35920678.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||What is happening during Madras Week?||As part of Madras Week, here are some events that are being held virtually: Organiser:Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai A virtual exhibition on Madras household heritage will be held on August 28 For details, contact 9444 253 532 *** Organiser:Press Institute of India A virtual presentation by Chithra Madhavan on temples around Chennai (August 21; 7 p.m.); Nivedita Louis talks on ‘Women and Madras’ (August 22; 7 p.m.); and A panel discussion with professor Eugenie Pinto, Dr Bryan Peppin and Harry MacLure on Anglo-Indians (August 25; 7 p.m) The programmes will also be livestreamed onhttps://www.youtube. com/channel/ UC5KEDLHg2Gjj2_ 4aD-xsbJg *** Organiser:The Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry Talk on ‘Business in ancient Madras and modern Chennai’ on August 25; 6 p.m. Speakers are Sushila Ravindranath and Venkatesh Ramakrishnan; Pradeep Chakravarthy is the moderator. To register, mail madraschamber@ madraschamber.inor call 044-24349452/ 9940422956||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/what-is-happening-during-madras-week/article35920689.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||When painted storks made the sun their ally||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-painted-storks-made-the-sun-their-ally/article35920657.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||How a triad was formed in Tambaram Sanatorium||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-a-triad-was-formed-in-tambaram-sanatorium/article35920661.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The promised tryst||Parsing Partition is a national pastime. A stream of personal accounts, historical analyses, films, documentaries and novels on the theme has appeared since 1947 and with the 75th anniversary approaching, there will doubtless be more. Daisy Rockwell tries to explain why in the Afterword to her translation of Khadija Mastur’s A Promised Land : “Like the Holocaust, or the American Civil War, or the French Revolution or any other epochal conflict that has shredded the fabric of society and caused many deaths, it is both a deep psychic preoccupation and an attractive literary device.” Partition has figured prominently in Indian fiction — mainly in Hindi, Urdu, Bengali and English — from the late 1940s onwards and always had a wide Indian readership. Salman Rushdie’s Midnight’s Children (1981) took it to the international stage. Here we look at five novels and a short story on the Punjab Partition (the Bengal Partition would need an article to itself) by acclaimed Indian and Pakistani authors and ask ourselves: what does fiction tell us about this life-changing event? Crux of the horror After 1947, writers on both sides of the new border felt the need to record the cataclysmic events as well as to memorialise a way of life lost to them forever. While their responses to the idea of Partition varied, nearly all Indian and Pakistani writers dwelt on the horror of uprooting reluctant, bewildered people from their ancestral homes. Khushwant Singh’s acclaimed Train to Pakistan (1956) is set in early August 1947 in the village of Mano Manja close to the new border. The villagers are the first to see the train carrying butchered Hindu corpses arrive at their station. Tensions rise and rumours of a plot to avenge the murdered refugees sweep the village. Meanwhile, news of Sikhs killing Muslims in Ambala and Kanpur starts circulating, and Muslim villagers who had initially refused to leave their homes have second thoughts: “For the first time Pakistan came to mean a refuge... where there were no Sikhs.” Herded onto army trucks, “there was no time to make arrangements. There was no time to say goodbye.” In Singh’s portrayal, communities co-existed fairly peacefully, with a degree of mutual respect, in pre-Partition Mano Manja. Bapsi Sidhwa’s Ice Candy Man (1988) too invokes a calm, beautiful pre-Partition Lahore. Here, Lenny, from a middle-class Parsi family, enjoys an idyllic childhood, pampered by her pretty Hindu Ayah who flirts decorously with the Ice Candy Man, oblivious to the darkness within him. Rage and obsession lurk under the surface of this little sunlit world and are released by the broader violence of Partition with terrible consequences. “I lobbed grenades into the windows of Sikhs and Hindus I’d known all my life,” boasts the Ice Candy Man, touching the crux of the horror — it’s people you know who become your killers. Step back and ponder At the core of nearly every Partition novel is the sadness for a world lost forever — whether you stay or go, that syncretic, old, delicately balanced universe has vanished in the tide of violence. “The Mehtas have gone. The Guptas have gone. The Malhotras have gone,” mourns Lenny’s godmother as she contemplates a Lahore she no longer recognises. Lenny’s family remains in Lahore as the Radcliffe Committee meets at its famous Faletti’s Hotel to draw lines on a map that will decide destinies: “I am Pakistani,” exclaims Lenny. “In a snap. Just like that.” While Partition permanently altered realities in the subcontinent, some accounts question the realities themselves. Saadat Hasan Manto’s justly celebrated short story, ‘Toba Tek Singh’ (1955), showcases the fundamental bizarreness of the idea of Partition when the inhabitants of a lunatic asylum have to be divided between India and Pakistan. One of them climbs a tree and declares this is where he’ll stay as he does not want to live “in either Hindustan or Pakistan”. Manto forces the reader to step back and contemplate a reality in which a few unknown leaders thousands of miles away can announce to an entire population that they have to leave behind everything they’ve known and loved for an uncertain, probably unpleasant, future. A violent force History’s inexorable progress is upfronted in the inventive, fast-paced and often funny Looking Through Glass (1995) by Mukul Kesavan. The protagonist accidentally falls through the sleepers of a railway bridge into a river and finds himself inexplicably in 1942. Saved by kind-hearted Mansoor who takes him home to a rambling Lucknow haveli , he becomes involved with the actions of his rescuer’s family and friends as the country gears up for the Quit India movement. The reader is taken through a series of cleverly interconnected stories and locations as diverse as Mysore and Shimla as India lurches towards Independence. Unable to influence events, the narrator conjures up the quintessential and horribly familiar images of what he knows will happen in 1947: “Murder, arson, rape, flight, migration, butchered trains, refugees, dispossession, enemy aliens... in short, Partition.” Partition, then, is sometimes used as a metaphor for a violent force beyond the control of ordinary people, which they have to unwillingly accommodate. Set in the early 1940s, Khadija Mastur’s The Women’s Courtyard (published in Urdu in 1962, translated by Daisy Rockwell in 2018) looks at the claustrophobic lives of women confined largely to the inner courtyards of their home in a small U.P. town. The women are at one remove from the momentous political movements in which their men participate and which will radically influence their futures. Intelligent, pragmatic and courageous Aliya is determined to shape her own fate, different from her father’s, whose hatred of British colonialism lands him in jail; her angry, disappointed, manipulative mother; her aunts and cousins with their incessant petty quarrels. Nor will she allow herself — though tempted — to fall prey to the smarmy blandishments of her cousin Jameel. No, she will train as a teacher and go out into the wide world. Partition for her is liberation. Moving to Lahore in 1947, Aliya escapes the women’s courtyard once and for all. Losing home Running like a thread through all these stories is rage at leaders who uncaringly determine the fates of millions. Ammi in Looking Through Glass ponders, “Nehru and Jinnah want to change the world so they need to give their dreams a name... I like the world the way it is.” The child Lenny in Ice Candy Man , taken by her excited parents to one of Gandhi’s rallies, detects “the concealed nature of the ice lurking beneath the hypnotic and dynamic femininity of Gandhi’s non-violent exterior.” And the magistrate in Train to Pakistan , desperate to prevent more killings, reflects bitterly on how people said Nehru “is a great man... and how handsome... Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, you made your tryst — and so did many others.” “The Partition novel has always provided a route to understand what seems otherwise inexpressible,” says Ambar Chatterjee, former commissioning editor for Penguin India’s Classics list and now a literary agent. He says the centre of gravity has shifted in contemporary Partition novels, which tend to focus more on the psychological impact of the event, but it remains “a way of expressing the pain of being robbed of a place that was home.” Though the sense of loss is shared by both countries, there is also an interesting difference of views here, which we in India often don’t recognise. While the overriding narrative in India is that Partition was a tragedy visited on us by the British, in Pakistan 1947 is celebrated as liberation, the beginning of a new nation that Jinnah and other Muslim League leaders had fought for and won. In Kamila Shamsie’s Salt and Saffron (2000), set in the 1990s, the heroine, Aliya, is told by one of her Indian relatives in London: “And for the record, I think Pakistan was a big mistake.” Aliya retorts, “For the record, I don’t. Glad we’ve got that part of the conversation over with.” But in both India and Pakistan, that conversation never stops. The writer is former Deputy Publisher at Penguin Random House India and author ofDelhi Metropolitan: The Making of an Unlikely City.  At the core of nearly every Partition novel is the sadness for a world lost forever — whether you stay or go, that syncretic, old, delicately balanced universe has vanished in the tide of violence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-promised-tryst/article35920705.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Freedom from patriarchy||A crater on Venus is named after India’s first woman doctor, Anandibai Joshi, but not a single road or school in India, rues Kavitha Rao in the introduction to Lady Doctors in which she documents the lives and work of the first women doctors of the country, forgotten by history. Starting from the late 19th century when the prevailing view was that education of women brought nothing but shame on the family, the stories weave a rich pattern depicting the struggles these women had to overcome to carve out their careers, and in the process, build a path for other women to follow. Rule breakers Individual stories of some of the women doctors have been traced in earlier works; however, reading about them together and in this sequence offers an immense degree of integration. The six women doctors whose life stories have been described are as different from each other as can be, yet the achievement of each is unique and inspiring: Anandibai Joshi, whose refusal to part with traditions even while asserting herself with dignity; Kadambini Ganguly who had a bit of support from her husband and society and was the first to have a career as a doctor; Rukhmabai Raut, a rebel and “rule breaker” as Rao aptly addresses her; Haimabati Sen who fought every inch of her way from being a child widow, through remarriage to practise medicine; Muthulakshmi Reddy, who, not content with being a doctor, ventured into politics, became a social reformer and institution builder and Mary Poonen Lukose, who worked to build up Kerala’s public healthcare system which draws so much praise from all quarters today. Responsibilities too A good life is rarely spent in isolation and that is true of these six women too. To quote Lukose, “My father used to say, ‘My child, you have come to have certain advantages and privileges which other girls have not. Remember that you have responsibilities too’.” In their efforts to overcome shackles of commerce, community and caste, these women dragged along the surrounding world that stuck to them like a viscous fluid. In 1883, Anandibai Joshi, a Brahmin, became the first Indian woman to cross the seas and travel to Philadelphia to study medicine. Though her life, cut short by illness, malnutrition, lack of adequate medical care, ended before she could practise medicine, she remains a great inspiration. Rukhmabai, born in a Suthar caste in Bombay in 1864, was the first to try and legally break her marriage. In her lifetime she was “to smash every rule of the Hindu society.” She faced the ire of activists like Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Going a step further, Muthulakshmi Reddy, from the isai velalar caste, was one of the main forces behind the battle for universal franchise for Indian women; she built one of India’s premier cancer treatment institutes in Madras; fought for a bill to dismantle the devadasi system even while facing opposition from women of her own community. While some stories are woven from the briefest of available material, some others are backed by personal accounts, such as heartrending incidents from Haimabati’s brutally frank memoir — “During the day, she and her husband’s daughters played with dolls. At night, she would make excuses to avoid her husband’s advances. Haimabati would lie on the bed, silent and stiff as a piece of wood. When she fell asleep, someone would remove her clothes. She would wake up and wrap herself in a blanket.” The rage that she felt at the injustice finds words in an excerpted passage: “Shame on you, Hindu society. A girl of ten will have to pay for the marriage of an old man of fifty. In no other country does one find such conduct; such oppression of women is possible only in India.” Intertwined with the stories of the lady doctors is the politics of their times, and Rao highlights this aspect. In her introduction, Rao arrests our attention: “In 1891, the conservative Bangabasi paper departed from its usual subjects to call Kadambini Ganguly — a matronly lady doctor — a whore." Inspiration for the future The stories of the doctors will help future generations remember the marathon efforts of our predecessors and value the freedoms we take for granted. Rao has done an excellent job of not merely documenting the stories of these women but also placing them in context so that the reader fully appreciates the force of their will to succeed in their goals. Despite their differences, all the women profiled in the book are united in their desire to snip enchaining patriarchal bonds. Albeit with different methods, their goals remained the same — to stand out in a society that kept them down. To quote from Muthulakshmi Reddy’s statement — “I had even then set my heart upon something high and I wanted to be a different woman from the common lot.”   Lady Doctors: The Untold Stories of India’s First Women in Medicine Kavitha Rao Westland Books  Rs. 499    The stories of the doctors will help us remember the marathon efforts of our predecessors and value the freedoms we take for granted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/freedom-from-patriarchy/article35920722.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Kihnu||The Kihnu Virve is a rather unusual ferry boat for two reasons. For one, its gleaming, white hull is adorned with vivid blue tribal symbols that belong to the tiny community of 700 or so indigenous Kihnu people. They’re the original inhabitants of the eponymous Kihnu island, located off the west coast of Estonia. A place where the waters of the Baltic Sea are surprisingly calm and shallow. But most importantly, the ferry is named in honour of one of Estonia’s living legends — Virve Koster, a 93-year-old folk singer who also happens to be one of the Kihnu people. This community is so distinct that UNESCO recognised its culture as part of the ‘Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity’ in 2008, and it’s widely believed to be Europe’s last matriarchy — of which Koster is the uncrowned queen!  Forested land It is a warm summer afternoon when I board the ferry at the modest-sized Munalaiu harbour on the mainland. My destination is the tiny — 16-sq.km. — forested Kihnu island, which comprises four close-knit villages. If I had made this 20-minute journey in winter, I would have been able to drive across the famous ‘ice road’ that forms over the sea, effectively linking the two land masses. As I sail the placid waters, I cannot help but draw parallels to the legendary Greek island of Lesbos in the northern Aegean Sea. Just like Lesbos, which was said to be ruled by a phalanx of goddesses, life in Kihnu pivots around the all-important axis of ‘The Matriarch’, the de facto custodian of culture on the island. Once on the island, I soon learn that Kihnu is a place run by women thanks to historical circumstances that slowly took root in the culture. The Kihnu people were first mentioned in written records around 600 years ago, although there is evidence that fishermen and seal hunters from the mainland set up base here about 3,000 years ago. Interestingly, those are the same activities the islanders depend upon today for their livelihood. Over the centuries, as the men spent most of their lives at sea — often for weeks at a stretch — the women became responsible for the land and thus took on the mantle of weavers of the island’s socio-cultural fabric. Quite literally.  Iconic lighthouse Recognised by their flowing red pinstriped skirts, which they weave in winter, the women of Kihnu do everything from building houses, farming and repairing to governing and manning (or “womanning”) the island’s iconic lighthouse, which is kept by the rosy-cheeked Elly Karjam. Vintage, side car-saddled motorcycles — said to be relics of Estonia’s Soviet past — are their preferred mode of transport. A woman from the island’s tourist information centre tells me that even the local church is run by a group of women. Speaking of which, the Kihnu have a tradition wherein once a woman reaches her 60s, she starts to weave the funerary clothes she is to be buried in, all in the vivid blue shade that’s the community’s mourning colour. Furthermore, to show that they are strong of body even in death, other women stuff hay into the stockings and arms of the deceased to mimic the robust figure she prized when she was alive and able. Back on the mainland, I soon realise there is much scepticism among other Estonians about life on Kihnu. Many feel the whole matriarchy angle is a bit of a smokescreen and not entirely an accurate description of everyday living there. A fancy, modern day Lesbos-esque tale for the romantically-inclined tourist, they claim. They say that Kihnu’s brand of matriarchy is simply the absence of men for most of the year, as well as the absence of expectations that some jobs on land shouldn’t be done by women. There’s no official denial of men’s rights, and anthropologists believe there has never been any unambiguous matriarchal society on Kihnu. At least not in a way that’s similar to the archetypical patriarchal societies we’re used to seeing. But for those like me who have actually been on the island and felt that megawatt of ‘womanpower’ light up everything, there’s no denying Kihnu’s magnetism. Myth or not! The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-kihnu/article35920740.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Grandmother or co-parent?||When my grandmother had her first grandchild, her youngest daughter was just 11. Bringing up children was a family responsibility and her role as a grandmother was limited to storytelling. Being illiterate, she would make me read out her favourite stories from Anandavikatan while plaiting my hair. She would shield me and my siblings from being scolded by our mother, who dared not speak harshly in front of her. My mother became a grandmother in her late forties. The family size had become smaller, and she played a more active role in nurturing all her grandchildren. She was a safety net for her daughters and daughter-in-law who balanced their careers and families. It would be apt to say that behind every successful woman, one would find another woman — a mother or a mother-in-law. Granny leave I became a grandmother in my late fifties while at a crucial juncture in my career. I had to be a fully committed grandmother for short periods, at the time of birth of grandchildren, and I yearned for special leave for working grandmothers. Later during the visits of grandchildren, my husband and I epitomised the quote by Ogden Nash, “When grandparents enter the door, discipline flies out the window”. I observed a more active role by grandmothers who live with their grandchildren. A cousin accompanies her grandchildren for table tennis practice and tournaments. My daughter’s mother-in-law guides the granddaughter with Bharatanatyam steps and accompanies her for dance recitals. In both instances, the working parents are unable to spare time. My daughter chose a “safe” time after the second wave to travel and announced, “Mom, I am bringing them to stay with you for a month. They will attend their online classes and you just need to supervise.” My husband and I were delighted as our empty nest bustled with the chatter of classes, games and music. School kept the children busy from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. After school, the children learned guitar and tabla online. Self-control was put to test as the children had access to devices for long hours with a potential for wandering into video games. Prolonged screen time was a concern, and I coaxed them to walk during the breaks. My husband and I tried to supervise without appearing to be snooping. We were cautioned in hushed voices, “ Patti , shhh, speak softly, I am online” and “ Thatha , please, you are visible on the screen.” Nevertheless we followed the instructions from our daughter and set limits for playing video games. Within the constraints of the lockdown, we organised outdoor activities on some days. The pandemic has changed me from an indulgent grandmother to a vigilant co-parent. A grandmother’s role is no more limited to storytelling and pampering. It demands close partnership to instil self-control, appreciation of privileges and healthy habits to aid the children evolve into resilient and adaptive adults. After all, grandchildren have made us “grand” and the least that we can do is to give them our undivided attention and time. vijayacardio@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/grandmother-or-co-parent/article35920697.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruthless roads||Shivani Sibal’s Equations is a chronicle of power. It is a nuanced depiction of those born into it, those who acquire it, and those who have it taken away. The wealthy Sikand family occupies a palatial bungalow in the heart of Delhi. Aahan, their heir, finds an unlikely playmate in Rajesh, the son of their driver, Laxman. Sibal captures the story of their childhood as it moves from innocence to subservience. She does a great job of communicating how Rajesh is shown his place in the scheme of things by his own family: in a poignant scene, his mother slaps him for defeating Aahan in a game of musical chairs. Over time, Rajesh realises that losing to Aahan is winning. Each time he loses, he is rewarded with chocolates. The meat of Sibal’s novel is her sharp observations about the inherent imbalance of power and how people must act according to their stations. For example, in order not to soil the car, Rajesh’s parents have to take a rickshaw to the hospital when his mother is about to give birth. Even after Rajesh becomes an MLA, his father refuses the government car, choosing to drive to the Sikand factory on his scooter instead. In a fast-paced, well-structured narrative, Sibal deftly matches Rajesh’s rise with Aahan’s fall, as if they were both on an invisible see-saw. Amid this, she also paints endearing portraits of the characters who will become collateral damage in the powerplay. The treatment accorded to Nooriya, Aahan’s father’s mistress, by the Sikand family is heart wrenching. As he battles for his life, she is locked out of their house in Shimla and stopped from seeing him.  Equations is an engaging romp through Delhi’s streets of power. Its record of the terrible price ambition exacts on families, as members turn into mere pawns in the game, is scathing. The reviewer is a freelance writer and illustrator.  Equations Shivani Sibal HarperCollins India  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ruthless-roads/article35920703.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Brimful of fury||This anthology is meant to shake our conscience, making us aware of the injustice around us. A collection of poetry by women poets from across South Asia, the book deals with the gender-based violence that is rampant in this part of the world. Irrespective of borders, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, all carry this terrible stigma, which sets the region back by centuries. Many poems here sound like cries of women. One of the most poignant is ‘First They Raped Manamperi’ by Shamila Daluwatte from Sri Lanka. Manamperi was a local beauty queen who was raped and murdered by Sri Lankan army officers during the insurgency of 1971. Similarly, India-born poet Usha Akella’s graphic poem, ‘Naming’, is about Jyoti Singh who was gangraped in December 2012 and died later of her wounds. Sri Lankan poet Damayanthi Muthukumaranage takes on the violence women face at the hands of their husbands: He possesses a certificate/ which condones all forms of violence/ that take place within /the matrimonial abode . Ambreen Salahuddin from Pakistan turns upside down the Islamic belief that hurs will wait for men in paradise to satisfy their lust as a divine reward. In ‘Shameless Women,’ she writes: These men will fill the pits of hell/ but they don’t know/ in heaven that fills up the imagination of women,/ seventy-two handsome and tall slaves with muscular bodies are dancing!/ Every nerve of their bodies can be seen palpitating through their flimsy garments!/ And on this reward/ women feel proud of themselves . Salahuddin’s compatriots like Zehra Nigah and Fahmida Riaz are also a part of this anthology along with the late Sara Shagufta, who had taken the patriarchal system head on in her poetry. The anthology begins with an iconic poem by perhaps the most famous woman poet of Punjab, Amrita Pritam. Her ‘Today, I Invoke Waris Shah’ is addressed to the classic poet Waris Shah, who versified the legend of Heer-Ranjha. Some other Indian poets included here are Nirupama Dutt, Kamala Das, Rochelle Potkar, Tishani Doshi and Sarita Jenamani. Many of these poems are reactions to acts of gender violence that got media attention. One wonders who will sing of the thousands of women who are similarly tortured but whose stories we never get to hear. The writer is a journalist and poet based in Lahore.  Still We Sing: Voices on Violence against Women Edited by Sarita Jenamani Dhauli Books  Rs. 495||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/brimful-of-fury/article35920707.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Big Three, a distinctive community and its history||As I read The Tatas, Freddie Mercury and Other Bawas by Coomi Kapoor, I’ve been making an acquaintance with a multitude of Parsis — dead and living, admirable and less-than-admirable, famous and forgotten. I didn’t know, for example, that Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy, the merchant who made an enormous fortune trading opium with China in the 19th century, shaped Mumbai in small but significant ways. The entire causeway linking the island of Mahim to the mainland was built by Jamsetjee to ease travel between Mahim and Bandra. Charni Road derives its name from the swathe of grasslands he bought for the use of cattle-owners, who were finding it difficult to pay grazing fees imposed by the British. And the Tanchoi saree that pops up in trousseaus across the country was born when Jamsetjee sent three Parsi weavers to China to learn the art of jacquard weaving. Lock story Ardeshir Godrej, founder of the Godrej empire, was inspired by the Swadeshi movement to design an indigenous lock. It was Bal Gangadhar Tilak who urged him to create a quality soap to compete with imported brands. The eccentric Ardeshir once issued a statement challenging members of the public to break open the new safe that he had designed. (Three professional safecrackers conceded defeat — and the sales of the Godrej safe spiralled.) Anecdotes and titbits infuse life and vibrancy into the book. Kapoor mentions that Field Marshal Sam Maneckshaw was so grievously wounded in Burma in 1932 that the doctor refused to treat the injured soldier, and only changed his mind when Sam’s loyal Gorkha held up a pistol. And that Nani Palkhivala, who had topped the MA exam at Bombay University, had assumed he would be appointed lecturer. When the post went to a Parsi woman instead, he scrambled around and signed up for a law degree because that was the only course still open. (Palkhivala was so grateful to the woman for inadvertently steering him towards the legal profession that he treated her to a slap-up meal every year.) Described as an intimate history of the Parsis, it attempts to tell the story of the community by shining a spotlight on its prominent members down the centuries. And although Kapoor, who is a Parsi and a senior journalist, occasionally slips into stereotypes and wide-eyed admiration, the volume is rich with painstaking research and unusual details. Tangled web The history of the Parsi community is a familiar one. When followers of Zoroastrianism — the world’s oldest monotheistic religion — faced religious persecution in Persia, many were forced to flee. One group reached coastal Gujarat and settled there, laying the foundation for a unique community that retained its religion and culture while embracing the ways of its new home. Defining moment Kapoor chooses to begin the book with the infamous boardroom battle of 2016, during which Ratan Tata summarily sacked Cyrus Mistry, chairperson of the Tata group. She believes that the controversy was a defining moment for the Parsi community — which explains why she devotes half the book to the family trees, petty wrangling and past shenanigans of the three Parsi families involved in the spat. “The histories of the Tata, Wadia and Mistry families are integral parts of the saga of the Bombay Parsis,” Kapoor contends. Admittedly, profiles of the Big Three hold fascinating details but the larger narrative gets lost in a clutter of family lineages, succession battles and corporate gossip. And when Kapoor remarks, “Parsi history is a tangled web, indeed”, one can only wish that she had disentangled it somewhat. It’s a welcome relief when, in the latter half, Kapoor turns her attention to the many lawyers, doctors, musicians, vaccine-makers and rebels who are the heart of this distinctive community. Their stories ensure that, although lopsided and haphazard at times, the book is a treasure trove of moments from lost times.  The reviewer is a writer and chronicler of Bombay.  The Tatas, Freddie Mercury and Other Bawas: An Intimate History of the Parsis Coomi Kapoor Westland Books Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-big-three-a-distinctive-community-and-its-history/article35920719.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on August 15, 1938, Pran Kumar Sharma initially applied to be an art or drawing teacher in schools in Delhi. He discontinued the idea and joinedMilap, a newspaper for which he produced a comic strip called ‘Daabu’. In 1969, he sketched a character who helped solve problems with his experience and was based on the ancient philosopher Chanakya. The ensuing success of the comic strip eventually led to the creator being dubbed the ‘Walt Disney of India’. What character known for his red turban was created by Pran? 2This comic series was first launched byThe Times of Indiain 1964. They initially published 32 issues ofThe Phantom, after which they also added Mandrake, Flash Gordon and Rip Kirby. In 1981, an annual subscription cost Rs. 64, but these are now highly sought-after items. Comics in good condition are collectors’ items worth hundreds. What comic book series was this that even went regional with Marathi, Bengali and Tamil issues? 3Abid Surti is a painter and journalist who won a National Award for his short story collectionTeesri Aankh. Known as the Salman Rushdie of India, in 1976 he created a comic character — the son of a dacoit — who sets up a Citizen’s Security Force and helps rehabilitate dacoits. Who was this character who was published alongside the Phantom and whose name means ‘The Brave Man’? 4Yomics World, or ‘Yomics’ is the comic book division of a popular Indian film production studio. It was founded in 2012 to create and popularise comic books based on movies made by the studio. With titles such asEk Tha Tiger: Caught In The WebandDhoom: Redux 893, which studio is behind Yomics? 5In September 1979, Rosalind Wilson, an educationist, moved from London to Delhi and founded a monthly children’s magazine that featured stories from regular writers, reader contributions, do-it-yourself articles, info on global pen-friends and comic strips. It was owned by Living Media and in 1995 it was changed toTeens Todaymagazine, which unfortunately did not do well. What magazine was this whose ‘pen friends’ column was revolutionary before the Internet? 6Rohan Chakravarty is a dentist from Nagpur who is well known for his comic strips about wildlife and the environment. Started in 2010, it has gained a cult following for its humour and satire, especially with contemporary happenings. What is the name of the series that is part of his brilliant book__ __ For A Grey Planet? 7Lotpotis a long-running Hindi comic magazine, published by the Mayapuri group, in which Chacha Chaudhary made his debut. The two main characters of the comic, Motu and Patlu, were initially involved in many silly plots but are eventually shown to be heroes. Created by Kripa Shankar Bhardwaj, which two legendary comedians is this series a tribute to? 8Sandeshis a Bengali children’s magazine first published in 1913 by Upendrakishore Ray. The magazine was well-loved because it combined literary values with humour and information from different parts of the world, and was the first to be published in colour. In 1961, Upendrakishore’s grandson took over as editor and even published his own works such asBankubabur Bandhu, which quickly became big hits. Who was this new editor ofSandesh? 9Launched by Anant Pai in 1980, this children’s magazine contains comics, stories, puzzles and contests, and is well known for its host of interesting characters such as Suppandi, Tantri the Mantri, and Kalia the Crow. Pai started the magazine after he saw participants on a quiz on Doordarshan unable to answer the question ‘who was Rama’s mother’. What now fortnightly magazine is this? 10This comic character was created by Vasant Halbe and Luis Fernandes in response to Detective Moochhwala inTarget. Based on a cowardly character in the seriesI love Lucy, this character — though named after a certain profession — has never ever hurt an animal intentionally. In fact, he got the name when he accidentally fell on a tiger and knocked it out, and everyone thought it was very courageous. Who is this bumbling but lovable character whose eyes we have never seen? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article35920732.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The right line||Today’s deal is from a recent online game. The actual auction took five rounds and included five alerts. We have substituted the auction above, which is the way my grandmother would have bid it. You’re welcome. The queen of clubs held the first trick as South, withheld dummy’s king. The jack of clubs continuation was covered and East took his ace. East tried to cash the 10 of clubs, but South ruffed. South would have to hold the spade suit to one loser to make his contract. There are straight forward plays that might do this on a good day, playing one opponent or the other for a doubleton spade honor. South took a line of play that some would question, but he had a big smile on his face at the end. A diamond to the queen at trick four won. South cashed dummy’s ace of diamonds, discarding a spade, and ruffed a diamond. A heart to the queen was followed by a ruff of dummy’s last diamond. A heart to the jack drew the trumps, and South ran the jack of spades to West’s queen. Forced to lead a spade or yield a ruffsluff, West tried the nine of spades, which might have given South a problem on some other day. South, holding the eight, had no problem and soon claimed his contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-right-line/article35920735.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Banyan tree reflections||“Where are you from?” This query has often stumped me. Do I belong to my place of birth? Or where my parents came from? Or the various places I grew up in? Questions that came flooding back, as I read Vishakha Desai’s World as Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings . This personal chronicle, writes Desai, was “an effort to reclaim global as a kind of palimpsest that allows for the layers of the local, national, and transnational to coexist and comingle.” Fragile values In her Introduction, Desai points out that both India and the U.S. “share the ideals of openness and respect for diversity.” If it’s the Vedic Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (treat the world as family; the phrase that gives Desai her book’s title) in India, the national motto of the U.S. is the Latin “e pluribus unum (from many, one)”. Diversity, equality and tolerance are the underpinnings of both and Desai accepts that these have been “imperfectly actualised”. Current events in both countries are “a grim reminder that these values, to which we have aspired, are actually quite fragile” and “now more than ever, there is urgency to fight harder to make these aspirational values operational, not only at home but in the world.” Beginning from her birth (and her mother’s feelings at birthing a third daughter) through her childhood and then her journey as a member of the Indian diaspora, Desai takes the reader through a journey that crosses many geographical and cultural lines. Whether she is writing of moments of success and triumph or of loss and despair, the account is candid and compelling. Desai likens her life to a banyan tree: the foundational roots stay put in Ahmedabad, where she was born, while the branches and aerial roots spread all over the world. But she reconsiders this metaphor when events offer the opportunity. Gracefully she accepts, “The metaphor of an ancient banyan tree that takes its time to grow wide-ranging roots all around its centre feels too passive and unrealistically tranquil for the generation that already inhabits a fast-changing multi-layered life. It may also seem too dated.” Pandemic and fallout This ability to pause, reflect and reconsider makes this memoir a page-turner. Certain vignettes linger long after the covers are closed: the youngster arguing for a synthetic nylon dress in the place of khadi cotton, the connection between women praying to statues in their home and her later life as an art historian, how her dance class caused the clash between her “independent self” and her “interdependent self”, how the arrival of her siblings in the U.S. gave rise to a conflict between the “‘American me’ who prized privacy and the ‘Indian me’ who always felt selfish for not doing more for the family”; becoming the President of the Asia Society and the reactions it threw up. The final chapter addresses the pandemic and its fallout. The idea of world as family is more relevant now as we wrangle about vaccinations, their availability, vaccine passports and more. The “interconnectedness running through the personal, local, national, and transnational layers of our reality was amply apparent even before COVID-19. But now it is in our faces, staring us down and demanding that we pay attention to the linkages that make us human,” writes Desai, urging readers to “rebalance priorities and implement the principle of reciprocity” so that “we can treat all inhabitants of the planet earth that we call home as our family.”  World as Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings Vishakha Desai Columbia University Press  Rs. 552||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/banyan-tree-reflections/article35920717.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Take a bow. And aim||Dear Agony Akka,  I am a youth based in State of Telangana and I have become very much inspired by seeing Neeraj Chopra win gold medal in the Olympics. I have been rewinding the video again and again to see him in action. I come from decent middle-class family and my parents are saying I must become engineer only. But I am very keen to become javelin thrower or discus thrower or any other kind of sportsman. They are also giving good non-veg food in training camps it seems. Please tell me how I can achieve this ambition. —Acutely Inviting Mentorship  Dear AIM,  I amdeeply impressed. Very few youths today are interested in anything except smartphones and selfie sticks. Mind you, that does not mean they are not keen on outdoor activities. Selfie Taking is an advanced and life-threatening skill that is practised on mountain tops and on railway tracks just before train arrives and mows you down. Still, it is not yet recognised as Olympic sport, so it is good that you are focussing on other areas. Let me tell you in advance that you are already at a disadvantage. In India, decent middle class and upper class people don’t play sports. Upper class people sometimes play tennis but mostly their youths are too busy mowing down people sleeping on footpaths or dieting to fit into sherwani for wedding parties. It is a busy life. Middle class people are busy trying to become upper class people, so that is also very time-consuming. If you had been poor, things would be easier. You won’t have a car to mow down people and you won’t be worried about your complexion becoming dark by playing in the sun. Thankfully, you are keen on non-veg food, otherwise this is a major reason why privileged Indian kids are unable to focus on a demanding sports career. I don’t blame them — by the time they figure out which gravy they can eat and whose room they can safely share in training camp, they get mentally and physically exhausted, poor things. On top of that, steady diet of paneer can be very debilitating. But if you are watching Telugu films, you will know that actor Chiranjeevi can throw javelin across the stadium to land straight on judge’s table. Maybe you can explore the cinema route for sports. It has many advantages. For e.g., there are no age limits. You can be 40-50 years old but just wear shorts and instantly participate in all high school sports meets. Second, you get the opportunity to explore multiple sports. You can play basketball in football field wearing tennis clothes and that’s three sports before interval itself. If, however, you insist on being a sportsman in real life, you must know your family history. The Chairman and Editor of Sudarshan TV, Mr. Suresh Chavhanke, has intricately traced the history of Neeraj Chopra back to the ‘Chopde’ clan that fought in the Maratha army against Ahmad Shah Abdali in the Third Battle of Panipat 260 years ago. Apparently, the Chopdes belonged to a fierce spear-throwing division of the Maratha army, which explains his success. Do you have any such family background? Did your ancestors throw cannonballs at invading hordes? Can you furnish proof that 350 years ago, your forebears bravely fought the Qutb Shahi dynasty with bows and arrows or bayonets? If your answer is yes, then instantly enrol in a sports academy of your choice. If not, well, you can throw calipers and spirit levels in your free time.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/take-a-bow-and-aim/article35920730.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Of campus wilderness||The yellow-beaked, doe-eyed mynah took off from the windowsill of my Pune flat and dived nimbly into the gulmohars and rain trees, triggering fond memories of the canopy of rain trees that shaded the road from my house to the department where I worked for 25 years in Mumbai. The riveting beauty of nature inscribed itself all over the campus of the IIT, Powai, spread over 120 acres, 44 km from the din of South Mumbai. Nature expressed itself fully only after the institute landscaped it. An elderly colleague used to say, “Compare it with the barrenness outside.” Birds, reptiles, humans and other creatures coexisted in the middle of pristine beauty. The lakeside was home to migratory birds in winter. Baby crocodiles cockily sunned themselves on the dry lakebed in summer. A lost leopard cub was sighted by hostellers, trying to climb inside. Snakes slithered across the quiet roads, undisturbed by traffic. A dense forest of centuries-old trees stood in the cordoned conservation area. In such mesmerising natural surroundings, there was not a soul who didn’t walk, jog or run. From the day I went to live there to the last, I had to walk my 45 minutes. One day, as I left home at 5.30 a.m., a one-horned black bull, grazing in the field by the road, sighted me and began to run swiftly towards me. Retreat was impossible. I stood rock still, not looking at it, but expecting the worst. As suddenly as it had begun, it stopped — a few feet from me. A minute later, it began to amble to the other side. A village woman collecting dung came close and said excitedly in Marathi, “It would’ve killed you!” Fifteen years on, I had another menacing encounter. It was monsoon and raining. It had grown darker, but I was restless. Midway, it began pouring, and I was drenched. My clothes stuck to me but I was alone on the road. So I continued. The solar bulbs lit the road dimly as the breeze flitted in and out of the trees, lifting the leaves. Just as I was about to step on the speed breaker, a long slate-coloured, broad sword-like snake leapt in the air right in front of me and darted into the thick bushes. “Phew!” I hadn’t seen it. “Saved!” I completed my walk. ceogiit@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/of-campus-wilderness/article35920695.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Lesser Lives: Stories of Domestic Servants in India||Edited by Nitin Sinha & Prabhat Kumar  Pan Rs. 399 This is a collection of short fiction from the Hindi heartland documenting the lives of domestic helps. The 11 stories included here underline the realities of class difference and inequality in Indian homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lesser-lives-stories-of-domestic-servants-in-india/article35920701.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Girls in Green||Tanushree Podder  Bloomsbury India Rs. 499 In this novel soon to be made into a webseries, four girls from the Officers Training Academy are united in their dream — of breaking social taboos and achieving independence. A story of soaring ambition and punishing military regimens that is also about the joys of friendship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-girls-in-green/article35920709.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Owl Delivered the Good News All Night Long||Lopamudra Maitra Bajpai  Aleph Book Company Rs. 999 This collection of folk tales, legends and modern lore has stories from J&K in the north to the Andamans in the south, from Daman and Diu in the west to Arunachal Pradesh in the east. Tales of ordinary men and women, ofchudails, werewolves, wizards and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-owl-delivered-the-good-news-all-night-long/article35920711.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Dirty Women||Madhumita Bhattacharyya  Roli Books Rs. 495 When four-year-old Tara disappears from her home in Kolkata, the media gets busy ripping apart the life of her mother Drishti Sengupta, a singer and a single mother.This is the story of two tragedies: of a missing child, and of a city that hounds a woman who lives life on her own terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dirty-women/article35920713.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Dragon from the Mountains||Matthew McCartney  Cambridge University Press Rs. 1,195 China has promised to invest more than $60 billion in Pakistan, in roads, rail and a deep-water port at Gwadar. Support for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor in Pakistan is widespread but there are detractors too. McCartney tries to understand the economic impact of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dragon-from-the-mountains/article35920715.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Tata: The Global Corporation that Built Indian Capitalism||Mircea Raianu  Harvard University Press Rs. 699 A historian tracks the fortunes of a family-run business that was born during the British empire and went on to acquire luxury car maker Jaguar Land Rover. The story of the Tatas, says Raianu, holds lessons for the future of global capitalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tata-the-global-corporation-that-built-indian-capitalism/article35920724.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The First Cell||Azra Raza  HarperCollins Rs. 479 A leading oncologist admits at the beginning of the book that she could not have written this when she was younger. After treating hundreds of patients with cancer, including her husband who succumbed to leukaemia, she decided to explore cancer from every angle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-first-cell/article35920726.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Barcelona Complex||Simon Kuper  Penguin Random House Rs. 15.99 (Kindle price) A journalist profiles FC Barcelona by putting the spotlight on two of its greatest players, Johan Cruyff and Lionel Messi, who bid a tearful goodbye to the club last Sunday. The 34-year-old Messi had joined Barca when he was 13. Kuper traces Barca’s rise and fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-barcelona-complex/article35920728.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3163||Across  1 Actor in bed with terror, trembling, cross (6,7) 8 We’re told part of foot’s to recover (4) 9 In frenzy, Eddy let men run riot (10) 10 Put otherwise, ‘anon’; also, dishearteningly, ‘mere’! (2-4) 11 King missing Australia leadenly condemned outlaw (3,5) 12 What happens when a golfball sliced? Already mentioned (9) 14 US territory acceding haltingly, primarily? (4) 15 Missing first item of agenda provokes those upstairs! (4) 16 Where you might see strippedoff bare model with clothes removed? (3,6) 20 Labyrinth lieutenant, old, vanquished at first? Congratulations! (5,3) 21 In dining-car, a feeble serving of wine (6) 23 Emphasise superiority to partner, withholding gold, diamonds and charm (4,2,4) 24 To gather, crowd returned (4) 25 Big change: larder refitted with formica (7,6)  Down  1 Quickly, list some conger eel offcuts (4,3) 2 Tree ointment when scratching bottom (5) 3 Perhaps writing milk-producers’ guides (7) 4 Victorian marvel, mushy art movement (8,7) 5 Strip off widest annual, widest in the middle (6) 6 Dishes in bistro, finally: ‘Everyman, settle up’ (with slight discrepancy) (9) 7 She’s attractive and dangerous seller of foreign food (the French horse) (7) 13 Ascendant Tudor essentially, Queen Elizabeth led — how she might be described? (3-6) 15 Appeal of grand Latin lover in Paris (7) 17 Who makes us care — left and right — about espionage, ultimately? (2,5) 18 Misguided sour smile (3-4) 19 Not my mistake, putting junk in stable (6) 22 Lover, fifth one after Mike (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3163/article35920738.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article35920693.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The founders’ foresight illuminates our history||Sixteen years before Independence, during a temporary respite from Civil Disobedience, the nation’s leaders decided to make public their dream — of what they would do for the country’s good, when at last it was free. This was laid out in the Fundamental Rights Resolution, which was drafted by Jawaharlal Nehru and moved by Mahatma Gandhi at the Karachi session of the Indian National Congress from March 26 to 29 in 1931. It promised universal suffrage, civil liberty, the abolition of caste disabilities in the public sphere, state’s ‘neutrality” in respect of religion, protection of labour rights, including special rights for women, reduction of land tax and rent on peasants, relief for the poor from indebtedness, and finally, the state’s “ownership and control of key industries and services”. These pledges were repeated in the Congress’s manifestos for the 1936-37 and 1945-46 elections. By 1945-46, the abolition of zamindari had also now been placed on the agenda. As early as 1938, the Congress had committed itself to economic planning, having established a Planning Committee, with Nehru as its Chairman. Another important aspect which was brought to the fore in the National Movement was social reform. Gandhiji had always been firm in his opposition to untouchability. As for women, his views ultimately changed entirely from the position he had taken in Hind Swaraj , 1909, about women remaining “queens” of their homes. By 1945 he had come to believe in total equality between women and men. Courage and heroism When India became independent on August 15, 1947, the mass slaughter and ethnic cleansing that occurred brought out the sheer courage and heroism that both Gandhiji and Nehru commanded; and Gandhiji died on January 30, 1948 at the hands of a murderer. Yet, Gandhiji’s fast earlier in the same month had at last brought violence to a close, so that now India could move towards reforming itself. It is often suggested that Nehru imposed his concept of a “socialist pattern” without any sanction derived from pledges made during the National Movement. As may be seen from the contents of the Karachi Resolution, this is a total misconception: only the term “socialist” officially used for that vision was a novelty. In two major areas, land reforms and construction of the public sector in industry, Free India in the first three decades had considerable achievements to its credit. The legislation for abolition of zamindari passed by individual provinces or States in the early years of Independence varied in detail, but the effect was that the bulk of the peasants became owners of the land they tilled. Perhaps, the most radical measures were adopted in Jammu and Kashmir in 1950, where the actual cultivating tenants became owners of the land without paying even nominal compensation to the land-owners, this made possible because J&K had its own Constitution. In 1959, the Congress adopted a resolution in favour of ceilings on the size of land-holdings, and this initiated a process of land redistribution by which landless labourers, mostly Dalits, could also receive land to till. One can see the result of the land-reforms in the increase in food supply per capita. From 152.72 kg per head in 1950-55, the per-capita supply rose to 168.44 kg in 1961-65, whereafter a plateau ensued (figures as calculated by Professor Utsa Patnaik). As far as industry was concerned, it was the Second Five-Year Plan (1956–61), which created a large public sector, especially in heavy industry. Even capitalists like G.D. Birla supported this measure because they well knew that only the state with its large resources could create an industrial sector on the required scale in India. There was also considerable effort to expand literacy and improve higher education. Nor to be forgotten is the large state investment in science and technology, especially the establishment of the Indian Institutes of Technology and lower-level training institutes. Credit must be given to our nation’s founders also for their effort in the cause of women’s empowerment. Not only were restrictions on women’s recruitment to government service removed after Independence but radical legislation also followed. Over this issue, the newly formed alliance of Jan Sangh (promoted by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh), the Hindu Mahasabha and the Ram Rajya Parishad was soundly defeated in the 1952 elections. Today, one tends to forget the radicality of the changes in personal law that now ensued: the Special Marriage Act, 1954, that applied to all communities, and, then, the changes in the ‘Hindu Code’. I have something more to add here: the remarkably high level of personal conduct of the political leadership. After Independence, local authorities throughout the country began removing Englishmen’s names from gates and parks and replacing them with Nehru’s name. Nehru issued a firm prohibition of anything to be named after him. I also have a story of my own about him to tell. In 1955, then a junior lecturer, I wrote to him as Prime Minister about a personal grievance of mine. Within days came a message that I was to see him at his office on a specified day at 9 a.m. When Nehru had done the talking with the Pope’s envoy, I was called in. He began by telling me how wrong it was for the Pope to defend Portuguese behaviour in India, shifting thereafter to Russian and Chinese Communists, finding the latter more flexible. He then came to my case, referring to my Communist activities for four years or so, but without censure. He, however, told me that proper constitutional practice prevented him from intervening in the matter. He did so, I think, merely to avoid my thanks, for only a few days later, I got the passport enabling me to benefit from a Government of India scholarship for studies abroad. Nehru, indeed, stood apart. But in his time, even politicians with controversial personal reputations seemed quite different in their personal conduct. Travelling to Delhi, I once got into a small railway compartment. There was already a gentleman sleeping on the upper berth. As the train approached Delhi, he carefully came down, and, I realised I was in the company of Chandra Bhan Gupta, then Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, a veteran Congressman since the 1920s, with many critics. Here he was — with no security, no flaunting of dignity, just a first-class passenger. No picture of his came to us through paid advertisements or on government bill-boards. It was only when he got down at the Delhi railway station that his staff appeared. Irfan Habib is Professor Emeritus, CAS, Department of History, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh  Nehru stood apart, but in his time, even politicians with controversial personal reputations seemed quite different in their personal conduct from recent counterparts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-founders-foresight-illuminates-our-history/article35920766.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Why have faith in the great Indian experiment||India’s independence from colonial rule launched an unprecedented experiment of introducing democratic equality in a deeply diverse society. Scholars and political observers the world over predicted its failure. Successful nation-states and democracy require one language, one culture and perhaps one religion — how could democracy thrive in a poor, illiterate society with mind-boggling religious, cultural and linguistic diversity? Today, when brazen attempts are afoot to suppress such differences, it appears that the sceptics and pessimists were correct. But I remain unmoved. Even in these hopeless times, I have faith in the success of the experiment. There are many reasons why I remain hopeful, but I focus here on two: one general, and the other India-specific. The general reason is that humankind benefits more from diversity than brute uniformity. No one person or group can develop the entire range of thoughts, practices and goods necessary for survival and flourishing. To fulfil constantly evolving human needs, different skills honed by sustained collective, inter-generational effort are required. When a group spends time on one set of skills, it necessarily neglects others. This means that any cultural group’s capacity to fulfil multifarious human needs is limited. Fulfilling all needs demands a pooling together of different skills and a high degree of mutual dependence and learning. The realisation of a better, richer life makes diversity necessary. Those who understand and endorse this are pluralists. Anti-pluralists, who deny and fight diversity, are doomed to lead a fractured, truncated life and may not even survive in the long run. Just as bio-diversity is necessary for the larger ecosystem, so is cultural diversity for the much smaller human world. My second reason is to do with the character of India’s historically evolved collective unconscious, our deepest habits and temperament of respect and mutual acceptance. A particular variant of high-strung, deeply insecure modernists, masquerading as preservers of Indian tradition but imitating the worst European mode of nation-making pose a challenge to this. But my guess is that India’s age-old moral habits will prevail over this seemingly unifying but utterly claustrophobic and corrosive force. Critics will immediately dismiss my statement as crazily utopian. Am I not making this claim by turning a few happy episodes into a character trait of a whole people? I do not think so. The extent and depth of religio-philosophical diversity in India or an enviable degree of peaceful religious coexistence in its past has been noted globally. Yet, contemporary scholars adopt two contrasting perspectives on this religio-philosophical coexistence. Some explain it by the unique quality of tolerance in Hindu culture that a surfeit of invaders took advantage of until some Indians said enough is enough. Others argue that Indian culture is no different from others, that it always contained a propensity to religious conflict, violence, persecution and, therefore, coexistence of different groups occurred because of an accidental balance of power, because no group was ever strong enough to rid society of others. The clear implication is that the moment any group acquires disproportionate power, it will eliminate other groups or reduce them to slavery. It is also argued that this balance of power in society was made possible by political expediency; rulers abhor social and political instability. So, peaceful coexistence in India was a result of balance of power between communities underpinned by political necessity. I disagree with both views. That India’s past was also not always harmonious and rocked by religious conflict, violence and persecution cannot be denied. Hindus and Jains, Hindus and Buddhists, Shaivites and Vaishnavites and even Hindu ascetic orders fought and even smashed each others’ temples. Occasionally, political rulers such as the Senas in 11-12th century Bengal were extremely partial to their own Hindu sect. Those who came to India in search of wealth and territory, the Greeks, Sakas, Kushans and Huns, indulged in violence too. So did Muslims. But an average Hindu selectively remembers only the violence of Muslims. Worse, he forgets that not one but many Islams came to India, from cultural regions as far apart as Arabia and Mongolia, at different times and with differing motives. Only some came with religious zeal against idol worshippers. Some of these plundered and returned, others like Mohammad Ghori and Mahmud of Ghazni fanatically destroyed temples but stayed back to rule. If Persian sources are right, they forcibly converted too. What an average Hindu also fails to remember is that most Muslim political adventurers fought other Muslim not Hindu rulers. After all, the much-maligned Babar defeated the Lodhis, not some Hindu king! Indeed, many new settlers, attracted to India’s pluralist imagination, adapted their beliefs and practices to be in tune with it. For many Hindus and Muslims, Allah became one of the many gods; others thought of Prophet Mohammad as an avatar sent down from heaven to restore righteousness, and for still others like the Ismailis, Ali, a cousin of Mohammmad, was the long-awaited 10th incarnation of Vishnu. Depicting Rama and Krishna as prophets, many made them an integral part of the Islamicate world. Rulers in this pluralist world frequently acted impartially towards everyone. In quarrels between Hindu and Muslims, Hindu rulers such as the one in 15th century Mangalore were quick to punish fellow Hindus when found guilty. In 1713, the highest Muslim Government official in Ahmedabad had to bear the wrath of some of his own co-religionists when justice prompted him to rule in favour of Hindus. The same spirit of impartiality made Muslim royalty mediate in sectarian disputes to bring together warring sects of Jains, Sikhs or Hindus. Royal patronage was extended to non-Muslims, modelled on a pattern set by previous Hindu, Jain and Buddhist rulers. For example, the Gorakhnath math in Jakhbar (in Jammu) received grants from virtually every Mughal ruler. So did the math in Gorakhpur. I hope these few examples suffice to demonstrate that India’s pluralism successfully inhibited religious adversaries from turning into permanent enemies and encouraged peaceful cohabitation. It restrained the recurrence of religious violence. Hatred and demonisation of others is found in medieval Hindu and Muslim literature but in practice it disappeared as quickly as it materialised. Pluralism may not have always been formulated as a religious or philosophical doctrine but had become an integral component of our social imagination, present as tacit common understanding, as a default setting in our background. It is this moral imaginary, not timeless philosophical doctrines, time-bound balance of social power or political convenience that explains peaceful religious coexistence in India. This unstated confidence in the value of cultural diversity and peaceful religious co-existence shaped the thinking of Gandhi, of several other leaders in our anti-colonial movement and the makers of India’s Constitution. Our social imaginary made religious violence, persecution and partiality of political rulers an aberration rather than the norm in India. This unspoken common mentality is too deep-rooted to vanish overnight. Sooner or later the Indian people will act upon it. This is why I continue to repose faith in the great Indian experiment that was launched on August 15, 1947. Rajeev Bhargava is a political theorist and Director, Parekh Institute of Indian Thought, CSDS, Delhi  The extent and depth of religio-philosophical diversity in India or an enviable degree of peaceful religious coexistence in its past has been noted globally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-have-faith-in-the-great-indian-experiment/article35920776.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Indian Union and its bedrock of federalism||A few weeks ago, leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Tamil Nadu took offence when the State government referred to the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government as a Union government. By a strange semantic twist, they argued that calling it a Union rather than Central government smacks of divisive politics! The debates that ensued, and subsequent clarifications by legal experts on the constitutional sanctity of the term ‘Union’, highlight a key but less acknowledged feature of post-independent Indian polity. It is the critical role of federalism in democratising political processes and strengthening the Union. A ‘holding together’ model To be sure, the Indian government is not strictly federal, with subnational units coming together to form a federation as in the U.S. Rather, it approximates a ‘holding together’ model that ensures autonomy to subnational units so as to ensure efficiency in governance and to represent regional diversity. In fact, scholars contend that the issue of regional representation is particularly important in culturally diverse countries such as India. Noted political scientist Ashutosh Varshney points out that this becomes even more compelling when cultural diversities are mapped on to distinct territories such as in India, Canada, Belgium or Nigeria. As the tragic and bitter experience of Sri Lanka shows, a failure to do this can end up actually weakening the country. The argument that strong subnational governments can undermine the strength of the Centre is, therefore, not tenable. Though cognisant of the need to accommodate India’s diversity, the Indian Constitution does give more powers to the Union government. Conceived as it was in the context of Partition and demand for independent nationhood by princely States such as Travancore and Hyderabad, there was a political consensus within the Congress that a strong central authority is essential for ‘holding together’. B.R. Ambedkar, chairman of the Drafting Committee, however, assured that the Constitution is indeed federal, with the Union and the States deriving their respective powers and authority from the Constitution. State governments are not subnational agents of the Union government but are governments in their own right, with a specific set of powers and responsibilities guaranteed by the Constitution. The Union government cannot, therefore, intervene in the domain of State governments. Nevertheless, the relations are indeed asymmetrical between the Union government and the States by design. Apart from the list of domains clearly demarcated between the Union and State governments, the Union government has overriding powers in the subjects listed under the Concurrent List, and also has primary control in the residual domains. Despite such asymmetry of power and significant lapses, political practice in India has ensured that such powers and lapses have been kept in check. Federal relations had in fact improved over the years through such practice. The Union government, for example, conceded the demand for a linguistic reorganisation of States in the 1950s when the demands became hard to ignore. Similarly, in the 1960s, it agreed to postpone the declaration of Hindi as the sole official language until there was consensus among all States. Rather than weakening, such moves actually strengthened the Union. On the contrary, efforts to centralise power by the Union government in the 1970s and 1980s generated centrifugal pressures across several regions. The series of Centre-State conflicts that followed were resolved not through more centralisation but through recognition of the rights and demands of regions. The emergence of coalition governments since 1989 played an important role in this. Contrary to popular perceptions that they cannot be decisive, coalition governments were in fact responsible for landmark decisions that have defined the trajectory of Indian development. The government headed by Mr. V.P Singh not only implemented the recommendations of the Mandal Commission to initiate affirmative action policies for Backward Classes but also established the Inter-State Council as a constitutional body to address inter-State conflicts based on federal principles. Subsequent coalition governments oversaw the implementation of major economic reforms in the 1990s apart from passing the Right to Employment, the Right to Information, the Right to Education and the Right to Food Acts that opened up spaces for democratisation and social inclusion. Inspiring initiatives While coalition governments provided space for regional voices within the Union government, policy innovations by State governments have inspired several developmental initiatives by the Union government. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is inspired by a similar scheme in Maharashtra launched in the 1970s. The Integrated Child Development Services Scheme that simultaneously addresses schooling and nutrition by providing nutritious meals in schools is modelled after the pioneering mid-day meals programme launched in Tamil Nadu. Ayushman Bharat is based on health insurance programmes launched by State governments such as Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi that supports small farmers through cash transfers mimics the Rythu Bandhu scheme of Telangana. Importantly, responding to regional political demands, States such as Tamil Nadu have refrained from adopting targeted Public Distribution System policies despite pressure from the Union government and multilateral agencies. Living through a pandemic, we now know the pitfalls of targeting in a transitioning economy such as India, where economic vulnerabilities can easily push people into poverty. Apart from specific policy innovations, inter-State diversity in development trajectories also allows for mobilising alternate historical models for learning. For example, when growth-centric interventions in States such as Gujarat were showcased as the way to ensure development under neoliberalising conditions, Tamil Nadu and Kerala suggested otherwise — that prioritising investments in human development and democratising opportunities can deliver more inclusive development. Driven by democratic pressures, such policy emphasis has also helped counter the power of dominant development narratives diffused by technocratic elites and policy think tanks. Schemes often derided as a waste of resources in such policy circles have subsequently become the hallmark of India’s welfare architecture. A federal polity also ensures plurality of identities and hence helps resist majoritarian mobilisation based on a singular and exclusionary identity. Amartya Sen, in fact, makes a strong case for a multiplicity of identities as key to expanding human freedoms. Identity-based majoritarian mobilisation, however, requires the erasure of such plural identities. As a result, despite conditions being more conducive for federating and a promise to usher in cooperative federalism by the NDA government, processes have actually worsened in recent years. The reduction of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to Union Territories, squeezing taxation powers of State governments, a New Education Policy that denies a role for State governments, arbitrary levy of cess that is not shared with States, and flexing of financial and political muscle to direct policy-making by State governments have assumed a more systemic tenor. This shift also appears to be inspired by a belief that a strong Centre is required to make India powerful. History, however, tells us otherwise. As we enter into the 75th year of Independence, it is worth recalling that it is the strengthening of the federal polity and a recognition of diversity that has contributed to the vibrancy of Indian democracy. In fact, States that have made the most principled demands for subnational autonomy have contributed substantially to sustain the Constitutional commitment to India’s plural traditions and ethos. Efforts to learn from such diverse traditions rather than homogenisation have sustained our democracy thus far. M. Vijayabaskar is with the Madras Institute of Development Studies, and a member of the State Development Policy Council, Government of Tamil Nadu. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-indian-union-and-its-bedrock-of-federalism/article35920796.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating the idea of freedom||I am reminded of the words of Mahatma Gandhi, published in Young India in 1931: “I shall work for an India in which the poorest shall feel that it is their country in whose making they have an effective voice; an India in which there shall be no high class and low class of people; an India in which all communities shall live in perfect harmony. This is the India of my dreams...” Amid the vagaries of the COVID-19 pandemic, we embark upon the historic celebration of the 75th Independence Day with hope of freedom from fear, intolerance and a sinister ploy of polarisation of minds and people. The freedom which we have won gives us the responsibility of making and marking the future of this New India. Different hues on a single canvas We liberated ourselves from the oppression of over a century of colonial rule, traversed through the challenging times inflicted upon us by poverty and lack of infrastructure and worked assiduously to transform India as one of the most successful foodgrain producers in the world through the Green Revolution. The freedom struggle was more than an agitation against the colonial rule. Our heroes of the freedom struggle were able to bring a nation full of varied colours and hues on a single canvas called India. No celebration of India’s Independence can be complete without remembering the historic address of our first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, upholding the freedom as a step in the direction of realising the dream of Gandhiji. We cannot forget the visionary approaches of the thinkers and nation-builders and the contribution of the people who inherited a country plagued with discrimination, untouchability and inequality. India is one of the few nations on earth which has retained some of its ancient ideologies. The founding fathers of our nation were the guardians of our ancient Indian principle of Vasudhaiva Kutumbukam and Sarv Dharma Sambhav , which also found its place in the structure of the Constitution. Gandhi said, “I shall strive for a Constitution which will release India from all thraldom and patronage.” We must realise today that Pandit Nehru and his contemporaries exhibited a respect and acceptance of non-agreement and divergent views but worked together towards nation-building, evident by the appointment of B.R. Ambedkar as Law Minister and Syama Prasad Mookerjee as Industries Minister. Nation-building institutions Creating nation-building institutions in a fledgling country and setting up strong foundations for infrastructural, industrial, social and economic growth were daunting tasks because there was no base to build upon. Any building, however beautiful, is only as strong as its foundation. We must appreciate the vision of Pandit Nehru finding its place with the Planning Commission recommendations to build the first Indian Institute of Technology at Kharagpur in 1951 to nurture the Indian youth to prepare them for a greater role in nation-building. For, people questioning the 70 years of the Congress’s efforts in nation building fail to acknowledge the creation of the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre in 1954 and the first atomic reactor in 1956 depicting an energy revolution in a young India. Lal Bahadur Shastri, who became Prime Minister after Pandit Nehru, exhibited indomitable leadership in neutralising the Pakistani invasion of 1965, establishing the military might of the Indian Army. Shastri gave the slogan Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan to motivate the soldiers and simultaneously mobilise the farmers to protect the sovereignty of the country and increase the production of foodgrains to reduce imports and strengthen food security. The country attained further heights under the leadership of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, with the establishment of the ISRO in 1969, a successful military campaign against Pakistan in 1971 followed by the nuclear test on May 18, 1974 at Pokhran, thus becoming a nuclear power and heralding the making of a stronger, greater and self-reliant India. Our leaders were able to sense future requirements and took appropriate timely steps such as the creation of ISRO, atomic infrastructure or a great vision of 21st century envisaged by Rajiv Gandhi way before people could understand it. He made India an IT and telecom powerhouse. The spectrum of Rajiv Gandhi was wide ranging. He brought about technological initiatives and grassroots democracy by bringing in the historic 73rd and 74th Constitution amendments, thereby ensuring local self-governance. Under the leadership of UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi, the National Advisory Council recommended historic steps for freedom of the poor from food insecurity, hunger and employment and ensured education to the children. The UPA government brought the loan waiver scheme to benefit the farmers and also passed the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the Right to Information Act in 2005, the Right to Education Act in 2009 and the National Food Security Act in 2013 to ensure prosperity of sections of society. An independent democracy We have been free for 75 years now. The Mahatma’s Charkhah represented Swadeshi, self-sufficiency and interdependence. It embodied the dignity of labour and equality. The ideals and teachings of the Mahatma need to be executed by the government at the Centre. The institutions preserved for decades serve as checks and balances for the functioning of an independent democracy. The crumbling of the independence of the judiciary, the free press, the CBI, enforcement agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate to instil fear in the minds of people will never lead to a free democracy. The revered scriptures of the Bhagavad Gita give freedom to the devotee to ask questions even from God. In the present context, it is ironical that raising questions leads to attack on the intent and character of the questioner. There should be no room for hatred for divergent views and criticisms. Let institutions built by our great leaders be utilised for the objectives they were formed. Let’s strive to protect the freedom and values enshrined in the freedom struggle and the Constitution. Ashok Gehlot is the Chief Minister of Rajasthan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/celebrating-the-idea-of-freedom/article35920785.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||An evolving journey defined by hope and optimism||India, poised to enter the landmark 75th year of its Independence, stands on the cusp of a transformative era. It is a historic point in time for all of us to celebrate our achievements, look back at the years gone by with some measure of satisfaction, and chart out a realistic road map to build a more inclusive, powerful and prosperous India. With its increasing clout on the world stage, India is set to emerge as a leading global power in the years to come. We are indeed fortunate to have inherited a Constitution imbued with the visionary foresight and robust pragmatism of our national icons and freedom fighters. The phrase, “We the people”, in the Preamble encapsulates the essential foundation of our developmental architecture. People are at the centre of all thoughts and actions required for national development. They are the creators of their destiny. In the course of this eventful journey of 75 years, we have, without doubt, dispelled the fears and apprehensions of doomsday prophets at the time of Partition that it is impossible to keep India united because of its enormous diversity. In contrast, we have grown from strength to strength as a vibrant and thriving parliamentary democracy. The framers of our Constitution had unflinching faith in the democratic principles, where people’s voices are heard and acted upon, where debate and deliberation lead to a well-considered public policy, and where people are empowered to lead the process of transforming our nation. Barring the dark episode of the Emergency, when fundamental rights of the people were trampled upon, we can be justifiably proud of our democratic accomplishments and credentials. It is imperative, however, to cleanse our political system of various ills that are vitiating the electoral process and impeding the development of the country. As the largest democracy in the world, India should be a shining example to others on many issues, including the effective functioning of our Parliament. But what we have witnessed in the monsoon session is a sad reflection on the current state of affairs. Parliamentary gridlocks can only be resolved through dialogue. It is a matter of great pride for us that the image and stature of our nation are on the rise in a range of sectors —from economic, academic, geopolitics, defence, sports, science, to IT and space technology, among others. Agriculture, often referred to as the soul of India, is another area of focus where we have made considerable progress. There is a pressing need for improved agricultural practices and modernisation of technology to boost productivity and efficiency. It is equally critical to identify and address systemic problems which are holding Indian farmers back from realising their full potential. Strengthening infrastructure including creating storage networks and cold chains, access to formal and timely agricultural credit to farmers, value addition through food processing and driving other much-needed reforms will transform the farming sector. India, which has emerged as a hub for the launch of Indian and foreign satellites, is a leader in the fields of space technology, as also strategic and defence technology with exemplary capabilities. Powered by reforms and the “Make in India” drive, the economy is on the rise and India is being transformed into a major hub of hi-tech manufacturing with the presence of world leaders in this area. At the same time, it is pertinent to point out that India registered its highest ever foreign direct investment inflow of $81.72 billion during the financial year 2020-21, which alone is a reflection of the priority the Government is according to manufacturing, design and innovation with an emphasis on ‘Vocal for Local’. It is a matter of gratification for us that India is the fifth largest manufacturer in the world. In this context, the Government of India’s multi-pronged initiatives such as Make in India, Start Up India and Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd (MUDRA) deserve special mention. The Government of India’s nimble economic policies have, in great measure, cushioned the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. New challenges The pandemic has put even advanced health-care systems of the wealthiest nations to severe test. It has disrupted lives and livelihoods, businesses and economies all over the world. India was no exception, but displaying rare grit, our frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, police and media personnel have been waging a difficult war on the pandemic tenaciously. Similarly, in the true spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat, industry rose to the occasion to make life-saving vaccines, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, face-masks, sanitisers and ventilators along with a whole range of essential products, in a frenzied race against time. Resilience, resolve, research and reinvention aptly define Team India’s response to the unprecedented health crisis. However, there can be little doubt that the pandemic has sharply highlighted the need for strengthening India’s health-care system. Ensuring universal health coverage and bridging the urban-rural divide in health infrastructure need to be a sustained effort to be taken up without any further delay. While the path-breaking Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana had provided the much-needed connectivity in rural areas, the need of the hour is to incentivise employment-generation initiatives for accelerating the growth of rural economy. Women’s empowerment and gender equality as well as the welfare of children need to be prioritised. I am happy that there has been a renewed focus on maternal and child welfare including nutritional needs and overall well being. I am glad that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has been designed to meet the needs of a resurgent and aspirational India. Ours is one of the youngest nations in the world with over 62% of its population in the working age segment of 15-59. In this context, NEP provides a blueprint for quality school education which, when rolled out to its full scope and extent, has the potential to transform the academic landscape of the country. It is essential for planners of educational policy to build a knowledge ecosystem which would drive India’s growth. The link between research and industry is another thrust area which needs to be actively fostered. I always emphasise the importance of using the mother tongue at all levels of education, including vocational and technical education. In this context, I welcome the initiative of 14 engineering colleges across eight States to offer courses in native languages. Similarly, local languages should be widely used in administration and the judiciary, including court verdicts. Though we have come a long way in the area of governance, achieving digital governance to a considerable extent, universal Internet access and cybersecurity remain challenges which need to be addressed. The shift to online education in schools and colleges during the novel coronavirus pandemic has brought to the fore the wide gaps between rural and urban India, when it comes to Internet access and the availability of electronic gadgets. This digital divide should be narrowed as quickly as possible. Clearly, our country has so many achievements that each one of us can legitimately be proud of, including the recent spectacular performance of our sportswomen and sportsmen in the Tokyo Olympics, with the best ever Olympic Games medals tally our country ever achieved. This moment of celebration should be a moment of re-dedication, a moment of introspection, of review, reforms and ceaseless, collaborative, competent action. We can co-create a new India by building on our strengths assiduously acquired over the past decades and centuries, by celebrating our rich diversity, by transforming our governance and institutional structures to serve the people in the best possible manner, by leaving no one behind, by resolving differences through cordial dialogue, by striding into the complex, uncertain future with greater optimism, confidence and determination. M. Venkaiah Naidu is the Vice-President of India  This moment of celebration should be a moment of re-dedication, a moment of introspection, of review, reforms and ceaseless, collaborative, competent action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-evolving-journey-defined-by-hope-and-optimism/article35920759.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Scientific temper as key||Indian scientists engaged in science, contributing to the understanding of the natural world and developing approaches and technologies to measure or change outcomes well before the Scientific Revolution that began in Europe in 1543. Whether it was the more than two millennia-old Charaka Samhita or the Jantar Mantars of Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II, science, technologies and their applications were embedded in the larger fabric of India well before British rule. During colonial rule, while it was not a priority to nurture Indian science, universities were established in major cities. J.N. Tata and the Regent Queen of Mysore laid the ground for the founding of the IISc in 1909. When India became independent, 32 new educational and scientific establishments were set up in 15 years and served as model institutions. Science for development As India strove to throw off the legacy of the British, the political leadership, influenced strongly by the builders of the nuclear and space programmes in India, recognised the need for science for development. In 1958, the Government published its Scientific Policy Resolution, which stated, “The dominating feature of the contemporary world is the intense cultivation of science on a large scale, and its application to meet a country’s requirements.” When the fundamental duties were added to the Constitution in 1976 through Article 51A, the eighth duty stated: “It shall be the duty of every citizen of India to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform.” This made the Constitution one of the few that requires the spirit of inquiry and scientific temper as a foundational aspect of society. Jawaharlal Nehru, in The Discovery of India , writes, “Scientific temper is a way of life — an individual and social process of thinking and acting which uses a scientific method which may include questioning, observing reality, testing, hypothesising, analysing and communicating.” Scientific temper can be viewed through two lenses — one of the traditional scientific community and the other of society as a whole. Before Independence, India had leading colonial scientists, such as the botanist Father Eugene Lafont, who partnered with others to establish the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, and J.J. Evershed in the Nilgiris after whom the Evershed flow effect in the chromosphere is named. But there were also internationally recognised Indian scientists such as K.S. Krishnan, C.V. Raman and others who developed their fields but largely on an individual basis. In independent India, the move from competitive individualism to institution building was supported by the government and its policies. Problem of opportunities Following the expansive phase after Independence, there has been an explosion of new institutions in the 21st Century, with successful models such as the IITs and the AIIMS being replicated, and new ones such as the IISER being created. These expansions were needed to keep pace with an expanding population and a changing world, but is the trajectory of science and our approach to scientific temper what is needed to change India’s place in the global science arena? India has been climbing the rankings of countries in terms of publications. However, the quality of the publications and their acceptance in the highest tiers of publications as well as their utility remain underwhelming. Students from our best institutions leave India as soon as they graduate. Scientific communities bewail the lack of post-doctoral positions and career opportunities for early stage scientists. The government has responded by creating fellowships and early career contractual faculty positions. But these are the refuge of largely those who for social reasons are unable to move or those who cannot find opportunities outside India. Beyond academia too, there is lack of readiness for other employment among science and technology graduates and doctorates. Innovation requires both fundamental discovery and its applications. We built many of our research institutions outside of universities that offer a more diverse education. Until recently, industry collaborations were looked down on as something done by scientists who could not make the cut within their own basic research fields or as constituting a conflict of interest. Stand-alone institutions and the lack of linkages mean that we have neither the critical mass for academic competitive excellence in many fields or the ecosystems for innovation. There are attempts towards change. The Science, Technology and Innovation Policy of 2020 states that in order for India to “march ahead on a sustainable development pathway... towards achieving an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, a greater emphasis may be needed on developing traditional knowledge systems, developing indigenous technologies and encouraging grassroots innovations”. The CSIR and the Departments of S&T and Biotechnology have attempted to advance science through their schemes, but intentions needed to backed by resources at scale. The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in increased resources as well as an awareness of science in society. When newspapers track numbers and try to decipher what they mean, it is an opportunity to communicate the value of science and counter the challenges brought about by a lack of scientific temper. This need was recognised by many ‘peoples’ science movements’ of the 1970s, similar to the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad established in 1962. This issue of ‘escape into magical beliefs and instant solutions’ was and is recognised by scientists too, but their channels of communication with society remain limited, reflected in wide spread disinformation during the pandemic with the burgeoning of beliefs in unproven methods of treatment. Are science and scientists trusted and heard in India? Our space and nuclear programmes are lauded and trusted. They, and some fields of mathematics and chemistry, grew because of individuals who persuaded the government to invest in institutions and support them outside of the bureaucracy. Other fields have not done as well, with society or with government. Can we survive as a society without a scientific temper? Yes, we can. We can continue to accept what is developed and learned in other parts of the world without necessarily contributing to the process of discovery and development. The real question is, can we thrive as a society without scientific temper? Gagandeep Kang is a Professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scientific-temper-as-key/article35920805.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Develop a sporting culture||Making it big in international sport is never easy. If you have someone to look up to, a role model, it helps. But you could do wonderful things without one, too. Remember, somebody has to reach there first. The climb to the top When I started playing chess, India did not have a Grandmaster [it is the ultimate title denoting a player’s strength]. I saw it as a nice challenge to attempt. In some sense, that there had been no Indian Grandmaster made it easier for me, because there was no pressure on me to do it. I knew it would be nice to achieve it, but it was not as if I was obliged to do it. I wanted to be better at chess and there was no way I could have done it without becoming a Grandmaster in the process. It was, of course, tough getting the title. I had to play all those tournaments and needed to get a certain number of points in order to get a norm [one required three norms]. It was a struggle for me, from 1985 till the end of 1987, when I finished my title. It was something that occupied most of my thoughts those days. When I was in school, the first thing I thought of after finishing my examinations was about how to become a Grandmaster. I was lucky that there were so many good tournaments in India then, in places such as Calcutta, Bhilwara and Coimbatore. Maybe there were not as many events as we have now, but I had the opportunities to make my norms. When I was finding it hard to complete my title, Stewart Reuben, an arbiter, told me, “One day you will get your title without even thinking about it.” And that is how I got it after so many close misses, by scoring the final norm at the Sakthi Finance tournament in Coimbatore. The title meant a lot to me. It was acclaimed across the country as a big achievement. And it was perhaps my third big jump in fame. The first was in 1983 when I won the National sub-juniors and qualified for the men’s event. Suddenly, the principal was talking about me in the school assembly, and other boys told me that they have seen my picture in the newspaper. The second was in 1987, when I won the World Juniors; I was on the magazine covers and I remember giving a lot of interviews, almost non-stop. It is nice to notice that India now has 69 Grandmasters (only four countries have more). After winning the World junior and getting the Grandmaster title, I started getting invitations to the tournaments in Europe. I knew my career had moved on to the next stage. It is important to have parental support if you’re a child trying to build a career in sport. My parents would probably have wondered whether I would be able to make a living out of chess. But I think they knew that it was wrong not to support me. When I began playing, there wasn’t a system in place in Indian chess, like they had in countries such as the erstwhile Soviet Union. I developed my game naturally but that was an innocent time, when one did not need so much training. A system does help; it makes life easier for any sportsperson. Performance in Tokyo It was a pleasant surprise to see India winning seven medals at the Tokyo Olympics. And it was heartening to watch Neeraj Chopra winning the gold. There were, of course, more highlights for India, such as the hockey team securing a medal after 41 years, P.V. Sindhu getting her second Olympics medal and the heartwarming shows from the likes of Lovlina Borgohain and Mirabai Chanu. We should also be proud of India’s women’s hockey players and golfer Aditi Ashok. They performed exceptionally well to come so close to winning medals. It is nice that there have been so many individual success stories for India in Tokyo. Let us hope that we can build on the good show. This edition of the Olympics is a milestone for Indian sport. You can praise the athletes as much as you want to. They deserve it. Winning seven Olympic medals is unprecedented for India. But when we say unprecedented success, we should remember it is for India, not for other countries. Many of them have been doing much better than us for so long. I feel seven is not the right number for us, though it is better than six, the number of medals India won at the 2012 Olympics in London, our previous best. Let this be a first step rather than an opportunity to go overboard with celebrations. Sporting culture But I think what Indian sport needs most is a sporting culture. You can have all the stadiums you want, but what is the point if you do not play any sport? Every city, town and village should have sporting arenas for people to come and play. Sport must be a part of life. The Government could do something about it. We must realise that just being a spectator is not enough. Having lived for a long time in Europe, I can say that we need a long way to go when it comes to sporting culture. Then the government, the various sports bodies, private foundations and sponsors could create more athletes. They should ensure that the best athletes get the support when they need it, for careers in sports are short. Indian sport began its journey long ago. Slowly the pieces are coming together. We should continue doing that if we want to go forward. As we celebrate Independence Day, we are reminded of the role of sport in nation building. Sport is one of those few things that could make a lot of citizens of a country happy at the same time, as we have just seen with the Olympics. Viswanathan Anand is a five-time World chess champion. (As told to P.K. Ajith Kumar)  ‘You can have all the stadiums you want, but what is the point if you do not play any sport? Every city, town and village should have sporting arenas for people to come and play.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/develop-a-sporting-culture/article35920808.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A struggle between two ideas of India||At midnight on August 15, 1947, Independent India was born as its first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, proclaimed ‘a tryst with destiny...a moment...which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends, and when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance.’ With those words he launched India on a remarkable journey — creating a national identity out of a country that many said could not be a nation at all. ‘India,’ Winston Churchill once snarled, ‘is merely a geographical expression. It is no more a single country than the Equator.’ Although Churchill was usually wrong about India, it is true that no other country in the world embraces the extraordinary mixture of ethnic groups, profusion of mutually incomprehensible languages, varieties of topography and climate, diversity of religions and cultural practices, and range of levels of economic development that India does. And yet India, as I have repeatedly argued, is more than the sum of its contradictions. Those contradictions were repeatedly stressed by British rulers in self-justification for their rule. Thus Benjamin Disraeli argued that India was not a nation: it lacked a common language, a common religion, a shared tradition, a historical experience, a cohesive majority, and a defined territory, all of which he regarded as the essential ingredients of a nation. But Indian nationalists had an effective riposte. India is a country held together, in the words of Nehru, ‘by strong but invisible threads...a myth and an idea, a dream and a vision, and yet very real and present and pervasive.’ Whichever way one thinks about it, the challenge of defining India is immense. It is a land of snow peaks and tropical jungles, with 22 major languages listed in the Constitution and over 20,000 distinct ‘dialects’ (including some spoken by more people than speak Swedish, Maori, or Estonian), inhabited at the start of the third decade of the 21st century by 1.38 billion individuals of almost every ethnic extraction known to humanity. It has given birth to four major religions and offers a home to many more; it preaches doctrines of spirituality and wisdom, anchored in universalism and inclusivity, while still being afflicted by a caste system that visits grave disabilities upon millions of its people. It has two major classical musical traditions (Carnatic and Hindustani) to go with innumerable folk disciplines; multiple classical dance forms (Kathakali, Kuchipudi, Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Manipuri, Odissi and so on) that create a rich jambalaya of diverse cultures transmitted through gurus directly mentoring select students; graduates more engineers than any other countries and produces by far the largest number of films in the world. In the phrase of the American poet Walt Whitman, it is vast; it contains multitudes. Is there even, one might well ask, a single unchallengeable idea of the Indian nation? Yes, there is. I have written in my book An Era of Darkness about how the notion of Bharatvarsha in the Rig Veda, of a land stretching from the Himalayas to the seas, contained the original territorial notion of India; for the bounds imposed by the mountains and the oceans created common bonds as well, making the conception of India as one civilisation inhabiting a coherent territorial space and a shared history truly timeless. There are deep continuities, therefore, in the imagining of Indian nationhood, that transcend centuries of internal division. In that sense, the idea of India is as old as antiquity. However, the idea of India as a modern nation based on a certain conception of human rights and citizenship, vigorously backed by due process of law, and equality before law, is a relatively recent and strikingly modern idea. Earlier conceptions of India drew their inspiration from mythology and theology. The modern idea of India, despite the mystical influence of Tagore, and the spiritual and moral influences of Gandhiji, is a robustly secular and legal construct based upon the vision and intellect of our founding fathers, notably (in alphabetical order!) Ambedkar, Nehru, and Patel. The Preamble of the Constitution itself is the most eloquent enumeration of this vision. In its description of the defining traits of the Indian republic, and its conception of justice, of liberty, of equality and fraternity, it firmly proclaims that the law will be the bedrock of the national project. In my recent book The Battle of Belonging I have argued that India’s is a civic nationalism, anchored in the Constitution and its liberal democratic institutions, a nationalism of belonging rather than of blood. Speaking for myself, when I refer to my own nationalism, spurn any non-Indian allegiance, and proudly wear a tricolour lapel-pin every day, I am really subscribing to a patriotism that rests on this conception of India — a love of my country because it is mine, anchored in the institutional and constitutional pillars of civic nationalism. To me, Indian nationalism derives its political legitimacy not from ethnicity, religion, language, culture, or any of the immutable trappings that people acquire from birth, but from the consent and active participation of our citizens, as free members of a democratic polity. For our nationalism to rise above the “Hindi-Hindu[tva]-Hindustan” idea of India proclaimed by the present ruling dispensation, we must preserve the idea of India embedded in the Republic our founding leaders created — sustained by liberal democratic institutions, constitutionalism that guarantees freedom of speech and association, and representative democracy that empowered the individual citizen irrespective of caste or creed, region or religion, language or literacy. When our present rulers tell us that to disagree with them is anti-national, or that to be a true Indian one must be a Hindi-speaking Hindu, we can answer by pointing to the Constitution, whose idea of India they so shamelessly disregard. The true Indian patriot will tell you that in our democracy you don’t really need to agree all the time — except on the ground rules of how you will disagree. Dividing our people into majority and minority, Hindu and Muslim, Hindi-speaker and Tamil, nationalist and anti-national, is fundamentally un-Indian and fails to reflect the real nature of our society. The suggestion that only a Hindu, and only a certain kind of Hindu, can be an authentic Indian is an affront to the very premise of Indian nationalism. Uniformity comes at the price of unity; the insistence on conformity destroys the imperative of consensus. An India that denies itself to some of us could end up being denied to all of us. As we enter the 75th year of our Independence, there is a struggle taking place between these two ideas of India. One rests on a narrow conception of Indianness; it is intolerant of difference and suspicious of diversity, and seeks revenge upon history by perpetrating new wrongs today. The other is broader, capacious, and inclusive, accepting of difference and embracing diversity, secure that these are best accommodated in democratic institutions and processes sustained by our constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. Which idea prevails will determine the character of the India that will celebrate its centenary a quarter of a century from now. Shashi Tharoor is the Sahitya Akademi award-winning author of 22 books, including most recently ‘The Battle of Belonging’. He is the third-term Lok Sabha MP for Thiruvananthapuram  Uniformity comes at the price of unity; the insistence on conformity destroys the imperative of consensus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-struggle-between-two-ideas-of-india/article35920762.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepen federalism, reorient welfare||Seven-and-a-half decades have passed since we became Independent, throwing off the yoke of colonial rule through a long-drawn struggle, which had caught the attention of the world. The nationalist movement was not one which aimed at mere political independence. It had a clear perception of what Independent India should be. Independent India visualised by it was to be a democratic, secular, federal nation which will strive for removal of socially obscurantist practices and economic scourges such as poverty and inequality. As early as 1920, the linguistic basis of States was recognised. By 1931, the Karachi session of the Congress, had adopted an economic programme which laid the way ahead for an egalitarian society. Within the congress, the socialist groups and communists had a strong presence and they galvanised the move towards Poorna Swaraj. The values held aloft by the freedom movement should have easily translated into the agenda of the Independent India’s government led by titans of the freedom movement. But, this did not happen so easily. For linguistic reorganisation of States, an arduous struggle became necessary. Though federal principles are present in the Constitution, they have not got the pride of place they deserved, in a country which has unity in diversity as its unique feature. In a country such as ours, the Union, States and the local governments are to be moving in concentric circles and not functioning as a pyramidal structure. Certain unitary features such as Article 356, which enables the Union to take over the administration of a State on the recommendation of the Governor or otherwise, emergency powers, redrawing of State boundaries without discussion, vertical imbalances in fiscal matters, make the distribution of powers at best quasi-federal. Article 356, which was envisaged to be a dead letter by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, has been one of the most overused provisions of our Constitution. Legislation by the Union on subjects enumerated in the State and Concurrent Lists go against the grain of cooperative federalism. The content of our federal structure needs strengthening.  Besides, ideological and other forms of attack on the values enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution are on the rise and people of our country who have given unto themselves the Constitution need to be vigilant for preserving democracy, secularism, socialism and the sovereignty of our nation. Our economy, which hardly grew in the first half of the last century, saw better growth since the 1950s, though there is a trend to view this growth also as tardy, by experts who advocate liberalisation by dismantling the public sector and the roll-back of the government from social and economic sectors. Data tell us that our experience in the post-liberalisation phase since 1991 has not been one which has made us feel that economy has entered a higher phase of growth. Our economy has been facing phases of persistent slowdown in recent years. The reasons for the same have not only been cyclical but also structural. This brings us to highlight the need for state intervention in social and economic sectors so that there is demand-led growth. We need to focus on economic equality too, especially when 92% of our labour force is in the unorganised sector. Providing social security to this category is the obligation of governments as enunciated in the Directive Principles of State Policy in the Constitution. To do this effectively, the Union-State fiscal relations are to be restructured and local governments be empowered by providing them with funds, functions and functionaries. In the age of digitisation, we have to consciously bridge the digital divide, the consequence of economic inequality. We have made great strides in the fields of science and technology. But the progress will become fruitful only when no one faces a barrier in enjoying the results of our scientific and technological innovations. Technology has taken us to levels which we could not have even dreamt of in the past. But it has also brought in issues of incursions into privacy and civil rights. We need to be guarded against these. There needs to be a total change in mode of provision of government services to the public. The last vestige of colonial attitude should be discarded and the attitude of ‘giver’ and ‘taker’ should be erased from the minds of government authorities. Information technology can help a lot in this. But attitude change plays a key role and decentralised democratic governance is a great catalyst in this process. It is the poor and the marginalised who depend more on service and support from the government. Change in the approach of government authorities will give a sense of empowerment to the poor and the marginalised sections, and will enrich the content of our democracy. At this moment, we are on the cusp of history. We need to preserve, protect and carry forward the values of our nationalist movement which have been reflected in the Constitution we have given to ourselves. An empowered citizen, enabled local governments, federalism with meaningful content, and last but not the least the citizen who can exercise his freedom of choice and enjoy civil liberties without unnatural fear will make our freedom at 75 a moment of glory. Any attempt to reverse the progressive social, economic, secular and democratic ideas which we have imbibed as the people of this nation who value its unity amidst plurality and diversity, can prove cataclysmic. Redeeming the pledge At this moment, we have to redeem the pledge to preserve our values not wholly or in full measure but very substantially, as famously said by our first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru. Our democracy has passed through stages of fragility like 19 months of the Emergency, but our people have exhibited agility to restore it. In the time of the novel coronavirus pandemic, we have felt the need for a proactive role of the state in protecting life and livelihood of people. Our political democracy will have a bright future when efforts to attain economic and social equality succeed. Pinarayi Vijayan is the Chief Minister of Kerala  The content of our federal structure needs strengthening ... Change in the approach of government authorities will give a sense of empowerment to the poor and the marginalised sections, and will enrich the content of our democracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deepen-federalism-reorient-welfare/article35920769.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Still short of schooling at 74||Word has it that there are two schools of thought among Indian development economists — one advocating growth and the other redistribution. This perception is quite misleading. For one thing, growth and redistribution are not the only means of making the world a better place. To illustrate, civil liberties have much to contribute to the quality of life, but they have little to do with growth or redistribution. For another, the alleged dilemma between growth and redistribution overlooks the fact that some economic policies promote both. Universal elementary education is a prime example: it helps to achieve economic progress as well as to reduce social inequality. Quality education also contributes to human wellbeing in other ways — for instance, by helping us to look after our health and that of others. It is a kind of win-win-win policy. Indeed, countries that have focused on mass education at an early stage of development have reaped ample rewards for it across the world, as has Kerala in India. Education policy of the past All this is fairly obvious today, but it was far from clear 74 years ago, when India achieved independence. Elementary education was not particularly prominent in the initial Five-Year Plans, focused as they were on physical capital. The first Five-Year Plan said that “the tendency to open new primary schools should not be encouraged” [sic], as opposed to “remodeling of existing primary schools on basic lines” (a reference to the “basic education” project inspired by Mahatma Gandhi’s pedagogical ideas). When Milton Friedman, the champion of free markets, visited India in 1955, he was astonished by the government’s neglect of “human capital”. Quite likely, education policy in those days was influenced by the traditional upper-caste view that education is not important or even appropriate for the lower orders. To this day, it is not uncommon to hear from upper-caste personalities or even teachers in rural India that it is pointless or thankless to teach working-class children. Sometimes, they are more explicit and whisper things like “if poor children get educated, who will work in our fields and houses?” Of course, education levels have improved since independence. India’s female literacy rate, for instance, rose from just 9% in 1951 to 65% in 2011 (for women above the age of five years and seven years, respectively). From a historical perspective, this is quite a leap forward. From a comparative perspective, however, it is not particularly impressive, even by South Asia’s modest standards. According to the latest Demographic and Health Surveys, female literacy rates in the age group of 15-24 years were almost identical in India, Bangladesh and Nepal around 2016 – around 85% in each case. Bangladesh and Nepal used to be way behind India in this field, but they have caught up, despite India’s higher GDP per capita and faster rate of economic growth. Comparisons with East Asia, of course, would be devastating for India. Educational inequalities Further, average literacy rates do not convey India’s unique problem of educational inequalities. Schooling opportunities for different groups range from world-class to abysmal. Even within relatively small areas, the disparities are astonishing. Thirty years ago, in a small village of western U.P. called Palanpur, we found that literacy rates varied from 0% among Dalit girls to 100% among Kayashta boys. Within classrooms, too, differences in learning levels are often stark, with some children being able to read fluently while others still struggle to learn the alphabet. We are so used to these disparities that we often lose sight of their pathological nature. In 2012, according to UNESCO, the proportion of children studying in private schools at the primary level was just 12% or so in the world as a whole (excluding India), and even lower (below 10%) in “developed countries”. In India, by contrast, the corresponding proportion is around 40% and growing. Further, there are multiple layers within the private and government streams. In other words, the norm around the world is for most children to study in a shared schooling system of reasonably even quality, but in India the quality of schooling is contingent on class, caste, gender and ability to pay. This defeats the purpose of school education as a leveller of social inequalities, something India needs more than perhaps any other country. A casual look at school textbooks quickly conveys that India’s schooling system is designed as a kind of obstacle course, titled in favour of privileged children. In Jharkhand, Class 5 children are expected to read a thick English textbook with sentences that even teachers are likely to find it hard to understand (like “gravity speeds up communication means, it also explains why Pisa leans” [sic]). Advanced textbooks are a good deal for children who enjoy a fine working environment at home; for others, they are a nightmare. The stratified nature of India’s schooling system was on full display during the last few months. Soon after the COVID-19 crisis struck, schools were closed without batting an eyelid and most of them are still closed today. Privileged children continued to study online in their cosy homes even as the schooling system dropped “offline children” like hot potatoes. The fig leaf of online education has masked the elephant of school exclusion for a full 16 months without anyone taking serious notice outside specialised circles. This is a dramatic manifestation of the indifference of privileged classes towards the educational aspirations of the poor. The enormity of the situation hit us earlier this month during a house-to-house survey of four Dalit and Adivasi hamlets in Latehar, Jharkhand. There was no trace of online education, most children were unable to read a single word, and all parents were desperate to see the schools reopen. That this injustice remained virtually unquestioned for 16 months is a telling indictment of India’s exclusive democracy. As India enters its 75th year of independence, it is important to reflect on the blunders of the past and how to repair them. Failing that, the situation will be much the same when the country celebrates its first centenary. Jean Drèze is Visiting Professor at the Department of Economics, Ranchi University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/still-short-of-schooling-at-74/article35920788.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s North-east, from the periphery to the core||As I sit down to write this piece, the Assam Assembly is in session. Many important and transformational pieces of legislation are being passed. Some are regulatory, but most of them relate to the developmental agenda of the State, to take Assam among the top five states of the country in the next five years. I have completed more than three decades in public life. I have been blessed with multiple opportunities to work for the people of the North-east — Assam in particular — in various capacities. Many milestones have been achieved. Many challenges remain — some very critical, given the unique geography of the region. However, I am convinced that most of our disabilities emanate from historical and legacy factors which have hindered our growth. The last seven years of the National Democratic Alliance regime have been truly transformational for us in the region. Today, the stage seems set, for a higher growth trajectory, for the entire north-east region. Before we proceed further, a peep into the history of our geography — North-east India — looks relevant. History of neglect From the Mahabharata, till the beginning of the Islamic rule, the entire North-east had close cultural and economic linkages with the rest of Bharat Varsha. This relationship took a hostile turn around seven centuries ago when Islamic invaders began to seize control of Delhi. For the next 500 years, our ancestors continued to fight multiple battles, including the legendary battles of Saraighat and Itakhuli, to keep the Islamist invaders out of the North-east. Assam’s cultural and religious monuments were destroyed by the invaders. Unfortunately, Assam’s heroic struggle against these barbaric attacks found no mention in history books. The then undivided Assam was one of the most ardent participants against the colonial struggle, but the narratives of Assam, particularly events such as Phulaguri Dhawa, Patharughator Ran, and the immense contributions of Rani Gaidinliu, Tirat Singh, Kushal Konwar, Kanaklata Barua and many more find no resonance. Colonial rule saw an exploitative administration that was solely focused on the economic exploitation of tea and rubber. Demarcation of inner lines was based on revenue capability and not on the basis of ethnic and cultural considerations. On the other hand, since the 1935 Act, the British launched a cultural project to ‘civilize’ various tribes of the North-east. Nonetheless, beginning from the Phulaguri Dhawa to the Garo-Jaintia rebellion to the Quit India Movement, the brave people fought valiantly. British rule sowed the seeds for inter-regional disputes and communal politics. This unfair trend was taken further by the Congress party in the decades ahead. Congress’s neglect of core issues India’s North-east, or the then undivided Assam, is a classic case how a vibrant, regionally connected region with high rate of economic growth of 4% above the national growth rate could be turned into a peripheral, landlocked zone by a process of neglect and policy paralysis by then successive ruling Congress dispensations. Disruption of traditional routes of trade, commerce and connectivity; Delhi’s insensitivity towards Assam, a calibrated and disadvantageous model of Partition in the eastern sector, the great earthquake, non-cognisance of Assam’s claim over economic resources, top down planning and development model, continuous neglect of Assam’s immigration and identity issue made the North-east region a peripheral zone both in terms of development framework and national imagination. In all critical issues such as Centre-State federal relations, refugee crisis, control over resources such as oil, tea and timber, illegal immigration issues and crucial internal and external security issues, the region faced a situation of ‘internal colonialism’ from its own government sitting in Delhi. The neglect from Delhi is epitomised on multiple occasions. The year is 1962. I am referring to Nehru’s insensitive attitude towards Assam in the context of the Chinese attack. I can say that the history of the North-east will never be kind to the Congress party and its leaders. I myself was a part of the Congress party for several years but I realised that successive leadership of the party had a clear interest to keep the region under-developed, neglected, and divided. Until 2014, Delhi harboured a strange theory that rapid creation of infrastructure in the border areas could provoke our neighbours, hence many villages were purposefully kept outside power and road grids for several decades even after Independence. Ushering in peace The entire development philosophy of the region changed after the coming of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government under Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and later subsequently under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. For the first time, under Mr. Vajpayee, North-east India began to get a transparent deal, of development and progress. This was the time when the central government created a separate, dedicated Department of Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER) to ensure all-round development. This was also the time when the East-West connectivity corridor was launched. The biggest priority of the BJP has been to bring the curtain down on long drawn conflict which have jeopardised our past, burdened our present and threatened our future. Inspite of having a Prime Minister from Assam, Assam was deprived of its due in oil royalty which was rectified by the BJP government. Manipur’s longest economic blockade came to an end after the installation of the first BJP government in the State. The formation of NEDA, which I am closely associated with, was a significant step to help resolve several of these disputes and give greater voice to the various stakeholders of the North-east. The Bodo Accord, the LBA with Bangladesh, the NLFT agreement and the Bru-Reang Agreement are cases to point. Since 2014, insurgency-related incidents have reduced by 80%, civilian deaths have reduced by 99% and over 3,000 militants have surrendered since. These anti-insurgency operations have not happened in isolation. They have been accompanied by improved governance on the ground, choking the smuggling route through better policing and a genuine political will to bring peace and demonstrated intention to devolve power to the people via Autonomous Councils. All this is happening under the guidance of Home Minister, Amit Shah. Mr. Shah has handheld each one of us in the region — it is a touch of healing, and importantly, of support. I will briefly touch on the border issues. These disputes emerged after States such as Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram were carved out of undivided Assam without delineating the border — the issue was kept open for the posterity to resolve. Given that all North-eastern States are now ruled by non-Congress governments, we now have a sincere chance to put the past behind us. Future growth engines The region has been witnessing a massive infrastructural innovation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been personally monitoring the implementation of these projects. The BJP firmly believes that politics in democracy is a tool, an opportunity to serve the people and the nation. It was this vision with which the BJP fought the Assembly polls in Tripura and dismantled the Left Front government of 25 years. The NDA Government restored people’s faith and launched a series of development projects in the region. The North-east is now experiencing freedom in the true sense. Not recently, cities across the North-east would shut down after sunset, power supply would be erratic and roads were notoriously horrible. Cities are now seeing a vibrant nightlife due to the remarkable improvement in law and order. For the first time, every North-east State will be connected by rail. Air connectivity has improved tremendously. The Prime Minister has ensured that the North-east becomes the fulcrum of India’s Act East Policy. The Kaladan Multi-modal Transit Transport Project, the India-Myanmar-Thailand Trilateral Highway Project, Rhi-Tiddim Road Project, and several other projects will strengthen our Act East Policy. In Assam, we have made tremendous progress in health and education parameters. From being a remote region riddled with insurgency, the North-east is entering in a phase of rapid growth and stability. I am very confident about the future of the North East. I foresee a growing contribution of the North-eastern States to National GDP and we will collectively work to ensure India becomes a $5 trillion economy. We are celebrating our 75th Independence Day with a strong belief that freedom is set to become more meaningful for our five crore fellow citizens who live in our eight sister States [Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim]. It is important we recollect the past and ensure that we do not repeat any of the historical mistakes in the present or the future. Himanta Biswa Sarma is the Chief Minister of Assam  Cities are now seeing a vibrant nightlife due to the remarkable improvement in law and order. For the first time, every North-east State will be connected by rail links.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/indias-north-east-from-the-periphery-to-the-core/article35920811.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A time for strategic autonomy, building up national strength||Spare a thought for Jawaharlal Nehru and the leaders of Independent India. Between September 1946, when Nehru took over the interim government of India, and 1950, when the country became a republic, many tasks awaited: to build a country by combining British India with 564 or so sovereign or semi-sovereign princely states; deal with the horrendous consequences of Partition, including the greatest mass migration in history until Bangladesh was created in 1971; begin changing the abject condition of the people of India; fight a war with Pakistan in Kashmir; and build new instruments of state such as the Indian Foreign Service and repurpose old ones like the Indian Army, the Intelligence Bureau, and the police. Even Indian Standard Time was only introduced on September 1, 1947. Before this, different provinces and princely states had their own times, and reading an Indian railway timetable was a complex skill. Frontiers and boundaries needed to be established and administration extended to every corner of the new state of India. Those involved in the transition had to draft a Constitution for the new republic; suppress an armed communist revolution in Telangana; and deal with China’s occupation of Tibet — for the first time in history, China had become India’s neighbour. Nehru faced all this simultaneously and without the experience of ever having run even a municipal government. That so much of what was done in those initial days has stood the test of time and has been carried on by the leaders’ successors, not all of whom shared their ideas and preferences, says a great deal about those men and women, their ideas, and their understanding of India. They managed to accomplish much despite disagreements among themselves, largely because of the leadership that Nehru provided. Nehru had a grander, more expansive and more ambitious view of India’s role in Asia than other Indians who thought of these issues. Nehru sought nothing less than a radical and complete reworking or remaking of Asian and global geopolitics. Three overarching causes impelled him to do so. The first was the need to transform India. The second was the threat of nuclear annihilation after the atom bomb gave nations the power to destroy human civilisation. And the third was the need to free Asia and Africa from the colonial yoke. Nehru saw these as interlinked. Almost all his international initiatives through the early 1950s were intended to further these goals. Grand goals Was Nehru reasonable to seek such grand goals? For Nehru, that was a secondary question. He saw that power, military and economic, was not enough without legitimacy. He was also realist enough not to underestimate the difficulty of what he was trying to achieve. To those who thought he should concentrate on India’s internal development and not the world, he would answer that world peace was essential for India’s development. Besides, he believed strongly that India, with her civilisational legacy, was the natural thought leader of global processes despite her limitations of hard power. One must admire the boldness of Nehru’s world view. But Nehru’s ideas, prioritising legitimacy over power, also led him to ignore real threats and ultimately to failures, as in his dealings with China. However, three of Nehru’s goals were actually achieved in large measure, although not by the means he envisaged or entirely by Indian agency. First, India’s and Asia’s economies today have been transformed beyond expectations, but not following Nehru’s chosen economic path. Second, a nuclear holocaust has been averted, thus far. Third, Asia and Africa have been decolonised. In little more than 15 years following India’s Independence, the regional international system was transformed from one dominated by empires to one populated by sovereign states. Decolonisation in the Indian Ocean region was a far more fundamental shift than even the end of the Cold War. Rather than just a shift in alliances or a change in power distribution, or the entrance and departure of new states, it changed beliefs about the legitimacy of empire and replaced empire with sovereign states. For the first time in centuries, the constituents of the regional Asian order were essentially identical in the Indian Ocean, maritime Asia, Europe, and the rest of the world. Between eras Any prognosis based on the present geopolitics of Asia can only be tentative. That is because we are between eras, when the old order no longer works and does not reflect the balance of power, but the new one is not yet fully formed. We live in a paradoxical world. There is little comfort here for those who wish the world to return to the trajectory it was on before. Nor is there much comfort for those who wish for a clear unipolar Asian order, one with a clear hegemon and the certainties that come with that, whether they are partisans of China or the United States. I believe that neither China nor Asia is ready yet for a China-centred order. China may have the will and desire but lacks the objective power, and the United States seems incapable of exercising the will, though it may have the power. Nor is a bipolar order the likely result in Asia. Instead, the facts of geography and history — the basis of geopolitics — will probably result in separate arrangements and fragmented orders in the subregions of Asia, in East Asia, Southeast Asia, South Asia, the Persian Gulf, Central Asia, the Levant, and West Asia. Each of these areas has local or regional powers that will determine political and military outcomes, rather than relying on great-power rivalry and cooperation. For India, if there ever was a time for strategic autonomy, for building up national strength and hard power, and keeping a cool head, this is it. In confused times like this, it is essential to keep one’s enemies close and friends closer — keep the periphery pacified, stay out of blocs, and work with coalitions of powers wherever India’s interests coincide. This is not a time for drama, showy events, and the pursuit of status. India’s power and capabilities have yet to peak, and no other power shares its interests. Influence, like power, is a means to an end. For the conceivable future, the purpose of India’s external policies is to assist its transformation, creating an enabling environment for that task. That requires doing what successful powers did at similar stages of development — China in the 1980s and 1990s, the United States from 1880 until the end of the Second World War, Tudor and Stuart England — namely, not to overextend ourselves abroad and to build ourselves at home. India faces no existential external threat today. If there is a threat, it is internal. Letting others carry a costly or heavy burden is also a strategy. Rather than seeking a grand and outsize role abroad, India should do what is most important, that is, to make it possible for every Indian to live a safe, prosperous, and dignified life with the opportunity to realise his or her potential. That is the only goal worthy of a great country such as India. National confidence India’s future resides in the hands and heads of all of its citizens. How we as citizens perceive our situation and choose to build our narrative deeply affect our future. Free India inherited national confidence from the freedom movement, untouched by false pride, hubris or ego. We sought no apology or reparations from Great Britain for what that empire had done to us. Instead, we set out to build our own future in our own way. When Nehru chose non-alignment, it was with confidence that India was entering a new era and would grow into a modern, secular, prosperous, and safe country for all Indians. That confidence was bound in a national narrative that accepted history for what it was, without ridiculous claims, manufactured enemies, or exaggerated boasts. We need some of that confidence and objectivity now, combined with logic, reason and clarity, if we are to deal successfully with the world as it is, building a better India that is true to itself and its people. Today, more than ever we need to strengthen our autonomy while working with all the major powers and cooperating harmoniously with our neighbours. Instead, some Indians are so worried by the uncertain world that they suggest India go cap in hand seeking security in alliance with others, chasing status, glory, and approbation instead of the welfare and security of the people. As a result, relations with our neighbours have seldom been as difficult as they are now. China and Pakistan have no compunction in acting together against Indian interests and sovereignty, and India is being reduced to a bit player on the international stage. We have lost five years. Our national confidence has been replaced by bravado and extravagant statements. We need to get back to our roots, to the clear well springs of our will and our confidence. India is the country of Kautilya, Chandragupta Maurya, Charvaka, Kalidasa, Panini, Ashoka, Kanishka, Harsha, Akbar, Gandhiji, and Nehru. All of them threw open the windows of our home to the world. We should accept no less, no simulacrum of leadership, no prejudices masquerading as ideas. Some of us have lost the ambition to think big of ourselves, of India’s role in the world. Dread and hate replace reasoned thought, leading to destructive social conflict in and around India. We are offered two pictures of our national destiny. One vision is born of fear and polarisation and the other of national self-confidence and ambition. The former excludes many Indians and is based on a narrow, intolerant, and false sense of nationalism. The latter is a proudly patriotic, tolerant, modern, progressive, and secular vision of a confident nation that respects all its citizens. The former is inward-looking and diminishes India in the world. The latter is a confident India that stands for something with universal appeal. It is time we rejected the former and rededicated ourselves unambiguously to making the latter real.  Shivshankar Menon is a former National Security Adviser. This essay is derived from his latest book, ‘India and Asian Geopolitics: The Past, Present’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-time-for-strategic-autonomy-building-up-national-strength/article35920792.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Flyover proposed to ease congestion at Sarakki junction||As a solution to the congestion on the Kanakapura Road, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has proposed a 1.2 km long flyover at Sarakki junction. The detailed project report for the Rs. 130-crore project is ready. The project first found mention in the State government’s 2021-22 Budget. The flyover will have four lanes and will be 17 metres wide, and will run below the Namma Metro corridor on Kanakapura Road. “The congestion at Sarakki junction can be solved with the flyover, which will run below the metro corridor on Kanakapura Road. While the metro rail corridor is at an elevation of 13.5 metres, the flyover will be at an elevation of 5.5 metres,” a senior official said. Heavy congestion Sarakki junction sees heavy congestion with vehicular movement from Illias Nagar, J.P. Nagar 6th Phase, and Kanakapura Road. The flyover at this junction will ease congestion to a large extent, say civic officials. Signal-free corridor They said that already under the Nagarothana Scheme, the Outer Ring Road — from Mysuru Road to Silk Board Junction — had been converted into a signal-free corridor at Rs. 153.42 crore, with flyovers at KEB Junction, Deve Gowda petrol station junction and Dalmia junction, and underpasses at Muthuraj junction, Kadirenahalli, and Puttenahalli. Sources pointed out that currently, there were no signals on the Outer Ring Road from Goraguntepalya to Veerabhadranagar junction. From here, there are signals at Veerabhadranagar junction, Ittamadu, Katriguppe, and Kamakya junction. After crossing these junctions, there is no signal up to Sarakki junction, a major junction. “Once this flyover is constructed, the junction will be signal-free. There will then be no traffic up to J.D. Mara junction on Bannerghatta Road,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flyover-proposed-to-ease-congestion-at-sarakki-junction/article35920935.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Using nanorobots in dental procedures||A significant percentage of root canal treatments fail, because the procedure leaves out some bacteria that are located deep within the dentinal tubules. A group of scientists including those from Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, has found a way to tackle this using nanosized robots that will travel through the tubules and target the bacteria. They have also founded a company, Theranautilus, which will eventually market this technology. Effectively harmless Measuring no more than 300 nanometres, these spiral silica nanobots with a bit of iron embedded in them are suspended in water or water-like biocompatible medium. “There are about a billion nanorobots in 0.5 ml water. This concentration is almost a trillion times lower than the amount of silica found in a pint of beer and is effectively harmless for the human body,” explains Debayan Dasgupta, a research associate at IISc and co-founder of the company. “We inject (or rather, place them gently) in the central canal of the tooth. Then a rotating magnetic field is applied using a triaxial Helmholtz coil. The magnetic material embedded in the nanorobot has a magnetic moment that follows the applied magnetic field. This causes the nanorobot to move - like screws move into a wall.” To the minute nanorobots, the dentinal tubules look like large channels. If the nanorobot is 300 nanometres in size, the tubules have diameters of about a few microns width and are 1,500 to 2,000 microns in length. Once the bacterial colony is reached, the nanorobot can deploy various antibacterial strategies one of which is localised heating. “This is very effective because the bacteria we are targeting are Enterococcus faecalis, extremely hardy bacteria that are resistant to most commercially available antibiotics,” says Dr Dasgupta. Precise control The idea is that these nanorobots can be precisely controlled spatio-temporally. “Swarms of nanorobots can be used to target different diseased sites inside teeth to neutralise the harmful biofilms following which they can be retrieved back to the physician,” says Shanmukh Srinivas Peddi, a dental surgeon and co-founder of the company. Studying active matter The thought of making spiral nanorobots that can be manipulated using magnetic fields originated from a question of separating left-handed and right-handed molecules using microwave fields, nearly 12 years ago. “We realised it may be possible to do the same with colloids and magnetic fields, and subsequently developed a method of making very small magnetised spirals in large quantities,” says Prof Ambarish Ghosh, from IISc, also a co-founder of the company. “Since then these spirals were shown to be great agents to study physics of active matter, useful for biophysical measurements and microfluidic manipulations, and perhaps the holy grail, is to be able to put it in human body as biomedical nanorobots.” The Government of India every year confers through the Technology Development Board, national awards for technology development and successful commercialisation of indigenous technology. For this year, Theranautilus has won this award in the Start-up/Deep- Tech industry category. Currently the technology is being taken through the regulatory tests for drug compliance which will be followed by animal trials.  There are about a billion nanorobots in 0.5 ml water. This concentration is almost a trillion times lower than the amount of silica found in a pint of beer... Debayan Dasgupta CeNSE, IISc||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/using-nanorobots-in-dental-procedures/article35920753.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A pledge to preserve the honour of India||India, strong and tall as the Himalayas in the North, and wide and deep as the ocean in Kanniyakumari in the South, is celebrating its 75th Independence Day. In 1947, journalists from various countries published their wishful thinking as news, saying that India could gain independence, but it would not be able to preserve it. They also claimed that India would not be in a position to continue the process of electing people’s representatives through elections. They wrote this until 1960, and even predicted that the election to be held in 1967 would be the last democratic exercise in the country. India, however, demolished those false predictions and stands majestically as ever, even after 75 years. What became the foundation for the Indian freedom struggle was the spirit that we should rule our country and that foreigners have no place in it. It was this spirit that Rabindranath Tagore called the “soul of India”. Writing before his death, Tagore predicted that “the British would be driven away soon and when they leave they would leave garbage and rubble”. If a disfigured India has risen to be a towering nation, it is due to that sustained spirit. India is majestically celebrating its 75th Independence because the rulers and people at the grassroots level alike maintain unity without widening the difference in various nationalities, languages, religions and States. Let us vow to preserve the honour of India for centuries to come by according more priority to democracy, social justice, State autonomy, federal values, secularism and equal opportunities. India is not just in the firmness it shows outside its territory; it resides in the hearts of the people living in its boundaries. The governments have the great responsibility of inculcating such a value in people’s hearts. The Dravida Munnetra Kazahgam (DMK) government in Tamil Nadu functions with the goal of “all for all”. All State governments should adopt this, and even the Union government should function with this as its goal. A country is not just its borders. People are the country. A lesson that was taught in school comes to my mind now. A map of India, in many pieces, was given to a student. The student, who sought to assemble a map out of the pieces, discovered a picture of an eye behind one piece of paper. He then looked at the reverse of all the pieces and found a portrait of a man. When he arranged them in order, the picture of India emerged from those pieces. Yes. People are countries. Saving a nation is nothing but saving its people. The DMK is a movement and its basic foundations are made of social justice, equality, self-respect, a love for the language and the rights of the Tamil race. Driven by these values, our leader Kalaignar Karunanidhi secured the right for Chief Ministers to hoist the national flag on Independence Day ( picture ). The development of Tamil Nadu should be based on those values. Industrial development, social change, and educational development should happen simultaneously. Development does not mean just economic development. It should also result in social development. The economy, education, society, ideas, and performance should grow simultaneously. The State government is striving hard to implement this Dravidian Model of development. While aiming for economic growth, we should ensure there is no inequality in society. We are working in a planned way so that all States would achieve growth by following Tamil Nadu. Indian freedom fighters and martyrs wanted to see such growth and development. A true tribute could be offered to them only by implementing and giving shape to those ideas. The Tamil Nadu government will function in a manner to honour them not by merely organising events, but through its achievements. A grain turns into ambrosial food by immersing itself between the fire in the oven and boiling water in the pot. Our leader Kalaignar would say that this was how martyrs were made. I take a vow by bowing to those martyrs. Independence Day greetings to all. M.K. Stalin is the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-pledge-to-preserve-the-honour-of-india/article35920772.ece
15 August 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmir markets run short of flags||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) J&K headquarters located at Srinagar’s Jawahar Nagar witnessed a rare beeline of people placing orders for the tricolour ahead of Independence Day as markets ran short of the flags in the Kashmir Valley this year. Ceiling lifted In a first, the Lieutenant-Governor’s administration has directed officials to hoist flags on all government buildings, including educational institutes, hospitals, departmental offices, courts and municipalities. Deputy Commissioners have been directed to ensure that all rehearsals, Independence Day functions, and the hoisting of flags, are filmed for official records. The administration has also decided to lift the pandemic-related ceiling on the assembly of more than 25 people for staff members and students to organise I-Day functions in schools and colleges on August 15. There are 11,633 educational institutes in the Kashmir division. Hundreds of other official locations have been identified for flag hoisting. The move has led to a dearth of flags and the BJP’s office has been busy arranging cloth and stitching flags for locals as well as officials. The BJP has also decided to double the flag-hoisting ceremonies by its party leaders in 46 Assembly constituencies and 10 District Headquarters of the Kashmir Valley. “We held around 50 ceremonies last year. This year, we will organise 100 ceremonies of flag hoisting,” BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur told The Hindu . “We are aware of the shortage of the flags in the Valley. Many departments, especially teachers at government schools, who have been rehearsing the National Anthem for the past three days, approached us for flags. We have entertained dozens and dozens of orders,” he added. He said the demand for flags was a slap on the face of those who said that after the revocation of Article 370, there would be no one to carry the India flag. “It will be for the first time in 75 years that a record number of tricolours will be unfurled,” Mr. Thakur added. However, a teacher in a government high school in Srinagar city said there were other reasons for approaching the BJP office, adding, “Stitching flags from local tailors in the city would have endangered our lives. Many parents of students have already refused to be part of the official functions, fearing being marked as targets by militants and their supporters.” Several teachers expressed anxiety over organising and videographing I-Day rehearsals. “We fear that the decision to release videos of rehearsals online by officials will have repercussions in future,” another teacher said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kashmir-markets-run-short-of-flags/article35921111.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||State to see 10-25% increase in rainfall in coming years: Scientists||Karnataka will witness 10 to 25% increase in rainfall and areas under drought or drought years will decline drastically by mid-2030 and the increase in rainfall will be accompanied by larger magnitudes in the intensity and frequency of heavy rainfall and floods, according to N.H. Ravindranath and G. Bala, authors of multiple UN IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) reports and professors at IISc., Bengaluru. With the latest IPCC report estimating the chances of crossing the global warming level of 1.5°C in the next decades, Prof. Ravindranath and Prof. Bala said, “A district-level multi-model projection shows that rainfall is projected to increase by 10 to 25% in districts of Karnataka even by the mid-2030s.” Focus areas Besides coastal districts of the State, regions of the Krishna and the Cauvery basins will witness heavy rainfall in the coming years and the monsoon rainfall variability between years will increase with some years receiving very high rainfall and a few recording deficient rainfall. Karnataka has already been experiencing unprecedented floods in the recent years, they said. Prof. Ravindranth told The Hindu that with global warming reaching 1.5-2° Celsius in the next two decades, high rainfall and rise in sea levels would be irreversible in the coming years. Shrinking glaciers, melting of ice sheets, rising seas, species loss, and more acidic oceans would be irreversible changes, he said. “One-third of the biodiversity in the Western Ghats of Karnataka will be damaged by 2050 and there will be reduction in fish production in the sea because of acidic oceans,” said Prof. Ravindranath, who is also part of the Karnataka State Action Plan on Climate Change, 2021, report, which is yet to be made public. Rainfall would be high intensity and rainfall would be 50 mm to 100 mm in one day or some days and it would be difficult to forecast monsoon in advance owing to global climatic change factors, Prof. Ravindranath said. Authors said with regular years of rainfall, drought years would be fewer in the coming decades. The State governments have to focus on management of floods, particularly in urban areas and cities and storage of water in dams. “Bengaluru and many cities and towns have all experienced flood events in recent years and they will only intensify in the coming decades,” they said. Damage to properties Scientists have suggested to the government to undertake construction of railway network, bridges, building, and dams by taking into consideration changes in the climate. “Biggest problem,” according to them, “is management of water in the coming years.” Damage to public and private properties would be immense if authorities did not incorporate climate change in their policies, Prof. Ravindranath and Prof. Bala warned. Chairman of Bangalore Climate Change Initiative-Karnataka chapter and former Minister B.K. Chandrashekar, who has read the report, said political parties must include climate change in their election manifestos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/state-to-see-10-25-increase-in-rainfall-in-coming-years-scientists/article35920927.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||Over 30,000 girls have not received Rs. 1 sanitary pads for 16 months||Irfana Begum, 45, said she was surprised when an ASHA worker came to her house with a pack of sanitary pads for Rs. 6 in early 2020 for her 18-year-old daughter. “If we are buying a packet from outside it costs around 40 rupees. It was a good scheme and was helpful to us, but we have not been getting it for a long time now,” Ms. Begum said at her house in an unauthorised colony in Sarai Kale Khan. Her daughter, Iqra, who is now 19 years old, is mentally unwell and has studied only till class five, and her husband has been out of work for the last two years. Under the government’s Udaan scheme, like Iqra, 30,000 out-of-school girls used to get a pack of six sanitary pads for Rs. 6 a month. But the scheme has stopped for the past 16 months as the government has not floated a tender for new suppliers, according to ASHA workers and officials. Most of the beneficiaries of the scheme are from economically backward backgrounds. The scheme has not been functional from April 2020, around the time when the pandemic hit the city. “It has been restructured to give 10 sanitary pads free of cost to about 70,000 out of school girls a month, including some students in municipal schools. A new tender for procuring the sanitary pads as per the revised BIS standards is yet to be floated,” a Delhi government official said. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not offer a comment on why the scheme is not operational. In December 2019, the Delhi High Court had asked the Delhi government and civic bodies to keep providing sanitary pads for free to school-going girls and those who dropped out and continue with their awareness programmes and schemes to promote menstrual hygiene. Surbhi Singh, a gynaecologist and founder of Sacchi Saheli, an NGO working for women’s health and education, said that they have been distributing sanitary pads and have found that there is a need for pads in poor households. “Many times, men in the family, who are breadwinners, think of sanitary pads as a luxury and something that is avoidable. Women are dependent in many cases and have to suffer because of this. Sanitary pads are needed for better hygiene,” Dr. Singh said. “If there are funds for the scheme, then it is not acceptable that the government is not distributing the pads. In Scotland, sanitary pads are given for free to every woman. But in India, it is not given for free to even poor people,” she added. Hygiene scheme It is part of the Central government’s Menstrual Hygiene Scheme (MHS), wherein funds are given to State governments to purchase the sanitary pads. The scheme was implemented under the name of Udaan by the Delhi government from April 2019. Though the target was to reach 50,000 adolescent girls a month, the government was able to distribute it to about 30,000 girls on an average. The scheme was also aimed at creating awareness about safe and hygienic menstrual health practices. After the scheme was started in 2019, the Delhi government decided to increase the number of pads to 10 from six and also give the pads for free. The contract, which was signed in 2019 with a private company, expired in March 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-30000-girls-have-not-received-rs-1-sanitary-pads-for-16-months/article35921326.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The nuanced dimensions to Indian entrepreneurship||The theme of entrepreneurship is multi-faceted and nuanced, especially in India, where almost 80% of people are self-employed or work in the informal sector. As with most realities of our country, this is paradoxical when we juxtapose the 58 Unicorns, all created 2011 onwards, with almost 64 million micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), most of which are struggling to survive in the context of severe disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Whilst it is hard to estimate the employment generated by these Unicorns, a key dimension of economic and social progress, we can assume that 64 million MSME families are either partially or solely dependent on their MSMEs for livelihood. That covers a population of approximately 320 million. Conceptually, the 64 million MSMEs fit the definition of “entrepreneurs” (taking financial risk, setting up business, providing employment, etc.), but do not have the resources to scale, or even become profitable enough to have a corpus of savings that they can rely on, in difficult times. Entrepreneurial footprint In the 74 years since Independence, India has become the sixth largest economy as measured by GDP; it has 5,000 stocks listed on the BSE and a stock market valued at approximately $3 trillion in July 2021, which grew at 14.7% over the last five years, compared with 13.3% global growth in market capitalisation. Of the top 10 companies in India (five banks and two IT companies), five were founded in the mid-1980s onwards. No surprise then that the contribution of the services sector to India’s real GDP has increased from 26% and 37% in 1951 and 1991, respectively, to 54% in 2021. Additionally, most of the 58 Unicorns, of which 40 happened during 2019-21, comprise sectors such as e-commerce, payment systems, fintech, education and social messaging. Private equity-venture capital (PE-VC) investments in 2020 were approximately $39 billion across 814 deals and in the first half of 2021 have already crossed $27 billion. This combination of abundant liquidity and speculative fervour has also twisted valuations rather notably. India’s entrepreneurial footprint in manufacturing, on the other hand, has been lacklustre, constraining integration into global supply chains. Despite recent pronouncements such as ‘Ease of Doing Business’ and ‘Make in India’, etc., the contribution of manufacturing to GDP continues to be rather timorous — from 15% in 1991 to 17% in 2021. In fact, the shift occurred during 1951-81 when the contribution of manufacturing increased from 8.6% to 14% of GDP. It is important to note that no major country has achieved economic progress without a vibrant manufacturing sector with its capacity and capability to scale, to increase productivity and to offer large-scale employment. MSME is the second largest employer after agriculture and, despite contributing 45% of manufacturing output, has largely remained outside the purview of policymakers, even after the re-launch of the Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd. (MUDRA) scheme in April 2015. It is important to recognise that the role of entrepreneurship — apart from creating and scaling profitable businesses — is also to foster social change and enhance the quality of how people live on a daily basis. This can only be done by effectively addressing the big challenges that transform societies, countries and our planet. In many ways, the dairy co-operative movement, under the visionary leadership of Dr. Verghese Kurien, industrialised dairy (currently there are 150 million small dairy farmers and small-scale vendors), created one of India’s most iconic brands (Amul), and made India the largest milk producer in the world – though at low levels of productivity, which is an upside opportunity going forward. The model demonstrated that decentralised procurement, which involved tens of millions of small households, could be combined with state-of-the-art production facilities to make milk and dairy products more available, accessible and affordable. At yet another level, Jamsetji Tata confirmed that a business of steel and a heart of compassion could create empathetic leadership, putting social and societal concerns at the centre of governance. As he said, “In a free enterprise, the community is not just another stakeholder in business, but, is in fact, the very purpose of its existence”. The empirical evidence we now have of the devastating consequences of climate change makes the most compelling case for societal and environmental considerations to be integral to entrepreneurship and the business model it creates. Unless policymakers, entrepreneurs and companies take that seriously, there is little hope that critical issues such as climate change, access to good quality and affordable health care and education, and improved standards of living for all will get addressed in a fair and equitable manner. An inclusionary ecosystem The way forward for entrepreneurship, given the diversity of India, is to work towards an inclusionary ecosystem that prioritises the generation of real value and real jobs, and includes the millions of MSMEs struggling for access to resources and to markets, for they constitute not just manufacturing units but also artisans, weavers and craftspeople who uphold the critical heritage of India. Our economy cannot be polarised into a productive and globally competitive formal sector, employing 10%-15% of people and a low-productivity “other” sector, including agriculture and micro and small enterprises, employing the remaining 85%. This is an opportunity to accelerate development and reduce inequality, with relevant and growth-oriented reforms that energise innovative and entrepreneurial endeavour. Vinita Bali is an Independent Director and Strategy Adviser||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-nuanced-dimensions-to-indian-entrepreneurship/article35920781.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||City opens up after COVID||In March 2020, when the first COVID-19 positive case surfaced in the city, every sector went into a tizzy. The disease was new and even the medical fraternity was a puzzled lot. From the last week of March, the Union Government enforced a nation-wide lockdown and everything came to a standstill. All sectors right from entertainment to retail and from transport to the heavy and industries, were hit. The economics, were down and a new normal life slowly seeped into the society. It took almost a year for the cloud to clear and just when things were settling down and opening up, the country was hit by the more deadly second wave. This once again closed down everything in the city and it is only from the month of July that things slowly opening up once again. The medical fraternity say that this is ‘new normal’ and this how it is going to be at least for the next couple years and the economy must find its own window to bounce back. Though the government has given the clearance for cinema thatres to open, only a few have opened have and business is yet to pick up as normal. Apart from having enthusiastic patronage, like in pre-COVID times, the halls are facing the problem of non-availability of big banners and new films. The few films, which were made, were released on Over the Top (OTT) platforms. The Schools are set to reopen from August 16, the threat of a possible third wave looms large. Though the government has taken the step to vaccinate all teachers on priority basis, the children are yet to be vaccinated, as any vaccine for children are yet to hit the market. The government is taking all precautions to see that children at colleges and schools are safe. On the other hand retail business has opened up but due to lack of events and every festival and occasion including marriages being scaled down, the shopping spree is yet to pick up as desired. But owners are optimistic that it would pick up in due course of time. Restaurants have also opened up but the in-house dining aspect is still to pick up as desired and still online orders are ruling the roost. We are taking all precautions. The hotel is sanitised periodically everyday and even the staff is vaccinated, but patrons are still to come in as expected. Though online business is good, but the main-stay of restaurant business is in-house dining. We are hoping that things will pick up once the scare of third wave is down. The optimistic aspect is that vaccination drive is on the full swing, and by the year end, it is expected that at least 70% of the population in the city will be fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-opens-up-after-covid/article35921228.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Privileging political independence||The story of the eagle Garuda stealing the nectar of immortality from Indra’s paradise to liberate his mother from slavery reminds us of Greek heroes who go on quests to fight monsters to liberate damsels in distress. In Biblical tales, the role of the Greek hero is taken up by a messiah who rescues the faithful from slavery or exile. Our ideas of independence stem from these stories. Struggle against an oppressor To be independent, you need to struggle against an enslaver or an oppressor. In the case of the Indian nation state, the oppressor was colonial rule. In the case of the Hindu Rashtra, the oppressor continues to be Islamic and Western hegemony, manifesting as secularism. In the case of social justice “woke” warriors, the oppressor is patriarchy that uses language to promote stifling structures such as race, caste, religion and gender. What is conveniently assumed to be Enlightenment ideas emerging from the French Revolution is, in fact, an ancient mythic idea. The Buddha also sought liberation, but not from oppressors in society. He sought liberation from suffering. Not social suffering but psychological suffering. He was tormented by the idea of death and decay. His problem was not with culture; it was with nature, with life itself. His answer was withdrawing from culture as well as nature; of rejecting social roles and overpowering the mental craving for pleasure, and fear of pain. He sought liberty from the world, unlike current beliefs about liberty in the world. People who we call “liberals” seek freedom in a social sense. The Buddha sought freedom in a spiritual sense. It was a different kind of liberation pursued by monastic orders. Their oppressor was kama (desire) and karma (destiny). What is more important? Social independence or spiritual independence? The former depends on people around you agreeing with you. The latter is a solitary and autonomous venture. Students of the Humanities are taught about “liberty in society”. “Liberty from society” is presented as a “monastic eastern philosophy”. Liberty in society is seen as a realistic practical public goal; liberty from society is seen as a spiritual indulgence, a private affair. Both forms of independence are, however, visualised as war. The war is external or internal. Feminism is a war against patriarchy. Social justice is a war against hegemony that privileges certain elites. The Buddha’s quest for nirvana is a war against Mara, the demon of desire. Shiva battles Kama, the god of lust. Vishwamitra battles the sensuous Menaka. But in the 19th century, we find Indian freedom fighters merging the social battle with the spiritual. The external battle of Pandavas and Kauravas was turned into an allegory of internal struggles by Mahatma Gandhi. He had successfully used spiritual techniques such as fasting as a tool to achieve political goals. Likewise, Ambedkar turned Buddhism from a monastic practice to a political practice: embracing Buddhism was seen as an act aimed at overthrowing the Brahmanical hierarchy. The enemy was not Mara; it was Manu. Both Gandhiji and Ambedkar were lawyers, who had read translations of the Gita and the Buddha’s life. They realised that Indians privileged the spiritual over the social, and they were determined to reverse the trend. The 20th century saw non-violence become a political tool; monasticism became a political tool. Similar transformations had occurred before. Sikhism had transformed in the 17th century from a Bhakti school to the military Khalsa movement against the atrocities of Mughals. Here, there is a division made between piri (the spiritual path) and miri (the political path). But today, the spiritual is increasingly becoming the political. The Sikh identity is as much a spiritual identity as it is a political one, with the idea of Khalistan inspiring extremists. The oldest Bhakti poetry of Alvars and Nayanars is a personal quest, but now they inform Tamil nationalism. Politics of Bhakti Not to be left behind, Hindutva has turned Bhakti from a spiritual practice to a political movement, seeking to overpower democracy with demagoguery. Unlike Krishna’s Bhakti Yoga, which seeks to help Arjuna overcome his doubts and fears, the new political Bhakti seeks to get unquestioning obedience of its vote bank. People are being told on WhatsApp groups that they can prove their devotion to Ram, Krishna, and Shiva by always agreeing with the Hindutva political stance. The early Christian church spoke of the Kingdom of God and dissociated itself from the Zionist movements against the Roman Empire. However, when the Roman Emperor became Christian, Christianity became a political tool to crush political opponents. The rise of Islam in the 7th Century also saw a simultaneous and rapid rise of an empire that overran the Christian West and the Zoroastrian East, making it difficult to separate the political from the spiritual. Nation-states have tried hard to separate the religious from the political, insisting that the religious should be spiritual not political. But for American voters today, to be Christian is to vote against liberal and secular movements. The Kingdom of God awaits those who reject the Communists. When the private becomes public We must ask ourselves: how does the private battle become the public battle, and why? The Buddha did not seek to change the world. He was on a personal quest. But over time, taking care of Buddhist monks was believed to earn spiritual merit. So the common man pursued them. This made them popular, and even rich. With fame and wealth came power to influence people. And so, Buddhist monks became political brokers in ancient India, with the ability to make and overthrow kings. We find the same pattern with Sufi orders across India, in medieval times, who were sought-after by ambitious warlords seeking to be independent sultans. Roman emperors saw in Christianity a force to mobilise people: feared at first, appropriated later. The Hindutva movement sees faith in Hindu gods as a force to mobilise people for political power. The Hindu Rashtra is like the Promised Land offered by Moses to the enslaved people of Egypt, which enables the exodus, but remains elusive forever. Spiritual practices turn into religions when they become social, hence political. Ideologies, by contrast, have no spiritual underpinnings. There is nothing spiritual about equality or social justice. Spiritual independence is about overpowering inner demons. Appreciating our anxieties when confronted with external challenges. For the Buddha, that external challenge was death and decay. For Arjuna, it was the horror of having to kill kinsmen. For Jesus and Sufi mystics, spirituality meant figuring out our ability to be kind and compassionate, rather than controlling and demanding. Today, these challenges are confronted in therapy sessions with psychologists. Politics is not about making people kind or generous. Political independence is about acquiring the power to get one’s way, even at the cost of others. Those who are unable to do so feel oppressed and continue the pursuit of political independence. “Liberty from the world” is seen as a cop-out. “Liberty in the world” makes us heroes, saviours and martyrs and seems far more glamorous. Devdutt Pattanaik is a mythologist who also writes on art, culture and heritage  Hindutva has turned Bhakti from a spiritual practice to a political movement, seeking to overpower democracy with demagoguery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/privileging-political-independence/article35920798.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Freedom from sedition||Seventy-four years after Independence, the time has come for us to seriously ask whether the law of sedition in India needs to be reconsidered. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, in 2019, only 3.3% of sedition cases culminated in a conviction. This conviction rate is negligible in contrast to other offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) like murder (41.9%) and cheating (22.8%). The number of sedition cases registered is microscopic – in 2019, there were only 229 such cases pending investigation as against 2.84 lakh cases of forgery, cheating and fraud. However, the fear that the police might arrest you on trumped up charges of sedition if you criticise the government serves as a serious fetter on the fundamental right to free speech and expression. In 2019, some 96 people were arrested for sedition, many of whom might have been opponents of the government and, statistically speaking, most of whom will eventually be acquitted. Sedition in England The law of sedition was introduced into the IPC by a colonial government intent on discriminating against Indians. Since 1832 in England, sedition had virtually become a dead letter and prosecutions were extremely rare. Sedition in England was a minor offence – a ‘misdemeanor’ as opposed to a ‘felony’. It attracted a sentence of around two years in prison. It was a ‘bailable offence’, meaning that a person arrested for sedition had the right to be immediately released on bail. A person charged with sedition had the right to be tried by a jury of his or her own peers, which made it very difficult to secure a conviction. The definition of sedition in England, since 1832, was quite clear – only those who incited violence against the government or asked their listeners to take up arms against the government could be said to have committed sedition. Merely criticising the government, even harshly or unfairly, was no offence at all. In 1870, an amendment to the IPC brought sedition into the statute books in India. Sedition in India was very different from its counterpart in England. Here, it was a colonial device meant to quell even peaceful resistance. It was made punishable with transportation to an overseas prison for life – a far cry from the two-year punishment for the misdemeanor in England. Indian patriots who were accused of sedition were not entitled to be tried by a jury of their peers. Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s trial, for instance, took place with a racially stacked jury of six white and three non-white jurors, who predictably voted to convict him by a majority of 6-3. Sedition in India was made a non-bailable offence, meaning that those who were arrested for sedition could only be released on bail at the discretion of a criminal court – they had no right to be immediately released on bail. Further, the definition of sedition in India was quite different from what it was in England. Here, merely ‘exciting disaffection’ against the government was sufficient to constitute sedition. As Justice Arthur Strachey of the Bombay High Court explained to the jury in Tilak’s case, ‘disaffection’ means the ‘absence of affection’ – in other words, even if Tilak made his listeners fall out of love with the government, this was enough to prosecute and convict him. The framers of India’s Constitution were therefore understandably suspicious of sedition. Consequently, though the fundamental right to free speech and expression had many exceptions under the new Constitution of independent India, sedition was not one of them. In Master Tara Singh’s case (1950), the Punjab High Court held that Section 124A of the IPC (containing the law of sedition) was unconstitutional. However, independent India’s leaders soon found that they had been too idealistic while drafting the Constitution. Shortly after it came into force, State governments were unable to ban periodicals which had the tendency of inciting communal riots. In a case decided by the Patna High Court, Justice Sarjoo Prasad chillingly observed that the fundamental right to free speech and expression in the new Constitution gave to all Indian citizens the right to incite murder and other cognisable offences with impunity. All this led to the enactment of the first amendment to the Constitution in June 1951 which, among other things, introduced a new exception to the right to free speech and expression – ‘public order’. Sedition, an offence which was designed to preserve the ‘public order’, was now no longer unconstitutional. To be sure, after India became independent, some improvements were made to the sedition regime. Jury trials were abolished, so there was no question of sedition cases being tried before racially loaded juries. In a case decided in 1962 ( Kedar Nath Singh v. State of Bihar ), the Supreme Court adopted the definition of sedition which had been in vogue in England. Now, only a person who incites others to take up arms against the government or to violently overthrow the government can be said to have committed sedition. Repressive features remain However, many of the colonially repressive features of the law of sedition remain on the statute books in India. Sedition is still punishable with life imprisonment and a non-bailable offence. Perhaps most startlingly, when the new Code of Criminal Procedure was enacted in independent India in 1974, it made sedition a cognisable offence. A cognisable offence is one in which a police officer can investigate the case and arrest the accused without obtaining a warrant from a magistrate. In other words, while the police in colonial India needed a warrant from a magistrate before they could arrest Tilak, the police in independent India can freely arrest the political opponents of the government on trumped up charges of sedition, without any hope of eventually securing a conviction. Sedition in England was formally abolished in 2009, though it had become obsolete much before that time. However, even if India’s parliamentarians want to keep sedition on the statute books, they must seriously consider some pressing amendments. By making sedition a bailable and non-cognisable offence, and reducing the punishment to a maximum of two years’ imprisonment, they must bring the law in line with what it was in England since 1832. Abhinav Chandrachud is an advocate at the Bombay High Court and the author of ‘Republic of Rhetoric: Free Speech and the Constitution of India’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/freedom-from-sedition/article35920801.ece
15 August 2021||Agartala,||TMC courts Left in Tripura||Criticising the Opposition CPI(M) in Tripura for allegedly not coming out on the streets to protest against the “State-sponsored terror tactics” of the BJP and protect its supporters, senior Trinamool Congress leader Bratya Basu on Saturday appealed to the Left supporters to join the Mamata Banerjee-led party. The CPI(M), which ruled the State for 25 years before being ousted by a BJP-led coalition in 2018, however, denied the charge and said its workers and leaders were the first to face the attack of the BJP. “When the BJP has let loose a reign of terror in Tripura, the leaders of the main Opposition party CPI(M) are not coming out on the streets to protest. If the leaders do not stand by the supporters, they should join our party,” Mr. Basu, also a Minister in West Bengal, said. The CPI(M) should not help the BJP party by opposing the TMC, Mr. Basu told a press conference. The TMC dethroned the CPI(M)-led Left Front in West Bengal in 2011. The Mamata Banerjee-led party returned to power in the State for its third consecutive term earlier this year facing stiff opposition from the BJP. Mr. Basu alleged that people in the State are looking for shelter in the face of terror unleashed by the BJP in both the States – Tripura and West Bengal. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura on August 8 for ‘violating Covid norms’. “We were not afraid. It is a state-sponsored terror tactic,” Mr. Basu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tmc-courts-left-in-tripura/article35921110.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Tribals from six villages stage half-naked protest||Seeking basic amenities, around 35 tribals from six bordering villages of Ravikamatham, Koyyuru and G.Madugula mandals, who were half-naked, staged a protest near the GVMC Gandhi Statue here on Saturday. They alleged that even after 74 years of Independence, their villages lack roads, power supply, proper health care and other basic amenities. Tribals from Neredubanda, Pasuvulabanda, Zeelugulova from Ravikamatham mandal and a few other villages in G Madugula and Koyyuru mandals, took part in the protest covering themselves with leaves. They alleged that more than 200 families from these six villages are living in dark due to lack of power supply. For them everyday is nightmare as there is a threat of snakes entering the localities in dark. Earlier, the Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) used to supply kerosene, but now they have also stopped providing the fuel, said CPI(M) leader Govinda Rao. A number of children from Neredubanda, Pasuvulabanda and Zeelugulova do not even have birth certificates, due to which they are not being given Aadhaar cards. The protestors also said that there were no anganwadi centres for the children. They also alleged that the villages do not even have road connectivity to the mandal headquarters. They complained that in the absence of roads, they are forced to carry pregnant women or the sick in ‘dolis’ to the nearest road point MLC Raghu Varma, who also took part in protest, said that it was unfortunate that still many villages in the Agency do not have basic amenities. He said that he would raise the issue in the Legislative Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/half-naked-tribals-from-six-villages-stage-protest/article35921225.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Paediatric COVID-19 cases average under 11.5% of total daily infections||In the backdrop of media reports of a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases among children, which has led to panic among parents, senior civic officials said there was no cause for anxiety. Data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) show that over the past four months, the average COVID-19 paediatric cases (0- 18 years) in comparison to overall cases reported is in the range of 11%. Even the month-on-month comparison of cases shows that paediatric COVID-19 cases are still under 11.5% of the total daily infections. The BBMP, in a press release on Saturday, stated that the total paediatric cases (0-18 years) to date in August stood at 511, which is 11.5% of overall cases. In the 0-12 age group, the total cases reduced from 2,643 in June to 778 in July and 309 till August 13. A total of 14 paediatric deaths have been reported from April to June, and no deaths over the last 2 months. As per data from the BBMP COVID-19 war room, there are 29 active paediatric hospitalisation cases, which constitutes 5.7% of the total hospitalisations: five under government quota and 24 under private quota. This is less than the overall admission percentage across age groups, said the release. The number of cases that require hospitalisation is fewer when compared to other age groups in critical care beds - 3/29 in HDU and zero admissions to ICU / ICU-V. Stating that there was no need for anxiety, the BBMP has stated that if children develop any symptoms, they may be brought to either the physical triage centres, primary health centres or community health centres. “Overall scenario analysis indicates no need to panic or rush positive children to hospitals. Most of them will recover on their own showing mild symptoms, as opined by the Paediatric Expert Committee of BBMP,” the release added. As a precaution, it is advisable to ensure all children above three years follow strict COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, washing hands and avoiding gatherings. At present, there are seven identified hospitals for paediatric care in the city, including Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital. The BBMP is also setting up a dedicated 30-bed facility for paediatric care.   Quote hanger  Overall scenario analysis indicates no need to panic or rush positive children to hospitals. Most of them will recover on their own showing mild symptoms, as opined by the Paediatric Expert Committee of BBMP -- Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/paediatric-covid-19-cases-average-under-115-of-total-daily-infections/article35920912.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Why was Messi forced to leave Barça?||The story so far: On Tuesday, Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) signed Lionel Messi on a two-year contract, bringing an end to a glittering 17-year-career for the Argentine superstar at Barcelona that saw him win 35 trophies, including 10 league titles and four UEFA Champions League crowns, and the Ballon d'Or award for the world’s best player six times. This came after the Catalan club’s announcement on August 5 that Messi could not stay on because of “financial and structural obstacles”. What were these ‘obstacles’? In 2013, LaLiga set up a department to review the finances of each club and establish a cost limit for each season, which drew up financial fair play rules. This squad limit is the amount an outfit can spend on its players, coaches, physios, reserve teams etc. Factors considered to arrive at the limit include expected revenues, profits and losses from previous years, existing debt repayments and sources of external financing. Clubs have the flexibility to decide how the money is split between transfers and wages, provided the overall limit is not breached. According to football website The Athletic , this limit was €671 million for Barcelona in 2019-20. But last year it fell to €347 million, and reports suggest that for the upcoming season it is less than €200 million. Barcelona president Joan Laporta said even with Messi agreeing to a 50% salary cut, Barcelona’s wage bill would be at 110% of the club revenues. The LaLiga cap is 70%. Could Messi have played for free? Even with Messi’s entire salary off the balance sheet, Laporta said wages remained at 95%. To get it below 70%, Barcelona had to sell players and renegotiate contracts with high-earners, both of which have proved unsuccessful thus far. LaLiga stipulations that allow only 25% of the profits from sales to be used for fresh player investments make the task of reduction harder. Another sticking point was that Messi’s contract had run out at the end of last season and he had to be registered as a fresh player. LaLiga does not allow clubs to add new players without adhering to the fair play rules, the same clause which held up registrations of star signings like Sergio Aguero and Memphis Depay. How did Barcelona get into this financial mess? Following Neymar’s move to PSG in 2017 (for €222m), Barcelona, as a face-saving gesture, made a series of expensive buys. Ousmane Dembele arrived for an initial fee of €105m, Philippe Coutinho for €120m and Antoine Griezmann for €120m, but their performances have been middling at best. According to The Athletic , for the upcoming season, Barcelona has to account for a whopping €70m in wages just for the trio. Messi’s previous contract was worth €555.2m over four years, which many say drove up salaries of the rest of the squad. Revenue loss due to COVID-19 has exacerbated this situation, resulting in liabilities worth a staggering €1.3 billion. How does PSG have the money, despite a string of acquisitions including Neymar and Kylian Mbappe? PSG’s latest big-name signings — Gianluigi Donnarumma, Sergio Ramos, Georginio Wijnaldum and Messi — are all free transfers, and are expected to earn around €55m per annum in wages collectively. PSG is also owned by Qatar Sports Investments, a state-backed entity, which is flush with funds. In 2017, when European football’s governing body UEFA opened an investigation following the signings of Neymar and Kylian Mbappe (€180m), the French club persuaded authorities that money was raised through “sponsorships” from the likes of Qatar Tourism Authority and Qatar National Bank, also having varying levels of state backing. In 2020, to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, club owners were permitted to pour additional money. Where many teams struggled to do this because of revenue loss, PSG could spend as it was backed by a sovereign fund. Also, UEFA’s financial fair play rules, unlike the LaLiga’s, look back at spending in past seasons. So, a club outside Spain can add a highly priced player and win the biggest titles, and a breach of fair play rules, if any, will invite sanctions only years later. LaLiga seeks to avoid this distortion of competition by applying the rules in advance. In Messi’s exit, what has Barcelona lost? In the last two seasons, the feeling that Messi was single-handedly carrying Barcelona was inescapable. The club will lose that security. Barcelona is also staring at a potential loss of brand value, diminished match-day revenue and merchandise sales. For UEFA, it’s a moment of reckoning too. Calls for a uniform spending cap all across Europe, rather than leaving it to individual leagues, have grown louder.  For UEFA, it’s a moment of reckoning. Calls for a uniform spending cap all across Europe to acquire players, rather than leaving it to individual leagues, have grown louder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-was-messi-forced-to-leave-bara/article35920755.ece
15 August 2021||New Delhi,||50 new COVID-19 infections, one death reported in city||The city reported only 50 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,37,038, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. There was only one death reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,069. A total of 70,512 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.07%. Of the total cases, 14,11,491 people have recovered and there are only 478 active cases in the city. As per another bulletin, the COVID-19 vaccine stock in the city will last for six days and there are 3,96,110 doses of Covishield and 2,91,040 doses of Covaxin. A total of 1,20,541 doses were administered on Friday and till now, 1,13,58,263 doses of vaccines have been administered in the Capital, the bulletin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/50-new-covid-19-infections-one-death-reported-in-city/article35921323.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ministers inaugurate 24x7 water supply works||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana along with Minister for Endowments inaugurated the works of 24x7 water supply project to 29 municipal divisions under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme on Sambamurthy Road in the city on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Satyanarayana said that the Rs. 100.07-crore project taken up under AMRUT scheme would be completed in a year and house service connections in 29 divisions of the city will get 24x7 drinking water supply. Under the project, a transmission line of 3.19 km and a distribution line of 251.7 km would be laid connecting about 23,000 households in the city. Mr. Botcha unveiled a plaque to mark the inauguration of the works. Under AMRUT scheme about 80% of the funds will be provided and the remaining would be provided by the State government and VMC. Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Deputy Mayors B. Durga, A. Shailaja, VMC commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, MLA Malladi Vishnu, corporators and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ministers-inaugurate-24x7-water-supply-works/article35921434.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Brain’s neural connectivity shapes musical-rhythm sense||A sense of rhythm, integral to musicianship, may be as highly developed even in those with minimal or no training in music and may in large part be due to dense neural connections in specific regions of the brain, says a study by scientists at the National Brain Research Centre (NBRC), Manesar, and Symbiosis International, Pune. How much of musical ability is inherent, the extent to which it is influenced by training and the regions of the brain that are most activated while perceiving musical elements such as rhythm and pitch are vibrant areas of research. Studies have shown, for instance, that at least 15 months of musical training in early childhood led to long-term changes in the brain’s structure that diverged from typical brain development. Other studies have shown that the brain’s neuroanatomy plays a significant role, and yet others have even linked certain genes. For instance the gene (GATA2) that regulates the development of cochlear hair cells and the structures that mediate sound perception in the auditory pathway have been associated with individual differences in music processing and perception. Key question For Nandini Chatterjee Singh, a neuroscientist who leads the Language Literacy and Music Laboratory lab at NBRC, the question was whether the connectivity in the brain and certain brain structures were either minimal or absent in non-musicians and whether progressively higher musical training influenced the density or degree of connectivity among certain brain regions. Profiling musical skills To test this, she and collaborators Archith Rajan, Apurva Shah and Madhura Ingalhalikar recruited 27 university graduates — 13 female — with varying degrees of musical training ranging from non-musicians to professionals and assessed them on a test called Profile of Music Perception skills. This standardised computer-based test, since 2012, has been used in used in research to test the listener's abilities at discerning changes in rhythm, pitch, accent and melody. Their scores were evaluated along with brain imaging data from all of the participants. “What we found was that non musicians performed as well as trained musicians on rhythm processing tasks because of the way the brain is connected. So there are hidden — or sleeping musicians — among us,” Singh told The Hindu, “But this was only specific to rhythm and we didn't find any strong patterns in the perception of pitch.” Rather than connections within the right and left hemispheres of the brain it was the strength of connections between the two hemispheres of the brain that significantly influenced rhythmic processing abilities. The density of connection in the right posterior cingulate cortex, a region that acted as hub of connectivity between the two halves of the brain was strongly linked to participants’ overall scores. The study has been accepted for publication in the peer-reviewed European Journal of Neuroscience.  Significance of rhythm That the perception of rhythm was so strongly stamped in the brain underlined its significance to language processing as well opened lines of enquiry into several areas of research including into autism, musical aptitude as well the use of music therapy for a variety of physiotherapy and rehabilitation exercises, Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brains-neural-connectivity-shapes-musical-rhythm-sense/article35920751.ece
15 August 2021||August 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A health crisis the world needs independence from||On India’s Independence Day, we reflect on the nation forged when, in 1947, ordinary men and women began to build a country of their own on a foundation of courage, sacrifice, and hope. Indians and Indian-Americans have much to be proud of in the progress India has made over its first three-quarters of a century, but the enduring challenges of this worldwide pandemic call for a global vaccination effort, with India and the United States at the forefront. The challenge posed by COVID-19 My parents brought our family to the U.S. from India when I was three months old and raised me as an American proud of his Indian heritage and the accomplishments of the Indian people. Today, I am serving my third term in the U.S. Congress. Throughout my time in office, I have worked to strengthen the enduring partnerships between the U.S. and India. We have worked to bring greater security and prosperity to our nations, the Indo-Pacific region, and the world. Now, we must rise to meet the challenges posed by COVID-19 which cannot be overcome without the efforts of the world’s oldest democracy and its largest. Both the U.S. and India have known the horrors of this pandemic, and while we have weathered its previous waves, there is no guarantee that our progress will endure until everyone is vaccinated. Today, over 12% of Indians are fully vaccinated while over 50% of Americans are, but both our nations remain vulnerable to the threat of new variants which will endure so long as any large population of unvaccinated people remains. Because of this reality, it is essential that the U.S. acts to dramatically expand its vaccine aid programmes to put shots in arms around the world. This will not only save lives but also strengthen the arsenal of humanity against the virus. Nations such as India can help inoculate their own populations and then join the global effort to vaccinate other nations most in need. American-led vaccine campaign So far, the U.S. has allocated just 7.5 million vaccine doses to India through its donation programme. While those doses have not yet been delivered due to regulatory delays, even if they had been, that contribution would be a tiny fraction of what is needed. That is why I introduced the Nullifying Opportunities for Variants to Infect and Decimate (NOVID) Act, which is the only legislation in Congress that would establish an American-led global vaccination campaign against COVID-19. The NOVID Act would ensure the production and distribution of eight billion vaccine doses across the world, paving the way for other leading vaccine producers such as India to contribute to the effort as their own domestic inoculation efforts reach herd immunity levels. I have always been fond of India’s national motto, “Truth alone triumphs.” The truth of our times is that the pandemic will only truly end when we have defeated the virus everywhere. That is why I will continue to fight to expand American vaccine aid to India and other nations as we build a global coalition to end the pandemic. I know India will one day be at the heart of that effort through the strength of its healthcare professionals and the humanitarian commitment of its people. As we celebrate India’s Independence Day amid this pandemic, we must continue to reaffirm the importance of the U.S.-India alliance which will help the entire world declare its independence from COVID-19. Raja Krishnamoorthi, a Democrat from Schaumburg, represents the 8th Congressional District of Illinois||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-health-crisis-the-world-needs-independence-from/article35920778.ece
15 August 2021||Hassan,||Head constable chosen for Police Medal||R. Kumar, a head police constable, attached to the office of Superintendent of Police in Chikkamagaluru, has been chosen for the Police Medal for Meritorious Services on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs announced the list of awardees on Saturday. Mr. Kumar has been in the police service for the last 22 years. Akshay M. Hakay, Superintendent of Police, has congratulated the awardee. In a communiqué to the media, the SP said that any officer who had served 20 years or more could be recommended for the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. The SP had recommended Kumar for the award considering his service. Kumar has a good service record and he handled software, applications of the department, computer systems and database. He was awarded the Chief Minister’s Gold Medal in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/head-constable-chosen-for-police-medal/article35921153.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Engineering students will have to do six-month internship||Engineering students will have more scope to broaden their horizons and acquire more work experience before taking up jobs. First-year students, who enrolled in this academic year, will have to complete a six-month internship in their final year instead of the earlier mandatory four-week internship. The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has decided to enhance the internship duration to make the students more industry ready. What’s more, they will also be allowed to travel to other countries for their research or industry internship. VTU Vice Chancellor Karisiddappa said that this proposal will be approved by the joint board of studies shortly. “Students can apply to companies and universities for internship opportunities abroad as well. Earlier, they could not travel abroad for their internships as companies were not ready to take on students for a short duration of four weeks. Now, they can get more exposure as the internship duration has been enhanced,” he said. The modalities have already been mapped out. Students will take up internships in two batches. While one set of students will do the internship in the seventh semester, the second batch will do it in the eighth semester. One entire semester in the final year will be devoted to the internship, and in the other semester students will prioritise completing their projects and assignments. The All India Council for Technical Education has also batted for a six-month internship. It said the university’s decision to extend the duration is in line with the recommendations made by the committee appointed by the State government to review internship policies for engineering and polytechnic colleges. The committee, which had submitted its report earlier this year, recommended that colleges ask students to take up two internships: one short-term and another long-term. Prof. Karisiddappa said students would have to take a short-term internship of about four weeks after the first year, while the six-month-long internship will be completed in the final year. An official of the university said that colleges will have to follow guidelines and ensure that they help students bag internships. “We also want colleges to counsel students so that the students can pick internships in fields that they are interested in,” the official added. Changes welcomed Students and college managements have welcomed the move. A. G. Nataraj, Principal, AMC Engineering College, said that students can discuss internship opportunities with the mentors in their respective colleges. “All the changes were in line with the National Education Policy which aims to make the students job ready,” he said. Ajay Kamath, State Secretary of All-India Democratic Students Organisation said that prior to implementation of the new internship duration, the university will need to discuss this matter with all stakeholders particularly students so that they can discuss and prioritise the challenges that may arise with this change in internship format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/engineering-students-will-have-to-do-six-month-internship/article35920902.ece
15 August 2021||GUNTUR,||Wives of three slain soldiers felicitated||A special tribute was paid by Delhi Public School on the eve of 75th Independence Day. The wives of three slain soldiers were felicitated as per the suggestion of Defence Ministry and Rashtriya Raksha University by the 25th Battalion of the NCC. Group Commander Lt. Col Sambasiva Rao, Colonel Singh, retired Major General M. Ramesh Babu and chairman of DPS Chukkapalli Ramesh were present. The school management felicitated and gave cheques for Rs. 50,000 each to Savithri, wife of Subedar K.V. Subba Reddy; Venkata Lakshmi, wife of Havaldar Saradhi Reddy; and Syamala Kumari, wife of Havaldar Chiranjeevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wives-of-three-slain-soldiers-felicitated/article35921436.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||CM does away with zero-traffic privilege in city||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has decided to do away with zero-traffic privilege for his motorcade/convoy while he is travellingin the city, due to the inconvenience it can cause to motorists. “The zero-traffic privilege has in the past created problems for ambulances as well as fire tenders.Hence, the Chief Minister has ordered that the facility be cancelled and limited only from junction-to-junction clearance.This is barring emergency situations,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police, Traffic. The Home Minister, too, has refused zero-traffic clearance. Following this decision, the Bengaluru traffic control roomon Saturday aired a message informing police personnel on duty not to enforce this henceforth. “Traffic support will, however, be extended from signal to signal,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-does-away-with-zero-traffic-privilege-in-city/article35920932.ece
15 August 2021||new delhi,||Minor accuses uncle of sexual assault; case filed||A six-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her uncle in Dwarka’s Bindapur, following which the police have registered a case under the POCSO Act, officials said on Saturday. The girl’s parents live in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr but she has been staying in Delhi with her uncle and aunt for some time. On August 13, the police received a call that a minor girl has been injured. When a team visited the spot, they found some members of an NGO there. In their presence, the police conducted an enquiry during which it was revealed that since the girl was not studying despite being told to do so, her aunt beat her with a “hot tong”. “The injury was minor in nature and her guardian assured us they would look after the child. As they amicably sorted the issue, no legal action was taken. But later on the same day, we got to know the child has been taken to the DDU hospital,” a senior police officer said. The officer said the girl was beaten up by her aunt but when she was later taken to hospital, she told the police in her statement that she was sexually assaulted by her uncle. “When a medical examination was done, no physical injury marks were found on her private parts. However, an investigation is underway to ascertain her allegation,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena. “After medical examination and due enquiry, a case was registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at Bindapur police station.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minor-accuses-uncle-of-sexual-assault-case-filed/article35921324.ece
15 August 2021||new delhi,||Unclaimed Amrapali flats maybe resold, SC orders final notice be given to buyers||The Supreme Court has initiated a process to cancel bookings of over 9,500 Amrapali project flats, which are unclaimed or booked in the name of fictitious people or are benami property, to fund stalled projects. A Bench of justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi gave the direction after Court Receiver senior advocate R. Venkatamramani and advocate M.L. Lahoty, appearing for the homebuyers, said they have submitted a note that the unsold inventory and flats booked on fictitious names, need to be resold to generate funds for pending projects. “At this stage, we allow the receiver to go ahead and grant final opportunity to 9,538 homebuyers. Time of two weeks be granted to them to come forward and register themselves, failing which the concerned apartments/villas booked by those homebuyers in the first category shall be treated as unsold inventory and can then be proceeded with for the purposes of effecting appropriate sales,” the Bench said. Two categories It said the Court Receiver has pointed out two categories of homebuyers: the 9,538 homebuyers who have neither registered in the Customer Data nor have made any payments after July 2019; and 6,210 homebuyers, who have registered in the Customer Data but have also not made any payment since July 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unclaimed-amrapali-flats-maybe-resold-sc-orders-final-notice-be-given-to-buyers/article35921327.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Kundapur man cleared of blasphemy charges||34-year-old Harish Bangera hailing from Kundapur taluk in Udupi district, who was languishing in Saudi Arabia following charges of blasphemy, has been cleared of the charges and he will land in Bengaluru on August 18, said Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje on Saturday. In a statement, Ms. Karandlaje said officials from the Indian Embassy in Riyad have informed her that Mr. Bangera will board a flight from Damman airport to Doha and then to Bengaluru. Mr. Bangera, an air-conditioning technician with a company in Dammam, landed in trouble in 2019. In a complaint to the Kundapur police, Mr. Bangera’s wife Sumana, who lived in Beejady near Kundapur, said despite her husband deactivating his Facebook account, a fake account was created and blasphemous content was posted. The police traced Abdul Huyez and Abdul Thuyez from Moobidri, who admitted to posting the content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kundapur-man-cleared-of-blasphemy-charges/article35921401.ece
15 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha plans direct polls to elect heads of ULBs||The Odisha government has proposed holding of direct elections to choose heads of urban local bodies (ULBs) by amending the Odisha Municipal (Delimitation of Wards, Reservation of Seats and Conduct of Election) Rules, 1994. The government has sought suggestions and objections in response to amendments proposed in the Act within 30 days. At present, mayor and chairpersons of municipalities and notified area councils are elected by representatives of different wards in urban areas. A person can file nomination for the posts of both councillor and chairperson of urban bodies. After election, if a candidate wins both positions, he or she will have to inform the election officer about relinquishing one post. The post of urban heads will be reserved for the ST, the SC and women as per the prevailing norms. Elections to various ULBs in the State have been pending for more than two years as the government did not amend the existing laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-plans-direct-polls-to-elect-heads-of-ulbs/article35921168.ece
15 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU men ‘attack’ BJP MLA’s vehicle||A Bharatiya Janata Party MLA’s car was allegedly attacked by members of Bhartiya Kisan Union on Saturday evening when he was returning after a public meeting from Sisauli village in Muzaffarnagar. BKU called it an example of growing disenchantment with the ruling dispensation in the region. Umesh Malik, BJP MLA from Budhana in Muzaffarnagar said his car was attacked by BKU workers when he was returning after addressing a meeting of Jan Kalyan Samiti on Saturday evening. “The attack was orchestrated by Narendra Tikait, younger brother of BKU president Naresh Tikait,” Mr Malik told The Hindu. Sisauli is the headquarter of BKU and the native village of the Tikaits. Mr Malik said black oil was thrown at the car and its windscreens were smashed. “We somehow managed to save our lives. Five persons, including two police constables who suffered injuries in the pre-planned attack,” said Mr Malik, adding he has named five persons including Narendra in the complaint lodged at the Bhorkala police station. A video of the incident that surfaced on social media purportedly showed locals raising slogans against the MLA before smearing his SUV with a black chemical and went on to break the side and black glass of the vehicle. Mr Malik said there was a police presence in the village but they failed to stop the assailants. “We will raise the issue with higher officials,” he said. After the incident, Cabinet Minister and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Balyan also reached the police station. Mr Malik alleged the BKU had little support in the region and a few ruffians were forced to raise slogans under the influence of alcohol. Meanwhile, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said the incident was yet another example of the growing disenchantment with the ruling party in the region. “When a local MLA is welcomed with slogans, you could see the writing on the wall.” He said BKU workers were only asked to raise the slogans, the rest of the illegal activity was sponsored by the BJP to break the farmers’ movement. “They have used such tactics in Haryana and now they are applying them in UP,” he claimed. On the involvement of the younger Tikait, Mr Dharmendra said it is their village, “Nareshji was also present in Sisauli. They could name him as well,” he said. Local sources said senior officials reached Budhana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bku-men-attack-bjp-mlas-vehicle/article35921169.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Road development works will be finished in two months’||Development works, including lighting, taken up by the Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) on the Clock Tower- A B Shetty Circle-Rao and Rao Circle- Clock Tower road stretch will be completed in another two months, said Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath and Mayor Premanand Shetty on Saturday. Talking to reporters after reviewing progress of the works on the stretch on Saturday, Mr. Kamath said the wide pavements on the either sides of the circular road stretch will have street lights to properly illuminate the road and the pavement. Roofs of the bus shelters on the stretch between Clock Tower and A.B. Shetty Circle will be altered to provide better shade to commuters during heavy rains. Facility to park about six autorickshaws will be provided near the mini-Vidhana Soudha to help elderly persons coming for property registrations. Mr. Kamath said the new clock tower will be illuminated in a better way to give new feel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/road-development-works-will-be-finished-in-two-months/article35921400.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||CREDAI launches five women’s wing chapters||CREDAI Karnataka has launched five CREDAI Women’s Wing (CWW) chapters in Bengaluru, Belagavi, Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Mysuru. The chapters were launched at an online event on Friday. Uzma Irfan was announced as the convener of CREDAI’s Women’s Wing of Karnataka, stated a press release. CWW aims to provide a networking forum and also create an incubation programme to encourage more women participation in the real estate sector. “We intend on seeing more women in the field of real estate. With the sector moving forward towards maturity and its threshold of accelerated growth, we would continue to see more women in leadership roles in different segments of real estate,” said Ms. Irfan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/credai-launches-five-womens-wing-chapters/article35920934.ece
15 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Will BJP name bars after Vajpayee?’||Hitting back at BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi, who recently said that India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru used to smoke hookah and that the Congress might open hookah centres in his name, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and MLA for Chittapur Priyank Kharge asked whether the BJP government would name bars and liquor outlets after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee considering the fact that the BJP veteran used to consume alcohol. “Is smoking a crime? Does no one in the BJP smoke? It is said that [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee used to consume alcohol. Does BJP name bars and liquor centres after him? Mr. Nehru and Mr. Vajapayee are statesmen and we should not talk lightly about them. All the major institutions in the country were built in the Nehru period and they carry his name. BJP has no institution built under its seven years of rule to name after its leaders. That is why they are into name-changing business,” Mr. Priyank said. Referring to the naming of a flyover in Bengaluru after Veer Savarkar, the Congress leader said that Savarkar never fought to free India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-bjp-name-bars-after-vajpayee/article35921073.ece
15 August 2021||new delhi,||Officials told to report to work on time or face action||The Delhi government’s Women and Child Development (WCD) Department has warned its officials of strict action after some of them said they were reporting late to work due to COVID-19 restrictions on public transport systems. Last month, the department had issued show-cause notices to 49 officials for coming late to work. In a memorandum, the Women and Child Development Department said it did not find the justification given by the officials satisfactory since everyone is aware of the restrictions imposed by the government on public transport systems. “The officials should have started early for office to ensure their attendance as per official timings,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/officials-told-to-report-to-work-on-time-or-face-action/article35921328.ece
15 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Mobile store theft accused arrested||The Mangaluru police arrested a person from Thane in Maharashtra for his alleged involvement in the theft of mobile phones and cash from a store in the city. The police gave the name of person as Vinod Singh, a native of Uttar Pradesh, who resides in Thane district of Maharashtra. A group of accused drilled a hole to the wall to gain entry into Maple-X showroom at Balmatta here and escaped with 68 high-end mobile phones and also the cash chest containing Rs. 1.15 lakh on July 5. This was the second time that articles in the showroom had been stolen in the last two years.  The police traced Vinod Singh to a house in Thane. The police recovered 41 mobile phones worth Rs. 40 lakh. Vinod Singh has been involved in nine cases of theft reported in Mumbai. The search was on to trace other accused persons. While asking traders to excise caution and keep track of suspicious persons moving in their premises, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar praised the city police team in tracing the accused. He announced a reward of Rs. 10,000 for the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mobile-store-theft-accused-arrested/article35921399.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Two from State get President’s Police Medal||Two officers, N. Sudhakar Reddy, DSP, Chittoor and P. Seetaram, Commandant, Greyhounds, from the State have been selected for the President’s Police Medal (PPM) for distinguished service. Eleven other officers were selected for the Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) and 14 officers of different wings and cadres have been selected for the Police Medal (PM) for meritorious service. The Centre announced the list of the officers selected for the awards on Saturday on the eve of Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-from-state-get-presidents-police-medal/article35921432.ece
15 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Herbal preparation distributed||Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi distributed ‘Anandaiah herbal preparation’ for COVID to the public at a programme presided by CPI senior leader Donepudi Shankar and organised by an NGO, at Ajith Singh Nagar Shadhikhana on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion Ms. Lakshmi appreciated Mr. Anandaiah and the organisers and said the latter came to the rescue of the public during the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/herbal-preparation-distributed/article35921435.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Vaccination trial centre inaugurated||Vaccination trial centre ‘Mission COVID Suraksha’ was inaugurated at the Regional Health Centre, Simhachalam, by Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, here on Saturday. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana lauded the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India(CREDAI), Visakhapatnam, for taking up the renovation work worth Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccination-trial-centre-inaugurated/article35921456.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Khadi stalls in railway station||Six exhibition-cum-sales temporary stalls for khadi were inaugurated at Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Platform No.8 by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Kumar Satpathy in the presence of Deputy Director of Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) S. Raghu, Assistant Director R. Srinivasa Rao and others here on Saturday. Five stalls were set up by the KVICand one by APCO. These stalls will be open from August 14 to 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/khadi-stalls-in-railway-station/article35921457.ece
15 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Arson case: Involvement of other people being probed||The police are questioning the three youths who were arrested for allegedly breaking into Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy’s residence and setting two cars on fire. Though the accused told the police they had set the cars ablaze as they held a grudge against the MLA, the police are not convinced of their motive. “We are looking into whether they were acting on the instructions of others,” said a senior police officer. Mr. Reddy, while addressing the media on Saturday, said the reason given by the accused was not believable. “It was a premeditated act, and was perhaps executed on the orders of others. The people who are behind this should be traced,” he said. He also claimed that as two of the accused work in the cable TV sector, there was a possibility of the involvement of the cable mafia. “I have some information and will share it with the Home Minister,” he said. One of the accused claimed he had been denied entry into the residence despite multiple requests to meet Mr. Reddy for some personal help. He allegedly confessed that the rejections fuelled his anger against the MLA and his “riches”, and decided to teach him a lesson. The police have not ruled out the possibility of the involvement of other people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arson-case-police-probing-involvement-of-other-people/article35920933.ece
15 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||ASHA workers join protest against move to privatise VSP||Members of the ASHA workers union took part in the ongoing protests being held against the move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), near Gandhi Statue at the GVMC building, here on Saturday. Extending their support to the Joint Action Committee (JAC), the union alleged that the BJP-led NDA government has only focussed on privatising all government establishments. Union members P. Mani, Ananda Kumari and Vijayalakshmi alleged that the Union government was favouring corporates. They criticised the Union government for increasing prices of cooking gas and fuel. The Union government has been burdening the common man by increasing the prices of essential commodities, the union members alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/asha-workers-join-protest-against-move-to-privatise-vsp/article35921226.ece
15 August 2021||YADGIR,||Yadgir DC urges villagers to get vaccinated||R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, on Saturday paid a visit to villages where the vaccination drive is on and urged residents to get vaccinated to fight against the third wave of COVID- 19. She visited Mundaragi, Ramsamudra, Kandkur, Chintanalli tanda, and Mogdampur tanda in Gurmitkal and Yadgir taluk, respectively. Dr. Ragapriya said that the only way to fight the pandemic is for everyone to get vaccinated. “If you cooperate and get the vaccine, we can fight against the possible third wave,” she added. ‘Take help from others’ The Deputy Commissioner suggested that Health Department Officials take the help from government departments concerned, ASHAs and anganwadi workers, and Panchayat Development Officials to reach every individual in urban and rural areas to ensure that 100% vaccination. Talking about rumours among the public with regard to vaccination, Dr. Ragapriya said that street dramas will be held to create awareness among the public. She also said that vaccination drive should be on between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. at taluk health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yadgir-dc-urges-villagers-to-get-vaccinated/article35921174.ece
15 August 2021||Lucknow,||UP bans processions on Muharram in view of pandemic, security concerns||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked district authorities to not allow any religious processions to be taken out on the occasion of Muharram in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and security concerns. ‘Tazias’ will not be installed publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-bans-processions-on-muharram-in-view-of-pandemic-security-concerns/article35921172.ece
