16 August 2021||Kabul,||Afghan President Ghani leaves country as Taliban reach Kabul||The embattled President of Afghanistan left the country on Sunday, joining his fellow citizens and foreigners in a stampede fleeing the advancing Taliban and signalling the end of a 20-year Western experiment aimed at remaking Afghanistan. The Taliban, who for hours had been on the outskirts of capital Kabul, announced soon after that they would move further into a city gripped by panic where helicopters raced overhead throughout the day to evacuate personnel from the U.S. Embassy. Smoke rose near the compound as staff destroyed important documents. Several other Western missions also prepared to pull their people out. Civilians fearing that the Taliban could reimpose the kind of brutal rule that all but eliminated women’s rights rushed to leave the country as well, lining up at cash machines to withdraw their life savings. The desperately poor — who had left homes in the countryside for the presumed safety of the capital — remained in their thousands in parks and open spaces throughout the city. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken rejected comparisons to the U.S. pull-out from Vietnam, as many watched in disbelief at the sight of helicopters landing in the Embassy compound. Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the Afghan National Reconciliation Council, confirmed that Mr. Ghani had left. “The former President of Afghanistan left Afghanistan, leaving the country in this difficult situation,” Mr. Abdullah said. “God should hold him accountable.” Taliban negotiators in Kabul discussed the transfer of power, said an Afghan official. The negotiators on the government side included former President Hamid Karzai and Mr. Abdullah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghan-president-ghani-leaves-country-as-taliban-reach-kabul/article35931983.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Next 25 years crucial for India’s development: PM||In his eighth consecutive address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 75th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for making the next 25 years, in the run-up to the centenary of India’s Independence, a glorious one with “new thresholds, aspirations and dreams”. He coined the phrase “ Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayaas ” (With all, development for all, the trust of all, the striving of all). “There comes a time in every nation’s life where it defines anew what development means for it, and resolves anew on how to reach its goals, that moment for our country is now,” he said. He termed the next 25 years as “Amrit Kaal”, a reference to deriving the best in every field, for achieving the goals. Referring to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Modi recalled those who passed away and lauded the “untiring and committed” work of doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, scientists and entrepreneurs who helped fight the pandemic and were assisted by the development of indigenous vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/next-25-years-crucial-for-indias-development-pm/article35931990.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Insurance scheme for weavers to be launched soon||The State government has announced implementation of insurance scheme for handloom workers on the lines of Rythu Bima extended to farmers. The scheme, to be launched soon, envisages financial support of Rs. 5 lakh to the family of handloom weaver in the event of his death. The State government is gearing up to create a special corpus fund for supporting weavers towards this end, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said. The Chief Minister announced that the next phase of loan waiver for farmers would be launched from Monday. Loans between Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 50,000 obtained by the farmers will be waived and an estimated six lakh farmers will be benefitted in the process. The process is expected to be completed by this month-end. The government has already waived loans up to Rs. 25,000 each obtained by around three lakh farmers. “The government is implementing the loan waiver scheme in a phased manner for the remaining farmers,” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced. The Chief Minister was addressing the gathering after unfurling the national flag on the occasion of 75th Independence Day on Sunday. In his close to 30 minutes address, Mr. Rao touched upon various schemes and measures introduced for the welfare of different sections, especially farmers and marginalised sections, since the TRS government took over the reins. The State GSDP which was Rs. 4.5 lakh crore at the time of its formation in 2013-14 more than doubled to Rs. 9.8 lakh crore in 2020-21 in spite of the problems created on account of COVID-19 pandemic. The per capita income grew from Rs. 1.12 lakh to Rs. 2.37 lakh during the same period. With foresight in planning and stringent financial discipline in administration, the State transformed into wealthy State with sustainable financial development within a short span of seven years. “The national average per capita income is Rs. 1.28 lakh. I am proud to say that our State is in the first place in per capita income compared with big States with more than 10 Parliamentary seats,” he averred. In the process, the State’s power crisis had been overcome and commissioning of 4,000 MW Yadadri power plant would make Telangana a power surplus State. From being a place known for farmers’ suicides in the erstwhile combined State where agriculture sector collapsed, the State witnessed unprecedented development in agriculture sector which was contributing about 20 per cent of the GSDP. The State was witnessing a golden era when it came to welfare and there was no exaggeration in claiming that there was no single home which had not been covered under one or other scheme. “Our State is better than other States in many sectors and in many aspects. Many States are approaching us to follow and implement our policies,” he said. Doctors would be made available in these institutions as the government took up recruitment on a large scale. In addition, government embarked upon preparation of Telangana State Citizens’ Digital Health profile for which pilot project had been launched in Mulugu and Sircilla constituencies. Administrative reforms were taken up to take administration to the doorstep of the people and steps were taken to encourage caste-based professions for village development. Simultaneously, focus was on industrial and IT development with IT exports almost tripling from Rs. 57,258 crore to Rs. 1.45 lakh crore in the last seven years. The government had initiated process for recruitments to vacant government jobs and steps like Telanganaku Harita Haaram had been initiated to promote green cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/insurance-scheme-for-weavers-to-be-launched-soon/article35932419.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||115-foot-high flag masts installed at 5 spots in city||To celebrate 75 years of Independence, the Delhi government on Sunday installed five 115-foot-high flag masts to fly the Tricolour at different locations in the city and promised similar flag masts at 500 locations by the next Republic Day. Inaugurating a flag mast at East Kidwai Nagar in the New Delhi Assembly constituency, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “When we see the Tiranga (Tricolour), we get goosebumps and our hearts are filled with love and pride towards the nation. If you see the Tiranga even once during your commute to work, then the patriotism and love towards the country would be reignited. In the hustle and bustle of daily life, we often forget about our country. Now these Tricolours would act as a constant reminder of the love and devotion towards the nation,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The other 115-foot-high flag masts have been installed at Kalkaji, Patparganj, Rani Bagh and Dwarka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/115-foot-high-flag-masts-installed-at-5-spots-in-city/article35932273.ece
16 August 2021||Pune,||Keep COVID-19 at bay, Uddhav urges people||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the 75th Independence Day urged the people of the State and the country to take a resolution to free themselves from the yoke of the pandemic. Mr. Thackeray, in his address after the flag-hoisting ceremony at the Mantralaya, warned that the State government would be compelled to reimpose a lockdown if cases surged again as a result of citizens flouting COVID-19 safety norms. “We have not won our Independence easily… It is pointless merely remembering sacrifices of freedom fighters every Independence Day. It is our duty to preserve the values of those who have made sacrifices to secure our freedom… In the last 18 months, we have been fighting the scourge of COVID-19 and trying to free ourselves from it. While the government is relaxing some curbs from August 16, I want to remind everyone that the threat is far from over,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keep-covid-19-at-bay-uddhav-urges-people/article35932546.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. to document its role in freedom struggle||The State government will publish a document, in Tamil and English, detailing Tamil Nadu’s contribution to freedom struggle, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday. Delivering the Independence Day address at Fort St. George after inspecting the parade and hoisting the national flag, he said that while it was 75 years since India won Independence, the fight for freedom had begun 150 years earlier and the land of Tamils played a major part in it. Later, Mr. Stalin inaugurated a pillar at the junction of Sivananda Salai and Kamarajar Salai. Naming some of the freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu, Mr. Stalin said the pillar was built with the breath of these freedom fighters to commemorate the 75th Independence Day. He said the government would celebrate the 150th birth anniversary of V.O. Chidambaram in a grand manner. He announced an increase in the pension for freedom fighters from Rs. 17,000 to Rs. 18,000 and the family pension from Rs. 8,500 to Rs. 9,000. The Chief Minister said the Gandhi Memorial Museum in Madurai would be renovated at a cost of Rs. 6 crore to attract members of the public and the younger generation. “Let us all take an oath today that the youth will be imbibed with the Gandhian spirit to tackle the challenges posed by caste, religion, creed in the country,” he said. Mr. Stalin recalled that former Chief Minister and his father M. Karunanidhi had enabled the Chief Ministers to hoist the national flag on Independence Day, putting forth the suggestion to the then Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, in 1974. He also spoke about some of the schemes launched in 100 days of his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-document-its-role-in-freedom-struggle/article35932206.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Issues related to bonus resolved, says Sivankutty||Minister for Labour and General Education V. Sivankutty has said steps are being taken for payment of bonus in all sectors. He was speaking at an online meeting with leaders of various trade unions regarding bonus for the year. He said that bonus in majority of institutions had been fixed as per the government directive. A bonus of 8.33% would be provided to employees of all public sector institutions, including cooperatives, in the productive sector. The regional joint labour commissioners and district labour officers were currently taking steps to fix the bonus in the private sector. Considering the COVID-19 situation, the same amount of bonus as last year would be ensured for the workers before Onam, said Mr. Sivankutty. He said that the government had resolved almost all bonus-related issues. It was ready to intervene and resolve disputes that might crop up. For workers in the cashew sector, 20% bonus and Rs. 9,500 bonus advance will be provided before August 17. In the coir sector, the workers will get a bonus of 20% and incentive of 9.9%. The government has accorded administrative sanction for a minimum amount of Rs. 1,250 per worker in the coir, fisheries, handloom, khadi and beedi sectors to ensure payment equivalent to minimum wages for at least 100 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/issues-related-to-bonus-resolved-says-sivankutty/article35932450.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air India flight brings 129 people from Kabul||The situation in Kabul is “extremely fluid and unpredictable,” said officials here on Sunday as Air India operated a commercial flight that evacuated 129 passengers. The aircraft, AI 243, faced difficulty while landing in Kabul and had to circle over the Afghan capital for some time as countries raced against time to evacuate their citizens. Air India sources said a similar flight will leave for Kabul on Monday morning to continue the evacuation of Indian nationals stuck in the Afghan capital. Sources here refused to confirm if India will shut down its Embassy in Kabul even as South Block continued to review the security situation. It is, however, likely that depending on the security situation, the India-based officials could be brought back at any moment. Sources also confirmed that New Delhi has a C17 Globemaster aircraft on standby for quick mobilisation in case a larger evacuation is required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-begins-evacuation/article35931986.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||CJI rues ‘sorry state of affairs’ in lawmaking||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday lamented the “sorry state of affairs” of lawmaking and Parliamentary debate in the country, saying there was “a lot of ambiguity in laws” which was triggering litigation and causing inconvenience to citizens, courts and other stakeholders. Speaking on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day celebrations held at the Supreme Court lawns, Chief Justice Ramana rued how the standards of lawmaking had fallen over the years. “Now it is a sorry state of affairs. There is a lot of ambiguity in the laws. We don’t know for what purpose they are made. They are causing a lot of litigation and inconvenience to the people, courts...” Chief Justice Ramana said. The observations by the CJI follow closely after Parliament cleared the Tribunal’s Reforms Bill of 2021, which has sought the abolishment of as many as nine appellate tribunals, including the Film Certificate Appellate Tribunals, despite the Opposition charge that the legislation undermined the independence of the judiciary. The Bill has also revived provisions of tenure and service of members of tribunals which were earlier struck down by the Supreme Court in a judgment. The CJI, in his speech on Sunday, mentioned how lawyers had led the nation, right from the struggle for Independence to being the first legislators of the country. ‘Constructive debates’ “Then the debates and discussions in the House were constructive. They could elaborately discuss the legislation taking place... Laws used to be discussed and deliberated... Unfortunately, over a period of time... you know what is happening in the House. In the absence of quality debate, courts are unable to fathom the intent and object of the new laws,” the CJI addressed an audience of judges and lawyers. He said the lack of intellectual heft witnessed in the House could be remedied if more lawyers actively participated in public life rather than confine themselves to their legal practice and homes. He said the leaders of the Independence struggle were lawyers, such as Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. “They sacrificed not only their professions but also their families and property for the struggle...” the CJI exhorted. The contributions of the Supreme Court to democratic rights enshrined in the Constitution had been immense over the years, he said. Chief Justice Ramana also noted that the fundamental right of access to justice was evident from the fact that India’s legal services aid machinery catered to 75% of its total population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cji-rues-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-lawmaking/article35931988.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||RS ruckus: Ministers seek action against Opposition||A delegation of seven Ministers met Vice-President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday and demanded action against some Opposition members for what the government described as “unprecedented, extreme and violent acts” in the House on August 11, the concluding day of the monsoon session of Parliament. The meeting came just a day after Mr. Naidu visited Parliament House to review video footage of the proceedings, including the alleged scuffle between the Opposition members and the marshals while the General Insurance Amendment Bill, 2021, was being passed. The delegation submitted a memorandum to Mr. Naidu. It alleged that the Opposition members prevented the marshals from discharging their duties, threw House papers, Minutes book and other items, abused the Chair and also obstructed the House from performing its duties, said a source in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. Mr. Naidu is learnt to have told the delegation that he “will examine the matter for deciding on the appropriate course of action”.  Deputy Chairman Harivansh was also present along with Mr. Naidu. The delegation consisted of Leader of the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Labour Minister Bhupnder Yadav and Ministers of State Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-ruckus-ministers-seek-action-against-opposition/article35931991.ece
16 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya Minister quits after I-Day violence||Meghalaya Home Minister Lakhmen Rymbui resigned after mob violence and arson in Shillong on Independence Day forced the local authorities to enforce an indefinite curfew and suspend Internet services for 48 hours in four districts. The killing of former extremist leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew by the police on Friday triggered the unruly situation that climaxed during his burial on Sunday. “…Considering the gravity of the situation, I would request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect,” Mr. Rymbui wrote in a letter to Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meghalaya-minister-quits-after-i-day-violence/article35932268.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. taking decisions with clear vision for future: CM||The last 16 months have been gruelling for the State government as the coronavirus has crippled the State’s finances. However, the government has fought against the ‘invisible enemy’ (COVID-19) with all its might and succeeded to a large extent in curbing the menace with a three-pronged approach (testing, tracing and treatment), Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. After hoisting the national flag at the 75th Independence Day celebrations at IGMC Stadium here on Sunday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said due to the pandemic, the government’s revenue had fallen sharply while the expenditure soared. While trying to shore up the revenues, the government was spending every single pie responsibly. Mr. Reddy said huge sums were spent on housing and public health, especially on the containment of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-taking-decisions-with-clear-vision-for-future-cm/article35931992.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||New-look schools await children today||Dusting out decades of lethargy, government schools in Andhra Pradesh are now spick and span. The new-look classrooms await students on Monday when the schools will throw open their doors for the young learners. The long-felt makeover became a reality thanks to Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu, the school infrastructure programme that aims to augment the facilities at schools. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will dedicate the first phase of the programme to the people of the State and launch the second round of the scheme at Singamsetti Prabhavati Zilla Parishad High School in P. Gannavaram mandal of East Godavari district. He will also distribute school kits to children under the second phase of the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka at the same event. Authorities said the objective of providing the school paraphernalia to students on the very first day of the new academic year was to spare them the trouble of waiting for textbooks and notebooks and other equipment needed for a perfect head start to their academic journey. Under the Vidya Kanuka scheme, 42,32,064 school kits will be distributed to students of the government and aided schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-look-classrooms-await-students-in-ap-today/article35931954.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In Mahatma’s footsteps||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-mahatmas-footsteps/article35932205.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to celebrate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/time-to-celebrate/article35931981.ece
16 August 2021||Ahmedabad,||Night curfew extended in 8 cities of Gujarat||The COVID-19-induced night curfew in eight cities of Gujarat was on Sunday extended till August 28. The curfew will be in place from 11 p.m. till 6 a.m. in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Gandhinagar. A State government release said that all other restrictions laid down in its last order issued on July 29 would continue to remain in force till August 28. The measures included allowing eateries to function till 10 p.m. and capping the attendance at public functions at 400. The July 29 order had also allowed Ganeshotsav festivities in public places with the idol’s height kept at a maximum of nine feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-extended-in-8-cities-of-gujarat/article35932544.ece
16 August 2021||Palghar,||Rs. 846 lakh disbursed to Tauktae victims||A compensation of Rs. 846.63 lakh has been disbursed till date to the people affected by Cyclone Tauktae in Palghar district, the District Collector has said. The cyclone, which made landfall in Gujarat on May 17 night after passing along the western coast of the country, had affected 10 districts in Maharashtra. “An amount of Rs. 415.43 lakh has been transferred to bank accounts of 4,975 people whose houses were damaged in the cyclone,” Collector Manik Gursal said. He added that a total of 3,525 farmers had been paid a sum of Rs. 431.20 lakh for the damage caused to their agricultural land. “Fourteen poultry firms and four shopkeepers were also awarded the compensation,” Mr. Gursal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-846-lakh-disbursed-to-tauktae-victims/article35932545.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||2 held for threatening to attack JNU on I-Day||Two men were arrested on Sunday for allegedly threatening to attack Jawaharlal Nehru University on Independence Day. They had uploaded a video on Facebook, the police said. The accused have been identified as Vikas Sehrawat and Raja Kumar, both residents of Uttam Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-held-for-threatening-to-attack-jnu-on-i-day/article35932269.ece
16 August 2021||New delhi,||Jessica Lall’s sister Sabrina passes away||Sabrina Lall, who had fought a long battle to bring the killers of her sister Jessica Lall to book, passed away on Sunday evening, her brother Ranjith said. Sabrina, in her early fifties, was suffering from cirrhosis of the liver. Her condition deteriorated at home on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jessica-lalls-sister-sabrina-passes-away/article35932270.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 5 lakh for information on judge’s death case||The CBI has announced a reward of Rs. 5 lakh for anyone sharing “information of importance” on the alleged killing of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, who was hit by an autorickshaw on July 28, officials said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-5-lakh-for-information-on-judges-death-case/article35932272.ece
16 August 2021||Mumbai,||Millionaire hawker booked under MCOCA||The Government Railway Police have invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act against a millionaire hawker accused of extortion, his wife, and six other associates, and attached many of his properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/millionaire-hawker-booked-under-mcoca/article35932542.ece
16 August 2021||Mumbai,||‘Will have to bow before China if dependence rises’||If dependence on China increases, we will have to bow before it, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at a Mumbai school on the 75th Independence Day, the RSS chief also said “swadeshi” means doing business on India’s terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-have-to-bow-before-china-if-dependence-rises/article35932541.ece
16 August 2021||Pune,||State’s active cases surge again, exceed 64,000||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 cases outweighed its recoveries for the third consecutive day on Sunday, with a mere 3,710 patients being discharged as against 4,797 new cases. The active case tally has risen to 64,219.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-active-cases-surge-again-exceed-64000/article35932543.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rapid Taliban takeover is surprising, say Indian officials||India’s security establishment was taken by surprise at the rapid pace with which the Taliban has taken over control of Afghanistan, a senior government source said on Sunday. “We were surprised at the rapid gains made by the Taliban,” the source said, even as a second source stated that India would operate more flights to Kabul to bring back stranded citizens in Afghanistan. American officials had previously conveyed to the Indian side about the training and advances made by the Afghan National Army, but the collapse in the face of Taliban advances was not expected, the first source stated. “We are monitoring the situation closely and will take all necessary steps to evacuate our nationals stranded in Afghanistan,” the second source maintained. As late as Thursday, the Reuters news agency, in a report, cited a U.S. defence official as saying that the Taliban could take over Kabul in 90 days. In actuality, the advance was rapid and U.S. officials were way off the mark. “It’s also possible that this has been agreed upon in advance with the Americans at the Doha talks. We will have to wait and watch how this turns out,” a third official, who also preferred anonymity, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rapid-taliban-takeover-is-surprising-say-indian-officials/article35931904.ece
16 August 2021||Srinagar,||‘Jungle Raj’ has ended, says J&K L-G Sinha||Amid tight security, J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha, in his Independence Day address in Srinagar on Sunday, said “Jungle Raj in the Union Territory (UT) has come to an end.” All Independence Day functions passed off peacefully, and Internet and mobile services were not snapped, unlike in the past. “Violence-free and successful District Development Council (DDC) polls in 2020 saw a record number of participation of people. With it, the ‘Jungle Raj’ in J&K has ended forever,” Mr. Sinha said. He praised the August 5, 2019 decision to revoke J&K’s special constitutional position, saying “It has marked the new beginning in J&K”. Describing militancy as a hurdle in the path of development and progress, the L-G said, “Whoever is trying to mislead the young people through proxy war shall be given a befitting reply.” He said the next 25 years would see a new wave of development and peace. “A collective approach will be put in place to achieve new targets and goals till 2045,” he said. In an indirect reference to migrant Kashmiri Pandits, Mr. Sinha said this was also the time to heal the old wounds. “The administration has decided to constitute a mechanism to provide justice to those families, whose properties have been illegally bought under pressure or encroached upon by certain elements.” Flags unfurled Most government buildings, including around 30,000 educational institutes, hoisted the Tricolour and sang the national anthem in J&K. A viral video online showed Muzaffar Wani, father of slain militant ‘commander’ Burhan Wani, unfurling the Tricolour at a school in Tral. Mr. Wani is a principal in a government school. The killing of Burhan fuelled five-month-long street protests in 2016, which left some 100 civilians dead. No violence was reported during the functions held in all districts in the Union Territory. For the first time since 2003, the police decided not to snap mobile and Internet services. “There is neither Internet shutdown nor restrictions,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said.Security agencies had put in place an anti-drone system and a drone-based aerial surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jungle-raj-has-ended-says-jk-l-g-sinha/article35931922.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rising judicial vacancies pose challenge||Justice Rohinton Nariman’s retirement and the entry of Justice L. Nageswara Rao into the powerful five-judge Supreme Court Collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, comes at a crucial time when judicial vacancies in the Supreme Court are set to climb to 10 with the retirement of Justice Navin Sinha in three days. The present Collegium of Chief Justice Ramana, Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and Rao will remain intact for about 10 months and could even script history by appointing a woman judge who could one day be India’s first woman Chief Justice of India. Justice Rao, a direct appointee from the Bar, may evince interest to have more direct appointments from the Supreme Court Bar to the Bench of the highest court, given the exhortations from the Bar. Justice Rao would also be the first to exit the Collegium with his retirement in June 2022, followed by Justice Khanwilkar in July and Chief Justice Ramana himself in August the same year. Justice Lalit would then take over as top judge as per seniority. His tenure as Chief Justice of India will, however, be of just a little over two months till November 2022. Justice Chandrachud, again as per seniority, would succeed Justice Lalit as CJI till November 2024. Frozen since 2019 Judicial appointments to the Supreme Court have remained frozen since September 2019. That year saw 10 appointments to the Supreme Court in three batches. Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjeev Khanna were appointed in January 2019. Following this, Justices B.R. Gavai, Surya Kant, Aniruddha Bose and A.S. Bopanna were appointed in May 2019. The last batch of Supreme Court appointments in September 2019 were of Justices Krishna Murari, S. Ravindra Bhat, V. Ramasubramanian and Hrishikesh Roy. The oldest vacancy is that of Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi, who retired in November 2019. The tenure of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde did not see a single judicial appointment to the Supreme Court though frequent discussions were held by the Collegium. The present Collegium could remedy the drop in judicial strength in the Supreme Court. Proportionate representation from High Courts and seniority, though only conventions and not constitutional or legal mandates, carry weight during appointment process. Merit is a dominant criterion. According to the Law Ministry records of August 1, the senior-most Chief Justices of High Courts, as per their initial appointments in 2003, 2004 and 2005, are Karnataka Chief Justice A.S. Oka in 2003, followed by Delhi Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Tripura Chief Justice A.A. Kureshi. Both Chief Justices Patel and Kureshi share the same date of initial appointment — March 7, 2004. Gujarat Chief Justice Vikram Nath was initially appointed in September 2004 while Uttarakhand Chief Justice R.S. Chauhan, Punjab and Haryana Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Sikkim Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari were all initially appointed in 2005. The parent High Courts of these judges, except in the cases of Chief Justices Jha and Maheshwari, are already represented in the Supreme Court. The parent High court of the two judges is Madhya Pradesh. On the criterion of proportionate representation, according to the Ministry records, Patna Chief Justice Sanjay Karol’s parent High Court of Himachal Pradesh is not represented in the Supreme Court currently. Similarly, Rajasthan Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty’s parent High Court of Orissa is also not represented in the top court. There would be no representation from Patna High Court in the Supreme Court after the exit of Justice Navin Sinha on August 18. Jharkhand Chief Justice Dr. Ravi Ranjan’s parent High Court is Patna. Women judges Telangana Chief Justice Hima Kohli is the sole woman High Court Chief Justice now. The name of Justice B.V. Nagarathna from the Karnataka High Court was reported some months ago to be under consideration to replace Justice Indu Malhotra’s vacancy in the Supreme Court. An equally serious issue is the fading judicial strength in the 25 High Courts. Ministry figures of August reveal 455 judicial vacancies in the High Courts where the total sanctioned strength is 1,098. A few days ago, a Supreme Court Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul lashed out at the Centre’s delay, for years on end, to act on the recommendations of the Collegium and appoint judges to High Courts. The Bench said that the government’s “recalcitrant attitude” has affected the adjudication of important cases, especially high-stake commercial issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rising-judicial-vacancies-pose-challenge/article35931935.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||A day of champions at the majestic Red Fort||The presence of 32 Olympic winners, including javelin thrower Subedar Neeraj Chopra, at the 75th Independence Day celebration on Sunday at the Red Fort led to much delight and inspiration for many of the attendees at the function. This year, in the Tokyo Olympics, India recorded its best-ever medal haul by bagging seven medals — one gold, two silver and four bronze. Apart from gold medallist Chopra, silver medallists Mirabai Chanu and Ravi Kumar Dahiya, and P.V. Sindhu, Bajarang Punia, Lovlina Borgohain and the hockey team, who won bronze, were seated at the Red Fort rampart. “It was an honour to attend the Independence Day celebrations at the historic Red Fort today. As an athlete and a soldier, my heart is full of emotion when I see the national flag flying high. Jai Hind,” Mr. Chopra tweeted after the event. As many as 240 Olympians including boxer Mary Kom, support staff and SAI and sports federation officials were also invited to grace the Gyan Path in front of the ramparts of the Red Fort. Subdued celebrations Similar to last year, the celebrations were subdued with fewer people invited to attend the event. Schoolchildren, who form an integral part of the celebrations, were missing from this year’s event too. Only around 500 NCC cadets from various schools across the country attended the event. After delivering his speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who sported a saffron headgear with red patterns, interacted with the Olympics sportspersons. After the end of the event, many of the NCC cadets and the guests at the event were seen attempting to click pictures and selfies with the sportspersons. For the first time ever, flower petals were showered by two Indian Air Force helicopters in an Amrut Formation, drawing loud applause and cheers. Wing Commander Baldev Singh Bisht and Wing Commander Nikhil Mehrotra commanded the two choppers. Corona warriors’ due To honour the corona warriors who played a vital role in fighting the invisible enemy, a separate block was created on the south side of the ramparts. A huge wall of shipping containers, which was erected by the Delhi police at the main gate of the Red Fort for security reasons, was adorned with pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, Subhash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Sardar Patel, Rani Lakshmibai, along with other symbolic innovations and achievements. The containers were put in place after many protesters driving tractors entered the Red Fort on January 26 and hoisted a religious flag. The Delhi police had put a multi-layered security cover in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-day-of-champions-at-bedecked-red-fort/article35931919.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No new grand scheme in Modi’s Red Fort address||In his speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs. 100 lakh crore “Gati Shakti” infrastructure plan with great fanfare. He made no mention of the fact that the same scheme has turned up in his last two Independence Day speeches as well. In fact, several initiatives announced on Sunday seem to be a rehash of previously launched schemes, some as old as two years ago. “In the near future, we are going to launch the National Master Plan of Prime Minister ‘Gati Shakti’ which will be a huge scheme and fulfil the dreams of crores of countrymen,” Mr. Modi said on Sunday. “This scheme of more than 100 lakh crores rupees will result in new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth. Gati Shakti will be a National Infrastructure Master Plan for our country which will lay the foundation of holistic Infrastructure.” Echoes of past Back in 2019, similar words issued from the ramparts of Red Fort: “We have decided to invest 100 lakh crore rupees for modern infrastructure in this time period. This will generate employment; will develop new systems and various aspirations will be met.” In 2020, Mr. Modi had reiterated the same plan, offering more details: “The National Infrastructure Pipeline Project will play an important role in this endeavour. Rs. 110 lakh crore will be spent on this project. ” It was a similar story with some other announcements on Sunday as well. The Prime Minister said he had “good news to share today” that the Sainik Schools would admit girls. The decision to make all Sainik Schools co-educational by 2021-22 was announced by the Defence Ministry back in October 2019. “I am announcing the National Hydrogen Mission today with this Tricolour as a witness,” the Prime Minister said on Sunday. However, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced this mission during her Budget speech in February. The plan to fortify rice with iron and vitamins before distributing it in ration shops and at schools was also announced by then Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2019. The resolution to make India energy independent before the 100th anniversary of Independence also puts a deadline on a long-time ambition. Previous Independence Day speeches from Mr. Modi have included grander ambitions. The schemes to electrify all villages, end open defecation through Swachh Bharat, provide taps in all rural households through Jal Jeevan, put a human in space by 2022, double farmers income by 2022 and double the economy to $5 trillion over a five-year period were all announced from the Red Fort during previous August 15 speeches. “It has been two years since August 15, 2019. At least, the 100 lakh crore figure could have been changed,” said a tweet from Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-new-grand-scheme-in-modis-red-fort-address/article35931926.ece
16 August 2021||Patna,||Bihar Deputy CM says State can hold caste-based census||Amid repeated demands from the Opposition parties in Bihar and with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar joining their calls for a caste-based census in the country, senior State BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Renu Devi has said that as in Karnataka, the State government is free to conduct it. Ms. Devi has also made it clear that the Union government will not accept any proposal for such a census in the country because of its policy decision. Karnataka example “The Bihar government, like Karnataka, is free to hold caste-based census in the State but the Central government will not accept any proposal for this as its policy decision is not to conduct a caste-based census,” she told presspersons on the sidelines of the BJP’s Sahyog (community help) programme at the party headquarters on Saturday. In 2015, the Karnataka government conducted a “socio-economic and education” survey which enumerated population percentages of different castes in the State. Earlier, on August 4, after meeting Bihar Opposition leaders on the issue, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an appointment to discuss holding a caste-based census. Opposition leaders have repeatedly demanded a caste-based census, and urged Mr. Kumar to lead a delegation to meet Mr Modi on the issue. After 10 days, the Chief Minister’s Office received an acknowledgement of the letter from the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday. Tejashwi stand Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and RJD MLA Tejashwi Yadav said, “If need be, we all should sit on a dharna at Jantar Mantar in Delhi over the issue.” Mr. Yadav demanded that the Prime Minister and Chief Minister should make an announcement of a caste-based census in the country on the occasion of 75th Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-deputy-cm-says-state-can-hold-caste-based-census/article35931902.ece
16 August 2021||Kolkata,||6,808 dead in rain, cyclones in 3 years||Nearly 6,800 people lost their lives in the country over the past three years due to hydro-meteorological calamities such as flash floods, landslips and cyclones, and West Bengal has recorded the highest deaths among all States, The details were provided by the Home Ministry in response to a question by Congress MP from Tamil Nadu, Su. Thirunavukkarasar, earlier this month in the Lok Sabha. As per the reply, the country recorded 6,808 deaths (2,400 in 2018-19, 2,422 in 2019-20 and 1,986 in 2020-21). West Bengal recorded 964 deaths (383 in 2018-19, 227 in 2019-20 and 354 in 2020-21), which amounts to 14% of deaths due to hydro meteorological calamities. According to the Ministry, hydro-meteorological calamities and hazards include flash floods, cloudburst and landslips. During the monsoon period (April-October mainly; in Western Ghat terrains from April to December, including the phase of the northeast monsoon), incidents occur in almost all landslip-prone areas, some of which are disastrous, leading to loss of lives, the reply pointed out. “In most cases, these are triggered by extreme rainfall events or cloudbursts. These types of fatal landslip events are common almost every year, mainly in the Himalayan States, in the Western Ghats, and Konkan areas,” the statement tabled in the Lok Sabha said. M.P., Kerala affected Other than West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh recorded 833 deaths, followed by Kerala 708 in the same period. In both the States, the spike in the casualties has been caused by floods. For instance, Kerala recorded 455 deaths in 2018-19 due to 2018 floods. Madhya Pradesh recorded 674 deaths in 2019-20 caused by floods. “What the figures tell us about West Bengal is that for the three consecutive years the deaths due to natural calamities are high. The reason could be the geography of the State where there are both mountains and coastline. The State is susceptible to both landslides, cyclones and floods,” said Tuhin Ghosh, Director of the School of Oceanography, Jadavpur University. Prof. Ghosh, an expert on disaster management, said that under the Disaster Management Act, States were empowered to take action to prevent deaths due to natural calamities. Among the other States which recorded high causalties due to hydro meteorological calamities are Maharashtra — 571 deaths — in the same period. Assam, a State that faces regular floods, has recorded 303 deaths, Tamil Nadu 201 casualties and the coastal State of Odisha, 145 deaths in the same period. Funds allocation In terms of funds released by the Centre under State Disaster Response Funds, highest funds were allocated to Maharashtra, Rs. 1,288.80 crore, followed by Uttar Pradesh Rs. 773.20 crore and Madya Pradesh Rs. 728 crore. For West Bengal, the funds released by the Centre under State Disaster Response Funds was Rs. 404.40 crore. Experts also point that over the past three years, West Bengal had braved four tropical cyclones — Fani (May 2019), Bulbul (November 2019), Amphan (May 2020) and Yaas (May 2021). In response to another question in the Lok Sabha, the Home Ministry’s reply suggests that the damage caused by cyclone Yaas, which made a landfall in north Odisha in May 2021, was more to West Bengal than in Odisha. While in Odisha about 18,094 huts and houses were damaged or destroyed, the number in West Bengal was about three lakh. In West Bengal, crops were affected over 1,70,891 hectares and in Odisha, 5,672.99 hectares were hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6808-dead-in-rain-cyclones-in-3-years/article35931909.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Pegasus: Govindacharya asks SC to revive his 2019 petition||Former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue K.N. Govindacharya has asked the Supreme Court to revive his 2019 petition seeking a court-monitored investigation into the Pegasus spyware case and lodging of an FIR against Facebook, WhatsApp, the NSO Group and others involved in the “illegal surveillance”. Mr. Govindacharya said the Pegasus surveillance amounted to “cyberterrorism” and was punishable under the Information Technology Act. He said the entities involved should be brought to book for violating the privacy and personal liberty of citizens. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana is scheduled to hear 10 petitions, including one filed by senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, who are also seeking a direction from the court to direct the Centre to come clean on whether it had used the military-grade Pegasus technology, created by the Israeli-based NSO Group, to spy on dissenters, activists, parliamentarians, Ministers, lawyers and journalists. Mr. Govindacharya chose to withdraw his petition in 2019. He had sought a National Investigation Agency probe into the snooping scandal. Seeking a revival of his case, he said his was the first petition filed when the Pegasus snooping allegations came to the fore. Recently, the Chief Justice of India had asked in open court why people had been silent for two years about the Pegasus surveillance and chosen to approach court in 2021 only. Mr. Govindacharya said he was an apolitical person and was “not swayed by shades of politics that surround the subject of privacy”. He said he “always had the national interest in mind”. Illegal surveillance “The targeted nature of Pegasus has caused huge fear in the minds of the public. This illegal surveillance presents the biggest threat to life and personal liberty... A fair, impartial and responsible investigation is required to ascertain the magnitude of the use of Pegasus in India, and the entities responsible for the same,” he submitted in an application filed by advocate Sachin Mittal. Mr. Govindacharya said the protection of fundamental rights was essential to the rule of law. “Privacy of crores of Indians cannot be curbed without following the procedure established by law, and any such instances is violative of Article 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution,” he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-govindacharya-asks-sc-to-revive-his-2019-petition/article35931932.ece
16 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland is an integral part of India, says Governor Ravi||A day after several organisations in Nagaland observed Naga Independence Day, Governor R.N. Ravi said Nagaland has been and shall ever remain an integral part of India. His statement on Sunday coincided with a 24-hour shutdown called by an apex Naga civil society organisation across the Naga-inhabited areas to protest an order by the government in adjoining Manipur to hoist the Tricolour in all villages on the Independence Day. “On the 75th anniversary of our Independence, a nation pays homage to all the heroes of Nagaland. Unfortunately, except for a few like Rani Gaidinliu, they are largely nameless. Their names shall be pulled out of the forgotten pages of history and suitably installed to honour them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-is-an-integral-part-of-india-says-governor-ravi/article35931920.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia hoists Tricolour in front of G-23, reclaims centre stage||Unfurling the national flag at the Congress headquarters on Sunday to mark the 75th Independence Day, Congress president Sonia Gandhi sought to subtly assert her leadership in the presence of ‘detractors’. Among the senior leaders present were prominent members of the Congress’s 23 dissenters or G-23 — who had written to Ms. Gandhi last August, seeking inner party reforms and a ‘visible leadership’ among other issues — including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Anand Sharma. While Mr. Antony had unfurled the Tricolour last year during the first phase of the corona pandemic, Ms. Gandhi doing the honours this year carries a distinct, assertive political message. In the backdrop of party leader Kapil Sibal — also a member of the G-23 — hosting a dinner last week that was attended by Opposition heavyweights, Ms. Gandhi’s public engagements have been markedly different. For the first time since the pandemic broke out, she attended the monsoon session of Parliament for a couple of days and shared space with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Next week, on August 20, Ms. Gandhi will also be hosting a virtual meet of top Opposition leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-hoists-tricolour-in-front-of-g-23-reclaims-centre-stage/article35931924.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Diaspora group protests in London||The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has imprisoned a large number of dissenters amidst a global pandemic, South Asia Solidarity, an Indian diaspora organisation said on August 15, launching a protest on the Westminster bridge in London demanding Mr. Modi’s resignation. The group spearheading the event alleged that under the current government, India had normalised violence against religious minorities and the Dalits. “As India’s 75th Independence Day dawns, the country’s secular Constitution lies in tatters. Communal and caste violence stalk the land. Thousands of political prisoners languish in COVID-infected prisons, and hundreds of thousands of people are grieving the loss of their loved ones as a result of the callous negligence and mismanagement of the coronavirus crisis”, Mukti Shah of South Asia Solidarity said in a written statement. The organisers pointed out violence against the Muslim community, sexual violence against Dalit women and girls, corporate dominance of agriculture, crackdown on dissenters, and tampering with EVMs and ballot boxes as some of the features of the rule of Mr. Modi. “We, a group of diaspora members and friends standing in solidarity with the people of India, are demanding the resignation of Narendra Modi, the chief architect of this violence, injustice, and criminal negligence,” said South Asia Solidarity. The protest began early in the morning in London with the giant banners bearing “Resign Modi” placed on the bridge. Before that the protesters held a candlelight vigil outside the Indian High Commission. In recent months, London has witnessed several protests critical of the present Indian government on issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diaspora-group-protests-in-london/article35931937.ece
16 August 2021||Washington,||In I-Day greetings, Biden lauds ties||Guided by Mahatma Gandhi’s message of truth and non-violence, India achieved its long journey towards Independence, U.S. President Joe Biden said on the country’s 75th Independence Day, asserting that the commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continued to inspire the world. Greeting Indians, Mr. Biden said that in this moment of great challenges and opportunities, the partnership between India and the United States was more important than ever. “On this day, August 15, 1947, India achieved its long journey toward independence, guided by Mahatma Gandhi’s message of truth and non-violence,” Mr. Biden said in a statement on Saturday. “Today, that foundational commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continues to inspire the world and is the basis of the special bond between our two nations. Over the decades, the ties between our people, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened our partnership,” he said. Mr. Biden pointed out that in the past one year, the two nations have come together in new ways as they tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, including working in partnership with Japan and Australia — through the Quad grouping — to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines. “Together, we must show the world that our two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere. And as we do, the friendship between our nations will continue to flourish and grow,” Mr. Biden said. “I wish all those celebrating today, in India, in the United States, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-i-day-greetings-biden-lauds-ties/article35931939.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 5 lakh for information on judge’s death case||The CBI has announced a reward of Rs. 5 lakh for anyone sharing “information of importance” on the alleged killing of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, who was hit by an autorickshaw on July 28, officials said on Sunday. A notice said if anyone had any information of importance, it could be shared with the special crime team of the CBI at the CSIR Satkar guest house in Dhanbad on ph: 7827728856, 011-24368640 and 24368641. “A cash reward of Rs. 5 lakh will be given to the person who will give worthwhile information relating to the crime,” it said. The CBI has taken into custody autorickshaw driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma, who are accused in the case. The 49-year-old judge was allegedly mowed down by a heavy autorickshaw while he was on a morning jog in Dhanbad. CCTV footage showed that he was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at the Randhir Verma Chowk when the autorickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. The CBI has recreated the accident scene, while experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) have also collected evidence from the spot. The case was handed over to the CBI by the Jharkhand government. The Central agency had dispatched a 20-member team led by V.K. Shukla to probe the matter. The Jharkhand High Court and the Supreme Court are keeping an eye on the case. A High Court Bench had directed the investigating agency to initiate a probe at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-5-lakh-for-information-on-judges-death-case/article35931912.ece
16 August 2021||Kolkata,||Tram turns into museum on freedom struggle||Commemorating the 75th Independence Day, West Bengal’s Transport Department on Sunday launched a mobile museum on the freedom struggle and the partition of Bengal by turning two trams into galleries. This museum on wheels has been curated by the Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust in collaboration with the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). It will be on display at Esplanade in the heart of the city till December. It will move to other parts of the city from January 1. Two tram cars have been used to put together the museum. The first car highlights the rising resistance against the British Raj from the 1900s and key moments during from 1900 to 1947. The second car focuses on the mass migration and rehabilitation that took place post-Partition. The museum was inaugurated by Minister of Transport and Housing Firhad Hakim. “The museum on wheels beautifully depicts the efforts of our freedom fighters and also the impact of the division of Bengal and Punjab on the national psyche,” Mr. Hakim said. Transport Secretary Rajesh Sinha said there will be no entry fee to visit the museum. Rajanvir Singh Kapur, Managing Director of the WBTC, who has been instrumental in other novel initiatives like curating Tram library and Tram world, said, “We are reviving the importance of trams and reshaping its use to go beyond just a mode of travel to rich cultural space in the modern context. This is a great way for people to learn about one of the most defining events in the subcontinent’s history.” The exhibition tells the story through newspaper reports and documents and archival & personal photographs. A 7,500-sq. feet national flag was unfurled at the Victoria Memorial Hall here. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hoisted the tricolour at the Red Rod here. In a social media post, she called for strengthening the voices against forces that stifle freedom. “On the 75th Independence Day, let us all come together to strengthen our voices against all forces that aim to stifle our freedom. We must never forget the sacrifice of those who fought a long and hard battle for this day. Warm wishes to all my brothers and sisters. Jai Hind!” Ms. Banerjee tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tram-turns-into-museum-on-freedom-struggle/article35931941.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||CJI rues ‘sorry state of affairs’ in lawmaking||Chief Justice Ramana rued how the standards of lawmaking had fallen over the years. “Now it is a sorry state of affairs. There is a lot of ambiguity in the laws. We don’t know for what purpose they are made. They are causing a lot of litigation and inconvenience to the people, courts...” Chief Justice Ramana said. The observations by the CJI follow closely after Parliament cleared the Tribunal’s Reforms Bill of 2021, which has sought the abolishment of as many as nine appellate tribunals, including the Film Certificate Appellate Tribunals, despite the Opposition charge that the legislation undermined the independence of judiciary. The Bill has also revived provisions of tenure and service of members of tribunals which were earlier struck down by the Supreme Court in a judgment. The CJI, in his speech on Sunday, mentioned how lawyers had led the nation, right from the struggle for Independence to being the first legislators of the country. He said the leaders of the Independence struggle were lawyers, such as Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. “They sacrificed not only their professions but also their families and property for the struggle...” he said. The contributions of the Supreme Court to democratic rights enshrined in the Constitution had been immense over the years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-rues-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-lawmaking/article35932165.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||CJI rues ‘sorry state of affairs’ in lawmaking||The Bill has also revived provisions of tenure and service of members of tribunals which were earlier struck down by the Supreme Court in a judgment. The CJI, on Sunday, mentioned how lawyers led the nation, right from the struggle for Independence to being the first legislators of the country. “Then the debates and discussions in the House were constructive. They could elaborately discuss the legislation taking place... Laws used to be discussed and deliberated... Unfortunately, over a period of time... you know what is happening in the House. In the absence of quality debate, courts are unable to fathom the intent and object of the new laws,” the CJI addressed an audience of judges and lawyers. He said the lack of intellectual heft witnessed in the House could be remedied if more lawyers actively participated in public life rather than confine themselves to their legal practice and homes. He said leaders of the Independence struggle were lawyers such as Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-rues-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-lawmaking/article35932399.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trekking the highest battlefield in the world||Where there’s a will there’s a way. A team of people with disabilities on Independence Day embarked upon a journey to trek the Siachen Glacier. They will attempt a world record for the largest group of people with disabilities to scale the highest battlefield in the world. Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumar flagged off the expedition, which is being executed by ‘Team CLAW’, a group of armed forces veterans working towards empowering people with disabilities. “The team will drive via Manali to Leh and will prepare for the Siachen Glacier world record expedition,” said Major Arun Prakash Ambathy (retd.) of CLAW Global. “It shall subsequently undergo three stages of acclimatisation, training and medical screening before being inducted into the Siachen Base Camp for the final expedition,” he said. 15,632 feet The final leg of the expedition from Siachen Base Camp to Kumar Post, at an altitude of 15,632 feet, will commence on September 1, 2021, Major Ambathy added. This is the land world record expedition part of ‘Operation Blue Freedom Triple World Records’ being undertaken, CLAW Global said. Those selected will undergo all the three stages of acclimatisation and training at Leh (Stage 1), Siachen base camp (Stage 2) and North Pullu (Stage 3) after which the final expedition team would be selected. CLAW Global was set up in January 2019 by Major Vivek Jacob, a retired Para Special Forces officer, with the aim of teaching life skills to adventurers and people with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trekking-the-highest-battlefield-in-the-world/article35931985.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Air India flight brings 129 people from Kabul||Over the past few days, a large number of Afghans have reached out to the Embassy of India seeking visa to get out of the Afghan capital. But officials here said that smooth functioning of any kind of consular service is difficult because of the chaos on the ground in Kabul. India had been planning a similar evacuation process over the past few days and an Air India aircraft flew out citizens from Mazar-e-Sharif last Tuesday. Officials here indicated that they are focused on ensuring safety of the Indian citizens and diplomats stuck in Kabul and will ensure that they are brought back safely. The spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs last Thursday had declared that India will ensure safety of the Hindu and Sikh citizens of Afghanistan. Civil society initiatives have also come forth with Vikramjit Sahney, International President of World Punjabi Organisation, volunteering to send chartered aircraft to Kabul to evacuate Hindu and Sikh citizens of Afghanistan. Meanwhile, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar travelled to New York for a visit from August 16-19 to chair two sessions of the UN Security Council on peacekeeping and terrorism. The visit was scheduled earlier, but is expected to see him participate in consultations on the developing situation in Afghanistan as well, and he will also have bilateral meetings with Foreign Ministers of other UNSC members on the sidelines of the two sessions. “The first event on August 18, 2021 will be an Open Debate on ‘Protecting the Protectors: Technology and Peacekeeping’ while the second event on August 19, 2021 will be a high-level briefing on ‘Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts,” said an MEA statement, adding that he would preside over a briefing session on the six-monthly report of the UN Secretary General on the threat posed by ISIL/Da’esh, which is also likely to focus on Afghanistan and regional security.  (With inputs from      Suhasini Haidar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-begins-evacuation-of-citizens-from-kabul/article35931905.ece
16 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya Minister quits after violence on I-Day||Meghalaya Home Minister Lakhmen Rymbui resigned after mob violence and arson in Shillong on Independence Day forced the local authorities to enforce an indefinite curfew and suspend Internet services for 48 hours in four districts. The killing of former extremist leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew by the police on Friday morning triggered the unruly situation that climaxed during his burial at about 1 p.m. on Sunday. “…Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the tenets of the law. Considering the gravity of the situation, I would request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect,” Mr. Rymbui wrote in a letter to Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma. The resignation, he said, was needed for a free and fair probe. “I propose judicial enquiry be conducted,” he said. Mr. Rymbui represents the regional United Democratic Party, a minor ally of Mr. Sangma’s National People’s Party. The BJP is also one of the ruling allies. Tension in Shillong began brewing from Saturday evening when miscreants attacked a police vehicle. It snowballed after Thangkhiew’s burial as members of his family termed his death as a “cold-blooded murder”. Masked protesters vandalised a number of vehicles, including police and tourist cars, and indulged in stone-pelting, arson and theft. They also seized a police vehicle along with weapons and drove around the localities, wielding the weapons they snatched before setting the vehicle on fire. East Khasi Hills Deputy Commissioner Isawanda Laloo issued an order clamping “total curfew” from 8 p.m. on Sunday. In another notification, the Home Department said mobile Internet/data services have been suspended for 48 hours in East Khasi Hills, of which Shillong is the headquarters, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hills and Ri-Bhoi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-minister-quits-after-violence-on-i-day/article35931906.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Next 25 years crucial for India’s development: PM||He also mentioned that while celebrating independence, “Indians had taken an emotional decision to mark August 14th as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” for all those who had lost their lives and loved ones in the Partition of 1947. His speech, nearly 90 minutes in all, went over the efforts of his government to simplify laws, make government less intrusive, invest in infrastructure, including the Rs. 100 lakh crore “Gatishakti initiative”, the master plan for which would be unveiled soon. He pointed out to India’s commitment to the environment and its climate change goals by stating that the country was committed to “circular economy”. He said his government was committed to the goal of 100% coverage of all welfare schemes, including the Jal Jeevan Mission of tapped drinking water connections to all homes, Ujjwala cooking gas scheme, Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana for housing and Jan Dhan bank accounts for everyone. He also announced the admission for girls in all Sainik Schools across the country and that the use of fortified rice across all government nutrition programmes would also be undertaken. In a nod to the fact that his government has been dealing with long-running protests by farmers groups and Opposition parties on the three contentious farm laws, he asserted that the majority of Indian farmers were small and marginal and his government had prioritised their interests. Giving the slogan of ‘ c hhota kisan bane desh ki shaan (small farmers should become India’s pride)’, Mr. Modi said 80% of India’s farmers had less than two hectares of land. “Keeping small expenses in mind, the government is implementing the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) under which more than Rs. 1.5 lakh crore has been transferred into the bank accounts of over 10 crore farmers,” he added. Reservation ensured Mr. Modi also said reservation was being ensured for Dalits, STs, backwards and general category poor, and emphasised that the hand-holding of deprived communities was necessary. He expressed pride in the defence sector’s efforts under “Make in India”, including the trials of INS Vikrant , the aircraft carrier. Mr. Modi said that development of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Ladakh was under way as was the work of the delimitation commission in J&K, and that Assembly election would be held in the Union Territory sooner rather than later. He also lauded the Olympic contingent, which was present at the Red Fort, and said their performance encouraged the youth of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/next-25-years-crucial-for-indias-development-pm/article35931911.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||CJI rues ‘sorry state of affairs’ in lawmaking||“Unfortunately, over a period of time... you know what is happening in the House. In the absence of quality debate, courts are unable to fathom the intent and object of the new laws,” the CJI addressed an audience of judges and lawyers. He said the lack of intellectual heft witnessed in the House could be remedied if more lawyers actively participated in public life rather than confine themselves to their legal practice and homes. The observations by the CJI follow closely after Parliament cleared the Tribunal’s Reforms Bill of 2021, which has sought the abolishment of as many as nine appellate tribunals, including the Film Certificate Appellate Tribunals, despite the Opposition charge that the legislation undermined the independence of the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-rues-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-lawmaking/article35932622.ece
16 August 2021||Guwahati,||Assam tea quality rides on bicycle balls||The tilinga (bell) of a bicycle and the power of its pedal have been woven into popular, romantic Assamese songs. The ball bearings in the rear wheel of the common man’s mode of transport are now helping infuse quality into the cup of tea that often brews romance or business in Assam. The 110-year-old Tocklai Tea Research Institute in eastern Assam’s Jorhat had in the 1950s developed the ballometric method for separating fine tea leaves from the coarse ones to ensure quality. While many of Assam’s 803 major tea estates have been following this method, the unorganised sector has largely avoided it. The ballometric system entails weighing 100 grams of freshly plucked tea leaves from the withering trough in a factory. The weights on the scale are 100 steel balls from the rear wheel of a bicycle, each weighing 1 gram. Every 100 grams of tea leaves is then separated into fine and coarse leaves. “Fine leaves mean the standard two leaves and a bud (unopened leaf), a leaf and a bud or a banji (sterile leaf) at the tip of a stem of the tea bush. These are sorted from the more mature leaves and the stems that are categorised as coarse leaves,” Tocklai’s Director A.K. Barooah said. The sorted fine leaves are put back on the scale and weighed again with the steel balls. If the weight of a bunch of such leaves is equivalent to 55 balls, the percentage of fine leaves for processing is taken to be 55%. Tea industry captains said the ballometric method has been back in focus because small tea gardens (STGs), which now account for more than 52% of the average annual tea production of 692 million kg in Assam, need to be sensitised for insuring against a dip in quality. In July, the STGs had in a meeting with the Tea Board of India and other stakeholders agreed to supply at least 40% fine leaf to the tea factories. This arrangement will be in force until the Board comes up with a new minimum quality benchmark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-tea-quality-rides-on-bicycle-balls/article35931900.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||RS ruckus: Ministers seek action against Opposition||During the meeting, the delegation alleged that the Opposition members prevented the marshals from discharging their duties and threw House papers, Minutes book and other items, abused the Chair and also obstructed the House from performing its duties, said a source in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. Mr. Naidu is learnt to have told the delegation that he “will examine the matter for deciding on the appropriate course of action”. The delegation consisted of Leader of the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Labour Minister Bhupnder Yadav and Ministers of State Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan. Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha Harivansh was also present along with Mr. Naidu when the ministerial delegation called on the Chairman. The Chairman also separately met Biju Janata Dal member, Sasmit Patra, who is on the panel of Vice-Chairman and was presiding over the proceedings when the ruckus took place. The events of August 11 in the Rajya Sabha has become a flash point between the government and a united Opposition. While the government accused the Opposition of “violent behaviour”, a united Opposition had alleged that “outsiders in the guise of marshals” were brought in to assault Opposition members including women MPs. On Thursday, a 14-member delegation including Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar had met Mr. Naidu to complain about the treatment of the Opposition members. “A very large number of security personnel, who were not part of the regular part of the Watch and Ward staff of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, were deployed. They used unacceptable force and physically manhandled Members of Parliament, including women members,” the Opposition leaders said in a joint memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-ruckus-ministers-seek-action-against-opposition/article35931907.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Rama a role model||Valmiki Ramayana gives us the essence of Visishtadvaita, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Merely explaining Vedantic doctrines will not help people understand the full import of concepts like Saranagati. But when they come across practical demonstrations of it in the Ramayana, they realise the significance of Saranagati. Rama too, through the way in which He lived his life, shows that the rules given in the scriptures are not so difficult to follow, if one is determined to follow them. So, we learn how to conduct ourselves in life, by observing Rama’s conduct. Rama becomes a role model for all of us. The Rama-Sita relationship represents the Paramatma-Jivatma connection. Sita is representative of the Jivatma, and Rama is the Paramatma. Ideally, the jivatma should be close to the Paramatma, serving Him always. But because of the ten indriyas, the jivatma gets pushed into samsara and moves away from the Paramatma. Sita should have been with Rama, but the ten-headed demon Ravana abducts Her and separates Her from Rama. The ten heads are symbolic of the ten indriyas, which keep us from getting close to the Supreme One. Asoka Vana, where Ravana keeps Sita captive, is symbolic of this world, where we take birth repeatedly. In Asoka Vana, Sita is guarded by fierce demonesses. They are like relatives, who do not always wish us well, and from whom it is best to keep a distance. And yet, even among these demonesses is a good person, and that is Vibhishana’s daughter Trijata. She is symbolic of the devotees of the Lord, whose company is beneficial to us. The Lord sends Acharyas to guide jivatmas. In Sita’s case, the Acharya sent by Rama is Hanuman. He reassures Her that Rama will soon rescue Her, and his words are a comfort to Her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rama-a-role-model/article35931930.ece
16 August 2021||Agartala,||Two MPs attacked, says Trinamool||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday alleged that its two women MPs — Dola Sen and Aparupa Poddar — were attacked allegedly by BJP-backed people at two locations in south Tripura. It said an aide of the MPs from West Bengal was seriously injured in one of the incidents. The MPs accompanied by State leaders went to Thairung in Sabroom, 130 km from Agartala, to inaugurate a party office and attend a national flag hoisting programme. Several bike-borne people arrived at the scene and started attacking the leaders and supporters with bamboo sticks and stones, the Trinamool said. The party alleged Ms. Sen and Ms. Poddar were physically assaulted and their aide Jakir Husssain was seriously injured. Mr. Hussain received eight stitches on his head. Two vehicles of the Trinamool team were smashed. Ms. Sen said the police at the venue did not try to stop the attackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-mps-attacked-says-trinamool/article35931910.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Remains of one missing helicopter pilot retrieved||The mortal remains of Lt. Col. A.S. Baath, one of the two pilots who went missing in the helicopter crash in Ranjit Sagar (Thein) reservoir, were retrieved on Sunday, the Army said. “Mortal remains of Lt. Col. A.S. Baath retrieved from a depth of 75.9 m at 18:19 hrs from the Ranjit Sagar Lake. Efforts to retrieve the mortal remains of the second pilot continue,” the Army said in a statement. The chopper had crashed in the reservoir on August 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remains-of-one-missing-helicopter-pilot-retrieved/article35932123.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In charge of the health of a city||“Members of the public are further warned to avoid exposing themselves to the infection by attending theatres, cinemas and other places of public resort,” reads part of a note issued by K. Raghavendra Rao, Health Officer of the Corporation of Madras, in October 1918 when Spanish Flu ravaged the city. If the period was not mentioned, the note can easily be mistaken for a statement issued by the current City Health Officer of the municipal body, which has since become the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Its striking similarity to the advisories issued amid COVID-19 aside, the note, which was part of the detailed statements issued by the then Health Officer through newspapers, underscores the role played by the Public Health Department of the city, which was among the worst affected in India during both pandemics. The Department has tackled at least three pandemics since the 20th century — the Spanish Flu of 1918, the influenza pandemic of 1957 and COVID-19 — besides the outbreaks of malaria, dengue, cholera, filaria, plague and other diseases. Owing to Chennai being the only place in the State where the district is coterminous with the municipal corporation, the civic body takes precedence in the administration of the city. Unlike other districts where the Deputy Directors of the Health and Family Welfare Department play an important role, it is the GCC’s Public Health Department that handles health-related matters of the entire Chennai. The post of Health Officer was created in 1892, over two centuries after the Corporation was formed in 1688, when its limit was just around 10 km from Fort St. George. The city’s first maternity care centre was opened in 1917. Over the years, the title of Health Officer changed to Chief Health Officer and the Department underwent a tremendous transformation in its administrative set-up and ambit of work, with the city’s population increasing more than 16 times from what it was a century ago and its area expanding to 426 sq. km. Just three vehicles B. Dhanraj, retired Chief Vector Control Officer who served the GCC from 1967 to 2007, recalls the cholera control work he carried out soon after he joined duty. “The whole Corporation had just three vehicles — one for the Commissioner and two for inspections. I remember visiting the Communicable Diseases Hospital at Tondiarpet every morning to get the addresses of patients and visiting their areas in a left-hand drive jeep.” “If we finished with the list early, we would visit nearby police stations to make a phone call to the hospital to find out whether any new patient had reported during the day,” he says. Today, a cursory look at the list of work under the purview of the Public Health Department shows that it is arguably the largest of the 17 Departments in the GCC. The Department, which derives its responsibilities and powers from the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act and the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, handles the implementation of State and national health programmes, birth and death registration, control of communicable and non-communicable diseases, vector control measures, urban primary health centres, veterinary public health, maternal and child health, burial grounds and ‘Amma Unavagam’. “Even conservancy work and control of food adulteration were once under its purview. However, they were moved out later,” Mr. Dhanraj says. While the Department was earlier headed by the Chief Health Officer, a Joint Commissioner of Health, an IAS officer, is overseeing its functioning now. Apart from the Chief Health Officer, the Department has a City Medical Officer, whose role includes the management of the urban primary health centres that evolved from dispensaries. P. Kuganantham, a retired Chief Health Officer, says the Corporation was a pioneer in adopting best practices in public health. He recalls the steps taken after a new strain of Vibrio cholerae was identified in the early 1990s, in collaboration with the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board. “We adopted the principles John Snow [renowned epidemiologist] followed for cholera control in the U.K.,” he says. Highlighting that Chennai was one of the first cities to issue birth and death certificates online, he adds that some of the strategies followed in 2011 to control dengue, malaria and other vector-borne diseases were helpful in COVID-19 management. GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi says the civic body continues to adopt innovations. Despite struggles, especially during the second wave, Chennai handled COVID-19 better than other metropolitan cities. Mr. Dhanraj says COVID-19 highlighted the strengths of the Public Health Department, besides some of its weaknesses. He calls for streamlining the responsibilities of the officials to meet the present requirements and feels the contractualisation of large sections of the workforce may affect the Department. As with the city’s achievements in public health, a sentence in the Health Officer’s report submitted in 1919 by the same Dr. Raghavendra Rao still rings true. “When all is said and done, there remains the important question of providing the people with the primary necessaries of life, viz., good and sufficient food to eat, wholesome water to drink, and sanitary houses to live in, suitable parks and grounds to roam and play in,” he says. Have we achieved them fully?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-charge-of-the-health-of-a-city/article35932219.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases dip marginally to 1,896||The daily count of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, which was hovering around 1,900, came down to 1,896 on Sunday, along with a marginal reduction in the number of tests. While the number of persons tested came down from 1,59,684 the day before to 1,56,973, the number of cases came down from 1,916. The fresh infections took the total number of cases to 25,88,781. The State reported 23 deaths, taking the toll to 34,519. With the recovery of 1,842 patients, the active cases stood at 20,458. Among the districts, Coimbatore reported the highest number of 225 cases, followed by Chennai (216). Erode (179), Salem (127), Chengalpattu (115), and Thanjavur (106) reported more than 100 cases. Another five districts reported more than 50 cases. Six districts reported fresh infections in single digit. While 21 districts reported fewer cases than Saturday, the remaining 17 districts reported marginally more cases. Tiruppur and Salem accounted for five deaths each. Chennai reported three deaths. Tiruchi and Vellore reported two deaths each. One death each was reported in Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Villupuram. While 19 deaths occurred at government institutions, the rest at private hospitals, said the bulletin from the Health and Family Welfare Department. According to the bulletin, 16 of the 23 people had co-morbidities. A 96-year-old man from Tiruvallur district, who died at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Saturday after treatment for 10 days, was the oldest among those reported dead on Sunday. The youngest was a 21-year-old man from Tiruppur district. He died on May 23. His death was reported on Sunday as part of the death reconciliation exercise.  While 21 districts reported fewer cases than Saturday, the remaining 17 districts reported marginally more cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-dip-marginally-to-1896/article35932233.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin presents awards on I-Day||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin presented the Kalpana Chawla Award for Courage and Daring Enterprise to P. Shanmuga Priya, posthumously, at the Independence Day celebrations held at Fort St. George on Sunday. Shanmuga Priya was a medical officer at the Annuppanadi Primary Health Centre in Madurai. During the second wave of COVID-19, she attended 582 fever surveillance camps and monitored the health of 10,961 persons among whom 302 active cases were identified. She treated and monitored 52 COVID-19 patients who were in home quarantine. She tested positive and succumbed to the infection despite the best medical care, the government said. The Chief Minister also presented the Dr.A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Award to M. Lakshmanan, Professor of Eminence, Bharathidasan University, a specialist in non-linear dynamics in theoretical physics. He finds a place in Stanford University’s list of the world’s top 2% scientists. On Saturday evening, the Chief Minister presented the first Thagaisal Thamizhar Award to veteran Communist leader N. Sankaraiah. He visited Mr. Sankaraiah at his residence and presented the award and a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh. Mr. Sankaraiah donated the sum to COVID-19 relief works. K. Narayanasamy, Director, Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, was honoured with the Chief Minister’s Best Practices Award for his efforts to restructure the building of the National Institute of Ageing on the King Institute campus into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital. Presidency College was given the award for facilitating independent learning of differently abled students by designing customised learning material. J. Partheeban, District Revenue Officer, Vellore, was presented with the award for simplifying land acquisition process using e-modules and ensuring transparency in the fixation of compensation. Holy Cross Service Society, Tiruchi; P. Padmapriya, Medical Officer, Salem; social worker Maria Aloysis Novamoney, Nagercoil; We are Your Voice, Chennai; and Erode Central Co-operative Bank were honoured for exemplary service to the differently abled. The Avvaiyar Award was conferred on Santhi Duraisamy, Shakti Devei Charitable Trust, Erode. The Best Third Gender Award was conferred on Grace Banu, Thoothukudi, for services to the welfare of society. Thanjavur won the Best Corporation Award. Udhagamandalam won the prize for the best municipality. Kallakudi in Tiruchi district won the prize for the best town panchayat. Special medals for COVID-19 warriors were presented to 33 front-line workers from various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-presents-awards-on-i-day/article35932211.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor congratulates CM, frontline workers for COVID fight||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit hosted “At Home” Independence Day Reception at the Raj Bhavan on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, he appealed to the people of the State to continue their co-operation with the government in controlling the spread of COVID-19 by following the protocol and to achieve total vaccination. “I congratulate the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and the entire government machinery, particularly the front-line workers..., on having worked tirelessly as a team to combat the second wave of COVID-19,” he said. “On this historic occasion, I wish to pay my tributes to all those brave souls who suffered and sacrificed for the noble cause of our country’s freedom from British rule. Let us express our gratitude to all those who enabled our country to move forward on the path of progress,” Mr. Purohit said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Assembly Speaker M. Appavu, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee, Ministers, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary to the Governor Anandrao V. Patil and other dignitaries took part at the event. “Tamil Nadu is the home to a rich culture, an ancient language and friendly people. The State has very good infrastructure and efficient work culture. The untiring efforts of the State government have made Tamil Nadu the number one State in many fields. I expect all of you to work hard with total transparency and give corruption-free administration to people and make the State number one in all the fields,” Mr. Purohit said. Congratulates Olympians He also congratulated Bhavani Devi and other Olympians from Tamil Nadu on having participated in Tokyo Olympic Games. “I appreciate the efforts made by the State government at supporting them in all aspects. The government should continue the good work in identifying talent in sports for Olympics and other world-level competitions and provide them with all facilities to get more medals for the nation.” He also appealed to the people to express their gratitude to the invaluable services rendered by ex-servicemen by donating generously to the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, which is dedicated to their welfare. Mr. Purohit presented awards for the best achievements in the Flag Day collection. The Greater Chennai Corporation was awarded for the maximum collection and the Erode Municipal Corporation for the best collection. Among districts, Tiruvallur was awarded for the maximum collection, followed by Tiruchi and Chennai. In percentage-wise collection, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Tiruvarur bagged the top three spots. Earlier in the day, the Governor hoisted the national flag and took the salute of CRPF personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-congratulates-cm-frontline-workers-for-fighting-pandemic/article35932216.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No one should lose a leg to diabetes’||Vijay Viswanathan, head and chief diabetologist, M.V. Hospital for Diabetes and Prof. M. Viswanathan Diabetes Research Centre, stressed on the need for steps to ensure that no one lost their leg to diabetes. In a discussion organised by South India MICE Association (SIMA) on Saturday with journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, Dr. Viswanathan said that the vast majority of the amputations underwent by diabetic people in India were completely avoidable. Citing research done by him, he said that more than 70% of the amputations undergone by diabetic people were due to diabetic neuropathy. Pointing out that the condition resulted in loss of sensation because of which minor infections and injuries to feet were ignored initially by the patients, leading to worsening of infection and eventually to amputation. Dr. Viswanathan said there was a need to train doctors on foot care, and they could in turn educate their patients. He highlighted the work done by D-Foot International, a Belgium-based global organisation, in this area. Dr. Viswanathan was the first non-European to be elected to serve as its president from 2021 to 2023. He said that one of the key initiatives of the organisation was to train doctors in different countries. Dr. Viswanathan recollected the numerous research work carried out in his career spanning three decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-one-should-lose-a-leg-to-diabetes/article35932223.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government mulls dropping minor punishments against police||In what could come as a major relief for police personnel in the rank and file, the State government is contemplating dropping minor punishments meted out under the disciplinary rules. According to sources, the police headquarters has called for the details of minor punishments handed to police personnel from the rank of police constable to Additional Superintendent of Police across the State. A formal announcement was expected from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin soon, the sources said, adding that a few hundreds of personnel in the force facing minor punishments stalling their career growth would be benefited by the move. “Though punishments issued after an inquiry into serious delinquencies would remain, others ordered in trivial matters like coming late for roll call, not being present at the place of deployment when superior officer visited the spot and not answering the calls in wireless network etc. may be dropped at the discretion of the State government,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Saturday. Punishments recommending ‘Deferred censure’, ‘Black mark’, ‘Censure’ and ‘Postponement of increment without cumulative effect up to three years’ were the details urgently called for from all cities/districts a couple of days ago, the sources said. Such punishments were issued to members of the Tamil Nadu Police Subordinate Services. “While those servicing in special units like the Special Branch CID and the Directorate of Vigilance & Anti-Corruption may not face such punishments, it happens almost on a daily basis at the police station level and other police establishments. A punishment given under 3A of the Tamil Nadu Police Subordinate Service (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1955, would go into service records and affect increment and promotion prospects of the employee,” another police official said. Though minor punishments are set aside on merits when appealed to senior police officers, the process was often time-consuming, resulting in the mental agony of the affected person seeking a fair inquiry after his/her explanation on the charge, the sources said. The Tamil Nadu police have a strength of about 1.25 lakh police personnel of which a majority belongs to the subordinate services.  Though punishments for serious delinquencies will remain, others ordered in trivial matters may go Senior police official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-mulls-dropping-minor-punishments-against-police/article35932250.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three men who stole Rs. 2 cr. from woman’s account held||The Bank Fraud wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police has arrested three more persons, who had cheated a woman of Rs. 2.06 crore after fraudulently getting her bank account details. The special team of the CCB of the city police, which had gone to New Delhi, arrested three accused persons — Anshika, Amithkumar and Akshay Gupta on Thursday. The trio was brought to Chennai on Sunday after producing them before a judicial magistrate in Delhi. The special team produced them before the Egmore judicial magistrate, who sent them to prison. A senior officer said the special team had already arrested eight persons in connection with the cheating case registered in 2019. The police official said the case pertains to the gang calling Sudha Sridharan, a resident of Mandaveli, in 2019 and informing her about release of an “insurance amount” of her deceased husband. The gang used this as a ruse to collect bank account details of the woman. The gang cheated the woman by withdrawing more than Rs. 2 crore from various banks in which she had savings accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-more-held-for-siphoning-off-rs-2-cr-from-womans-accounts/article35932225.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR & CE dept. takes over management of Adi Kesavaperumal Temple in Mylapore||The Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) has taken over the Sri Adi Kesavaperumal Temple at Mylapore, which houses the sannidhi of Sri Peyaalwar, one of the 12 Vaishnava Saints. The temple also has the sannidhis for Sri Mayuravalli Thaayar and Sri Andal, and is considered an ancient one. HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, who visited the temple along with Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran after a thakkar was appointed for the temple, said the temple needed cleaning and urgent repairs. “It has been over 12 years since the Kumbhabhishekam was carried out. The temple, according to our estimates, has around 10 acres of land that has to be retrieved. The Department has been receiving complaints about the sale of land and properties belonging to the temple, and it was recommended in 2014 that the temple be taken over. However, no action was taken, which is why it is being taken over now,” he said. Sources close to the trustees said they had applied for permission for conducting the Kumbhabhishekam five years ago. “The experts from the Archaeological Survey of India and the Joint Commissioner-led committee had recommended it, and the file has been pending at the Commissioner’s office. The current team of trustees took over in 2002 after which they have filed cases to retrieve the land belonging to the temple. The allegations of land sale pertain to those sold around 100 years ago, and they are unable to find records,” they said. Also under the control of this temple are a mandapam and a well on Arundale Street at Mylapore where Sri Peyaalwar was believed to have been born in the Dwaparayuga. He was the one who composed the Moodraam Thiruvandhadhi, 100 songs on the Lord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-ce-dept-takes-over-management-of-adi-kesavaperumal-temple-in-mylapore/article35932238.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BL Cerebration 2021 finalist spotted||R. Jayakanthan of Tata Consultancy Services has emerged winner in the Chennai Regional Round held on Saturday and will now participate in the finale of the 18th edition of the BusinessLine ’s Cerebration 2021, a corporate quiz championship held for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students and MBA aspirants. Six finalists from cities, including Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi will take part in the grand finale to be held on August 28. The preliminary quiz was held from August 4 to 11 and saw nearly 6,000 people participating. Tackling all kinds of questions — from who came up with India's first analogue computer to the more recent Neeraj Chopra’s Olympic gold medal in in javelin throw — Mr. Jayakanthan led from the beginning and aced the quiz. Pranav Hari from IIT Madras and Ramesh R. from Freshworks got the second and the third place in this regional round. Raghuvir Srinivasan, Editor, BusinessLine said that BusinessLine , read by everyone from top leadership to policy makers to CEOs in the country, was also known for this event with quizzing aficionados from across the country coming to participate. The winner will receive a prize money of Rs. 75,000, the second and the third get Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 25,000 respectively. K.P. Manjunath, Deputy General Manager, Chennai Region, Union Bank of India, spoke. Ajay Poonia was the quiz master.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bl-cerebration-2021-finalist-spotted/article35932227.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister to hold meeting with top school education officials tomorrow||The School Education Department will hold a meeting of all Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) on Tuesday. In a major reshuffle last week, 37 CEOs and officials in equivalent posts in the department were transferred. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi is expected to address the officials. Areas related to different departments, including Directorate of Matriculation Schools, Directorate of Government Examinations, Samagra Shiksha and the Directorate of Elementary Education, will be discussed at the meeting. The department is gearing up for a possible reopening of schools as well, following a recent announcement by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin where he had spoken about a likely reopening of schools for senior classes alone from September 1, depending on the pandemic situation. A prioritised syllabus for the current academic year had been released by the department, after taking into consideration that schools were still shut and the impact it would have on the number of transactional days. “While we are awaiting details on the topics that have been reduced for the current year, online classes have been progressing by using the syllabus reduction of the previous academic year as reference. We expect to get information about the prioritised topics this coming week,” said P.K. Ilamaran, President, Tamil Nadu Teachers Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-to-hold-meeting-with-all-ceos-tomorrow/article35932231.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Samadhan’s success hinges on waiver, penalty||Factors such as waiver of some portion of tax, interest and penalty will determine the success of the proposed scheme by the State government to enable taxpayers settle their dues under the previous Value Added Tax regime, according to experts. In his budget speech last week, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan had indicated that Samadhan Scheme will be launched to settle the pending dues of Rs. 28,000 crore under Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax and other legacy legislations. The details of the scheme are yet to be announced and its success will depend on the quantum of relief. Many States like Kerala and Maharashtra have announced such schemes, G. Natarajan, an advocate, Partner in Swamy Associates, said. Central scheme Earlier, the Centre had introduced Vivad Se Vishwas scheme covering Central Excise and Service Tax. According to data provided by Union Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary in Lok Sabha, disputes over Rs. 99,756 crore tax amount had been settled under the Vivad Se Vishwas scheme and the government realised Rs. 53,684 crore receipts. ‘’The State can look at the Centre’s scheme which was a success and try to emulate the same. Substantial waiver of the tax component and total waiver of penalty would be some of key aspects for the scheme to be effective,” Vaitheeswaran, a Chennai-based advocate and tax consultant, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/samadhans-success-hinges-on-waiver-penalty/article35932234.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to have two more pedestrian plazas||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Sunday announced two pedestrian plaza projects, including one in north Chennai. Chennai Smart City Ltd., in a tweet on Sunday, announced that M.C. Road market area in Old Washermanpet and Khadar Nawaz Khan Road in Nungambakkam will be converted into a pedestrian plaza on the lines of the one in T. Nagar. M.C. Road pedestrian plaza is expected to be developed along the 850-metre stretch by integrating the Robinson playground. The road is 1.9-km long with high pedestrian footfall in 800 metres of commercial area. The market stretch will be developed as a pedestrian prioritised street with shuttle routes planned by incorporating the Metro station and bus stop. M.C. Road will have restricted traffic with dedicated routes for vehicles. Junctions will be designed for seamless east-west connectivity. The street will be designed for seamless movement and multi-utility zones with space for market street activities and amenities. Aswathy Dilip, Senior Programme Manager, ITDP, said Robinson playground and other parks would be integrated into the street design. “M.C. Road attracts 40,000 pedestrians during festivals and on weekends. The Corporation officials said the design integrates all major public transport routes, with multi-modal integration provided at entry points and near the Metro station. There are 3,000 shops along M.C. Road but the exact number of vendors to be accommodated in the new design would be finalised shortly. Five major nodes had been proposed along the pedestrian plaza in M.C. Road. The entry plaza at M.C. Road-Cemetery Road junction, pedestrian promenade near Robinson ground, temple park near Thulukanthamman temple, traffic calmed junction at J.P. Koil Kamaraj monument park and the last one at BSNL junction. The entire street will have upgraded utilities with storm-water drains, new sewer drains with riders, water supply, electrical ducts, telcom ducts and proposed gas connection. For storm water management, recharge pits will be created. In a bid to ensure ease of travel for elderly and the differently-abled, shuttle services have been planned. After development of pedestrian plaza at Khadar Nawaz Khan Road, the vision is to use the street network and catalyse transit oriented development to create a walkable central business district in the heart of Chennai. “The two pedestrian priority projects at M.C. Road and Khader Nawaz Khan road show that the government is committed to providing safe, inclusive and vibrant streets for all users. This is in line with the budget 2021 announcement made by the Finance Minister that pedestrian-friendly and disabled- friendly streets will be provided in all urban areas,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-to-have-two-more-pedestrian-plazas/article35932221.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Shut Sterlite’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday demanded that the DMK pass a resolution during the current Assembly session to permanently close the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said the DMK must take steps to shut down the Sterlite plant permanently as they had promised in their election manifesto. “A special resolution must be passed to permanently close the factory that had taken many lives and a copy be sent to the Supreme Court. The officials who allowed the factory to pollute the environment by breaking the rules should be investigated. Those who were responsible for the deaths of protesters should be punished and a memorial erected for them,” he said. DMK’s demand He said: “I would like to point out that the then Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin in 2018 had urged the previous government to pass a resolution calling for a permanent closure of the plant and create regulations for copper production in the State.” Mr. Haasan said it was a part of history that the Supreme Court levied a Rs. 100 crore fine and the State government said that the plant had released poisonous gasses 82 times into the environment. “The people never asked for the plant to be set up here. They were fooled by saying that they will get jobs and there will be economic development. The effects of pollution on the environment and on the livelihood of the people were much more than any economic impact made possible by the plant,” he said.  They were fooled by saying that they will get jobs and there will be economic development Kamal Haasan, MNM founder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pass-resolution-to-shut-sterlite-forever-mnm/article35932235.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||P.W.C. Davidar made advisor to TNeGA||P.W.C. Davidar, retired IAS officer, has been appointed Advisor (Digital and Simplified Governance) to Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA). Govt. vision A government order issued in this regard said the appointment had been made to meet the need for a senior person having administrative experience in various departments, including the Information Technology department, to aid in fulfilling the government’s vision of offering “anytime, anywhere” services to citizens through digital transformation. The order said that fulfilling this vision entailed large-scale transformation of government processes and procedures, migration of paper-based file processing to e-Office, creation of e-Dashboards and decision support systems for increased efficiency. Honorary The order said the appointment was purely honorary without any remuneration, although the appointee would be eligible for office space, attendants, vehicle, telephone and travelling and dearness allowances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwc-davidar-made-advisor-to-tnega/article35932222.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Budget has left people exasperated’||AIADMK coordinator and former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said on Saturday that the DMK’s first Budget had left people “exasperated”, instead of “showing them the dawn”. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam said the Budget had exposed the position of the DMK, which had made “false promises” to people despite knowing the fiscal situation. Allocations for various Departments, such as Home, Fire and Rescue Services, Highways, Higher Education and Health, had been lowered in the revised estimates for 2021-22. Pointing out that the amount of food subsidy had been reduced from Rs. 9,604.27 crore to Rs. 8,437.57 crore amid reports of about 4.5 lakh new ration cards having been issued in the last three months, the former Finance Minister said people had begun having doubts whether a section of the beneficiaries under the public distribution system would be left out. On the reduction in the price of petrol, he said that when the DMK assumed office on May 7, petrol was sold in Chennai at Rs. 93.17 a litre and diesel at Rs. 86.65. As on Friday, their prices had gone up to Rs. 102.49 and Rs. 94.39. In such circumstances, the decrease in the price of petrol by Rs. 3 a litre had caused “dissatisfaction” among people as there was no fall in the price of diesel. In a separate statement, former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami referred to reports in sections of the media that the government planned to stipulate several conditions for the waiver of loans given by cooperative societies against jewels of five sovereigns and decried such an attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/budget-has-left-people-exasperated/article35932214.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro holds contest for schoolchildren||As part of “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav” to create awareness about the 75th year of Independence, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)’s Young Indians (YI), Chennai Chapter, held many online events for schoolchildren. From slogan writing to painting competition, several events were held for students from Class I to XII and “Youth Conclave on India at 75” was held for college students, according to a release. From 5,500 participants of various competitions, 57 winners were chosen and given prizes, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-holds-contest-for-schoolchildren/article35932228.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||340 officials get certificates of appreciation during I-Day event||Collector G.S. Sameeran presented certificates of appreciation at the 75th Independence Day celebration at the V.O.C. Park Ground on Sunday to 340 officials and workers who had worked in exemplary manner to contain the COVID-19 spread in the district. In the toned down celebration in keeping with the COVID-19 safety protocol, the Collector presented the certificates to 50 police personnel and officials from the Revenue, Health and a few other departments and frontline workers. Earlier, Dr. Sameeran hoisted the tricolour in the presence of Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor, Inspector General of Police, West Zone, R. Sudhakar, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore Rural, S. Selvanagarathinam, District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex and other senior officials. The administration had cancelled cultural shows by school and college students and announced that it would honour freedom fighters at their doorstep, a release said and added that it had tasked tasildhars for the purpose. It had also live streamed the flag hoisting and other proceedings on the Collector’s facebook page. In Tiruppur, Collector S. Vineeth hoisted the national flag, accepted the guard of honour and presented certificate of appreciation to 175 officials and frontline workers, said a release. He also presented welfare assistance worth Rs. 7.25 crore to 213 beneficiaries. The beneficiaries included a differently abled person who received a tricycle worth Rs. 7,650, a woman who received widow pension, five persons who received agriculture implements worth Rs. 10.98 lakh from the Agriculture, Horticulture and Agriculture Engineering Departments and two applicants who received loan for Rs. 4.04 crore from the District Industries Centre, the release said. Judicial officers, police officials and heads of various departments were present at the Independence Day celebration held at the Chikkanna Government Arts College. At the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar unfurled the tricolour and spoke about the university’s contribution towards agriculture development. In the Bharathiar University, Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj hoisted the national flag and delivered the Independence Day address. At the Isha Yoga Centre, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev gave a call for making the country hunger-free in the next 26 years. Though the country had taken many steps forward in economy, technology, science, arts and sports, it still faced challenges, said a press release quoting the Sadhguru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/340-officials-get-certificates-of-appreciation-during-i-day-event/article35932258.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Work hard to improve Corporation services in the next one year, Commissioner tells officials||The Coimbatore Corporation’s finances were so weak that the civic body found it difficult to pay salaries, said Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara while laying bare the functioning and financial condition in his Independence Day address on Sunday. There were many persons who used the Corporation to fill their pockets but left the civic body high and dry. The revenue collection was lax as arrears were fast building up. This should change in the next one year as the country had entered the 75th year of Independence. As he went on to list the challenges in each wing of the Corporation, Mr. Sunkara said, “If the Coimbatore urban local body started in 1866 cannot effectively deliver basic services even in 2021, it calls for introspection. I appeal to all of you to streamline delivery of basic services like drinking water and street light coverage.” In his first Independence Day address at the Corporation, the Commissioner said the personnel wing had to deal with several issues like transfer, promotion and appointment of persons on compassionate grounds. He had tasked the deputy commissioner and the assistant commissioner-Personnel to set right the system in the next one year. As for the engineering wing, there were problems in road maintenance, water supply and delayed execution of major projects. He wanted the engineers to work hard to complete all the pending projects without compromising on quality. “I request you all [engineers] to work without bringing a bad name to the Corporation.” The health wing that had worked hard to control the COVID-19 pandemic in the city faced issues when it came to solid waste management. There was also the issue of ghost workers. In the next year, the health wing headed by the city health officer should work to improve the system without leaving room for complaints. Mr. Sunkara then appealed to the revenue wing officials to improve tax collection and accounts wing officials to bring about a transparent accounting process. “Even after 60 days of heading the Corporation, I still don’t understand the accounting system. There has to be a proper accounting system and mechanism to monitor inflow and outflow.” Finally, to the town planning wing, he said officials should work in a way that RTI petitions did not pile up, activists did not have to knock on courts or ombudsman. Later, he gifted a tablet computing device to fourth grade student S.J. Moshika, who after learning Tamil Brahmi script, started writing popular works ‘Aathichoodi’, ‘Nannool’ and a few others in the script, presented certificate of appreciation to 36 workers who had 25 years of blemish-less service, retirement benefits to 20 persons and certificate of appreciation to 81 workers for working in an exemplary manner to control COVID-19 infection. Senior officials were present at the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-hard-to-improve-corporation-services-in-the-next-one-year-commissioner-tells-officials/article35932254.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man alleges foul play in death of daughter||The body of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl from a tribal settlement near Anamalai, who died in suspicious circumstances on Saturday, was autopsied at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Sunday. The Anamalai police said that a case of unnatural death has been registered and they were waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death. As per the first information report registered by the police based on the girl's father's complaint, he had differences of opinion with his wife. He said that he received information that his daughter was ill around 12.30 p.m. His wife took the daughter to the Vettaikaranpudur GH, where she was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-alleges-foul-play-in-death-of-daughter/article35932263.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Geology and Mining Dept. rejects new applications from brick kiln operators||The Department of Geology and Mining in Coimbatore rejected several applications filed by brick kiln operators from Thadagam valley for fresh approval for mining red earth. In its replies to brick kiln operators, the department has listed multiple reasons for not accepting their applications. Replying to one of the brick kiln operators from Nanjundapuram village panchayat, the Assistant Director of Geology and Mining said in a letter that the application did not mention the survey numbers of the land meant for mining. It also said that the sketch of the land proposed for mining, revenue records, order acceptance from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), certificate of registration issued by the District Collector and original receipt of the payment of application fee/annual fee for the current year for mining for brick making were also not attached along with the application. The brick kiln owner had submitted the application in April this year and the Department of Geology and Mining sent the reply, a few days ago. Sources said that applications submitted by operators of several brick kilns/chambers from the five village panchayats in Thadagam valley namely Chinna Thadagam, 24 Veerapandi, Nanjundapuram, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam were not accepted due to the lack of various documents and approvals. Of the five village panchayats, all except Pannimadai are listed as hill areas under the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA). An official from the Department of Geology and Mining told The Hindu recently that brick operators had not been submitting applications for mining for several years. S. Ganesh, coordinator of Thadagam Valley Protection Council, said that brick kiln operators started applying for permissions after irregularities in their functioning came to the attention of the Madras High Court and the National Green Tribunal. Government departments also started scrutinising applications strictly following interventions of the courts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/geology-and-mining-dept-rejects-new-applications-from-brick-kiln-operators/article35932249.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held with 55 sovereigns of stolen jewellery||The Kovilpalayam police have arrested two persons who were involved in several thefts and robberies in rural areas of Coimbatore district. The police recovered 55 sovereigns of stolen gold jewellery from them. M. Vijayakumar (27) from Lakshmi Nagar at Varathaiyangar Palayam near Keeranatham and R. Kannan from Thiruvidaimarudur in Thanjavur district were arrested by a team of police on Saturday. The police stopped a two-wheeler that the duo were riding on Kurumbapalayam – Kalapatty road after finding that it did not have number plates. When questioned, the duo gave contradicting statements. The police questioned them in detail and Kannan admitted to having committed thefts and robberies in the limits of Nachiyarkoil police station in Thanjavur and Pollachi east police station. During further questioning, the police found that they were involved in 10 housebreaks at places including Kovilpalayam, Athipalayam, Kottaipalayam, Kallipalayam and Sulur. The police recovered 55 sovereign of stolen jewellery from the duo. They had melted some of the pieces of jewellery into bars. The police also seized the two-wheeler that they used for robberies and thefts. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-55-sovereigns-of-stolen-jewellery/article35932251.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Contract conservancy workers stage protest||More than 50 conservancy workers engaged on contract by the Corporation staged a protest near the Corporation head office in Town Hall on Sunday. Led by the leaders of the All India Trade Union Congress and Tamil Nadu Annal Ambedkar Sugadhara Thuppuravu Matrum Podhu Paniyalar Sangam, the workers demanded that the Corporation should ensure that the contractor who had engaged them on its behalf paid their wages. They said the contractor had not paid the last two months’ wages to around 4,000 workers. They were given to understand that the Corporation planned to change the contractor for manpower management. If that be the case, the Corporation should ensure that the contractor paid all the workers’ wages and the employer’s contribution towards provident fund, they said. As they did not have the permission to stage protest, the City Police removed them from the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-conservancy-workers-stage-protest/article35932255.ece
16 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized, three held||The Sulur police on Sunday arrested three persons on charges of possessing four kg of ganja. The arrested are all natives of Odisha. Constable Senthil Murugan found the men in suspicious circumstances during a patrol near Sulur. After alerted by him, sub-inspector Navaneetha Krishnan rushed to the spot and took the three into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-seized-three-held/article35932266.ece
16 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLAs, cadre booked||The police have registered a case against eight MLAs of the AIADMK, including S.P. Velumani, and more than 40 party cadre as the reception given to the former Minister at the Coimbatore airport on Saturday violated COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Velumani was received by MLAs Amman K. Arjunan, A.K. Selvaraj, P.R.G. Arun Kumar, K.R. Jayaram, M.S.M. Anandan, V.P. Kandasamy, K.N. Vijeyakumar and hundreds of party workers when he reached Coimbatore three days after the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted searches at various locations linked to him and his alleged associates. The leaders and hundreds of cadre swelled the airport premises to receive Mr. Velumani much before his arrival in the afternoon. They escorted him out of the airport compound in an open vehicle. The Peelamedu police registered a case against them under Sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 341 (for punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC read with 192 A (using vehicle without permit) of the Motor Vehicles Act. Meanwhile, the Kattoor police registered a case against K. Ramakrishnan, general secretary of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK), and several others for bursting fire crackers at Gandhipuram on Saturday to welcome DMK government's appointment of trained archakas of all castes at temples being managed by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments. Susi Kalaiarasan of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Malaravan of Revolutionary Youth Front and Elavenil of Tamil Puligal Katchi were also among those booked under Section 269 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-mlas-cadre-booked-for-violation/article35932260.ece
16 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||The district administration has invited applications from members of tribal groups on the verge of extinction for skill training in catering vocation. Funds to the tune of Rs. 10 lakh has been allocated for the training of members of tribal groups designated as on the verge of extinction. Under this, funds are allocated for the training of 50 persons in catering to be taken up as a vocation. In a release, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini has called upon eligible persons to apply with proof of community, proof of income, educational qualification and copy of Aadhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited/article35932384.ece
16 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Health workers honoured||Marking the 75th Independence Day celebrations, Collector S. Visagan hoisted the national flag at the district sports ground here on Sunday. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan, the Collector inspected a guard of honour. After the flag hoisting event, the Collector presented meritorious certificates to 179 staff and officers from various departments. The Collector visited the residence of S. Pulur Chettiar (93) at Athur Block in Chinnalapatti and honoured him with a shawl. The district administration, in a bid to promote reading habit among the general public started a programme to sell various publications at an affordable price. The Collector commenced the sale, which would go on till September 20. DIG of Police B .Vijayakumari, Assistant Collector (Training) Priyanka, DRO V. Latha and others participated at the low-key celebrations. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram Collector J. U. Chandrakala unfurled the tri-colour flag at the Armed Reserve Police Grounds. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police E. Karthik, the Collector inspected a guard of honour. The Collector gave away certificates and awards to 180 persons who included NGOs, government employees and police personnel. They had been instrumental in helping the needy people during the COVID-19 pandemic in the district. Similarly, Ms Chandrakala presented Rs. 9.10 lakh worth cheques to 25 beneficiaries as part of the government assistance and subsidies. DIG of Police N. M. Mylvaganan, Additional Collector K. J. Praveen Kumar, DRO A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan and other officers participated. As a mark of respect, freedom fighters C. M. Pandiaraj, M. Sethu, N. Gomathi and S. Thenammal were honoured. Sivaganga District Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy hoisted the national flag and presented meritorious certificates. Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar was present. The Collector presented shawls to some freedom fighters at the venue and also visited the houses of the freedom fighters. A press release stated that Mr. Madhusudan Reddy gave away meritorious certificates to 73 police personnel, 465 staff/officials from other departments. District Revenue Officer P. Manivannan, Government Medical College and Hospital Dean Revathi, Project Director (DRDA) Veerabadran, Joint Director (Health Services) Illango Maheswaran and ADSPs Muralidharan and Vetriselvan and others participated. Theni Collector K. V. Muralidharan unfurled the tri-colour flag and honoured the freedom fighters and gave away welfare measures to the beneficiaries. SP Praveen Umesh Dongre, Megamalai Wildlife Warden Sumesh Soman, DRO K. Ramesh and other officers participated in the function. The Collector presented awards to 120 employees including those from Health department. Virudhunagar Collector Meganath Reddy hoisted the national flag and took the salute in the presence of Superintendent of Police M Manoharan. He gave away awards and meritorious certificates to 463 recipients for their role during the pandemic. Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Thilagavathi, Sivakasi Sub-Collector Prithiviraj, District Revenue Officer Mangala Ramasubramanian and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-honoured/article35932358.ece
16 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||75th Independence Day celebrated under COVID-19 curbs||District Collector H. Krishnanunni unfurled the national flag during the 75th Independence Day celebration at VOC Park Sports Ground here on Sunday. Since COVID-19 restrictions were in place, the public were not allowed to participate in the celebration which was held without cultural programmes. The Collector in the presence of Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan and District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan accepted the guard of honour from police personnel and also handed over commendation certificates to 256 government officers and staff who worked efficiently during the lockdown. Also, certificates were distributed to NGOs who contributed to control the spread during the pandemic. Mr. Krishnanunni also honoured 25 freedom fighters, 80 Mozhipor Thiagis and four other police personnel. Kurinji N. Sivakumar, chairman, Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation, Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam, Assistant Collector (Training) Agem J. Singh, Revenue Divisional Officers P. Premalatha (Erode) Palanidevi (Gobichettipalayam) and other officials were present. Likewise, Independence Day was celebrated at educational institutions across the district, including Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai, Erode Sengunthar Engineering College, Sree Amman Arts and Science College and Sri Vasavi College (Self-Finance Wing). Salem In Salem, District Collector S. Karmegham placed wreaths and paid tributes to martyred soldiers from Salem district at the war memorial. Mr. Karmegham unfurled the national flag at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium in presence of Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav. He later received guard of honour. Mr. Karmegham presented certificates of appreciation to 117 frontline workers appreciating their works during the COVID-19 pandemic. He also presented certificate of appreciation to 188 staff from various other departments and persons who donated towards COVID-19 relief funds here. A cheque for Rs. 10 lakh from Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund was given to family of Vijayakumar, a photojournalist who succumbed to COVID-19 disease. Cash relief Cash relief of Rs. 5 lakh each was handed over to kin of eight children who lost their parents in COVID-19 pandemic. Government officials visited residences of freedom fighters and honoured them on the day. Salem City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda, C.Mageshwari, DIG-Salem Range and other senior officials took part in the event. Namakkal In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P.Singh hoisted the national flag and received the guard of honour from police personnel. The Ms.Singh presented certificates of appreciation to 28 police personnel, 173 staff from various government departments, 212 frontline workers as part of the event here. To honour freedom fighters, Ms. Singh visited the residence of a freedom fighter at Ernapuram. Revenue department officials visited the residences of freedom fighters in their respective areas and honoured them. Ms. Singh along with Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur distributed food packets to the public as part of jamabandhi at Anajaneyar Temple. District Revenue Officer Duruga Moorthy, Namakkal MP A.K.P.Chinraj and other senior officials took part in the event. Dharmapuri In Dharmapuri, District Collector S. Divyadarshini unfurled the national flag and received the guard of honour and released tricolour balloons along with Superintendent of Police S.Kalaiselvan, Dr.Vaidhinathan, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, District Revenue Officer S. Anitha. Ms .Divyadarshini presented certificates of appreciation to 137 persons including 15 police personnel, 51 persons from health and family welfare department. The Collector also presented awards to three primary health centres as part of the event. The District Collector distributed benefits to the tune of Rs. 52.53 lakh to 30 beneficiaries during the celebrations. Cultural events were held as part of the celebrations. Sapling planted Ms. Divyadarshini planted the 75,000th sapling as part of the celebrations at Erpayanahalli Panchayat. As part of celebrations, the DRDA has targeted to plant 75,000 saplings in the district. Krishnagiri In Krishnagiri, District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy hoisted the national flag. Mr. Reddy received the guard of honour and along with Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi released tricolour balloons. He also presented certificate of appreciation to 210 persons from various departments. Mr. Reddy visited the residence of a freedom fighter at Malayandahalli and honoured surviving wife of the freedom fighter. Revenue department officials visited residence of freedom fighters in their respective areas and honoured them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75th-independence-day-celebrated-under-covid-19-curbs/article35932392.ece
16 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water released into LBP canal||Water was released from Bhavanisagar Dam into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) main canal on Sunday evening to benefit 1.03 lakh acres in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Collector H. Krishnanunni raised the shutters to release the water, in the presence of Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi, Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam and officials. Water will be released for 120 days in the LBP main canal with ‘even number’ sluice gates, and ‘odd number’ sluice gates in the Chennasamudram canal ayacut areas till December 12. Water release will benefit 1,03,500 acres in Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai, Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi taluks in Erode district and Kangayam taluk in Tiruppur district and Aravakurichi taluk in Karur district. At 8 a.m., the water level in the dam stood at 100.84 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The inflow was 3,544 cusecs while the outflow was 1,000 cusecs in Arakkankottai and Thadappalli canals, 200 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal and 100 cusecs in River Bhavani. Initially 300 cusecs was released into the LBP canal which would be stepped up to2,300 cusecs in the coming days. The storage was 29.38 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-into-lbp-canal/article35932248.ece
16 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers vow to protect Kalingarayan Canal from pollution||With the 739-year-old Kalingarayan Canal continuing to be polluted, farmers in the ayacut areas took a vow to protect the canal from pollution besides thanking the canal for serving the farming community in all these years. Members of the Kalingarayan Vaikkal Vivasaigal Mandram organised a deeparathanai vizha at Ganapathipalayam here on Sunday in which Modakkurichi MLA C. Saraswathi took part. The MLA along with farmers left the mulapari pot, that contains nine different types of grains, in the canal and performed puja. Also, a special puja was performed for the canal. Farmers said that the 91.10 km long canal that irrigates 15,743 acres in the district has been serving the farmers for over 700 years and hence thanking Kongu Chieftain Kalingarayan would be appropriate on the occasion. “He had turned the region as greenery”, they said and added that he had disallowed his descendants from using the canal water for irrigation. Farmers said that 40 years ago, they consumed the canal water as there was no pollution. “When the nation celebrates its 75th Independence Day, we farmers vow to make the canal free from pollution”, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-vow-to-protect-kalingarayan-canal-from-pollution/article35932381.ece
16 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CPI wants agriculture university established in Bhavanisagar region||With agriculture being a primary activity in Bhavanisagar region, Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the State government to establish an agriculture university in the region. The party’s Bhavanisagar region meeting was held in which various resolutions were passed. A resolution said that farming is carried out in over 1,000 acres in the region and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s research station is also located. The region has adequate water supply while required land for the university and infrastructure is also available. The resolution said that the DMK’s election manifesto had assured to fulfil the necessary projects for each district in the State. “The manifesto said that an agricultural university would be established in Erode”, the resolution said and added that Bhavanisagar would be the right place for establishing the university. The resolution further said that the university would serve students in both the hill areas and in plains and also pave the way for overall development in the region. “The State government should take necessary steps for establishing the university”, the resolution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-wants-agriculture-university-established-in-bhavanisagar-region/article35932385.ece
16 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||RPF to hold probe in W.B.||Following a 17-year-old boy from West Bengal, who was arrested at the Erode Railway Junction recently claiming to be a locomotive pilot for passenger trains, a Railway Protection Force (RPF) team is leaving for West Bengal soon to probe further. On August 12, Shalimar Trivandrum Central arrived at the Erode Junction and RPF personnel were inspecting the coaches meant for differently-abled persons. A 17-year-old boy and A. Rabil Sheh (21), both from Harirampur village in Murshidabad district in West Bengal, were found in loco pilot’s uniform, and were on their way to Kerala. Personnel searched their bags and found red and green flags used to signal trains, torch light and badges printed with their names as loco pilots. Both were taken to the RPF station. The boy told the personnel that he was acting as an alternative loco pilot for a senior loco pilot in West Bengal and was operating passenger trains for two years. He told the personnel that based on the km covered, he was paid a monthly salary of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 by the senior pilot. He said that he promised Rabil Sheh, who was working in the construction sector, to provide a job as a loco pilot and prepared a badge for him. However, he is yet to operate trains, he told the personnel. Hence, Rabil Sheh decided to resume his job in Ernakulam in Kerala and was on his way when the boy also joined him for a trip. A case under Sections 137 (fraudulently travelling without ticket), 145 (nuisance), 153 (unlawful act to endanger safety of passengers) and 155 (unauthorizedly occupying a seat meant for another passenger) of the Railways Act was registered against the two and both were produced in the courts. While Rahil Sheh was lodged at a sub-jail in Perundurai, the boy was lodged at a government observation home in Coimbatore. RPF sources said that senior railway officials were informed and a team would be leaving for West Bengal in two days to conduct an inquiry with the senior loco pilot and officials concerned to ascertain the facts . “Only after an inquiry, the boy’s statements could be confirmed”, the source said. Their village is located 10 km away from the international border with Bangladesh, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-to-conduct-probe-in-west-bengal/article35932398.ece
16 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 179 COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 179 new cases taking the total cases to 96,258. While 146 persons were discharged, 1,825 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem District reported 127 positive cases and five deaths. According to health department officials, all cases were indigenous and 28 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 54 indigenous cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. 27 indigenous cases were reported in Krishnagiri and 18 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-179-covid-19-cases/article35932388.ece
16 August 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors lead 75th I-Day celebrations in northern districts||Honouring of freedom fighters, recognition of commendable services of government employees and police personnel and distribution of welfare assistance marked the 75th Independence Day celebrations in Kallakurichi, Cuddalore and Villupuram districts on Sunday. In Kallakurichi, District Collector P.N. Sridhar hoisted the national flag at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School grounds and took the salute along with Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque. The Collector also honoured 158 government employees from different departments in recognition of their commendable and meritorious service. He also presented them with certificates of merit and appreciation. The Collector distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 28.38 lakhs to 69 beneficiaries. In Cuddalore, Collector K. Balasubramaniam hoisted the flag and inspected the guard of honour with Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan at the Anna Stadium. He also honoured 131 government employees from various departments for their commendable service. In Villupuram, District Collector D. Mohan hoisted the national flag at the Armed Reserve grounds. He inspected the guard of honour with Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha and distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 24.10 lakhs to 17 beneficiaries. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Villupuram Range) M. Pandian and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-lead-75th-i-day-celebrations-in-northern-districts/article35932610.ece
16 August 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP yatra will have no impact in Tamil Nadu’||The announcement by the BJP that they would soon take out a yatra in Tamil Nadu would be of no use to the people, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that any number of yatras would not help the ‘lotus’ bloom in Tamil Nadu as people were aware of the designs of the BJP. On the decision to reject the recommendation of three candidates out of the 162 applications received for appointment of Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa University, Karaikudi, Mr. Karti charged that the Governor Banwarilal Purohit was behaving in an autocratic manner. A few years ago too, the Governor had recommended the appointment of a non-Tamil for the post of V-C of Anna University, he recalled and said that the Governor should explain the reason for rejecting the recommendation by the search panel. He also came down heavily on the Centre’s decision to curtail the MP local area fund, while commending Chief Minister M. K. Stalin and Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan for enhancing the MLA fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-yatra-will-have-no-impact-in-tamil-nadu/article35932350.ece
16 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Subdued Independence Day celebration this year too||With thousands of students performing cultural activities and thousands of people witnessing them, the Independence Day celebration at the Armed Reserve Police Ground used to be a grandeur event in Madurai. COVID-19 protocols and social distancing norms reduced it to a simple event last year. With the situation yet to return to ‘normal,’ the low-key ceremony affair continued this year as Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar hoisted the national flag on Sunday. In the presence of Inspector General of Police-South Zone T. S. Anbu, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, DIG of Madurai Range N. Kamini and Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran, the Collector unfurled the tricolour and inspected the Guard of Honour. Welfare schemes worth about Rs. 56.60 lakh were distributed to 83 beneficiaries. Motor-fixed sewing machines were provided to 10 differently abled people and Rs. 25.50 lakh was given to two beneficiaries through Chief Minster’s public relief fund. As many as 215 government employees - a good number of them from the police and health departments - were honoured. Since elderly freedom fighters from the city could not take part in the event, the Collector visited the houses of freedom fighters Sundara Mahalingam, Pazha Subramaniam and V.M. Thirunavukarasu and honoured them. In other places Kendriya Vidyalaya-II in Tirupparankundram conducted cultural programmes, including speeches and songs. Principal A. Jerald distributed shields and badges to toppers of board exams and NCC cadets. At Nadar Mahajan Sangam S Vellaichamy Nadar College in Nagamalai, S Eswaran, its executive committee member, hoisted the flag. At Al Ameen Higher Secondary School, Principal Sheik Nabi spoke about the significance of freedom movement. An awareness speech about COVID-19 was also given. At Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) Hall, chairman P. T. Krishnamoorthy hoisted the flag. President B. Muruganantham presided. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N Jegatheesan hoisted the flag at Hatsun Auditorium. Confederation of Indian Industry, Madurai chapter chairman M. B. Subburaman unfurled the flag in the presence of its senior members and Young Indians of Madurai Chapter. Madurai Kamaraj University College Principal B. George hoisted the tricolour and in his address urged the youth to follow the ideals of the forebears. With Dr. Suka Joshua as the chief guest Lady Doak College Principal Christianna Singh presided over the I-Day celebration. In Madurai airport, saplings were planted by children to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subdued-independence-day-celebration-this-year-too/article35932514.ece
16 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Museum gets fund for renovation at the right time||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin has announced that Gandhi Memorial Museum in Madurai will be renovated on an outlay of Rs. 6 crore. “The announcement could not have come at a better time,” said Gandhi Museum Director (Administration) K. R. Nanda Rao, as Madurai is preparing to celebrate the centenary year of the Mahatma’s visit when, on seeing the abject poverty of the people, he chose to wear only loin cloth from that day - September 22, 1921. The discussions to keep alive the Mahatma’s ideals and principles through engaging programmes and modern facilities were on for a long time, Mr. Rao said. Only last week, the formal proposal was submitted to Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan and Principal Secretary (Tourism, Culture & Religious Endowments) B. Chandra Mohan. The funds would help to improve lighting facilities, install a lift for aged visitors, renovate and modify the photo galleries and the library and provide drinking water facilities and modern toilets on the 13.5 acre campus, that is visited by 6.6 lakh tourists every year, he said. The double-storey museum is one of the seven Sanghralayas established by the Gandhi Smriti Smarak in the country and the only one in South India. It is also one of the two that has a part of blood-stained clothes worn by Gandhiji when he was assassinated on January 31, 1948. The dhoti is exhibited here, while the shawl with three bullet holes is kept in National Gandhi Museum, Delhi. The museum showcases the architecture of three different eras. The central building was built as a majestic summer palace of Rani Mangammal, a regent of the Nayak dynasty in 1700. The southern side was constructed by the British in 1885 and in the later years contemporary structures were added. The museum was inaugurated by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on April 15, 1959. Eminent Gandhians, including G. Ramachandhran, the founder of Gandhigram Rural Institute, Radha Thiagarajan (wife of business tycoon Karumuttu Thiagarajan Chettiar) and former president R. Venkataraman have served as its chairpersons. Chief attractions Mr. Rao says tourists are attracted to the 14 original belongings kept here. These include a shawl worn by Gandhiji at the 1931 Round Table Conference at Buckingham Palace in London; an original letter written to Narayanasath Sanghi of Devakottai on March 7, 1937 and signed in Tamil; his letter to Hitler in March 1939 to prevent war; a pair of footwear used in 1945; original yarn spun by him; a wooden spoon of 1946; and a pair of spectacles with case used after 1947.  The funds will help improve lighting facilities, install a lift for aged visitors, renovate and modify the photo galleries and the library K. R. Nanda Rao Director-Administration, Gandhi Museum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-museum-gets-funds-for-renovation-at-right-time/article35932506.ece
16 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A low-key affair again at HC Bench||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Sunday celebrated the 75th Independence Day by honouring COVID-19 frontline workers that included medical officers and nurses who were part of the COVID-19 vaccination camps held on the High Court Bench premises. The events began with the Judges offering floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi statue. The Administrative Judge of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court Justice M. Duraiswamy hoisted the national flag. He inspected the guard of honour and took the salute at a parade presented by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and police personnel. High Court Judges, office-bearers of the Bar Associations and court staff attended the event. Madurai Principal District Judge P. Vadamalai hoisted the national flag on the District Court premises. Due to COVID-19 pandemic situation, only a limited number of people attended the events. There was no display of traditional, cultural and martial arts. It was low-key like last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frontline-workers-honoured/article35932512.ece
16 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||The struggle that was through photos||With an aim to teaching the younger generation about the timeline of India’s freedom struggle, the Gandhi Memorial Museum in Madurai is hosting a special photo exhibition on its premises. Thirty panels, displaying around 200 pictures - some borrowed from National Gandhi Museum in New Delhi - are on display. Museum Director K. R. Nandha Rao said, “To make the 75th Independence Day special, the union tourism ministry, in association with the seven Gandhi museums across the nation, has planned an exclusive exhibit of rare photos on Indian freedom struggle. It was inaugurated in our museum on Sunday. The other museums will follow soon.” The exhibits, which will be on display for more than a month, has photos classified under various heads - women freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu; Gandhi’s visits to the State; people’s participation in the freedom struggle, etc. Many rare photos - a young Periyar, Lord Mountbatten saluting an Indian flag, Gandhi and Kamaraj sharing a stage... are on display. The day also saw Independence Day celebration at Arignar Anna Maligai, the Madurai Corporation headquarters, where Commissioner C.P. Karthikeyan unfurled the tricolour in the morning. Citations and mementoes were given to 54 doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and sanitary workers in recognition of their service in containing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Two volunteer collectives - Doctors For You and Covid-free Madurai - were also honoured for their support on the occasion. Mr. Karthikeyan, along with Madurai South MLA M. Boominathan, planted saplings to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-struggle-that-was-through-photos/article35932510.ece
16 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai railway division performs well’||The Madurai Railway Division continues to perform well on the freight front and has shown a positive sign of recovery in passenger traffic, surmounting many odds due to COVID-19 related challenges, according to Divisional Railway Manager P. Ananth. Mr. Ananth hoisted the national flag at the 75th Independence day celebration at the Red Field in Railway Colony in Madurai on Sunday. The Madurai division generated a revenue of Rs. 80.49 crore through goods traffic - 12.72 % more than last year. It generated a revenue of Rs. 86.36 crore from passenger traffic. Overall the revenue generated stood at Rs. 179.44 crore as against Rs. 58.83 crore earned last year. Freight traffic was a major source of revenue for Indian Railways, he said. He said that the Madurai division transported 0.7299 million tonnes of freight from April to July 2021 which was 25.84 % more than last year. Coal loading increased by 160% and tractor loading by 413.9 % than last year. To match the growth in passenger traffic, better amenities and infrastructure were being created at railway stations to better serve rail users. On the non-fare revenue segment, Madurai division had done the highest ever scrap disposal for Rs. 14.37 crore this year which was 45 % more than the target of Rs. 9.9 crore. It was among the highest across all railway divisions, he said. A total of Rs. 2.56 crore of various outstanding in goods was cleared, old dues of Rs. 7.06 crore realised, sundry earnings increased to Rs. 32.85 crore, Rs. 1.61 crore towards pension / commutation recovered and Rs. 1.22 crore work contract into earning contract was achieved, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-railway-division-performs-well-despite-odds/article35932359.ece
16 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Take steps to bring back stranded fishermen’||International Fishermen Development Trust (INFIDET), Kanniyakumari, has urged the Centre to take steps to rescue six Indian fishermen stranded in Iran. Five are from Tamil Nadu and one is from Kerala. Founder-President of INFIDET Justin Antony said the fishermen were languishing in Shiraz, Iran for over two months without proper food and medical care. They had been engaged by their employer for fishing-related activities. With no good catch, the fishermen wanted to return to India and requested their employer to send them back. But, the employer is said to have demanded Rs. one lakh each. They were unable to generate the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-bring-back-stranded-fishermen/article35932353.ece
16 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three teens drown in canal||Three teenagers from Munichalai drowned in the Kallandhiri canal near Chittampatti on Sunday. They were identified as N. Hariharan, 18, R. Kishore Kumar, 18, and R. Gopi, 19. Kishore Kumar and Gopi are brothers. A 10-member group from Munichalai had gone to the canal for swimming. At around 4 p.m., the three drowned after getting caught in a whirlpool. The bodies were sent to Government Rajaji Hospital for postmortem, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-drown-in-canal/article35932346.ece
16 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two non-brahmins appointed as priests||Two non-brahmins were appointed as priests in two of the sub-temples that come under Madurai Meenkashi Sundareswarar Temple, by Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department on Saturday. P. Maharajan and S. Arun Kumar were appointed as priests at Aamur Ayyampozhil Eswarar Temple and Theradi Karuppasamy Temple on East Masi Street respectively. A press statement from the temple’s Joint Commissioner, K. Chelladurai, said that an interview for filling up the posts was held on August 10 and people from all communities participated in it. Based on good performance in the test conducted, the two were appointed as priests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-non-brahmins-appointed-as-priests/article35932351.ece
16 August 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Government staff honoured||Nagapattinam Collector A. Arun Thamburaj hoisted the national flag and handed over benefits worth Rs. 1 crore to 99 beneficiaries under various government welfare schemes. The Collector also honoured 163 persons for their meritorious services. In Mayiladuthurai district, Collector R. Lalitha unfurled the national flag and presented commendation certificates to 165 employees of various departments for meritorious service during the pandemic period. She also handed over benefits amounting to Rs. 4.77 lakh to 70 persons. Karaikal Puducherry Transport Minister Chandira Priyanka hoisted the national flag in the presence of Collector Arjun Sharma and other senior officials in Karaikal. She highlighted the progress made by various departments in her speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/165-govt-employees-honoured-for-meritorious-service/article35932331.ece
16 August 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||India Cements group donates Rs. 10 lakh||The India Cements group made a CSR contribution of Rs. 10 lakh here. Representatives of the organisation handed over a cheque for the sum to District Collector Shreya P. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-cements-group-donates-rs-10-lakh/article35932386.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Shrinking footpaths leave pedestrians struggling||Footpaths across the coastal town, particularly in important thoroughfares, have shrunk in width over the years thanks to rampant encroachments by shops and business establishments, leaving pedestrians jostling for space on the roads.  A visit to several important thoroughfares brought to the fore the utter chaos and the lack of action by the authorities concerned. While in some places, like Jawaharlal Nehru Street and Mahatma Gandhi Road, the existing pavements were rendered useless, in several others they were absent. According to an official of the Local Administration Department, they have been taking up enforcement drives from time to time to clear encroachments on arterial roads. “The department conducted one such drive recently. It is an ongoing process. We clear encroachments but they reappear after some months. We will intensify the drives.” Although the government is implementing the Smart City Project, its impact remains to be seen, particularly when encroachments take place with impunity. P. Devanathan of the People’s Pulse, a civil society group, pointed out that the encroaching of pavements by various establishments, including government departments, had become the order of the day. Enforcers of the law should not be encroachers, he said. He recalled that the pavements on Nehru Street were flanked by iron grills in the 1980s. The street had regulated space for walking and parking. But over the years, the authorities removed it and there was nothing left of it now. “There have been several instances of government buildings encroaching over the pavements on several arterial roads. People’s Pulse has taken up the issue with the authorities concerned, who have assured that the encroachments on platforms will be removed soon,” he said. According to the guidelines of Indian Road Congress, roads with pedestrian traffic are supposed to have a footpath with a minimum width of 1.5 m. However, in Puducherry, the remaining footpaths have been taken over by shops.  The authorities seem to be completely oblivious to the encroachment, say residents. According to M. Gowri, an entrepreneur, “Footpaths are meant for pedestrians. The construction of stalls or extension by shops is not legally permissible. This does not leave any space for people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrinking-footpaths-leave-pedestrians-struggling/article35932619.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Puducherry to come under CCTV cover’||The entire Puducherry town would come under the surveillance of closed circuit television cameras at a cost of Rs. 60 crore under the Smart City Project, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said on Sunday. Delivering his Independence Day address after unfurling the national flag at Gandhi Thidal, he said as part of the efforts to improve law and order and maintain peace, the government has decided to install CCTV cameras across the town. Cameras would be installed with smart poles fitted with Wi-Fi facility, electric vehicle charger, air quality monitoring equipment, facility for emergency phone calls and electric lights. A control room would be set up on the premises of the Anglo French Textiles to monitor the camera footage. The control room would be manned by around 100 personnel belonging to the departments of police, traffic, local administration, public works and transport, the Chief Minister said. Listing out the priorities of his government, the Chief Minister said the process to fill around 10,000 vacancies in various departments had been expedited. Steps were being taken to reopen the AFT mill with private partnership. The dues of mill workers would also be paid. In the current financial year, work to provide multi-level car parking project at the Old Jail Complex and Old Port would be taken up. The government would open the newly constructed Kamaraj Manimandapam very shortly, he added. He also conveyed the government decision to increase monthly pension for physically challenged and fishermen by Rs. 500. On his arrival for Independence Day celebrations, the Chief Minister was given a guard of honour by the territorial police. The venue for the celebrations was shifted this year from the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex to Gandhi Thidal for better crowd management due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-to-come-under-cctv-cover/article35932613.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Medals given to police personnel||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Sunday presented medals to meritorious police officers at the Independence Day function. The Union Home Minister’s Police Medal for Excellence in Police Training was given to woman police constable Francis Jenifer and to special grade assistant sub-inspector Muthu Sandirasegaran. The Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Very Good Service was given to sub-inspector of police (SIGMA unit) Pankajakshan, SI Govindasamy Murugaiyan, selection grade woman assistant SI Harikrishnan Dhanalakshmi and woman head constable R. Calaiselvy. The Chief Minister also presented the Rajiv Gandhi Meritorious Police Service Medal to 20 police personnel. The Chief Secretary’s Police Station for the Best Police Station was given to Kirumampakkam station. The Chief Minister also honoured the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute for their service during COVID-19 Bravery award The Chief Minister also honoured P. Iyyanar, a youth hailing from Nonankuppam, for showing bravery to save a 17-year-old boy from drowning at Chinna Veerampattinam. He presented a memento to S. Adhavan for his social service. Medals were also given to senior navel cadets Selvan S. Chandran, A. Arnold Dussol, senior flight cadet V. Hari Rajan, junior navel cadet S. Pragathi, junior army cadets A. Simon Peter and A. Angelina Mary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medals-given-to-police-personnel/article35932615.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Being cautious about reopening schools: L-G||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Sunday that the government was taking a cautious approach on reopening of schools and would take a call only after obtaining an assessment report from the Education Department. “I have asked the School Education Department to hold consultations with stakeholders and submit a consolidated assessment by August 20. The decision will be made after that,” she told reporters shortly after unfurling the national flag at the Raj Nivas to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations. Several festivals had been planned throughout the year to mark the special anniversary themed Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, she said. Planting of about 75,000 saplings was being undertaken across the Union Territory.  On COVID-19 vaccinations, Ms. Soundararajan said Puducherry had been able to achieve about 60% coverage of the population against a target of 100% by August 15. Various measures were being taken to reach the goal. Earlier in the morning, the Lt. Governor visited the Manakula Vinayakar temple. Pondicherry University celebrated 75th Independence Day with Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh hoisting the national flag at the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Administrative Building. He also inaugurated oxygen rich plants park developed by the horticulture wing in the university campus. The Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth (SBV) Vice-Chancellor S.C. Parija unfurled the national flag to mark the occasion. SBV also launched a shadow mime titled “India’s Freedom struggle and emancipation.” The SBV-administrated Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute received certificate of appreciation in recognition of adherence to the Quality Certification Standards of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana from the District Collector at a function in the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/being-cautious-about-reopening-schools-l-g/article35932611.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of Aurobindo observed||A bonfire communion, prayer sessions and quiet meditation marked the birth anniversary celebrations of poet, philosopher and nationalist Sri Aurobindo at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram and Auroville amid COVID-19 restrictions on Sunday. Auroville launched a year-long 150th birth anniversary celebration of Sri Aurobindo broadly centred on the theme, ‘Sri Aurobindo: A Force in Action (1872-2022)’ with the traditional pre-dawn bonfire with a curtailed attendance at the amphitheatre near the Matrimandir. Since morning, devotees streamed into the Sri Aurobindo Ashram where darshan was restricted to the site of the samadhi because of the pandemic protocols. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan visited the ashram and offered prayers. “We arranged thermal screening and hand sanitising for devotees and advised individual, rather than collective, meditation. However, the room of Sri Aurobindo was not open for public darshan because of the COVID-19 protocol,” a spokesman said. Visitors were allowed to the samadhi and presented a darshan day card with messages based on the philosophy of Sri Aurobindo and his spiritual associate Mirra Alfassa, revered as the Mother by her followers. The ashram website also carried a link to “Mystic Solitude”, The Mother’s organ music track of March 7, 1954, for devotees to participate virtually. At Auroville, the bonfire communion was followed by meditation and mass invocation with Sri Aurobindo’s ‘Gayatri Mantra’. The proceedings were livestreamed from its anniversary website which redirected to YouTube link.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-aurobindo-observed/article35932349.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 79 fresh cases||The Union Territory recorded 79 fresh COVID-19 cases, one death and 85 recoveries on Sunday. The sole fatality was reported in Puducherry, taking the toll to 1,805. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,429), Karaikal (231), Yanam (105) and Mahe (40). Puducherry accounted for 41 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,022 tests, followed by Karaikal (17), Yanam (1) and Mahe (20). The test positivity rate was 1.57%, the case fatality rate 1.48% and the recovery rate 97.76%. The active cases stood at 929, comprising 201 patients in hospitals and 728 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,22,282 cases and 1,19,548 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-79-fresh-cases/article35932606.ece
16 August 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Dept. gets coconut hoist vehicles||Collector Kavitha Ramu hoisted the national flag on the occasion of Independence Day on Sunday at a function organised at the Armed Reserve ground here and took the salute. The Collector gave away appreciation certificates to 343 government officials and employees belonging to different departments including revenue, health and family welfare and police for their excellent work in COVID-19 prevention measures on the frontline. The Collector gave away two Boom Type Truck Operated Coconut Hoist vehicles that could be used for plucking coconuts to the Agricultural Engineering Department. The vehicles have been given to the department to lend them on rent to the farmers for plucking coconuts safely. Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and officials from all government departments participated in the celebrations, an official release said. Perambalur Collector P. Sri Venkata Priya hoisted the national flag at the Independence Day celebration organised at the 'Puratchi Thalaivar MGR' sports stadium in Perambalur Town on Sunday and took the salute. Certificates distributed The Collector gave away appreciation certificates to 195 government officials and staff for their excellent work and dedication in carrying out COVID-19 prevention measures in the district. The Collector also gave away appreciation certificates to 28 police personnel for their excellent works. Superintendent of Police S. Mani and officials from government departments participated. The Collector later garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Perambalur Town and offered floral tributes. Revenue officials went to the houses of freedom fighters and honoured them by adorning shawls on them by duly following the safety protocols, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dept-gets-coconut-hoist-vehicles/article35932320.ece
16 August 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Demo at toll plaza||Members of Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi staged a demonstration in front of the NHAI's user fee toll plaza junction at Bogalur, near Chathirakudi on the Madurai-Rameswaram highway in the district on Sunday. Leading the demonstration, State youth wing president Jerone Kumar said that though the roads were yet to be laid properly, the contractors had started collecting tolls from the people. This was unfair and demanded the government to stop collecting the toll. Due to the demonstration, vehicular movement on the point was stranded for sometime. The police arrested 18 persons in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-at-toll-plaza/article35932361.ece
16 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||96% of Salem Railway Division employees vaccinated, says DRM||Ninety-six per cent of railway employees of the Salem Division have been vaccinated against COVID-1, Divisional Railway Manager A. Gautam Srinivas said during his Independence Day address here on Sunday. In his address after hoisting the national flag, Mr. Srinivas said that the Coimbatore Railway junction was recently awarded with platinum rating by IGBC, the sixth station to achieve the ratings in the country. He said that parcel earnings increased by 14.7% compared to previous year and that Salem Division is operating three leased parcel cargo express trains, a unique achievement in Southern railway. Mr. Srinivas said that the Division operated 91 Shramik special trains to transport migrant workers and the punctuality percentage of the Division is at 96.8%. The DRM mentioned that 32 RT-PCR camps were conducted for screening employees and their dependents. On various development works, the DRM said that during the previous year, Foot Over Bridges were provided at Mettupalayam and Tiruppur railway stations and 14 Road Under Bridges were commissioned at various locations. He said that the height of platforms was increased at Attur, Chinna Salem, Virarakkiyam, Lalapet, Sithalavai and Pettavaithalai stations. “Platform shelters were provided at 25 stations at a total cost of Rs. 1.75 crore and differently-abled friendly toilets were completed at 29 stations at a cost of Rs. 1.40 crore,” he said. Mr. Srinivas said that roof-top solar power plants of 20kW were installed at the Erode Railway Hospital. The DRM presented certificates to healthcare workers and RPF officers, staff during the event. He also flagged off four two-wheelers to be used at RPF outposts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-of-salem-railway-division-employees-vaccinated-says-drm/article35932395.ece
16 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||10 Forest, Police personnel in Salem receive appreciation certificate from Kerala Forest dept.||As many as 10 personnel from the Departments of Forest and the Salem District Police have received certificate of appreciation from the Kerala Forest Department for assisting them in arresting the accused in a sandalwood smuggling case at Parambikulam Tiger Reserve. According to the Forest officials, the Kerala Forest Department, between 2010 and 2011, registered three sandalwood smuggling cases at Karimala and Sungam Ranges of Parambikulam Tiger Reserve. On investigation, the team found that the accused in the case hailed from Attur in Salem. The officials said that with the assistance of Salem Forest department then, the accused in the case were arrested in 2011 and they were remanded in the case. However, while the Court summoned the accused for final judgment last year, they reportedly went absconding. A Forest team from Kerala visited Salem and along with the support of a 10-member police and Forest team from Salem, arrested the eight accused from Attur. The arrested persons were produced at the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Chittur, and they were sent to Thrissur Central Jail recently. K. Vijayananthan, Chief Conservator of Forests and Field Director, Palakkad, in a letter to A. Periasamy, Conservator of Forests, Salem Circle, appreciated the support provided by the Conservator, the District Forest Department and the police here in arresting the accused. Appreciating the support, the Kerala Forest Department sent certificates of appreciation to six forest personnel and four police personnel. During the Independence Day celebrations, District Collector S. Karmegham presented the certificates to the six-member forest team led by S.Arokiyasami, Forest Range Officer, Kalvarayan range, and four police personnel led by Special Sub-Inspector T.Krishnamoorthy on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-forest-police-personnel-in-salem-receive-appreciation-certificate-from-kerala-forest-dept/article35932383.ece
16 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Celebrations held at govt. offices, institutions||Independence Day celebrations were held at various government offices and institutions here on Sunday. At Salem Corporation, Commissioner T.Christuraj hoisted the national flag and received the guard of honour from police. The Commissioner released tricolour balloons and paid tributes to a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi. Mr.Christuraj later presented certificates of appreciation to Corporation staff. Superintendent of Police M.Sree Abhinav hoisted the national flag at the District Police Office. Police officials said that this was the first time a SP has hoisted the flag on Independence Day. At TNSTC Salem division depot, R.Mohan, Managing Director, hoisted the national flag and distributed appreciation certificates to 117 staff as part of the celebrations. At Periyar University, Vice-Chancellor R.Jaganathan hoisted the national flag. A.S.Meenalochani, Commissioner, GST and Central Excise hoisted the national flag at GST and Central Excise Commissionerate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrations-held-at-govt-offices-institutions/article35932393.ece
16 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in elephant attack near Mettur||A 39-year-old man was injured when he was attacked by an elephant near Mettur. According to Forest Department officials, Devan from Lakkampatti has been making a living by fishing at Nidhipuram lake. During the early hours of Sunday, a wild tusker that strayed out of Erode forest ranges came to the banks of the lake. Forest Department officials said that Devan was attacked by the tusker while trying to run away. Forest personnel in patrol duty rescued Devan and rushed him to the Mettur government hospital. Later, he was referred to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-injured-in-elephant-attack-near-mettur/article35932396.ece
16 August 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Three held for selling adulterated diesel||Three persons have been arrested on Saturday for selling adulterated diesel. According to police, they were arrested during a vehicle check at Kuppanur near Sankari. Police intercepted a truck loaded with 4,000 litres of adulterated diesel and seized the vehicle. The arrested were Madhiazhagan, driver, Selvam, cleaner, and truck owner Inbaraj. They were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-selling-adulterated-diesel/article35932397.ece
16 August 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers welcome agriculture budget announcements||Farmers have welcomed various announcements made in the maiden agriculture budget of the State on Saturday. Farmers hailed the government’s move to promote organic farming and training youth in agriculture. K.R. Matheshwaran, president of Farmer Producers Group welcomed the budget announcement to set up an organic farming research centre in the name of Nammazhvar and the move to set up a horticulture college in Krishnagiri. He also demanded that the State government should set up a model organic farm in each village to attract farmers to organic farming. Pepper farmers in Namakkal appreciated the State Government’s move to apply for Geographical Indication tag for Kolli Hills pepper. Farmers also welcomed the budget announcement to set up a pepper processing centre here and demanded that the government should set up the centre in the hill station itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-welcome-agriculture-budget-announcements/article35932387.ece
16 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||I-Day celebrated in delta districts||Honouring freedom fighters and distribution of meritorious certificates to frontline workers, medical professionals and officials marked Independence Day celebrations held at the Armed Reserve police ground in Thanjavur district on Sunday. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver hoisted the national flag and accepted the Guard of Honour by AR police personnel. Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya accompanied him when he travelled on a jeep to accept the honour. The Collector also released pigeons and balloons as a mark of enjoying the benefits of independence. Later, he met some of the freedom fighters and presented them with a shawl in remembrance of their contribution to the freedom struggle. As many as 119 doctors, nurses and other frontline workers were honored with meritorious certificates for their service in treating COVID-19 patients and prevention. Prakash Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thanjavur Range and senior officials participated in the function. S.S. Rajmohan, Managing Director, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) presided over a function and hoisted the National Flag in the presence of staff members and transport workers. Karur In a simple but impressive function held at the sports complex, Collector T. Prabhu Shankar hoisted the national flag on Sunday on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. He accepted the Guard of Honour by the Armed Reserve police personnel by travelling on a jeep. He was accompanied by P. Sundaravadivel, Superintendent of Police. Mr. Shankar then released balloons as a mark of celebrating the independence. He also handed over certificates to 347 officials and staff members of various departments in recognition of their service. The Collector presented shawls to freedom fighters for their contribution during the freedom struggle. Later, he gave away welfare assistances to the tune of Rs. 1.26 crore to various beneficiaries. SVR Krishnan, Executive Director, Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited,,hoisted the National Flag at a function held at TNP Public School Ariyalur Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi presided over the 75th Independence Day function and hoisted the Tricolour at a function held here on Sunday. Accompanied by K. Feroshkhan Abdullah, she accepted the Guard of Honour by the Armed Reserve police personnel at the district sports complex. Besides issuing meritorious certificates to 262 government officials, she gave away welfare assistances to the tune of Rs. 9.5 lakh to 504 beneficiaries. Ms. Saraswathy also honoured the freedom fighters by presenting shawls. Tiruvarur At a function held at the district sports complex P. Gayathiri Krishnan, Collector, hoisted the national flag on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. She accepted the Guard of Honour of AR police personnel in the presence of C. Vijayakumar, Superintendent of Police. She later distributed welfare assistances to the tune of Rs. 1.90 crore to various beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-day-celebrated-in-delta-districts/article35932339.ece
16 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||VOC Port registers 7.14% growth||Despite covid-19 pandemic, V.O. Chidambaranar Port here registered a growth of 7.14 % when compared with corresponding previous year, said Chairman T.K. Ramachandran here on Sunday. In his Independence Day address, he said that in spite of tough times faced by global maritime trade due to the rippling effect caused by Covid-19 pandemic, in the form of shortage of containers, increase in ocean freight and drop in overall merchandise trade, the port had handled 11.33 million tonnes and 2.68 TEUs of containers during the financial year up to July 2021. After hoisting the tricolour from the Port School Grounds, Mr Ramachandran also took salute from the CISF personnel. Sacrifices remembered In his address, he recalled the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters and expressed India’s commitment to work towards realising the objectives of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’. Mr Ramachandran also stated that considering the increased handling of windmill blades, the port has proposed to extend all support to this activity including allocation of additional land. Awarded All the officers and staff, members, who rendered service during covid-19 pandemic, were presented with certificates and awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-port-registers-714-growth/article35932662.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHEL-Tiruchi renews ASME certification||BHEL Tiruchi has successfully renewed its certification by American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) for compliance with their ‘S’, ‘U’ and U2 standards, S.V. Srinivasan, General Manager-in-Charge, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, said on Sunday. The National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors has also renewed certification for their R standards for manufacture of various types of products, Mr. Srinivasan said after hoisting the national flag during the Independence Day celebrations. Employees have been necessitated to improve technical knowledge and skills wherever necessary to quickly adapt to change and capitalize on new business opportunities, he said. Mr. Srinivasan congratulated six employees of BHEL TiruchI who won the Prime Minister’s Shram Awards for 2018 for productivity and innovation in the workplace. He also presented the trophy for the best performance in the unit’s IMPRESS (Improvement Projects Rewards Scheme) and informed that BHEL Tiruchi had won the second prize in the engineering category for excellence in the suggestion scheme at the national conference of the Indian National Suggestion Schemes Association (INSSAN). Ten employees had won prizes in various competitions. He announced that BHEL Tiruchi has been awarded the first prize by the company’s corporate office for prevention and control measures adopted to prevent the spread of the pandemic Employees of BHEL Tiruchi had together donated a day’s salary amounting to Rs. 1.16 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund, in addition to Rs. 14 lakh contributed by the unit under its CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) programme to provide medical supplies and equipment to government hospitals, public health centres and village panchayats in Tiruchi region. I-Day at special school l Mangalam Srinivasan, Patron, Arivalayam, hoisted the national flag in the special school and vocational training centre for differently abled children, in the presence of K. Nagarajan, General Manager (Civil) and Arivalayam president, management trustees, teachers and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-tiruchi-renews-asme-certification/article35932327.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doorstep vaccination for transgenders on the anvil||Transgenders in Tiruchi will get the COVID-19 vaccine at their doorstep, thanks to efforts by Tiruchi City Corporation. The civic body, which arranged a mobile van to conduct door-to-door vaccination for persons with disabilities and bedridden patients, has extended the facility to a section of transgenders who are reluctant to attend vaccine camps. According to the District Social Welfare Office, around 4,000 transgenders are registered in Tiruchi. While it is possible that a few of them may have travelled to other places in search of work, only around 350 of those remaining have taken the jab. To derive benefit of the doorstep vaccination programme, one has to dial 6385269208 to set up an appointment. The person must provide details including age, address, etc. following which a medical team of the Corporation will get in touch. The helpline can be reached on working days from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. When a special one-day camp for transgenders was held at Jamal Mohammed College in July, around 350 people took the vaccine, Mohammed A. Hakkim, in-charge of the vaccination drive in the city, told The Hindu . However, there has been no turnout since then. “There is high hesitancy among them. We must conduct a special awareness camp, meet them in person and help clarify their concerns and encourage them to get the jab,” Dr. Hakkim said. Earlier this month, the Madras High Court directed the government to vaccinate all transgender persons in the State within the next three months. “We will make all efforts to get them vaccinated. We may have to set up a few more camps,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doorstep-vaccination-for-transgenders-on-the-anvil/article35932341.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T aligns five-year strategic plan with New Education Policy 2020||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has aligned its five-year strategic plan (2019-24) with the vision of New Education Policy 2020, paving way for global relevance and quality of research in the campus, Institute Director Mini Shaji Thomas said on Saturday. Both faculty and students have shifted towards digital platforms and virtual teaching during the pandemic period, and the results have also reflected in the forms of improvements in publications, introduction of new courses, establishment of Centres of Excellence, and strenghtening of industry and alumni relations, she said, during the 58th Institute Day celebrations. One of the key highlights of 2020-21 was establishment of supercomputing facility as a part of the national supercomputing mission worth 19 crores, in addition to centres of excellence in many fields worth more than several crores. Grant of funding for infrastructure, workshops and training programmes and the numerous publications were indications that the institute was not hindered by the pandemic. ‘Look for positives’ Govindan Rangarajan, Director, Indian Institute of Science - Bangalore, the chief guest, exhorted students to look for positives of the pandemic, which, he observed, has opened up a shining opportunity for students and faculty alike to focus on biomedical healthcare solutions in their research. A majority of the global population face problems in affordability, accessibility and availability of medical support, Mr. Govindan Rangaran pointed out. The chairman of the board of Governors, Baskar Bhat, expressed confidence that institute will achieve the goals of NEP. Upto 30 endowment awards were conferred upon students based on various criteria. The department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering won the best department award in the Engineering category while the department of Physics won the award in the non-Engineering category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-aligns-five-year-strategic-plan-with-new-education-policy-2020/article35932649.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Collector distributes merit certificates||Collector S. Sivarasu on Sunday hoisted the national flag at the Armed Reserve ground on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day conducted on a lesser scale in view of COVID-19 restrictions. Accompanied by P. Moorthy, Superintendent of Police, he travelled on an open jeep and accepted the Guard of Honour of Armed Reserve police personnel. As a symbolic gesture of enjoying the benefits of independence, Mr. Sivarasu released balloons in the air. Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi City, A. Arun, Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan, Deputy Inspector General of Police A. Radhika and senior officials participated. Earlier, Mr. Sivarasu presented a State award to Tiruchi district for implementing the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). R. Shankar, Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, A. Subramani, Deputy Director (Health), and D. Bhuvaneswari, ICDS Project Diector, received the award. Mr. Sivarasu also handed over certificates to 323 officials and staff members of various departments for their meritorious services. Due to COVID-19 restrictions many programmes, including the traditional AR parade, were curtailed. Similarly, instead of bringing freedom fighters and their heirs to the venue to honour them, the Collector visited the homes of a few freedom fighters and presented shawls to them. At a function held at Tiruchi Corporation, P.M.N. Mujubur Rahuman, Commissioner, hoisted the national flag. City Engineer S. Amuthavalli and senior officials participated. V. Jawahar, president, District Congress Committee, Tiruchi urban, hoisted the national flag at Arunachalam Mandram. M.A. Aleem, former Vice-Principal, KAPV Medical College, presided over a function held at Hazarath Natharvali Middle School and hoisted the national flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-distributes-merit-certificates/article35932334.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||I-Day fete at railway workshop, Tiruchi divisional office||The 75th Independence Day celebration was organised in a grand manner at Goldenrock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi and in compliance with personal distancing norms. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram hoisted the national flag and received the salute given by four platoons of the Railway Protection Force and members of St. John’s Ambulance Brigade and Bharat Scouts and Guides. In his Independence Day speech, Mr. Shyamadhar Ram highlighted various achievements of the workshop during the 2020-21 financial year and until July 31 in the current fiscal. He complimented the extraordinary efforts taken by production and support teams enabling the workshop to scale new heights in terms of productivity and reliability in the last one year. Five officers and 18 employees received Leadership awards, while 33 other employees received Excellence awards on the occasion. Group awards were distributed to 22 groups consisting of 210 staff. For the first time Ponratna awards were given to 13 senior supervisors for exemplary and stupendous performance over several years. The celebration culminated with mass tree plantation in the newly created Miyawaki garden inside the workshop premises, a release said. At the Railway Divisional Office, Divisional Railway Manager, Tiruchi, Manish Agarwal hoisted the national flag at the Quadrangle here and took the salute of the Railway Protection Force. Divisional railway officers attended the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-day-fete-at-railway-workshop-tiruchi-divisional-office/article35932323.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 450 Makkal Adhikaram members arrested in Tiruchi||Over 450 members of Makkal Adhikaram were arrested here on Sunday after they attempted to lay siege the Tiruchi railway junction demanding that the Centre repeal the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the National Investigation Agency Act. The outfit members assembled near the railway junction in the morning holding placards and raised slogans in support of their demands. They also demanded the release of those arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and accused the Central government of favouring big corporates. Thereafter, they marched towards the railway junction to lay siege the station when they were blocked and arrested by a posse of police personnel deployed at the spot. Barricades were erected to prevent the outfit members from entering the railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-450-makkal-adhikaram-members-arrested-in-tiruchi/article35932325.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Postal Department posts robust performance in central region||The Central Region - Tamil Nadu of the Department of Posts has earned Rs. 1.65 crore through International Mail Services till July in the current financial year, Postmaster General, Central Region - Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi A. Govindarajan said on Sunday. Speaking at the 75th Independence Day celebrations held at the Head Post Office, Tiruchi, Mr. Govindarajan commended the postal staff for their outstanding service during the COVID-19 pandemic period. Mr. Govindarajan said the second delivery system is to be implemented in 29 delivery post offices within Tiruchi Corporation area from August 16. This system was being introduced to deliver mail quickly to the people twice a day. He said 3.80 lakh Aadhar enrolments/updations were carried out during the 2020-21 financial year and 60,000 Aadhar enrolments /updations were done till July in the current fiscal. Special camps Special camps for postal life insurance were being held once in 15 days. The next special camp for postal life insurance for the month of August is scheduled to take place on 24 and 25, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-department-posts-robust-performance-in-central-region/article35932326.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||340 new cases, 4 deaths||The central region reported 340 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The number of cases continued to reflect an upward trend, especially in Thanjavur district. Four deaths were reported in the region, an increase compared to recent days. Two deaths were reported in Tiruchi and one death each in Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts. Thanjavur continued to report an increasing number of cases. On Sunday, 106 patients tested positive. Tiruchi reported 61 fresh cases of COVID-19. Tiruvarur reported 38 and Nagapattinam 36. Mayiladuthurai district reported a sudden spike with 34 patients reporting positive, while Pudukottai reported a slight dip with 25 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 19 fresh cases were reported in Karur and 14 in Karur. Perambalur remained the district with the least number of fresh cases with a count of seven on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/340-new-cases-4-deaths/article35932342.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi airport handled over 1,000 flights during pandemic: Director||The Tiruchi international airport handled 1,295 flights operated through Vande Bharat Mission, Air Bubble agreement and chartered flights with 1.82 lakh passengers during the COVID-19 period, Airport Director S. Dharmaraj said on Sunday. The airport handled services to Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Doha, Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Kuwait, Damam, Bahrain and Jeddah during the pandemic period, Mr. Dharmaraj said speaking at the Independence Day celebration held on the airport premises here. Highlighting the airside infrastructure projects completed at the airport, Mr. Dharmaraj said a new state-of-the-art Instrument Landing System had been installed at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore. A new VHF transmitter receiver had replaced the analog VHF transmitter and receiver to enhance communication between the pilot and the air traffic controller. The voice operated control systems had been replaced at a cost Rs. 2 crore. A new explosive trace detector under Make In India initiative had also been installed at the airport. All conventional light fittings had been replaced with suitable LED fittings as part of an energy saving drive. Mr. Dharmaraj pointed out that the cost of conducting Rapid PCR test introduced at Tiruchi international airport for travellers proceeding to the United Arab Emirates was the lowest when compared to any other airport in the country. On the land acquisition front, he said Airports Authority of India had acquired 40.6 acres so far out of 345.62 acres from the State government and indicated that there would be substantial progress on that front n the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-airport-handled-over-1000-flights-during-pandemic-director/article35932343.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine camps in city today||COVID-19 vaccines will be administered at the following places in city: Covisheld will be administered in the following camps- Corporation School, North Devi Street; St. Philomena's Middle School, Kattur; Corporation School, Khajapettai; Mukkulathor High School; Corporation Middle School, Subramaniyapuram; Aurobindo International School; Fathima Higher Secondary School, Puthur; CSI Methodist Primary School, Woraiyur. Covaxin would be administered at Bharathiyar Primary School, Keezha Kondaiyampettai; Seventh-Day Adventist Matriculation Higher Secondary School; Nagammai Street Library, Melakalkandarkottai; Chinnasamy Park, K.K. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-camps-in-city-today/article35932650.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman drowns two kids; attempts to end life||A 30-year-old woman on Sunday allegedly drowned her two-and-half-year-old and five-month-old daughters in a farm well at Podhavur near Tiruchi and attempted to end her life. She was rescued and admitted at MGMGH hospital. Police said she took the extreme step as her husband Murugapandi, a labourer, was an alcoholic and did not go for work. The bodies of the two children were retrieved by the locals. Somarasampet police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-drowns-two-kids-attempts-to-end-life/article35932344.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fervour marks Independence Day celebrations||Honouring the freedom fighters and presenting meritorious certificates marked the 75th Independence Day celebrations here on Sunday. Collector V. Vishnu, after hoisting the national flag from the police grounds, inspected the guard of honour. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police P.N. Manivannan, the Collector gave away welfare assistance to beneficiaries. He gave away awards to employees . Due to the pandemic, gram sabha meetings were cancelled. Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj unfurled the tricolour and inspected a guard of honour accompanied by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar. He disbursed financial assistance to beneficiaries and presented meritorious awards to 48 police personnel, including an ADSP, three DSPs and 5 Inspectors and 150 other employees in the district. Corporation Commissioner T Charusree, Additional Collector Saravanan, District Forest Officer Abishek Thomar, District Revenue Officer Kannabiran and others participated. The district administration honoured 33 tyagis and their legal heirs. Revenue officials in the respective blocks visited the dwellings and honoured them. Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind hoisted the national flag. He, after taking the salute, inspected a guard of honour in the presence of Superintendent of Police V. Badri Narayanan and presented meritorious certificates to 72 government officials. District Revenue Officer Revathi, Nagercoil Commissioner Asha Ajit, Padmanabhapuram Sub-Collector M Sivaguru Prabakaran and others participated. Tenkasi Collector Gopala Sundararaj unfurled the national flag and took the salute from the ICE Boys Higher Secondary School grounds here in the presence of Superintendent of Police Krishnaraj. MP Dhanush M Kumar, MLA S S Palani, DRO Janani Soundarya, and Project Director, DRDA, Saravanan, and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fervour-marks-independence-day-celebrations/article35932660.ece
16 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 99.70 feet (max level 143 ft) with an inflow of 821.30 cusecs and a discharge of 1304.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 68.20 ft (max 118 ft) with an inflow of 4 cusecs and a discharge of 150 cusecs, said PWD officials on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35932664.ece
16 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Welfare assistance distributed||Music and dance of indigenous adivasi communities such as the Todas and the Kotas marked Independence Day celebrations in Udhagamandalam on Sunday. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya hoisted the tricolour at the Government Arts College. Ms. Divya handed over welfare assistance to 29 beneficiaries worth Rs. 12.08 lakh during the celebrations. A total of 171 government staff working in various departments, who had excelled at their work were given certificates of appreciation by the Collector. The Collector and other government staff joined indigenous tribal groups during their traditional dances. Members of the Badaga community were also present at the Independence Day celebrations. Also present at the event was Nilgiris district superintendent of police Ashish Rawat. A flag hoisting ceremony was also organised at the office of the Deputy Director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. In Coonoor, the Grace Mission Trust distributed food and provisions to 25 families who were in need of assistance. In a press release, Grace Mission Trust Chairman Dr. Patricia Ashokan said that the Independence Day event was organised in the CSI Middle School in Coonoor, and that Inspector of Coonoor Town Police station Prithvi Raj was the chief guest at the event. COVID-19 protocols, including wearing of masks and physical distancing were strictly followed at all the events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-assistance-distributed/article35932265.ece
16 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Frontline workers honoured on I-Day||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated with fervour in Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai and Tirupattur districts by honouring frontline workers, including the police and conservancy staff, for their work during the COVID-19 pandemic. In Vellore, Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian unfurled the tricolour and reviewed the guard of honour at the Netaji Stadium. Earlier, the Collector hoisted the national flag from the ramparts of the Vellore Fort and paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi’s statue at the entrance of the campus. In the newly formed Ranipet district, Collector A.R. Gladstone Pushparaj hoisted the tricolour. He also handed over merit certificates to 64 government officers, employees and representatives of NGOs. To highlight the need for environmental conservation, the Collector planted saplings at the Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School, where the celebrations were held. As a special gesture, the district administrations in Vellore and Ranipet took steps to honour freedom fighters at their place of residence to highlight their contributions to the country's freedom struggle. For instance, the Arcot tahsildar, M. Gopalakrishnan, honoured S. Loganathan, a freedom fighter from Arcot town, with a shawl and sweets. Neighbouring districts like Tiruvannamalai and Tirupattur celebrated 75 years of Independence by providing welfare benefits to 11 beneficiaries. Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh handed over the welfare benefits in the presence of SP A. Pavan Kumar and DRO Muthu Kumasamy. Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha distributed welfare benefits to the tune of Rs. 1.19 crore to beneficiaries as part of the Independence Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frontline-workers-honoured-on-i-day/article35932608.ece
16 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Life history of freedom fighters an inspiration to youth: Union Minister||The life history of many freedom fighters, including their struggles, will always be an inspiration to youngsters to be more courageous in facing day-to-day challenges, said L. Murugan, Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, on Sunday. “Mahakavi Bharathiyar, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Veerapandia Kattabomman, Poolithevan and Tiruppur Kumaran are some of the natives who still inspire us,” he said in his special address through video-conference during the day-long photo exhibition organised by Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT). VIT Chancellor G. Viswanathan hoisted the national flag during the Independence Day function and inaugurated a photo exhibition. He said the Centre and the State governments should accord more priority to education, especially higher education. “Whatever growth takes place in our country, it should reach all sectors of society,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-holds-exhibition-of-photographs/article35932237.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to document its role in freedom struggle||The Chief Minister said that the Gandhi Memorial Museum in Madurai would be renovated at a cost of Rs. 6 crore to attract members of the public and those belonging to the younger generation. Gandhian spirit “Let us all take an oath today that the youth will be imbibed with the Gandhian spirit to tackle the challenges posed by caste, religion, creed in the country,” he said. Mr. Stalin recalled that former Chief Minister and his father M. Karunanidhi had enabled the Chief Ministers to hoist the national flag on Independence Day, putting forth the suggestion to the then Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, in 1974. He also spoke about some of the schemes launched in 100 days of his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-document-role-in-freedom-struggle/article35932213.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Digitised land records being checked||The official said the number of complaints about mistakes was high in Chennai and in the neighbouring districts of Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, as sale transactions were more in these districts. In villages and other parts of the State, the sale of land and subdivided property was few, and so the errors were fewer. Irrespective of the number of complaints, the Department would check each digitised record against the document copies and correct the errors. The Department had also begun automatic name transfer of pattas after the sale deeds were executed in the Department of Registration. The automatic name transfer was launched in February this year by linking the land records with the Department of Registration. Buyers have been facing hardships to get the name transfer once the sale is completed. The name transfer is a simple process, unless any subdivision is involved, but buyers are made to wait for long. The official of the Revenue Department said the name transfer of pattas in cases where no subdivision of land was involved would happen at the registration office after the sale was completed. The system was simplified with minimum human intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digitised-land-records-being-checked/article35932236.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||225 new cases, one death in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 225 new cases of COVID-19. It had 2,403 active cases of the disease on Sunday and 204 persons recovered. Coimbatore district's death toll increased to 2,218 after a 73-year-old man died of COVID-19 on Friday. It had a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 1.8 % on Saturday when 223 persons tested positive for the disease. Tiruppur district had 913 active cases of the disease on Sunday. The district reported 84 new cases of the disease and 88 persons recovered. The Health Department on Sunday declared that COVID-19 was the cause of the death of five persons who died at the Government Hospital, Udumalpet, in May this year. With this, the district's death toll increased to 890. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 1.8 % on Saturday when 94 persons tested positive for the disease. In the Nilgiris, 44 persons tested positive on Sunday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,233. The number of deaths in the district stood at 187 while 485 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/225-new-cases-one-death-in-coimbatore/article35932262.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A flying beauty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-flying-beauty/article35932655.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Set up nursery||A vast tract of land belonging to the Agriculture Department in Muthanendal on the Madurai-Manamaduai highway in Sivaganga district remains unused since 1995. I request the Collector to establish a horticulture nursery there to serve farmers in the region. S.Saravanakumar Tiruppachethi   The government needs to be complimented on the implementation of scrapping of old vehicles. Especially the benefits given to the owners, for their decision to scrap their old machines be further appreciated. Government offices, especially the police stations, should utilise this opportunity to scrap the huge number of old vehicles piled up on their premises. G. S. Mani Kodaikanal   The Collector has taken stern action to remove encroachments in Ramanathapuram town. Once the operation of the Highways Dept. and the Municipal Administration is over, the encroachments re-appear gradually. To prevent this, a dedicated squad may be formed with officials of the Revenue, Police and Municipality to remove encroachments with the help of machines. Asmabagh Anvardeen Ramanathapuram   It is learnt that Southern Railway will get two rakes of Vande Bharat coaches. Since there are many daytime superfast trains between Chennai and Bengaluru / Coimbatore, the Vande Bharat express must be launched on Chennai-Kanniyakumari route. District Railway Users’ Association Kanniyakumari||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-nursery/article35932352.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bad roads||The condition of road at Pandi Nagar third and fourth cross streets of Surveyor Colony is very bad. There are many potholes and it is very difficult to walk or ride on these streets, particularly during rainy season. When the potholes are filled with rainwater, they become breeding grounds for mosquitoes. I request the authorities to relay them. M. Sundararajan, Surveyor Colony   Of late, women, armed with little children, seek alms from motorists at traffic signals in Madurai. The authorities concerned should ensure that the women are rehabilitated through government schemes and prevent them from begging. Kalavasal junction and Mattuthavani flower market junction are a few classic examples where this practice takes place. Robin Dante, Singarayar Colony    A vast tract of land belonging to the Agriculture Department in Muthanendal on the Madurai - Manamadurai highway in Sivaganga district remains unused since 1995. I request the Collector to establish a horticulture nursery there to serve farmers in the region. S. Saravanakumar,  Tiruppachethi   It is learnt that Southern Railway will get two rakes of Vande Bharat coaches, as these super-fast trains have been proposed across the country. Since there are many daytime superfast trains between Chennai and Bengaluru / Coimbatore, the Vande Bharat express must be launched on Chennai-Kanniyakumari route so as to benefit people from a large number of districts. Moreover, as the New-Delhi- Chennai Rajdhani Express runs for just 50 km inside Tamil Nadu, it must be extended to Kanniyakumari. A Shatabdi express must be operated between Chennai Central and Madurai, and a double decker Uday express between Madurai and Bengaluru. District Railway Users’ Association, Kanniyakumari   The government needs to be complimented on the move to scrap old vehicles, especially the benefits given to the owners, for their decision to scrap their old machines. Government offices, especially the police stations, should utilise this opportunity to scrap the huge number of old vehicles on their premises. It will also create parking space. Vehicles left to rust on the roadside should be removed and disposed as scrap. G.S. Mani, Kodaikanal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bad-roads/article35932507.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to Corporation||The condition of the CSI graveyard of Thoothukudi Corporation is pathetic. As the ground is uneven with ups and downs, water stagnates on the graveyard during rainy season. The water does not get dried up for a long time. It poses much difficulties to relatives of the deceased. When the pathway is inundated with water, access to the tombs gets totally cut off. Further, water stagnating on the low- lying areas of the town is pumped into the graveyard to make matters worse. So I request the Corporation authorities to level the ground and prevent stagnation of water. P. Selwyn Basker, Thoothukudi.   In the absence of a bus shelter at the point where Kamarajar Salai from Perumalpuram meets Maharaja Nagar and Thiagarajar Nagar near the railway gate, people wait for city buses under the scorching sun. I request the authorities to erect a bus shelter near the four-road intersection at Siddhartha Nagar opposite Madhuram canteen. A. M. N. Pandian, Tirunelveli.   It is learnt that Southern Railway will get two rakes of Vande Bharat coaches, as these superfast trains have been proposed across the country. Since there are many daytime superfast trains between Chennai and Bengaluru / Coimbatore, the Vande Bharat express must be launched on Chennai-Kanniyakumari route so as to benefit people from a large number of districts. Moreover, as the New-Delhi-Chennai Rajdhani Express runs for just 50 km inside Tamil Nadu, it must be extended to Kanniyakumari. Shatabdi express must be operated between Chennai Central and Madurai, and a double decker Uday express between Madurai and Bengaluru. District Railway Users’ Association, Kanniyakumari.   If COVID-19 is not eradicated fully, reopening of educational institutions is risky for the students’ lives. If one student comes to the school carrying the virus, it will affect hundreds of others. So the Tamil Nadu government must be steadfast in its efforts to prevent the pandemic with the cooperation of the public so that when educational institutions are opened, COVID-19 should be a thing of the past. K. Chelliah, Aundivillai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-corporation/article35932661.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Similar to the strenthening of the road along Uyyakondan Canal, the damaged stretch along the Kudamuritti river also has to be set right. The road being a short-cut to the Collector's Office, strengthening it will pave way for reducing vehicular congestion in the city. S.R. Mahesh Bharati Nagar    Despite the ban on use of single-use plastic items, restaurants and roadside eateries in the city limits still use the materials for packing hot food items.The buyers get affected by the chemicals generated in the plastic packages that could cause cancer, heart diseases, reproductive problems, Kidney complications, and throat ailments. A crackdown by the authorities concerned is the need of the hour. V. Sundararaju Srinivasa Nagar South    Entry of two-wheelers on the fifth platform of Tiruchi Central Bus Stand for crossings between VOC Road and Warners and Lawsons Roads is precipitating the traffic snarls. The platform with bays for buses bound for Karur, Coimbatore, Erode and Tiruppur districts is already congested and the space crunch reflects in haphazard parking. Passengers feel incovenienced to talk freely or board buses. No entry sign boards need to be placed at both ends of the platform. M. Sainithii Cantonment    A water tank placed by Karur Municipality on the platform in the Main Bus Stand, where buses bound for Manapparai, Dindigul, Veerappur originate, has been abandoned much to the chagrin of thirsty passengers. The passengers, most of them from poor economic background, are unable to spend money on highly-priced bottled water. The local body has to fix the problem at the earliest. M. Saikaruna Karur    Online classes during the COVID-19 period, though technologically convenient, causes strain, both physically and mentally, to students. There is no certainty that online learning will equip the students to develop their oral and written skills. Starting in-person classes at the earliest with safeguards will be ideal. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram    Residents of Old Pallivasal Street and surroundings in Railady, Budalur, face the menace of community dogs that feed on wastage of fish and meat stalls. The scramble for the wastage has made them fericious, causing fears among the public. Several dogs are also visibly infected with skin problems. Timely action to curb the menace will bring relief to the public. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article35932322.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cholera, small-pox||The public health report of the city for the week ending August 7, 1943, was normal. There was only one case of small-pox, which was an imported one, that ended fatally at the Infectious Diseases Hospital at Tondiarpet. There were four cases of cholera, of which two were imported. One of them died at the hospital. The death rate was 33.7 per mile as against 35.5 per mile for the previous week. The birth rate was 49.1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cholera-small-pox/article35932207.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Road-surfacing||In August 1945, the question of superior road-surfacing of the China Bazaar Road at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.30 lakh was taken up at the general meeting of the City Council at the Council Chamber of M. Radhakrishna Pillai, the Mayor. The Commissioner, in his note to the Council, stated that the China Bazaar and Evening Bazaar Roads from Parry's Corner to the junction of General Hospital Road were subjected to heavy motor and other traffic, being arterial roads in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-surfacing/article35932208.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Orangutan casts a spell||In August 1926, Prof. Parasuram’s Circus troupe had been performing at the Esplanade. The acrobatics and cycle tricks by an Orangutan seem to have captivated the audience of Madras. Parasuram’s mastery over the wild animals and Sekaran’s animal training were the talk of the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orangutan-casts-a-spell/article35932209.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Jansons Institute of Technology: Bridge Course on "Programming Basics", 10 a.m.  Coimbatore Management Association, Auditors Association of Southern India and   Institute of Chartered Accountants of India:  Online meeting on “Am I Financially Fit”, 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article35932259.ece
16 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jolle hoists national flag, after protest||The police arrested Congress workers who staged a protest against Minister for Muzrai, Haj and Waqf Shashikala Jolle before she hoisted the national flag in Vijayapura on Sunday. A group of women gathered at the Akka Mahadevi Women’s University in Vijayapura for the protest, before the Minister arrived to celebrate Independence Day. The Minister, however, continued forward unfazed and unfurled the flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jolle-hoists-national-flag-after-protest/article35932400.ece
16 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||People’s plan for development of villages||The State government will adopt a grassroots approach to rural development, Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol said in Belagavi on Sunday. The Minister, who is tasked with hoisting the national flag on Independence Day in Belagavi, said that the government will roll out a people’s plan for the development of villages across the State. This will be enforced under Section 309 of the Karnataka Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Act. This will be a document with a long-term vision. The Minister said that resource allocation will be made to various gram panchayats based on this document. The Minister recalled the sacrifice of Kittur Rani Channamma, Sangolli Rayanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peoples-plan-for-development-of-villages/article35932401.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minor electrocuted while trying to erect flagpole||A 16-year-old boy, Chandan, was electrocuted and two of his friends suffered burns while preparing to hoist the national flag on Independence Day when they came in contact with a live wire on the premises of a government school in Karikere village, Tumakuru on Sunday. The three friends were erecting a pole to hoist the tricolour when the incident occurred. No arrests have been made so far, but the police have booked the school teachers. “We have booked the teachers of Karikere Higher Primary School charging them for negligence,” a police officer said. The three friends, Chandan and Shashank, both 16, and Pawan, 22, were taken to a private hospital, but Chandan died. The other two, who are undergoing treatment, are said to be out of danger. Chandan, who lived in Karikere village, was a former student of the school. According to the police, he had studied up to fifth standard in the school. “He had gone to the school to participate in the flag-hoisting programme along with his two friends. The teachers asked Chandan and the other boys to help erect the pole,” said the police. However, nobody saw the live wire. According to eyewitness accounts, the moment they touched the live wire, the three friends fell on the ground. The school teachers who were in the vicinity rushed to their help, but it was too late, the police added.  The tragedy sparked anger among the small community. As news of Chandan’s death spread, villagers gathered in front of the school and at the hospital to vent their ire. Senior police officers along with gram panchayat officials rushed to the school to take stock of the situation. Education Department officials assured protesters that they would take necessary action. They said they would look into meeting the medical expenses of the two boys and work towards ensuring compensation to Chandan’s family. The Kora police have summoned the teachers to the station for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-electrocuted-while-trying-to-erect-flagpole/article35932172.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP, Bescom examine Occupancy Certificates after claims of corruption||To circumvent paying huge bills to the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), many applicants seeking new connections are allegedly submitting fake Occupancy Certificates of the power utility. Several such cases have come to light over the past few months, claimed S. Amaresh, managing trustee of Right to Information Study Centre who has approached the Anti-Corruption Bureau to probe such discrepancies. He alleged that applicants are working in collusion with corrupt civic officials in cases where there are bylaw violations. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) does not issue Occupancy Certificates to buildings that have violated building bylaws. “However, to get power connections, Occupancy Certificates are necessary. Building owners, along with a few corrupt civic officials, have been fabricating documents,” he said. He cited a case of a building being issued Occupancy Certificate bearing the seal and sign of a civic official who had long been transferred from BBMP. “Occupancy Certificates are necessary for buildings that are above 4,000 sq ft in dimension to get power connections. Otherwise, only temporary power connections will be given, where the tariff is much higher,” he said. Mr. Amaresh also alleged that for each Occupancy Certificate that is fabricated, civic officials pocket huge sums of bribe, and that he had filed a complaint about this with the ACB. Mr. Amaresh has now demanded that an enquiry be held into the alleged scam and that Bescom disconnect power connections to buildings that have submitted such fabricated documents. Following the ACB complaint, Bescom has taken cognizance of the issue. The power utility has issued a circular directing chief engineers of all its divisions to coordinate with their counterparts in the BBMP to ascertain if the Occupancy Certificates submitted were genuine or fabricated. Bescom Managing Director Rajendra Cholan said the rule applied mostly to multi-storey buildings. “The power utility gets around 30-50 applications for new power connections a month. Bescom cannot certify if the Occupancy Certificate is genuine or not. Hence, we have directed our officials to coordinate with BBMP officials,” he said. Officials in the BBMP’s town planning division, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said many applications have been forwarded to the civic body by Bescom. “Cases where documents have been fabricated are detected more in the zonal offices than in the head office. We are coordinating with Bescom officials,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-bescom-examine-occupancy-certificates-after-claims-of-corruption/article35932169.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ola Electric launches e-scooters in Bengaluru||Ola Electric, on Sunday, announced the launch of two electric scooters, S1 and S1 Pro. While the S1 has been priced at Rs. 99,999 (ex-showroom), the S1 Pro is Rs. 1,29,999 (ex-showroom). In a press release, it stated that the Ola S1 will officially open for purchase from September 8, 2021, and will start delivering across 1,000 cities and towns in October. Till then, Ola S1 is available for reservation at 499. It has “industry-leading range of up to 181 km, acceleration of 0-40 kmph in 3 seconds, and a top speed of 115 kmph respectively,” it stated. It is powered by a multi-microphone array, AI speech recognition algorithms, and 7-inch touchscreen displays. The two-wheelers are likely to generate interest among private players who wish to run electric bike taxi services in Bengaluru and other cities in Karanataka. Last month, the State government had brought out ‘The Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi Scheme, 2021’ with the aim of improving first and last-mile connectivity, reducing carbon emissions, and generating self-employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ola-electric-launches-e-scooters-in-bengaluru/article35932180.ece
16 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Venkaiah to visit Bengaluru today||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will visit the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) on Monday to unveil the foundation stone for the Innovation and Development Centre on its Jakkur campus. As the guests of honour, Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be present. JNCASR Innovation and Development Centre is located on the Arkavathi campus in Shivanapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/venkaiah-to-visit-bengaluru-today/article35932186.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After ED searches, ex-CM calls on Zameer Ahmed||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday called on former Minister B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan at his residence. Congress sources said the visit was in light of the searches conducted on Mr. Khan by the Enforcement Directorate. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar also visited Mr. Khan earlier last week. Within the Congress, Mr. Khan is seen as being close to Mr. Siddaramaiah. “The visit was to show sympathy for the former Minister, who was searched by the ED in connection with the IMA scam. Political discussions did not take place,” a source said. “It was just a courtesy meeting with a party colleague. It is also embarrassing for the leader to publicly show solidarity to a person accused in the IMA.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-ed-searches-ex-cm-calls-on-zameer-ahmed/article35932191.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai praises BSY||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday appreciated his predecessor and BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa in his Independence Day speech here. “In Karnataka, we have ably managed the pandemic under the leadership of the previous Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa,” he said in his Independence Day speech. “I have resolved to continue on the path of development taken by my predecessor. Governance is a continuous process. The government machinery should not stop when the players change in the system.” Mr. Bommai is being keenly watched to see if he will emerge from the shadow of Mr. Yediyu- rappa, both in the government and in the party. “I am confident of bringing in changes. Several people have expressed doubts or criticised me, which I am treating as blessings. I will take these doubts and criticism as an inspiration to work,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-praises-bsy/article35932195.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Software engineer kidnapped, tortured by employers||A 28-year-old software engineer was allegedly kidnapped and tortured by employers who extorted money from him after accusing him of data theft. Based on the complaint filed by the victim, a resident of Richmond Town, the Ashok Nagar police on Friday booked the firm’s accounts manager, chief executive officer, and other senior staff. In his complaint, the victim said he worked for an IT company on Queen’s Road having joined in 2019. On Wednesday, the firm had filed a complaint with the cyber crime police about data theft following which the victim had gone to the station to give his statement. When he came out of the station, one of the accused was waiting for him. He offered him a lift to the office. The victim’s ordeal began soon after he entered the office. The other accused accused him of stealing data and working for another company. They beat him with slippers, stripped him naked, and took videos of him after they forced him to confess to data theft. In his statement, the victim said the accused continued to torture him and denied him food till the next day. They then called his father to the office demanding Rs. 40 lakh for his release. They finally agreed to Rs. 15 lakh. He was released after the money was transferred. Scared and exhausted, the victim went home and recovered before approaching the police on August 13. An FIR has been registered and the police are probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/software-engineer-kidnapped-tortured-by-employers/article35932174.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rowdy attacks police with pepper spray||The Byadarahalli police are on the lookout for a rowdy, who along with his associates, allegedly attacked a probationary police sub-inspector and other police personnel with pepper spray in order to evade arrest. When attacked with the pepper spray, probationary PSI Harish K., 28, sustained a burning sensation in his ears and was taken to a private hospital for treatment. According to the police, Mr. Harish was checking vehicles at Doddagollarahatti near NICE Road junction on Wednesday night when he received a tip off that rowdy-sheeter Shivaraju was peddling drugs in the area. The police went to the spot and spotted Shivaraju and his associates. “They surrounded the gang, and Mr. Harish proceeded to question them. However, Shivaraju attacked the team with pepper spray and escaped. Mr. Harish and the others collapsed on the ground in pain,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-attacks-police-with-pepper-spray/article35932173.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,431 new cases in State||The positivity rate dropped below 1% to 0.93% as 1,431 new cases were reported, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin on Sunday. As many as 21 new deaths were also reported, while the case fatality rate was 1.46%. The total number of cases so far stand at 29.29 lakh, the total deaths at 36,979. With 1,611 recoveries, the total number of recoveries now is 28.69 lakh. As many as 1.52 lakh tests were conducted, and 1.12 lakh people were vaccinated. Bengaluru Urban reported 305 cases, Dakshina Kannada 311, and Udupi 177. The State has 22,497 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1431-new-cases-in-state/article35932166.ece
16 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Students, achievers in various fields honoured||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated with gaiety and patriotic fervour in Hassan, Shivamogga, and Chikkamagaluru on Sunday. Due to the COVID-19 restrictions, there were a few members of the public to witness the programme. Achievers from different fields and students who secured the highest score in SSLC were honoured. K. Gopalaiah, Minister for Excise, hoisted the national tricolour in the hockey stadium in Hassan. He inspected the guard of honour. In his speech, he recalled the sacrifice of prominent freedom fighters from Hassan. Listing the development works sanctioned for Hassan district, he said the government had taken enough measures to combat the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The paediatric intensive care unit had been set up in Hassan and steps had been taken to start oxygen production units in the taluk centres, he said. The government had spent Rs. 1,350 crore on the Yettinahole project in the last two years. Besides that, the government had spent Rs. 180 crore for direct purchase of land another Rs. 190 crore towards compensation for farmers, who parted with their land for the project, he said. The Minister felicitated health workers for their work in fighting against COVID-19, nine students who scored 625 in SSLC, and achievers from different areas. Similarly, RDPR Minister K.S.Eshwarappa hoisted the national flag in Shivamogga. He paid tributes to freedom fighters of Shivamogga district including the five residents of Esuru village in Shikaripur taluk, who were hanged to death by the British, for their role in the Quit India movement. He also listed the development works being implemented by the State government in the district. He said Shivamogga city would get a new look after the completion of works taken up under the Smart City project. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra hoisted the national flag in Chikkamagaluru. The Minister honoured R. Kumar, head constable, who has been chosen for police meritorious medal, among others on the occasion. In his address, Mr. Jnanendra listed the development works of the State government. He also said the government had taken enough measures to ensure law and order in the State. A nationwide helpline 112 had been launched in the district and the district police conducted an open house programme to familiarise the functions of the police to the public, particularly schoolchildren.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-achievers-in-various-fields-honoured/article35932560.ece
16 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||A village’s brave uprising that was quelled mercilessly||Leaders of Karnataka Rashtra Samiti recently chose Esuru in Shikaripur taluk to launch their campaign to urge “corrupt politicians to quit the sacred politics”. The campaign was launched on August 8, commemorating the Quit India Movement in which residents of this village played a valiant role. Responding to Mahatma Gandhi’s call to Quit India against the British in 1942, the villagers joined the struggle and refused to pay taxes. They attracted the wrath of the British by hoisting the tri-colour on September 29, 1942. They declared themselves independent, resolving not to let Esuru go to the British no matter how many other places went their way (‘Esuru Kottaroo Esuru Kodevu’). Following this, the British sent police forces to the village. The villagers retaliated. Two officials were killed, prompting the British to intensify their action against the villagers. The police arrested more than 200 people, including many women. Among them, five people — Gurappa, Jinahalli Mallappa, Suryanarayanachar, Badakalli Halappa, and Gowdru Shankarappa — were hanged on March 8, 1943. As many as 41 people, including women, were sentenced to life in prison. A stone has been erected on the outskirts of the village in memory of the martyrs. The villagers have demanded a proper memorial in honour of those who fought the British. Shivanna, a Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader who has penned a poem in Lavani form hailing the martyrs, said that hundreds of people visit Esuru and look for information about the freedom struggle. “There is no proper memorial to honour our forefathers who sacrificed their lives for the nation. The State government should build a memorial so that visitors can find out about their struggle,” he said. The government has proposed a memorial at a cost of Rs. 4.75 crore in the village. The villagers hope work on it will begin in the 75th year of Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-villages-brave-uprising-that-was-quelled-mercilessly/article35932194.ece
16 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Meeting on elephant menace, rain damage will be held soon: Minister||Minister for Excise K.Gopalaiah has said a meeting will be held in Bengaluru soon on issues including elephant menace, damages caused owing to heavy rains, among other issues. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Sunday, he would meet Revenue Minister R. Ashok and fix a meeting with other Ministers. “Ministers of Public Works, Forest and other Departments will take part in the meeting. People’s representatives of the district and coffee planters will attend the meeting, where elephant menace will be discussed in detail,” he said. The district administration has estimated the loss caused due to rains at Rs. 272 crore after the preliminary assessment. A proposal to seek Rs. 50 crore under the NDRF had been submitted. “A portion of the highway connecting Bengaluru and Mangaluru (NH 75) had caved in near Donigal near Sakaleshpur. The repair work had been taken up. I have instructed the officers to check if the road was ready to operate vehicles on the stretch and lift the restrictions imposed on vehicle movement on the road,” the Minister said. Similarly, he said, he had given instructions to fill up the potholes in Hassan-Sakaleshpur stretch of the highway soon after the rains receded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-on-elephant-menace-rain-damage-will-be-held-soon-minister/article35932557.ece
16 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||No shortage of vaccines in Hassan: Gopalaiah||Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah has said there was no shortage of COVID-19 vaccine in Hassan. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Sunday, Mr. Gopalaiah, who is also the Minister in charge of the district, said there was a stock of 50,000 vials of vaccines in the district. “We will conduct the vaccination drive effectively so that all eligible people are vaccinated,” he said. When his attention was drawn to irregularities at vaccination centres in Sakleshpur taluk, the Minister said he would talk to officers concerned and address if there were any issues with the management of vaccine stock available. In the last couple of days, hundreds of people stood in long queues in Sakleshpur taluks and many of them returned home without getting vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-shortage-of-vaccines-in-hassan-gopalaiah/article35932558.ece
16 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Plan to irrigate 10,000 hectares of farm land||An extensive project worth Rs. 312 crore aimed at utilising the floodwaters in the Tuppari Halla (stream) during the rainy season to irrigate 10,000 hectares of farmland in Dharwad and Navalgund taluk has been sent to the Finance Department for approval, Minister for Handloom, Textiles, Sugar and Sugarcane Development Shankar Patil Munenakoppa said here on Sunday. Addressing the 75th Independence Day Parade after hoisting the national flag at the R.N. Shetty Stadium in Dharwad on Sunday, Mr. Munenakoppa said that the work on the project will begin soon. “Tuppari Halla, which covers 95 km in Dharwad and Navalgund taluks, then joins the Benni Halla near Navalgund. The project aimed at harnessing the floodwaters and utilising it for irrigation has already been approved by Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited. The project has been sent to the Finance Department. The work will be started soon after getting administrative approval from the government,” he said. Tracing the history of freedom movement in Dharwad district, the Minister elaborated on various agitations related to the freedom struggle and said that the district contributed a great deal to the freedom struggle. On COVID-19 management, he said that till Sunday 9.02 lakh persons had received their vaccine doses in Dharwad district and the government will be giving Rs. 1 lakh to BPL families that had lost members of their families. The Minister said that to fight a possible third wave of the pandemic, the district administration has made provision for 3,000 beds for adults and 750 beds for children. Already, 57,-000 workers in the district have been given relief to the tune of Rs. 28.55 lakh. And, food kits have been distributed am-ong 70,000 worke rs. Mr. Munena -koppa said that the district has suffered crop losses worth Rs. 144 crore and steps are being taken to disburse compensation at the earliest. This apart, the district has suffered infrastructure damage worth Rs. 392 crore and as per NDRF guidelines, initial proposal seeking a compensation of Rs. 47 crore is being submitted to the government, he said. Smart City The Minister said that under the Smart City scheme, 57 projects worth around Rs. 1,000 crore are being implemented and of these, 12 worth Rs. 20 crore have been completed. As many as 41 projects worth Rs. 697 crore are in progress. Hubballi-Dharwad has topped the list of Smart Cities in the state by effective and early planning and implementation of projects, he said. The Minister also listed out various schemes and programmes of the State government. On the occasion, the Minister inspected a parade and received a guard of honour. He felicitated COVID-19 warriors and health institutions for their laudable services, in the presence of Member of Legislative Assembly Amrut Desai, Chairperson of State Silk Sales Board Savita Amarashetti, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-to-irrigate-10000-hectares-of-farm-land/article35932408.ece
16 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Procession with 2-km-long flag taken out in Kalaghatagi||The people of Kalaghatagi celebrated the 75th Independence Day in an unique way by taking out a procession carrying two- kilometre-long and nine-foot-wide tricolour on Sunday and created a record of sorts. Led by former MLA of Kalaghatagi and Congress leader Santosh Lad, hundreds of students and people from different walks of life carried the two-km-long flag, raising patriotic slogans. The procession began from Tadas Cross near Kalaghatagi, went along the national highway that passes through the town and ended at the NWKRTC Depot. Apart from Mr. Lad, several Congress leaders and elders from Kalaghatagi and Alnavar took part in it. Mr. Lad, who had organised the event, told The Hindu that many youth voluntarily participated and carried the flag. All along the stretch, the slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ reverberated in the air, he said. A team of weavers led by Elumalai from K.R. Market in Bengaluru, took nearly a week to get the flag ready. It was rolled up into a big bundle and it weighed over 4 quintals. The production and transportation of the tricolour cost around Rs. 5 lakh and was borne by Mr. Lad, who wanted to make the 75th Independence Day celebration a memorable one. The flag was brought from Bengaluru to Kalaghatagi in a truck and then shifted to a tractor. On Sunday, Mr. Lad and others slowly unrolled the flag from the tractor into the hands of the participants, who carried it along the NH. The requirement to carry the long flag was around 1,200 people. But people came in large numbers voluntarily to participate in the event, Anand Kalal, an aide of Mr. Lad said. Case booked Within hours of the procession being taken out, the police registered a case against 13 Congress workers for violation of COVID-19 protocol. The Kalaghatagi police registered the case based on a complaint by the taluk administration. The case pertains to violating the ban on taking out rallies on account of COVID-19-induced restrictions. In the complaint it was mentioned that despite the ban, the tricolour rally was organised wherein thousands participated without following COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. However, the case doesn’t mention Mr. Lad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/procession-with-2-km-long-flag-taken-out-in-kalaghatagi/article35932178.ece
16 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi-Dharwad corpn. council election process to begin today||As per calendar of events announced by the State Election Commission, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil will issue the election notification for conducting elections to 82 wards of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) on Monday. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Sunday, Mr. Nitesh Patil said that with the election notification, the model code of conduct will come into force on Monday and so also the process of filing nomination papers. Giving details about the arrangements made for smooth conduct of the election process, Mr. Patil said that for the benefit of candidates in the twin cities, single-window systems — one each in Hubballi and Dharwad — will be opened and adequate staff and officials deputed. After delimitation, the number of wards in the twin cities has now increased to 82 from 67. The municipal corporation now has 8,11,537 eligible voters. Among them 4.03 lakh are male and 4.07 lakh female voters. As per the calendar of events, August 23 is the last date to file nomination papers. Scrutiny of nomination papers will take place on August 24. And, August 26 is the deadline for withdrawal of nomination papers and polling, if required, will be conducted on September 3. Call Ph: 836-2213888, 2213869 and 2213889 for any poll-related complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-dharwad-corpn-council-election-process-to-begin-today/article35932410.ece
16 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Chittaranjan Kalakoti dead||The former leader of Janata Parivar and two-time MLA from Haveri Chittaranjan Kalakoti (90) passed away in Haveri due to age-related illnesses on Sunday. He is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters. A close associate of the former Chief Ministers Ramakrishna Hegde and S.R. Bommai, Dr. Kalakoti, a medical practitioner, was elected to the Legislative Assembly from Haveri in 1983 and 1985 on Janata Party ticket. Earlier, he had served as Haveri Taluk Panchayat member and Haveri APMC member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chittaranjan-kalakoti-dead/article35932412.ece
16 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Let us march together and let us win together’||Tourism, Ecology and Environment Minister and Vijayanagar district in-charge B.S. Anand Singh unfurled the tricolour at the Municipal Grounds in Hosapete on Sunday. “I happily hoisted the national flag to mark the first Independence Day celebration in the new Vijayanagar district. It is my good luck that I got the opportunity. It is because of your support and cooperation that made the long-standing demand for a new district a success. Let us march together and let us win together,” Mr. Singh said in his Independence Day message. Reiterating his commitment to the development of the district, he also announced that he would make all possible efforts to upgrade Hosapete, the district headquarters, to a municipal corporation for offering better civic amenities to its residents. “We are planning to develop a film city on 50 acres of land near Kamalapur. Indoor and outdoor stadiums will be built on 50 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 100 crore to encourage rural sports such as bullock-cart race, traditional wrestling, Kabaddi, Rangoli and farmland race and urban sports such as Kho-Kho, cricket, jump rope, football and basketball. A sum of Rs. 100 crore is already released for upgrading the existing 100-bed hospital into a 250-bed hospital in Hosapete. However, keeping the future requirements in mind, we have now planned to build a new 250-bed hospital on 30 acres of land on the outskirts of the city so that the facility will further be developed into a medical college and hospital,” Mr. Singh said. He also revealed plans to make the complete use of Hampi Kannada University’s 750 acres of land by opening a Central University. Member of the Lok Sabha from Ballari Y. Devendrappa, Special Officer to Vijayanagar district Anirudh Sravan P. and others participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/let-us-march-together-and-let-us-win-together/article35932403.ece
16 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Transform Kalyana Karnataka into developed region, Minister urges people and officials||Recalling the renaming of Hyderabad Karnataka region as Kalyana Karnataka by the previous government headed by the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Minister of Large and Medium Industries and Kalaburagi district in-charge Murugesh Nirani has urged people and the State apparatus to work hard for the development of the backward region. “The term Kalyana [welfare] Karnataka should not remain only on paper. We have to collectively work hard to translate it into a reality. We are preparing Kalaburagi Vision 2030 that envisages the all-round development of Kalaburagi in the next 30 years and I appeal to people, people’s representatives, intellectuals and media fraternity to join hands with the government to implement the visionary programme,” he said, after hoisting the national flag at the District Armed Reserve Police Grounds to mark the Independence Day here on Sunday. Elaborating his government’s plans to develop Kalaburagi into a major industrial hub in the region, Mr. Nirani said that the New Industrial Policy 2020-25 adopted by the government will help realise the goal. “All the taluks in Kalaburagi district are put under Zone 1 in the New Industrial Policy [2020-25] so that they can get the maximum incentives and tax concessions for establishing new industrial units. We are developing a solar energy park with an installed capacity of 500 MW on 1500 acres of land in Farhatabad near Kalaburagi. The Union government has sanctioned a mega textile park for Kalaburagi which will come up on a 1,000-acre plot. We are also planning to develop a jewellery park in the district. Apart from these new projects, we are planning to develop an industrial estate on 5000 acres of land to attract big industries to Kalaburagi. I hope that these measures, coupled with air connectivity, will impress industrialists to open their units here,” Mr. Nirani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transform-kalyana-karnataka-into-developed-region-minister-urges-people-and-officials/article35932405.ece
16 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Comply strictly with norms, says Angara||Asking people to strictly comply with COVID-19 norms and regulations in Dakshina Kannada, district in-charge Minister S. Angara on Sunday said that this is necessary to effectively tackle a likely third wave of the pandemic. Speaking at the district-level Independence Day celebrations at the Nehru Maidan here, Mr. Angara said that people should seriously follow regulations imposed by the district administration, in consultation with experts . “There should be no laxity and complacency in following the instructions,” he said and added that people should involve themselves in the efforts to help their children continue learning from home. Mr. Angara said that facilities at the Government Wenlock Hospital, the Government Lady Goschen Hospital and other government health care centres have been upgraded to handle COVID-19 and other cases. In the Wenlock Hospital, super-speciality medicine and surgical blocks are functional. A 32-bed Intensive Care Unit was recently started at the Wenlock Hospital, which can be used for treating elders and children. The Minister said that 12.56 lakh people have been administered vaccine free. Remembering the Amara Sullia Horata between 1835 and 1837 when there was a revolt against the British, Mr. Angara said that the district administration will come out with a memorial to mark the struggle. Due to restrictions in view of weekend lockdown, the celebrations were largely scaled down and people were barred from taking part. Mr. Angara hoisted the national flag and inspected a ceremonial parade by 11 teams comprising the city police, the district police, the traffic police, the Fire and Emergency Services and Home Guards. He presented Home Guard Platoon Commander Mansur Mulky the Chief Minister’s medal for 2015. The Minister also presented certificates commending the Wenlock Hospital and the Yenepoya Hospital for effective implementation of Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Health Insurance Scheme. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar were among the many who attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comply-strictly-with-norms-says-angara/article35932525.ece
16 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nation first, other things, including caste and creed, next, says scholar||Scholar Shikaripura Krishnamurthy on Sunday advocated free provision of basic amenities — food, water and education — to the masses in the country even as he said that everyone should adopt the Nation First concept instead of caste and creed. He was speaking after inaugurating the 75th Independence Day celebrations at Mangalore University, Mangala Gangothri, here. If one looks at the basic needs from business perspective, it leads to social degeneration. He further said, “It is time for introspection. We should adopt Nation First concept, while all other things, including caste and creed, should come next.” University Vice-Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya said that the New Education Policy will bring about a comprehensive change in the country. Registrar Kishore Kumar, Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma and others were present. At the New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT), Port Chairman A.V. Ramana hoisted the tricolour and reviewed the parade by personnel from CISF and Fire and Emergency Services. Addressing a restricted audience of about 50 people in adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, Mr. Ramana said that despite the lockdown and subsequent restrictions, the port was able to improve the overall performance. During the first four months of the current fiscal, the port handled 12.5 million tonnes of cargo as against 11.56 million handled in the first four months of last fiscal. The container traffic has registered 38% growth by handling 57,683 TEUs so far during the current fiscal, he said. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. that serves coastal region, among others, celebrated 75 years of Independence at its headquarters in Nerul, Navi Mumbai. Company Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta hoisted the national flag and delivered the Independence Day address. The occasion was also celebrated at KRCL’s Ratnagiri and Karwar regional offices. The country has made significant strides in almost all fields thereby getting recognition worldwide, said retired director of primary education Kadri Anand, after hoisting the national flag at Shakthi Educational Institutions, Shakthinagar, here. Administrator of the institutions K.C. Nayak and others were present. NCC (5 KAR Naval Unit) Commanding Officer Lt. Cdr. Bharath Kumar said that with the country taking bold steps towards becoming a superpower in the world, it is time for everyone to contribute towards the development of the nation in their own say. Speaking after unfurling the tricolour at the University College, Mangaluru, he said that the country needs youth with discipline, responsibility, honesty and ethical standards. Principal Anasuya Rai presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nation-first-other-things-including-caste-and-creed-next-says-scholar/article35932523.ece
16 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to focus on environment-friendly power generation||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar on Sunday said that the Energy Department is contemplating focussing on environment-friendly power generation through solar and wind energy. Energy production utilising thermal power needs to be discouraged, he said. The Minister was speaking after unfurling the national flag at the district-level Independence Day celebrations at the Mahatma Gandhi Stadium in Ajjarkad, Udupi. Mr. Kumar said that he has envisioned to transform the department to be friendly to consumers, farmers and entrepreneurs in the next two years. He said he wanted to provide power supply to all households that have ration cards in the State and a suitable plan of action will be prepared soon for the purpose. Mr. Kumar said that he will soon constitute an expert committee to frame a suitable policy for Kannada and Culture Department. While most other departments have their own policy, Kannada and Culture does not, he said. Based on the committee’s report, the new policy will be evolved, he said. The Minister said that he will be the voice for the long-pending demand to include Tulu language in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution even as special encouragement will be given to the traditional art form of the coastal region, Yakshagana. Ubaradka Mittur village in Sullia taluk of Dakshina Kannada district where hundreds laid down their life fighting for Independence even before the first Independence revolution will be declared a heritage village and a memorial will be built. Mr. Kumar further said that work on the 250-bed district hospital, for which Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai laid the foundation stone on Thursday, will be expedited. Similarly, the government will issue orders to establish a government medical college at Kolalagiri near Udupi, besides sanctioning a well-planned underground drainage system for Udupi and Karkala. On the occasion, 22 Covid-19 warriors were felicitated for their exemplary service in handling the pandemic. Also, heads of task forces and PDOs of Sanuru, Siddapura and Palimar gram panchayats were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-focus-on-environment-friendly-power-generation/article35932521.ece
16 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police arrest three for blocking freedom chariot in Kabaka||The Puttur Town Police arrested three Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists on Sunday on the charge of obstructing the procession of Swatantrotsava Ratha in Kabaka Gram Panchayat of Puttur taluk as it had a portrait of Veer Savarkar. The police gave the names of the arrested as Azeez, Abdul Rehman and Sameer. Meanwhile, the police have booked a case under Sections 143, 147, 269, 353, 323 and 427 of Indian Penal Code and under Section 2 A of Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Property Act against seven and more SDPI activists on a complaint from the Panchayat Development Officer. Gram panchayat vice-president Rukmayya Gowda said that the freedom chariot was taken out as part of the special celebrations of the 75th Independence Day as per government directions. The chariot contained cut-outs depicting photos of freedom fighters, MGNREGA scheme, government welfare schemes, among others. It was aimed at spreading rural development message of the Prime Minister, said panchayat president Vinay Kumar. However, panchayat member and SDPI activist Nazri and other activists blocked the chariot after it was flagged off by Mr. Kumar following the unfurling of the tri-colour and oath administration. Taking objection to the presence of Veer Savarkar’s portrait on the chariot, the activists demanded its removal. On getting information, the police arrived at the spot and took away the protesters. SDPI district president Ataullah Jokatte defended the activists and said that they opposed the presence of Veer Savarkar’s picture on the chariot. “We are not against Independence Day celebrations. Our opposition was against the inclusion of Savarkar’s portrait among the photographs of freedom fighters,” he said. The freedom chariot procession was not discussed among panchayat members, he said and added that SDPI opposed the propagation of a particular agenda in the name of freedom chariot. Meanwhile, Fisheries and Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister S. Angara and Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary strongly condemned the act of SDPI activists. Mr. Poojary said that the government will not tolerate any acts that breach peace in the district. Suspecting the hand of fundamentalist elements in the incident, Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor said that the matter should be investigated by the National Investigation Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrest-three-for-blocking-freedom-chariot-in-kabaka/article35932526.ece
16 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported four COVID-19 deaths and 311 new cases on Sunday. Of the deceased, three were from Mangaluru and one was from outside the district. All the four died within 72 hours of their admission to hospitals. There are three containment zones in Mangaluru taluk and one such zone in Belthangady taluk. With 380 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 3,609. The test positivity rate was put at 3.21%. A fine of Rs. 1,03,12,770 has so far been collected in 84,741 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported 177 new cases of which 97 are from Udupi taluk, 37 from Kundapur taluk, 42 from Karkala taluk and one from outside the district. While 148 are in home isolation, 29 patients are in designated health care facilities. With 117 patients discharged, the number of active cases was put at 1,356. There are seven cases of mucormycosis. With 1,605 people vaccinated on Sunday, a total of 13,07,081 have received their vaccine in Dakshina Kannada so far. Of these, 9,94,745 received their first dose, while 3,12,336 have received their second dose. In Udupi, 5,61,846 people have received their first dose, while 2,05,679 have received their second dose of the vaccine so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada/article35932527.ece
16 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artiste dead||Senior Yakshagana artiste and main Bhagawata in Kateel Yakshagana melas Bottikere Purushottam Poonja passed away on Saturday night. He was unwell for the last few days. A native of Bottikere in Manjanady village of Mangaluru taluk in Dakshina Kannada, Poonja donned the role as the main Bhagawata in several Yakshagana mela for 45 years, including 30 years in several Kateel Durgaparameshwari melas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-artiste-dead/article35932529.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to soon have Karnataka Digital Economy Mission office||A Karnataka Digital Economy Mission office will soon be established in Mysuru as part of the State government’s initiative to accelerate growth and investment in IT and IT-enabled services (ITES) across the State. Delivering the Independence Day address in Mysuru on Sunday, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar said the State government has already launched ‘Beyond Bengaluru’, a programme focussed on building innovation and technology ecosystem in other developing cities of the State, under which Mysuru region has been identified as a priority cluster. With the concept of “work from wherever you are” gaining traction, the government has given attention to the growth of IT and ITES in Mysuru region, he said. With regard to the mobile app-based crop survey programme taken up by the government across the State, Mr. Somashekar said 3.66 lakh farmers in Mysuru district had uploaded the details of their crops on the app last year. He called upon the farmers to participate in the crop survey during the ensuing year also in large numbers. The mobile app developed by the government allows farmers to capture and submit the details of the crops grown along with the photos of their land. The data collected through this app-based system helps the early release of financial assistance with regard to crop insurance, minimum support price and crop loans, he said, while adding that the details submitted as part of the crop survey will also be entered into the records of Rights, Tenancy and Crops (RTC), which will facilitate the farmers secure benefits of schemes offered by different departments. Out of the 51 lakh farmers in Karnataka, who are eligible to receive the second instalment of financial assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, 2.19 lakh farmers from Mysuru will receive a total of Rs. 43.86 crore, Mr. Somashekar said.  With regard to tackling COVID-19 in Mysuru, Mr Somashekar said 19 lakh doses of vaccine had been administered in the State so far while necessary precautionary measures have also been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-to-soon-have-karnataka-digital-economy-mission-office/article35932549.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||A delayed entry and prolonged fight for freedom||Two salient features stand out in the history of the freedom struggle in Mysuru (then Mysore), comprising the regions from the erstwhile princely state. One is the region’s delayed entry into the mainstream freedom struggle, attributed to the “cushioning” provided by the benevolent rule of the later Wadiyars to help absorb much of the shock of the British despotism. Secondly, though the freedom struggle officially came to an end with India achieving Independence on August 15, 1947, the movement continued for a few more months here. Different tenor The nationalistic and patriotic fervour that culminated in India attaining freedom from the British 75 years ago had a different tone and tenor in the princely state of Mysore, comprising vast swathes of the south Karnataka region in present times, according to N.S. Rangaraju, convener of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. Hesaid mass movements, the kind of which were witnessed in other parts of the country, were conspicuous by their absence in Mysore for a long time as people also had deference to the maharajas for their socio-economic measures. The rapid expansion of the railways, the establishment of the Representative Assembly in 1881 to discuss public issues, the introduction of Mysore Civil Services Examination, also in 1881, the ban on marriage of girls below the age of eight in 1894, free education for girls, the founding of the cooperative movement in 1905, the founding of the University of Mysore, the introduction of reservation in jobs for backward class groups in 1919, besides rapid industrialisation and expansion of agriculture, were some of the measures initiated by the rulers that helped minimise the “pinch of foreign rule”, according to the Mysore Gazetteer. After the 1920s However, the larger demand for independence and an undercurrent of nationalism began to permeate with broadening political activity of the Congress after the Nagpur Congress in 1920 and Belgaum Congress convention in 1924. “The influence of Mahatma Gandhi was a catalyst to stir the nationalistic pride, and Tagadur Ramachandra Rao was one of the great nationalists who emerged on the scene in the region during this period,” said Prof. Rangaraju. Inspired by Gandhi, he made a bonfire of his own cart selling foreign goods and plunged into social reforms, he added. Rao launched a movement to emancipate the Dalits, braving all odds in rural Mysore, with temple entry movement etc., and his struggle was recognised by national-level leaders. All of this stoked the broader nationalistic sentiment. The visit of Mahatma Gandhi to Mysore in 1927 and 1934 helped galavanise the public and prepared the ground for mass movements. The seeds of nationalism nurtured through social reforms and political activity bore fruit when the Quit India Movement was launched in 1942 and saw students participate in large numbers. After 1974 But even as India gained Independence on August 15, 1947, agitations continued in the princely state of Mysore. This was because people rallied behind the Congress to end monarchy and participated in ‘Mysore Chalo’, demanding a democratically elected government. The agitation culminated in a large rally on September 4, 1947, in which hundreds courted arrest. At least three, including Ramaswamy, a student of Hardwicke High School, died in police firing. The last maharaja, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, conceded to the demands of the agitators and K.C. Reddy became the State’s Chief Minister on October 25, 1947, bringing to a close the last chapter in the freedom movement of Mysore, over two months after the national tricolour was unfurled at the Red Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-delayed-entry-and-prolonged-fight-for-freedom/article35932185.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting on Dasara before month-end, says Somashekar||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar on Sunday said he will convene a meeting of people’s representatives in Mysuru before the end of this month to discuss the modalities for the Dasara festival this year. Mr. Somashekar has already indicated that festivities will remain low key this year also. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Sunday, Mr. Somashekar said he will gather the opinion on how the festivities can be kept simple. Next, he said he will discuss the matter with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and convene a meeting of the Dasara high-powered committee. The committee, which is scheduled to meet in Bengaluru, will take a final decision on the matter. Managing COVID-19 Emphasising the need to accord priority to managing COVID-19, Mr. Somashekar said efforts should be focussed on preparing to tackle the third wave and simultaneously draw up plans to celebrate Dasara in a simple manner with adequate safety precautions. The surge and dip in COVID-19 cases will be borne in mind while taking any decision on Dasara, he said. Meanwhile, reacting to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s comments against the instability of the BJP government in the State, Mr. Somashekar said there was no need for any doubts about Mr. Bommai remaining at the helm and completing the term. He said Mr. Bommai was capably handing the administration in the State. With regard to former Minister S.A. Ramdas reportedly being disenchanted over his exclusion from the Ministry, Mr. Somashekar said the Krisharaja MLA was a senior leader in the party and he would work under his guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-on-dasara-before-month-end-says-somashekar/article35932552.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Division sees good performance in freight and passenger segment||The Mysuru Division of the South Western Railways has notched up impressive performance in both freight and passenger segments despite the impact of COVID-19. The division has accrued a gross revenue of Rs. 250.57 crore till July 2021, 253% higher compared to the corresponding period last year. In addition, the division had loaded 2.574 million tonnes of freight, an increase of 122% during the same period last year. Divisional Railway Manager Rahul Agarwal said during Independence Day celebrations on Sunday that to improve mobility of freight trains and for better wagon turn around leading to greater availability of wagons, a concerted drive was initiated resulting in achieving an average speed of over 48.2 kmph during the current quarter. Consequent to the relaxation of norms, about 92 trains originating from the Mysuru Division were already running as against 145 trains in the pre-pandemic period. This works out to 63% of the earlier traffic, according to Mr. Agarwal, who said that the division has also carried 18.14 lakh passengers till the end of July. Mr. Agarwal who unfurled the national flag at Railway Sports Grounds also spoke on railway infrastructure and said 135.9 km have been electrified in the division and electrification of an additional 268 km has been planned. This included track electrification from Sampige Road to Hubballi on the main line and electrification of 61 km between Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. Both these projected are expected to be completed by 2023, he added. Mr. Agarwal said vaccination drive for employees and their families has been taken up on a war footing. Around 10,906 doses have been given to all Railway beneficiaries in the division, he added. On initiatives to ramp up its health infrastructure to tackle the pandemic, Mr. Agarwal said the Railway Hospital has been upgraded with 101 oxygenated beds, new X-ray machines, new oxygen concentrators, and other auxiliary equipments. A PSA oxygen generator will shortly be installed and commissioned. This is in addition to beefing up of the health care professionals recruited on a contract basis to fight the pandemic.  The programme was a low-key affair in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-division-sees-good-performance-in-freight-and-passenger-segment/article35932555.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||I-Day celebrated amidst weekend curfew||Patriotic fervour gripped Mysuru on the 75th Independence Day on Sunday even though weekend curfew remained in force across the district. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar hoisted the tricolour at Torch Light Parade Grounds in Bannimantap in Mysuru and received the guard of honour from various platoons of the police. Senior officials of the district administration, including Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, and Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chethan, were also present on the occasion. A marchpast was held by the various platoons of the police. However, cultural programmes were cancelled this year on account of COVID-19 restrictions. Mr. Somashekar, in his Independence Day address, recalled the contributions of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Gopalakrishna Gokhale, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, and B.R. Ambedkar. The sacrifice and non-violent movement that guided the freedom movement in India was a model for the world, he said. Meanwhile, celebrations were held in different part of the city. Several organisations and educational institutions too celebrated the day by hoisting the tricolour. The flag was seen on many establishments as well as vehicles in the city on Sunday. However, many non-essential establishments remained closed owing to the weekend curfew in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-day-celebrated-amidst-weekend-curfew/article35932550.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hospitals to issue birth certificates henceforth||Henceforth, people need not visit the office of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) for their children’s birth certificates. It will be issued at the hospital, where the baby is born. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar on Sunday launched the scheme started by MCC to issue birth certificates along with the discharge report during a function at Kamakshi Hospital in Mysuru on Sunday. The birth certificates of the newborns will be handed over to the parents for free at the time of discharge from private or government hospitals. Former Minister and MLA S.A. Ramdas said the steps should also be taken to issue death certificates at the crematoria and burial grounds just like birth certificates are issued at hospitals. Meanwhile, a programme was also held at Apollo BGS Hospital in Mysuru on Sunday to mark the commencement of issuing birth certificates to new parents. Mysuru District Health and Family Welfare Officer Prasad handed over the birth certificates. “This step has been taken in view of the serving the parents and giving them ease of access to the child’s birth certificate, which is an important document for any further immediate process post-delivery,” said a press statement issued by Apollo BGS Hospitals. Earlier, the private hospital or the nursing home in which the baby is born had to report the birth to MCC within 21 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitals-to-issue-birth-certificates-henceforth/article35932551.ece
16 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Murder: 4 held||Four persons were arrested in connection with the murder of a man in Udayagiri police station limits on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-4-held/article35932553.ece
16 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Activists rounded up, released||A few activists of the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti were rounded up by the police in Mysuru for trying to distribute a pamphlet critical of the Centre and the state of the nation on Sunday. The activists who assembled near the DC’s office accused the MPs of “being bought by the corporate bigwigs” and said the sanctity of the Constitution cannot be upheld by such members. The DSS activists said that people will be deprived off their livelihood and their freedom given the policies and ideology of the present government. The activists decided to go to Bannimantap, the venue of the Independence Day celebrations, to distribute the pamphlets when the police rounded them up and took them to the CAR grounds. They were subsequently released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-rounded-up-released/article35932556.ece
16 August 2021||STAFF REPORTER,KARNATAKA||I-Day celebrations in Yadgir, Raichur||Primary and Higher Education Minister B.C. Nagesh and Housing and Infrastructure Development Minister V. Somanna unfurled the national flag in Yadgir and Raichur, respectively, to celebrate the 75th Independence Day on Sunday. While remembering the supreme sacrifice of the freedom fighters against the British rule, the two Ministers said that India got independence after many sacrificed their lives. Later, the Constitution was enacted to provide fundamental rights to citizens, irrespective of their caste and religion. They also asked people of the younger generation to study and understand the freedom movement and take the country forward on the path of development. The State government is committed to implementing development projects and address people’s problems. “We have successfully handled the first and second wave of COVID-19 and also, floods that destroyed several thousands of acres of agriculture fields,” they said. “Crop loss has been estimated roughly and we are trying to provide compensation to distressed farmers,” they added. Mr. Nagesh said that Rs.2 crore has been released to Yadgir district as it was recognised as an aspirational district in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-day-celebrations-in-yadgir-raichur/article35932406.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrations galore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrations-galore/article35932176.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||The sudden outburst of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is known not to lose his cool, against a senior medical officer at a meeting in Mangaluru on Thursday raised many eyebrows. While a few felt it was the result of the lack of preparedness of the District Health Officer (DHO), many felt the Chief Minister should not have let his tongue loose on a senior official in public. Mr. Bommai chided the DHO, using the singular, when he failed to give appropriate answers on the non-availability of COVID-19-related items at government hospitals — a matter raised by MLA and former Minister U.T. Khader at the review meeting. When the DHO said indents were sent to Bengaluru to meet the shortage, Mr. Bommai lost his temper and asked why one should look at Bengaluru for even such small requirements. “The district has got money under the State Disaster Relief Fund,” he said, asking the Deputy Commissioner to use them to buy the required items. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, too, was at the receiving end. A video clip of the meeting, apparently shot by journalists, went viral on social media. Maybe we can blame it on all the tensions the Cabinet expansion has entailed, with pulls from many directions?   The differences between two BJP MLAs of Chikkamagaluru district are now out in public. The party’s national general secretary C.T. Ravi(in picture)and his party colleague and MLA for Mudigere M.P. Kumaraswamy passed comments against each other recently. Mr. Kumaraswamy, who staged a protest in front of the Vidhana Soudha demanding funds for his rain-hit taluk, said Mr. Ravi had been silent on the issue and could have brought enough funds to his constituency when he was Minister in the B.S. Yediyurappa-led Cabinet. Irked by this, Mr. Ravi shot back claiming that when he was Minister in charge of the district, he had brought more funds to Mudigere than to his own constituency, Chikkamagaluru. “Let him [Mr. Kumaraswamy] check the records at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. If I am proved wrong, I will resign. So will he?” he asked. This is a headache Mr. Ravi could do without, as he is already facing flak as his recent comments on the Mekedatu project are seen as running contrary to Karnataka’s interests. He had also made crass remarks about India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru.   The extent of lobbying for ministerial berths in the State was all too visible. But what happens when you have been marked for your animosity towards a senior leader? And if that leader is someone like former Chief Minister B.S Yediyurappa, who is known for nurturing vengeance for long? BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal(in picture), who had raised the banner of revolt against the then Chief Minister, is in a spot of bother now. While Mr. Yatnal can take at least partial credit for succeeding in what he wanted — removing Mr. Yediyurappa from the top post — what exactly did he gain? If Mr. Yatnal is to be believed, Mr. Yediyurappa even tried “blackmail politics” to keep him out of power and said he would bring down the BJP government in three months if Mr. Yatnal was not kept out. Nobody knows exactly what Mr. Yediyurappa did or said. However, much to the disappointment of Mr. Yatnal, the former Chief Minister did not even react to his statement. Anil Kumar Sastry Sathish G.T. Girish Pattanashetti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article35932189.ece
16 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Nationalism should not be symbol of alienation: Minister||Various programmes marked the 75th independence day celebrations in the district on Sunday. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian hoisted the national flag at Alappuzha Recreation ground in the morning. Speaking at the function, Mr. Cherian said nationalism should not become a symbol of alienation and marginalisation. He said farmers and the poor should be protected.  A.M. Ariff, MP, MLAs- H. Salam, P.P. Chitharanjan, Thomas K. Thomas, Alappuzha District Panchayat president K.G. Rajeshwari and others were present at the function. Later, inaugurating a remembrance meet on Ethappu Strike, spearheaded by Arattupuzha Velayudha Panicker, and his yearning for freedom, Mr. Cherian said a history-cultural study centre would be constructed in the name of Velayudha Panicker by conserving his home at Arattupuzha. He said a sum of Rs. 1 crore had been set aside in the 2019-20 State Budget for conserving the house at Arattupuzha. The remembrance meet was organised as part of Amrutha Mahotsavam of Independence, a programme conducted by the State government to mark the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nationalism-should-not-be-symbol-of-alienation-minister/article35932481.ece
16 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Probe ordered into kin’s plaints on MCH deaths||In the wake of reports that relatives were not intimated of the deaths of two patients at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, Health Minister Veena George on Sunday directed the Director of Medical Education to conduct a probe and submit a report immediately. Ms. George said stringent action would be taken against the culprits. A 58-year-old man from Kollam was admitted to the hospital on July 23 with chest pain. He tested positive for COVID-19 and was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on August 9. He died on August 12. His wife was at the hospital then, but she was not informed. The family’s attempts to reach the ICU staff on phone went futile. With no information for two days, his daughter and a relative came to the hospital on August 14. She later identified her father’s body at the morgue. MCH version MCH authorities said they tried calling on the mobile phone of a relative after he died at 3 p.m., but without success. Officials said they also informed the police about the death. A similar incident came to light on Sunday, when relatives of Thankappan, 55, of Peringamala, who died at the MCH last week, alleged that they came to know of his death days later. “His wife tested positive for COVID-19 and he accompanied her to the MCH. He fell ill and was admitted to the ICU on August 7. Only when his son went to the ICU on Sunday, did the staff inform him that Thankappan had died and his body was shifted to the morgue,” a relative said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-ordered-into-kins-plaints-on-mch-deaths/article35932493.ece
16 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CPI(M) distances itself from Ariff’s letter||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] district unit on Sunday appeared to distance itself from A.M.Ariff, MP, who sought a Vigilance inquiry into the relaying of the National Highway (NH) 66 stretch between Aroor and Cherthala in the district. Mr. Ariff had written a letter to Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas seeking a probe into the road work, citing the deteriorating condition of the highway stretch. CPI (M) district secretary R. Nazar said Ariff wrote the letter and demanded a probe without consulting the party. He said the issues raised in the letter had already been rejected after an inquiry during the tenure of the previous government. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian also rejected the demand for a Viigilance probe into the highway work. Mr. Ariff, in the letter, stated that the 23.66 km stretch was reconstructed with a three-year guarantee, but had developed potholes in various places in less than one-and-a-half-year. Rs. 36 crore spent The work was carried out in 2019 when G. Sudhakaran was the Public Works Minister, under the supervision of the State Public Works Department (NH wing) at a cost Rs. 36 crore sanctioned by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-distances-itself-from-ariffs-letter/article35932479.ece
16 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Duty to protect freedom: Roshy||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said that all Indians have a responsibility to protect the freedom they enjoy today. Delivering the Independence day message at the AR Camp, Painavu after raising the tricolour on Sunday, he said that the secular and democratic principles of the country should be respected. The Minister said that the country was in a fight against COVID-19 and the State could ensure food security even during the lockdown and when the pandemic hit the nation. The district also gained in terms of farm production during the pandemic period. He said that the government aimed at increasing the production of cash crops and its marketing.  The function was held in a simple manner observing the COVID protocol. Dean Kuriakose, MP, District Collector Sheeba George, District Police Chief R. Karuppasamy among others attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duty-to-protect-freedom-roshy/article35932484.ece
16 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Probe into mixing of cannabinoids with toddy||A probe is being conducted into the mixing of cannabinoids with toddy supplied by some toddy shops under the Thodupuzha range. VA Salim, Idukki Excise Commissioner said that cannabinoids was mixed with toddy in the supplies coming from Palakkad daily and also in those produced locally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-mixing-of-cannabinoids-with-toddy/article35932482.ece
16 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad first to give first dose to all above 18||Wayanad has become the first district in the State to administer the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination to all above 18 years. The Wayanad district administration had organised a two-day mega vaccination drive for the purpose with the support of civic bodies, Tribal Development, Health, and Labour Departments, members of Kudumbashree Mission, and ASHA workers. Health Minister Veena George said 6,16,112 of the 6,51,967 targeted persons, above 18 years of age, were inoculated in the district. Persons who tested positive for the infection, those in quarantine, and persons who refused the vaccine were exempted from the drive, Ms. George said. As many as 2,13,311 persons were administered the second dose during the drive, the Minister said. Twenty-eight mobile teams were set up to administer vaccines to people even in the remote areas of the hill district. As many as 636 bedridden patients were administered vaccine at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-first-to-give-first-dose-to-all-above-18/article35932474.ece
16 August 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Rahul to inaugurate projects||Rahul Gandhi, MP, will visit Wayanad, his constituency, on Monday. Mr. Gandhi will unveil the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Park at Mananthavady at 1.15 p.m. He will inaugurate drinking water projects for tribespeople at Koovalthody tribal hamlet at Padinharethara and Kattunayakka tribal hamlet at Ponkuzhy on the Kerala-Karnataka border at 2.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. respectively. Mr. Gandhi will also inaugurate a dental unit at the Family Health Centre at Naikatty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-to-inaugurate-projects/article35932461.ece
16 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Strengthen secular, federal values: Minister||Minister for Local Self-Governments and Excise M.V. Govindan has said that secularism and federalism should be strengthened to preserve the integrity of the nation. He was speaking after hoisting the National Flag during Independence Day celebrations here. He said there were serious challenges to India’s unity, secularism, and democratic values, and that efforts were needed to make it a country of equality. “The independence we gained was the result of a multi-pronged struggle. The foundation of the freedom movement was the blood and sweat of millions of selfless people,” he added. Personnel of the police, excise, forest and jail departments and KAP 4th Battalion, Mangattuparambu, lined up for the parade. Mr. Govindan honoured Additional DCP Pratheesh Thottathil and Assistant Commissioner (Crime Branch) T.P. Premarajan who led COVID defence activities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strengthen-secular-federal-values-minister/article35932459.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to invoke MV Act to permit city entry of Goshree buses||Even as the State government is citing legal hurdles that have to be surmounted to permit entry of private buses from Goshree islands into the city, demand is rife that the government invoke Section 102 of the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act to overcome them. The Section empowers the State government to cancel or modify existing schemes that pertain to commuting modes, in public interest, said B.J. Antony, retired Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner, who served as Ernakulam RTO a few years ago. “Unnecessary delay in extending the services to city routes can thus be avoided, especially so since the Goshree bridges, which were built to enable seamless commute from the isles to the city, were commissioned over 15 years ago, and islanders must get optimal benefit from them,” he said. The Goshree Vikasana Samithi and many non-governmental organisations too have been raising similar demands during the past years, since thousands of islanders were forced to purchase private vehicles and commute to the city, since private buses were not permitted entry beyond High Court Junction. The demand that any further delay be avoided comes in the wake of the government stating that there were curbs on extending the operation of mofussil private buses like the ones from Goshree islands, that have to terminate trips at High Court Junction, into arterial roads such as Shanmugham Road, Banerjee Road, M.G. Road and S.A. Road. These are part of nationalised routes where only private city buses were given exemption to operate. Although KSRTC services from the isles can operate on city routes, the agency does not have adequate number of buses operating to the isles and further to North Paravur. Section 102 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, that pertains to special provisions relating to State transport undertakings, says that the State government could at any time in public interest modify any approved scheme after providing any State transport undertaking or any other entity which is likely to be affected by the proposed modification an opportunity of being heard. The proposed modification must be published in the Official Gazette and in a regional language daily. NATPAC study Meanwhile, the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) has embarked on a three-month-long study on the issue of permitting entry of private buses from Goshree islands into city routes, as requested by the Kerala Metropolitan Transport Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-invoke-mv-act-to-permit-city-entry-of-goshree-buses/article35932467.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||After HC stay, judicial panel waits for govt. response||The Justice V.K. Mohan Commission, which was constituted for probing the alleged conspiracy to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the gold smuggling case, is waiting for the State government to decide on its future course of action. The panel had suspended its activities after a single judge of the High Court stayed its activities on a writ petition filed by the Deputy Director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) last week. A political debate The decision to appoint the commission had triggered a political debate in the State with the Opposition parties and the BJP accusing the government of engaging in arm-twisting tactics against the ED, which was probing the sensitive case. The commission has not wound up its activities but suspended it following the interim order. It continues to exist since the court has not quashed the government order appointing it, sources said. The commission will not comment on the merit or demerit of the order as it is the government order that has been challenged and stayed by the court. It is up to the government to decide on what should be done. Meanwhile, legal sources suggested that the government could move the court, which stayed the functioning of the panel, to vacate the stay. If the single judge turns down the plea, it can appeal to the Division Bench, they said. Minister for Law and Industries P. Rajeeve said the government would decide on the issue after going through the order. Incidentally, the commission had appealed to the public and written to media houses, former and present legislators, Ministers, organisations of the lawyers, bar associations and Bar Council of Kerala seeking their statements and materials related to the aspects probed by the commission. It had also sought documents from media houses, including news clippings and CDs, on the news regarding the alleged conspiracy to implicate the Chief Minister and other persons in the case. Since these activities were initiated before the stay and it was time for the responses to come, the office would be kept open just to collect the response, if any, panel sources indicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-hc-stay-judicial-panel-waits-for-govt-response/article35932494.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BusinessLine Cerebration 2021 regional round held||After a gruelling four rounds of quizzing, Jameer K.B. of Q Collective Knowledge Solutions emerged as the winner of the Kochi regional round of the 18th edition of The Hindu-BusinessLine Cerebration 2021, one of India’s premier corporate quiz championships, winning 56 points. In the second place was Amrut Abraham from Federal Bank with 26 points, followed by Siddharth Rout from Kantar Analytics in third place with 25 points. The quiz is designed for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students, and MBA aspirants. The edition was held in virtual format. The preliminary online quizzing was held in Kochi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, and Delhi. Over 6,000 participants were there, from whom six each were selected from each of the six cities. The other contestants in the fray from Kochi were Anand Kumar from SAIL DSP; Adv. Jis John Sebastian and Sharat Chandar M. of Optisol Business Solutions. Some interesting questions answered by the participants included:  Q: After running it on the same technology for 51 years, the US Air Force decided to shift its Strategic Automated Command and Control System (SACCS) that is used to manage their nuclear arsenal to a highly secure solid state digital storage solution. What 8-inch solution were they using and what feature of it made it so impregnable?  A: Floppy disk. No IP address – so can’t be hacked.  Q: Doctors Amy O’Sullivan, Audrey Cruz, Chika Stacy Oriuwa, Jacqueline Goes de Jesus, Kirby Whitby, and Sarah Gilbert have all been honoured as ‘Role Models’, with the proceeds going to Prof. Gilbert’s chosen organisation Women in Science and Engineering. Which newly released range of a brand has honoured these pandemic heroes?  A: Barbie Raghuvir Srinivasan, Editor, BusinessLine , gave the welcome address along with Manjunathaswamy C.J., DGM and Regional Head, Ernakulam Region, Union Bank of India. The Quiz Master for the event was Ajay Poonia. The partners for The Hindu-BusinessLine Cerebration Quiz were: Title sponsor - Union Bank of India; powered by CFA Institute in association with ManageEngine. The Kochi regional round can be viewed at:https://bit.ly/BLCQ3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/businessline-cerebration-2021-regional-round-held/article35932465.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Row over police officers not attending I-Day function of Muvattupuzha municipality||The alleged non-participation of the police in the Independence Day function organised by the Muvattupuzha municipality on Sunday has ignited a controversy, with municipal chairman P.P. Eldhose saying that it was the first time in the civic body’s 66-year-old history that the police had kept away from the function. All other uniformed forces, including Excise Department, Motor Vehicles Department, Fire and Rescue Service, and even NCC cadets participated in the programme. “No police representative attended a meeting convened a week ago to discuss the modalities of the function. One of them turned up a day after that. I also apprised senior officials about the event,” said Mr. Eldhose. “But the police team did not attend the function. On being contacted, they said they had to attend the unfurling of the tricolour at their respective police stations and units. They could have arrived at least after that, when the function was on. I have informed the District Collector about the incident, while a complaint will be sent to the Chief Secretary,” he said. Programme at stations District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick said no one had contacted him so far on the issue. Police personnel had to attend the unfurling of the tricolour at their respective stations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-police-officers-not-attending-i-day-function-of-muvattupuzha-municipality/article35932463.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,161 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 2,161 people were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 on Sunday in Ernakulam district. A communication from the district health authorities said there was one case in which the infected person had come from outside the State while 2,150 were cases of local spread. There are seven cases in which the cause of infection is not known while three health workers are among those infected. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district was at 12.02% when 17,973 samples were tested. With 57 cases, Koovappady reported the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases, while Thrikkakara had 55 cases, Thripunithura 42, Kumbalanghi 36, Palluruthy 32, Maradu 31, Nedumbassery 28, Chellanam and Fort Kochi 23 cases each, Vyttila 16, Kaloor 15, Kumbalam and Thoppumpady 12 each and Vennala seven. Elamkulam, Aikaranad, Okkal, Thirumaradi, Mundamveli, Edakochi, Ayappankavu, Karuvelippadi, Chalikkavattam, Perumpadappu and Ponekkara are among the places where less than five cases were reported. A total of 1,885 people recovered on Sunday, while 3,756 came under observation in their own homes, and 107 were admitted to first-line treatment centres. As many as 176 people were discharged from hospitals and various treatment centres. There were 22,694 people under treatment in the district excluding the numbers reported on Sunday, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2161-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article35932471.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC for making footpaths accessible to pedestrians||The Kerala High Court has suggested making footpaths on city roads accessible to pedestrians through a campaign named Operation Footpath. Taking note of reports of Amicus Curiae Vinod Bhat and S. Krishna that footpaths on several city roads are inaccessible to pedestrians, forcing them to use the road which exposes them to accidents, Justice Devan Ramachandran wanted the Kochi Corporation and the State government to come up with proposals to address the issue. It was reported that pedestrian paths were either non-existent or incapable of being used by pedestrians for various reasons, including encroachment. Heaps of debris are dumped on footpaths on M.G. Road and Banerji Road at PNVM Junction. The condition of the footpath on Banerji Road is far from satisfactory, as the work carried out by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is long delayed, it was pointed out. The court noted that the standards fixed by the Indian Road Congress stipulated that every road must have a proper footpath to exacting specifications. However, policy-makers or competent authorities never focused on that aspect. As result, even when works are carried out on the road, the residual debris and even construction materials are dumped on footpaths, the court noted. The court felt that it could not leave the issue of proper pedestrian area, at least on major roads, to the agencies concerned to consider at leisure. The State government and the civic administration shall respond to the issue at the next posting of the case, the court directed. The counsel for the Corporation submitted to the court that emergent steps were being taken to address the issue. The court posted the case for September 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-for-making-footpaths-accessible-to-pedestrians/article35932469.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Anti-dowry campaign ends||The month-long anti-dowry campaign undertaken by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KELSA) concluded in the city on Sunday. Chief Justice S. Manikumar inaugurated the valedictory session and released the newsletter “Neethidhara” and the digital advertisement prepared by the authority. C.T. Ravikumar, judge, Kerala High Court; K.T. Nisar Ahammed, Member Secretary KELSA; Johnny Sebastian, director, Kerala State Mediation and Conciliation Centre; K. Gopalakrishna Kurup, Advocate General, and Thomas Abraham, president, Kerala High Court Advocates Association, attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-dowry-campaign-ends/article35932470.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two oxygen plants for Lakshadweep||The Lakshadweep administration on Sunday commissioned two oxygen plants on Kavaratti and Agatti islands as part of the Independence Day celebrations. A communication from the district administration said with this, there would be three oxygen plants on Lakshadweep islands. A plant was commissioned on Minicoy island in June. Until now, for medical oxygen supply, oxygen cylinders and concentrators were used and they needed to be taken to Kerala for refilling, which became a difficult task, especially during monsoon. The new oxygen plants are of 200 LPM capacity each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-oxygen-plants-for-lakshadweep/article35932495.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi Refinery gearing up for COVID third wave||The Kochi Refinery of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) will be able to bring out 32 oxygen cylinders an hour to meet any emergency that may arise from a possible third wave of COVID-19, refinery executive director Sanjay Khanna has said. He said the refinery’s oxygen production capacity would be utilised to meet any situation that the health sector would face if there was a third COVID wave. Mr. Khanna was speaking to reporters at a meet-the-press programme organised by the Ernakulam Press Club here on Sunday. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, who participated in the programme, said the State’s response to the second wave of the pandemic had taken all sections of society into consideration. He added that the government had constituted a committee to come up with a study on the Amballur Electronics Park. Digital mapping of the area would be done to ensure that there was no violation of environmental laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-refinery-gearing-up-for-covid-third-wave/article35932468.ece
16 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,093 test positive in Kollam district||The district reported 1,093 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,614 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,084 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include two NRIs, one person from another State and six health workers. At present the district has 28,618 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 20,95,213. While 2,229 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 3,23,785 primary and 19,341 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha The district logged 941 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 14.24%. Of the fresh cases, 922 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 18 others remains unidentified. One health staff was also tested positive. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 929 people testing positive of the disease on Sunday Of the fresh cases, 921 people including four health workers contracted the disease through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 12.26%. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 517 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 513 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of five cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 11.6%. ( With contribution from bureaus in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1093-test-positive-in-kollam-district/article35932488.ece
16 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KMML farms yield bountiful harvest||The vegetable farms of Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) has once again yielded a bountiful harvest. Cultivated as part of State government’s ‘Onathinu Oru Muram Pachakkari’ project, the vegetables along with ‘onapudavas’ were distributed among 17 underprivileged families from Chavara panchayat. Green chilly, string beans, okra, eggplant, yam, snake gourd, bitter gourd, cucumber, pumpkin, ash gourd and banana were among the crops that were harvested. KMML managing director J.Chandrabose inaugurated the harvest and farmers from KMML, Balakrishnan and Prashanthan, were honoured on the occasion. “We are happy to successfully implement this project launched by the State government to achieve self-sufficiency in food production. We are planning to expand farming to more areas,” he said. KMML general manager V.Ajayakrishnan, agriculture nodal officer A.M.Siyad, PRO P.K.Shabir and trade union representatives were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmml-farms-yield-bountiful-harvest/article35932485.ece
16 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Courses||Centre for Continuing Education, Government Polytechnic College, Ezhukone, has invited application for various vocational courses. AutoCAD, Aluminium Fabrication, Mobile Phone Technology and Beautician are the courses offered. For more details contact 9496846522.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/courses/article35932473.ece
16 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Resist fascist forces: Vasavan||Minister for Cooperation V. N. Vasavann hoisted the national flag during the Independence Day celebrations at the District headquarters here on Sunday. Delivering the Independence day message, Mr.Vasavan urged the people to fight the fascist forces who posed a threat to the Constitution of India. The Minister also inspected the Guard of honour and received salute during the ceremonial parade. Platoons of the Kerala State Police, Kerala Excise and the Kerala Forest Departments marched during the parade. Representatives of the health workers engaged in COVID-19 containment activities were also part of the ceremony. District Collector P.K. Jayasree and District Police Chief D.Shilpa were also present at the function Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, Health Minister Veena George hoisted the national flag and gave the Independence day message. District Collector Divya S. Iyer and District Police Chief R.Nishanthini were also present. As many as three platoons of the Kerala State Police including the Kerala Women Police and one platoons each of Excise and the Forest Departments marched during the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resist-fascist-forces-vasavan/article35932490.ece
16 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode’s hygiene protocol takes shape||Reducing the use of plastic and making waste collection and processing network stronger will be the foundation of the hygiene protocol of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation that will be implemented by the end of September. Hygiea- 21, a two-day seminar organised by the corporation on Friday and Saturday, aimed at streamlining the draft protocol, was attended by experts from different sectors. Rules that need to be implemented while constructing a building to ensure hygiene in the area were discussed. These included encouraging eco-friendly designs, suitable designing for flood-prone areas, ensuring that every household is registered with the Haritha Karma Sena, making soak pits mandatory and ensuring proper construction of septic tanks. Sanitary napkins Considering the threat posed by sanitary napkins that cannot be recycled, the seminar suggested that the corporation encourage women to use menstrual cups in place of sanitary napkins. Using construction waste for coastal area protection was another suggestion put forward at the seminar. Cleaning of bus stands on the lines of airports and inclusion of waste management culture in school syllabus were also discussed. Protection of water resources, planting more saplings, and encouraging electric vehicles were suggested to reduce carbon footprint. Toilet-linked biogas plants and bunds in rivers were suggested to ensure cleanliness of water sources. There were also suggestions related to management of slaughter houses. Linking all establishments that produce liquid waste to the sewerage system, encouraging ‘carry a bag’ tradition in place of ‘carry bags’, increasing the number of plastic recycling units and regularising standards of street food outlets were also suggested. MPs and MLAs from the district were present during the valedictory event of the seminar in which, S. Jayasree, Health Standing Committee chairperson of the corporation, explained the action plan for the implementation of the protocol. A technical advisory committee will be formed in September, besides ward-level and corporation-level monitoring committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikodes-hygiene-protocol-takes-shape/article35932453.ece
16 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A dozen health workers attend I-Day event as special guests||The presence of 12 select health workers was one of the highlights of this year’s Independence Day celebrations in Kozhikode district on Sunday. The event was held in line with the pandemic protocol at the Vikram Maidan, and entry was restricted to 100 people. The health workers chosen as special guests included V.R. Rajendran, Principal, and M.P. Sreejayan, Superintendent, Government Medical College, and C. Raveendran, Senior Consultant, Government General Hospital. Opening the celebrations, Minister for Forests A.K. Saseendran said that society should strive to eliminate blind practices along with attempts to bring about equality. He said that the best tribute to be paid to those numerous freedom fighters would be people’s efforts to enforce equality and freedom as enshrined in the Constitution. “Many of our sisters are found to be tortured in the name of dowry. Our government has taken strict measures against such tendencies, and we need to create more awareness in society. We need to see our sisters with a sense of equality and stop the practice of dowry,” Mr. Saseendran said. Pointing out that it was responsibility of the citizens to improve health infrastructure in the time of COVID-19, the Minister said large-scale celebratory events to mark Independence Day might be avoided. The Minister also spoke about the role of Kozhikode in the freedom movement. He later received the guard of honour by service personnel. Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip, M.K. Raghvan, MP and MLAs from the district and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-dozen-health-workers-attend-i-day-event-as-special-guests/article35932457.ece
16 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Janasouhruda Kendrams to be opened in corporation||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas inaugurated the ward-level Janasouhruda Kendrams (public-friendly service centres) of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation on Sunday. The first-of-its kind initiative in the State was launched by the Minister by accepting tax from a citizen on behalf of the corporation. Mayor Beena Philip presided over the event. Janasouhruda Kendrams are an initiative of the revenue wing of the corporation to make services easier for the public. The centres will be set up at a suitable place in every ward and will be functional once a week. They will provide services such as allotting new building numbers to those already paying taxes and imposing property tax based on the revised scheme. They will process applications for occupancy certificates, ownership certificates, age certificates of buildings, and pension. The centres will accept property and labour taxes. They will also accept complaints regarding the health wing. Applications for various services of the corporation will be available at the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/janasouhruda-kendrams-to-be-opened-in-corporation/article35932455.ece
16 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.4 cr. seized||The Air Intelligence Unit of the Customs on Sunday seized around 5 kg of gold valued at Rs. 2.4 crore from four passengers at the Calicut International Airport. Officials said 3.36 kg of gold compound was recovered from a passenger from Malappuram, who had arrived from Sharjah. The contraband was concealed in his rectum as well as wrapped around legs. The seizure was effected based on information received from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, T.A. Kiran, Deputy Commissioner, Customs, said. In another incident, officials seized 501 grams of gold compound from a passenger hailing from Kozhikode, who also arrived from Sharjah. The compound was hidden in his rectum. Both were travelling in the Air Arabia flight, he said. Over a kilogram of gold compound was seized from a Kasaragod native who arrived by the Air India Express flight from Sharjah. He too had concealed gold in his rectum. Another passenger from Malappuram travelling in the same flight was also in possession of gold weighing 854 grams hidden in the rectum, officials said. In total, Mr. Kiran said 5.78 kg of gold compound was recovered from four passengers. After extraction, 5.006 kg of 24-karat gold was obtained, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-24-cr-seized/article35932452.ece
16 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily TPR remains close to 20%||Daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 remains close to 20% in Kozhikode district even as 2,368 people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. According to the District Medical Officer, 2,330 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission of the infection while the source of 31 others was not known. The daily TPR is 19.21% when 12,533 samples were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-remains-close-to-20/article35932458.ece
16 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Another row brews in Muslim League||Even before a storm stirred up by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s son Syed Mueenali Shihab completely died down, yet another controversy has erupted in the party. Haritha, the women’s wing of Muslim Students’ Federation (MSF), the party’s student body, has complained to the State Women’s Commission against MSF State president P.K. Navas and Malappuram district general secretary V.A. Wahab for allegedly making indecent and sexually vulgar remarks. ‘Anti-women stand’ The complaint, signed by 10 leaders of Haritha, mentioned the ‘oppressive anti-women stand’ of the MSF leaders, particularly pinpointing Mr. Navas and Mr. Wahab for the ‘vulgar remarks’ they made during a State-level meeting held at the MSF office in Kozhikode on June 22. Haritha leaders had complained to the IUML leadership about the insulting remarks and the neglect they faced within the student body. Although the party leadership spoke to the Haritha leaders, no action was taken against the MSF leaders. Haritha leaders said that they approached the State Women’s Commission on Thursday after the party ignored their appeals. The commission said they would look into the matter seriously. Navas’ stance Mr. Navas, meanwhile, stuck to his guns and said in a Facebook post that he was being attacked for no fault of his. The opinion within the IUML is largely against the Haritha leadership for bringing shame to the party by taking the issue to the State Women’s Commission. However, the party leadership was mum when confronted with the question whether it had addressed the issue when the ball was in its court. Muslim Youth League State president Syed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal spoke to the Haritha leadership on Saturday and tried to assuage their feelings. The IUML leadership held a brief meeting at Panakkad on Thursday and discussed the matter. The firefighting is likely to continue in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-row-brews-in-muslim-league/article35932451.ece
16 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||College launches 75 schemes||Amal College of Advanced Studies, Nilambur, celebrated the 75th Independence Day by launching 75 development schemes. They will be implemented within a year. The schemes will include national seminars, faculty development programmes, yoga training, entrepreneurship development training, women empowerment programmes, film festival, pain and palliative care training, disaster management training, debates, short films, administration training, and skill development training. G. Gopakumar, former Vice Chancellor, Central University of Kerala, inaugurated the schemes. P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, was the chief guest. Principal T.V. Sakaria presided over the function. Faculty members N. Shihabuddin, Abbas Vattoli, T. Shameer Babu, Hafees V. Kamal, and Muneer Agragami spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-launches-75-schemes/article35932460.ece
16 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Milk testing lab at Walayar checkpost||The Department of Dairy Development opened a milk testing laboratory at the Walayar checkpost ahead of the Onam celebrations. A. Prabhakaran, MLA, inaugurated the laboratory on Sunday. Dairy Development Department Deputy Director J.S. Jayasujeesh presided over the function. Dairy development officer M.S. Afsa welcomed the gathering. Quality control officer Binsy Mani explained the working of the laboratory. Assistant director N. Bindu proposed a vote of thanks. The temporary milk testing laboratory was set up to prevent the inflow of substandard milk from other States into Kerala during the festival season. At Meenakshipuram Although there is a permanent milk checkpost at Meenakshipuram, which works round the clock, the Walayar laboratory will add to the surveillance during Onam. The laboratory will make sure that the milk reaching the State has fat and other ingredients specified by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI).  Contents The laboratory will also check the milk for the presence of elements such as formalin, maltodextrin, urea, hydrogen peroxide, neutralizer, starch and sugar. The Dairy Development Department will report to the Food Safety Department if any adulteration is found in the milk. Employees from other districts have been deputed at the check-posts in view of the increased flow of milk during the festival season.  Temporary lab to prevent inflow of substandard milk from other States into Kerala during festival season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milk-testing-lab-at-walayar-checkpost/article35932595.ece
16 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Woman, son drown in Bharathapuzha||A woman and her 12-year-old son drowned in the Bharathapuzha at Koottakkadavu, near Thrithala, on Sunday afternoon. Baby Femina, 37, drowned while trying to save her son Shareef, 12. The incident took place near their house while the mother and son were bathing in the river. Shareef slipped and fell into the river and was caught in a strong current. Femina jumped into the river to save him. The bodies were fished out by the local people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-son-drown-in-bharathapuzha/article35932594.ece
16 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Year-long programme to aid students||Mercy College, Palakkad, and Rotary Club of Palakkad Fort on Sunday launched a year-long community service project titled Helping Hands. Apart from distribution of grocery kits and educational aid to students, awareness programmes on various issues will also be conducted as part of it. Mercy College Principal Sr. Gisala George inaugurated the programme by distributing grocery and medical kits. Santhosh Kumar P., president of Rotary Club of Palakkad Fort, presided. Head of the college’s mathematics department Sr. Nirmal and Rotary secretary Ravi Natarajan spoke at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/year-long-programme-to-aid-students/article35932593.ece
16 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tribesman stoned to death by relative||A tribesman was stoned to death during a quarrel with his relative at Attappady on Sunday evening. The dead has been identified as Nagan, 60, son of Nanjan from Parappanthara. He was killed after he was stoned by his sister’s husband Vellingiri. Altercation Both Nagan and Vellingiri were engaged in a verbal duel over the ownership of a piece of land. Vellingiri threw a large stone at Nagan during the altercation. Vellingiri has also been admitted to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribesman-stoned-to-death-by-relative/article35932596.ece
16 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta vaccinates all above 60||In a significant milestone, Pathanamthitta has achieved the goal of administering COVID -19 vaccine to all eligible persons aged over 60 in the district. According to A.L. Sheeja, District Medical Officer, as many as 2,98,801 people all of whom are aged over 60, have been administered the vaccine so far. As many as 421 people could not receive the vaccine due to allergy while 4,632 others are yet to complete the mandatory 3 months after testing positive for the virus. As many as 2,871 people have refused to take the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-vaccinates-all-above-60/article35932491.ece
16 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala temple opens for Niraputhari||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala opened here on Sunday on the eve of the annual Niraputhari celebrations. Under the guidance of Tantri Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu, Melsanthi V.K. Jayaraj Potti opened the sanctum sanctorum of the temple at 5 p.m. This was followed by the opening of the various Upadevatha temples and the lighting of the ‘aazhi’ near the 18 holy steps. The temple will open for the Niraputhari ritual at 4 a.m. on Monday. The Niraputhari puja will be held between 5.55 a.m. and 6.20 a.m. following which the paddy spikes will be distributed to the devotees. Pilgrims will be permitted entry to the temple from August 16 morning. Only 15,000 devotees who have booked slots through the virtual queue will be allowed darshan daily. Only those producing COVID-19-negative certificates after undergoing the RT-PCR test within 48 hours or those who have completed two shots of vaccine will be allowed entry. The devotees will be offered feast during Onam days and the shrine will close after completion of the monthly pujas by August 23 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-temple-opens-for-niraputhari/article35932496.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DCC chiefs’ nomination hits roadblock||A solution to end factionalism in selecting District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents appeared to elude the Congress State unit. Internal divisions seemed alive and well within the party in Kerala. Both the powerful ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups signalled their resentment at being allegedly kept out of the loop by the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership. The groups felt threatened by KPCC president K. Sudhakaran’s averment that they were a historical irrelevance. The factions perceived a campaign to purge the party of their supporters and supplant them with adherents of an emergent power centre: one allegedly controlled by the ‘new triumvirate’ of All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, and Mr. Sudhakaran. ‘A’ group leader Oommen Chandy and ‘I’ group headman Ramesh Chennithala have informed the AICC that the list of DCC presidents submitted to the high command by Mr. Sudhakaran in their absence in New Delhi did not have their approval. The leaders reportedly felt passed over and kept in the dark. Former KPCC presidents Mullappally Ramachandran and V.M. Sudheeran also accused Mr. Sudhakaran of keeping them in the dark about the nomination process. Mr. Sudheeran said in an FB post that KPCC rarely invited him to leadership meetings. Mr. Sudhakaran called on Mr. Sudheeran at the latter's home on Sunday. Unlikely to relent Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is in Kerala on Monday to tour the Wayanad constituency. Group leaders are likely to sound him of their grievance. However, a party insider said the AICC seemed least inclined to expend political energy resolving the seemingly irreconcilable factionalism in the KPCC. It also felt the current bout of infighting had brought cheer to the LDF. The AICC had also noted that factionalism had caused the embarrassing debacle in the 2021 Assembly polls. The high command is unlikely to bow to factional demands. But it might make some accommodations on the list. It has reportedly tasked Mr. Sudhakaran to restore equilibrium.  Group leaders likely to air their woes to Rahul Gandhi, who is slated to be in Wayanad today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-chiefs-nomination-hits-roadblock/article35932499.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Building permit: online process almost ready||The pilot run of the Intelligent Building Plan Management System (IBPMS) for the online application and processing of building permits in the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation is almost complete with more than 300 applications submitted through the system in the past couple of weeks. The civic body is making use of an online automated system for building applications after a gap of two years, as it had shifted back to manual processing in 2019, due to glitches in the system. The pilot run is now being conducted here along with seven other local bodies across the States, with applications now being accepted only for low-risk, single occupancy buildings of up to 300 metre square. According to officials here, the system is being implemented in a phased manner, with building permits for all types of occupancies being accepted through the system by October or November. An online system for building permit applications has been in the works for many years, but it had failed to take off during previous launches. After the previous launch in 2019, as many as 1,000 building permit applications remained pending in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation as many drawings were rejected even for small errors. The drawings were accepted by the automated system, only if all these errors were rectified. Back then, the Corporation had, before and after the introduction of the software, conducted several training sessions for building designers and officials here. But, even then, the implementation was far from smooth. The local body even had to open help desks for those who are facing issues with building permit applications in the IBPMS software, following an uproar on the pending applications. Resistance In the past, there has been some level of resistance to the implementation from licensed designers and contractors, as it became harder to manipulate the system to get files passed with a drawing of their choice. It remains to be seen whether the entire process of building permit application will shift to an automated online system finally, after many false starts.  An online system for building permit applications has been in the works for many years, but it failed to take off earlier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/building-permit-online-process-almost-ready/article35932646.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Armed forces celebrate ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’||The armed forces celebrated ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate 75 years of Independence with various events on Saturday. A felicitation ceremony was organised under the aegis of the Pangode military station at Raj Bhavan. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan felicitated the following gallantry medal winners and ‘Veer Naris’ (women relatives of the war heroes): Ashok Chakra winner former Havildar Alby D’Cruz; V. Chellathai, mother of the late Captain Jerry Premraj (Vir Chakra); K Sudha, wife of the late Naik S. Jayaprakash (Vir Chakra); Geetha Gopakumar, wife of the late Major Gopakumar Raman Pillai (Vir Chakra); Priyanka Nair, wife of the late Lieutenant Colonel S. Anand (Shaurya Chakra); and Honourary Lieutenant K. Krishna Kumar, a recipient of the Sena Medal. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Khan said the armed forces defended India’s territorial integrity and displayed tremendous devotion and sacrifice while doing so. In the morning, a boat race was organised by the Madras Regiment of the Indian Army with 75 soldiers, and a formation of the numerical figure ‘75’ with fishing boats, on Akkulam Lake. Brigadier Kartik Seshadri, Station Commander, Pangode Military Station, inaugurated the event. Ceremonial guard Commandant G. Sreekumar, Station Commander, Indian Coast Guard Station, Vizhinjam, reviewed a ceremonial guard at the station. A team from the station hoisted the national flag off the Kovalam coast as part of a pan-India flag hoisting drive launched by the Coast Guard. Indian Coast Guard ships stationed at Kollam and Vizhinjam also hoisted the national flag. Various events were held by different National Cadet Corps (NCC) units under the NCC Directorate (Kerala and Lakshadweep) across the State and Lakshadweep. These included homage to freedom fighter and martyrs, freedom run, cleaning drive, webinar on importance of national integration in nation building, national-level quiz, felicitation of veteran gallantry awardees/dependents, patriotic dance competition, blood donation camp, and other contests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/armed-forces-celebrate-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav/article35932641.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SIEMAT programme launch tomorrow||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will on Tuesday inaugurate academic programmes drawn up by the State Institute of Educational Management and Training-Kerala (SIEMAT-Kerala) for implementation this academic year. National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA) vice chancellor N.V. Varghese will be the chief guest at the online function, to be held at 11 a.m. General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish will preside over the function. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. will be present. Lecture series The inaugural will be followed by the second lecture in a series organised using NIEPA funds by the School Leadership Academy-Kerala that functions under the SIEMAT. Mohandas B. Menon, former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling and former chief and director of the UNRWA-UNESCO Education Programme, will speak on ‘Digital learning in school education–the way forward’. Heads of various departments, education officials, heads of school, teacher training college principals, teachers, students, and researchers, will participate in the function. Live streaming The programme will be streamed live on the YouTube channel of the School Leadership Academy–Kerala (https: //www.youtube.com/ watch?v=fz-gttoJ8hs) SIEMAT-Kerala, which conducts capacity and leadership enhancement programmes, has planned a five-day COVID education management training for education officials such as deputy directors of education, district and assistant education officers and so on this year. A foundation-level online training for heads of schools and advanced training for various segments will also be held. The School Leadership Academy-Kerala gives away school leadership model awards, conducts a certificate programme in functional school leadership, a YouTube channel, and documentation of novel activities and initiatives in education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/siemat-programme-launch-tomorrow/article35932604.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Celebrations across the State by CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan hoisted the national flag in front of AKG Centre, the party headquarters, on Sunday. The party celebrated Independence-Day on a grand scale with district secretaries across the State unfurling the flag in front of their respective headquarters. The CPI(M) polit bureau had urged party units to celebrate the day with vigour to highlight the contribution of communist leaders to the freedom struggle. It also sought to counter propaganda and cast the freedom movement in the correct historical perspective. BJP State president K. Surendran raised the national flag in front of the party’s State headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram. However, he appeared shocked that the flag had unfurled upside down. Soon, BJP activists brought the national flag down and rectified its alignment. The CPI(M), which zealously observed Independence Day, was not above criticism. Congress leader K.S. Sabarinadhan said Mr. Vijayaraghavan had violated the flag code. He pointed out that the party flag and the national flag flew at the same height in front of the AKG Centre. The flag code insisted that no flag fly above the national tricolour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrations-across-the-state-by-cpim/article35932501.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||927 fresh cases, 1,174 recover||The capital district’s COVID-19 active caseload continued its slide to reach 9,521 on Sunday when 1,174 people recovered from the illness. As many as 927 fresh cases were also reported during the last 24 hours. A test positivity rate of 8.13% was recorded when 11,393 people were subjected to testing. Among the fresh cases, 894 have been attributed to local transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Two health care workers were among those who were diagnosed with the disease. The Malayinkeezhu taluk headquarters hospital courted controversy after a young woman was administered two doses of Covishield in quick succession at the hospital in Maniyaravila on Sunday. The 25-year-old woman, from Anthiyookonam, had gone to the hospital after receiving a token. While she received the first jab without much delay, she soon received a second one while she waited at the immunisation area. The woman later developed uneasiness. Hospital superintendent Sheeja claimed two nurses had administered the vaccine and that the woman had said she had not received the vaccine. She brought this into attention only later. However, her relatives accused the hospital of distorting facts. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu sought a report from the hospital authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/927-fresh-cases-1174-recover/article35932645.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||18,582 new cases in State||Kerala registered 18,582 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,22,970 samples were tested over 24 hours. With the number of tests dropping significantly, the test positivity rate went up to 15.11% on Sunday, from 13.97% of the previous day. ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients spiked from 2,032 on Saturday to 2,100 on Sunday, while the number of those requiring ventilator support jumped from 785 to 829. The State’s active case pool had 1,78,630 patients, with 20,089 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 18,601 with the State adding 102 recent deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Sunday. Most in Malappuram Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,681 cases, Thrissur 2,423, Kozhikode 2,368, Ernakulam 2,161, Palakkad 1,771, Kannur 1,257, Kollam 1,093, Alappuzha 941, Kottayam 929, Thiruvananthapuram 927, Idukki 598, Pathanamthitta 517, Wayanad 497, and Kasaragod 419 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18582-new-cases-in-state/article35932498.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health workers attacked in Attingal||In yet another incident of health workers coming under attack, a doctor and a nurse were attacked by miscreants at a private hospital in Attingal late Saturday. The incident occurred at the Sree Gokulam Medical Centre in Attingal around 12 a.m. when the accused duo, Shebin and Anas, from Attingal, sought treatment for the former for a hand injury. The doctor Jaya Shalini, in casualty duty, said the injured person refused the cooperate when she asked him to remove his footwear before entering the procedure room and to lie on a bed to examine and dress his wound. The instruction apparently riled him and prompted him to hurl vulgar abuses at the doctor. While he then threw his slipper towards the doctor, it landed on Manju, a nurse who was assisting the doctor. The duo were soon removed from the premises. However, they managed to flee from the hospital. Soon, the doctor submitted a formal complaint to the Attingal police. The perpetrators were caught during the early hours on Sunday. The incident comes after attacks on doctors at the Parassala taluk hospital and Fort taluk hospital. Reacting to the incident, Health Minister Veena George said that the guilty would be soon brought to book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-workers-attacked-in-attingal/article35932643.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||24,16,706 vaccinated in a week||As part of the intensive COVID-19 vaccination campaign launched in the State since August 9, Kerala has administered the vaccine to 24,16,706 persons in a week (Monday to Sunday), an official statement has said. Though the pace of vaccination had been slow in the initial three days because of vaccine scarcity, with more vaccine stock reaching the State, vaccination picked up pace afterwards, the State managing to administer 5.2-5.6 lakh doses in the last two days. On Sunday, 3,24,954 persons received the vaccine, with 2,95,294 persons receiving the first dose and 29,660 receiving the second dose. Till date, Kerala has administered vaccine to 2,42,66,857 persons, of whom, 1,75,79,206 have received the first dose while 66,87,651 have received both doses. The State received 5 lakh additional doses of Covishield vaccine on Sunday in Ernakulam, which is being reached to other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2416706-vaccinated-in-a-week/article35932603.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held on murder charge||A youth was arrested by the Maranalloor police for allegedly murdering his friends on Saturday midnight. The police identified the accused as Arun Raj alias Prakash, 30, of Maranalloor, near Malayinkeezhu. He has been accused of bludgeoning Santhosh alias Chapathi Santhosh, 40, and Sajeesh alias Pakru, 36, from the same locality. The alleged incident occurred outside Santhosh’s house around 12.30 a.m. when the trio were at a party after consuming liquor. The accused killed the others with a jack lever following a quarrel. The trio were known to have criminal backgrounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-murder-charge/article35932642.ece
16 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thwart bid to weaken secular values: Minister||Efforts to undermine the secular values of the country will not be tolerated, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. He was addressing the Independence Day parade at Thekkinkadu Maidan here on Sunday. “We carry our nationality in our blood. There are efforts to rewrite the history of the country in the name of religious nationalism and oneness.” The State government was continuing its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Restrictions and vaccination were the tools against the spread of the disease. They were necessary for checking a spurt in cases. Many people were bearing the brunt of these restrictions. The government needed the unconditional support of the people, the Minister said. He recalled the relentless service of health workers, police, voluntary organisations and ambulance drivers during the pandemic period. Sports persons lauded The Minister congratulated all sports persons who made the country proud at the Olympics and Commonwealth games. The Independence Day celebrations were held adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. Four platoons took part in the parade. Music teachers of various schools presented patriotic songs. District Collector Haritha V. Kumar, Superintendent of Police (Rural) P.G. Poonkuzhali and City Police Commissioner R. Aditya attended the programme. P. Balachandran, MLA, and Mayor M.K. Varghese and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thwart-bid-to-weaken-secular-values-minister/article35932599.ece
16 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||I-T dept. honours COVID warriors||COVID-19 front-line workers Dr. Aparna C.S., staff nurse Shini Jose and National Health Mission (NHM) coordinator Anoop Poulose were felicitated by the Income Tax (I-T) Department here on Sunday as part of the Independence Day celebrations organised by the department. Income Tax Principal Commissioner Seema Raj hoisted the national flag and felicitated the heath workers. Income Tax officer Bindhu Jayarajan led the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/i-t-dept-honours-covid-warriors/article35932592.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remain faithful to ideals of founding fathers: CM||The greatest challenge faced in environmental conservation is carbon emission from industries and motor vehicles. Considering the various hazards including climate change and pollution, the State government has focused its efforts on achieving carbon neutrality. Priority was being ensured to protect the nature even while undertaking developmental initiatives, Mr. Vijayan said. Public participation Pointing out that the platinum jubilee of the country’s independence coincided with the 25th anniversary of the People’s Plan campaign in the State, the Chief Minister said Kerala has succeeded to a great extent in ensuring public participation in governance. Renewed efforts were being made to make decentralisation more effective. Mr. Vijayan inspected the guard of honour and received salute during the ceremonial parade held on the occasion. Anand R., Commandant of the Kerala Armed Police (KAP) II Battalion, was the parade commander, while Aji Charles, Assistant Commandant of the Special Armed Police, Thiruvananthapuram, was the second-in-charge. Flowers were showered on the parade by an Indian Air Force helicopter when the Chief Minister unfurled the national flag. After delivering his address, Mr. Vijayan briefly interacted with some of the COVID-19 front line warriors who were invited to the event. Platoons of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), KAP I Battalion, KAP III Battalion, Kerala Women Commandos, Thiruvananthapuram City Police, National Cadets Corps (NCC) Senior Division Army (boys) and Senior Wing Army (girls) marched during the parade. The bands of the Special Armed Police and KAP V Battalion were also part of the ceremony. General Education and Labour Minister V. Sivankutty, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Transport Minister Antony Raju, Thiruvananthapuram Mayor Arya Rajendran, District Panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar, District Collector Navjot Khosa, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remain-faithful-to-ideals-of-founding-fathers-cm/article35932503.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raising a demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raising-a-demand/article35932648.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gratitude for good yield||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gratitude-for-good-yield/article35932601.ece
16 August 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||We won’t back off from Mekedatu: Bommai||Saying that the BJP government in the State would not back out of the Mekedatu drinking water project across the river Cauvery, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that Karnataka would implement the project despite opposition from neighbouring States. “The State government is awaiting the approval of the Centre for the Detailed Project Report on the Mekedatu drinking water project to utilise the additional water allocated by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and Supreme Court,” he said in his Independence Day address after hoisting the tri-colour in Bengaluru. “We will implement the Mekedatu project despite opposition from the neighbouring States. Our government will not back off from this project, which is necessary for drinking water and power generation.” The State has resolved to make efficient use of river water allocated to Karnataka by faster implementation of irrigation projects, he added. The Chief Minister, however, said the State was committed to having a cordial relationship with neighbouring States under the federal system, based on the aspirations of the Constitution. Mr. Bommai said, “Our commitment to the protection of land, water, language, and culture of our State is unquestionable. We will take all possible measures under the law of the land to use our rightful share of water.” He added that the government was capable of protecting Kannada, Kannadigas, and the pride of Karnataka. He also warned that there would be no compromise when it came to taking stern action against anti-social elements that disturb peace in society. The Chief Minister also lauded the initiative of several engineering colleges to teach Kannada. He added, “It is indeed an optimistic development to see investors showing interest to invest in the State despite the COVID-19 pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-wont-back-off-from-mekedatu-project-cm/article35931947.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka to launch 13 Amrit schemes||To commemorate the platinum jubilee of Indian Independence, the State government will launch a slew of special programmes in rural and urban development, health, sports, farming, and social sectors, estimated to cost the exchequer over Rs. 720 crore. Announcing this in his Independence Day address, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai listed 13 special ‘Amrith’ (platinum jubilee) programmes to be taken up to mark the occasion and remarked that the “building of Nava (new) Karnataka” hadcommenced. Mr. Bommai, who outlined the measures initiated in the State, said that the prosperity of the entire State was the priority of the government. “The growth of only Bengaluru is not enough. The tier II cities too have to grow and the pace of growth seen in Bengaluru should resonate in district centres too. Regional imbalance should diminish. Therefore, the government will focus on not only mega projects, but also mini-projects.” Acknowledging that he had a short tenure of 20 months as Chief Minister before the next elections,Mr. Bommai said that both long-term and short-term plans would be set and development would centre around people. “Development is not only about figures. Every person’s life should improve. In this regard, the Sakala programme will be strengthened,” he said.  Announced Among the 13 special programmes announced on Sunday were Amrith gram panchayat, Amrith rural housing scheme, Amrith farmer producer organisations, Amrith Nirmala Nagara, Amrith school infrastructure programme, Amrith anganwadi centres, Amrith self-help micro enterprises, Amrith community development programme, Amrith health infrastructure upgrade programme, Amrith skill training programme, Amrith startup programme, and Amrith sports adoption programme. Besides, the State will take up Amrith Mahotsava Nagorothana as part of the third phase of the Chief Minister’s Navanagarothana project in the future. “We aim to upgrade and efficiently maintain the urban infrastructure in accordance with the increasing population, and measures are being taken for efficient and scientific solid waste management. Priority is given to providing world-class amenities in Bengaluru and making people’s lives better,” the CM said.This year, he said that the State aims to provide 25 lakh functional household tap connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission. In all, there are 91 lakh rural households in Karnataka. “The government will identify beneficiaries under social security schemes without waiting for applications and steps have been taken to cancel the pension benefits of ineligible persons,” Mr. Bommai said. The separate secretariat for Scheduled Tribes Welfare would benefit 50 lakh people, he added. On the steps taken so far, the Chief Minister said that more than Rs. 13,000 crore has been transferred to the beneficiaries of various schemes during the last two years. The government has spent Rs. 7,422 crore for upgrading healthcare infrastructure and providing relief tothose in distress during the COVID-19 pandemic. So far, he said that Rs. 10,812 crore assistance from the State and Union governments has been provided to farmers under the State’s annual financial assistance and PM-KISAN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-to-launch-13-amrit-schemes/article35931945.ece
16 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Digitised land records being checked for errors||The Revenue Department has started a massive exercise to correct errors in the digitised land records. The exercise comes after landowners have said they have been made to run from pillar to post — and pay bribes in some cases — to get their records corrected in the digitised pattas. The task is particularly huge in Chennai and its neighbouring districts. A senior official of the Revenue Department said directions were issued for a mass correction of spelling errors and factual mistakes. The records, which were digitised a few years ago, were found to have spelling mistakes, changes in the names and wrong street numbers. The official said that since the process of correction was complicated, the Revenue Divisional Officers (RDOs) were asked to call a meeting of the Tahsildars (three to four Tahsildars come under one RDO). The RDOs and the Tahsildars would sit down and verify the entries, irrespective of the complaints. The process started this month, but no time frame was set for its completion. The official said the number of complaints about mistakes was high in Chennai and in the neighbouring districts of Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, as sale transactions were more in these districts. In villages and other parts of the State, the sale of land and subdivided property was few, and so the errors were fewer. Irrespective of the number of complaints, the Department would check each digitised record against the document copies and correct the errors. The Department had also begun automatic name transfer of pattas after the sale deeds were executed in the Department of Registration. The automatic name transfer was launched in February this year by linking the land records with the Department of Registration. Buyers have been facing hardships to get the name transfer once the sale is completed. The name transfer is a simple process, unless any subdivision is involved, but buyers are made to wait for long. The official of the Revenue Department said the name transfer of pattas in cases where no subdivision of land was involved would happen at the registration office after the sale was completed. The system was simplified with minimum human intervention. However, since the contact numbers of the buyers were not captured in “most” cases, the alerts through SMS did not reach the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digitised-land-records-being-checked-for-errors/article35932182.ece
16 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ushering in social justice is prime motto of govt.’||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy on Sunday said the prime motto of the State government was to usher in social justice and ensure welfare of the poor and downtrodden sections of people, irrespective of caste, creed and religion. The Deputy CM hoisted the national flag and was speaking as the chief guest after taking guard of honour at the 75th Independence Day celebrations at the Police Training Center grounds here. Mr. Narayanaswamy listed out the achievements of the YSRCP government that included the Navaratnalu programme and the village secretariat system, adding that the programme had uplifted the lives of the downtrodden in the State. Appreciating the efforts of the health staff, the Deputy CM said Chittoor district stands second in vaccinating the target group. “Mobile health camps, 108, 104 ambulances and Thalli Bidda Express have played a vital role in strengthening the rural health sector in the district,” he said. Mr. Narayanaswamy said the forthcoming water projects in the western mandals, including three reservoirs and linking of the Galeru-Nagari and Handri-Neeva with the Gandikota reservoir, would envisage holistic development of agriculture in Chittoor and Kadapa districts, besides addressing the drinking water needs of the region. District Collector M. Hari Narayanan said the administration is focusing on combating the virus spread, adding that top priority was also being given to the Nadu-Nedu Mana Badi scheme. Later, the Deputy CM gave away appreciation letters to the government officials in recognition of their meritorious services .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ushering-in-social-justice-is-prime-motto-of-govt/article35931994.ece
16 August 2021||GUNTUR/Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jilted friend’ held for ‘killing’ engineering student in Guntur||A 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by her jilted friend in Guntur on Sunday morning sending shock waves across the district. The police arrested Kunchala Sashi Krishna (22) in connection with the case. The incident happened at Paramayakunta. According to the police, the victim, identified as Ramya, was pursuing third year engineering in a college in the city. She came to her grandmother’s house and reportedly met the accused. Both had an altercation, and in a fit of rage, the accused stabbed Ramya multiple times. The woman, who collapsed in a pool of blood, was rushed to GGH where she succumbed to the injuries. Home Minister M. Sucharita rushed to the hospital. DGP D. Gautam Sawang said the accused was booked under Section 302 of the IPC and the Disha Act. DIG (Law and Order) S.V. Rajashekar Babu said Sashi Krishna, a resident of Mutluru in Vatticherukuru mandal of Guntur district, was an eighth class dropout and worked in an automobile shop. Guntur Urban SP Arif Hafeez said that Sashi Krishna allegedly befriended the victim on a social media platform and had been in touch with her for the last six months. “He had allegedly been harrasing the woman, complaining that she was moving closely with her neighbour. Sashi Krishna met her at a hotel on Sunday morning and argued with her,” the SP said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the incident and ordered a probe. He said that the accused would be arrested soon and announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to the victim’s kin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-stabbed-to-death-in-ap/article35931948.ece
16 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Construction of R&R colonies for Polavaram-displaced in progress’||Deputy Chief Minister and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das on Sunday said that the construction of 19 Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) colonies was in progress in East Godavari district for rehabilitation of people displaced by the upcoming Polavaram irrigation project. Mr. Krishna Das hoisted the national flag during the 75th Independence Day celebrations at Police Parade grounds here. “The construction of seven R&R colonies has been completed and work is in progress in 19 colonies. Construction of 73,610 houses in Jagananna Colonies will be over in a few months in the first phase in East Godavari district. A total of 1,371 schools have been renovated under Nadu-Nedu scheme in the district,” Mr. Krishna Das said. On agriculture, Mr. Krishna Das said that Rs. 219 crore of crop insurance has been disbursed to 1.47 lakh farmers before the commencement of Kharif 2021. “As many as 15,552 tenant farmers have been issued the Crop Cultivator Rights Card and Rs. 62 crore of crop loans has been sanctioned to them for Kharif 2021-22. Women belonging to SC and BC communities have been granted 13,000 cattle units under Jagananna Palavelluva programme in the district,” said Mr. Krishna Das. Mr. Krishna Das, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna interacted with farmers and villagers during the exhibition on various government programmes. In the exhibition of chariots by various departments, Kakinada Smart City’s chariot bagged the first prize both for developmental activities and presentation on the chariot. The students representing various schools performed cultural shows based on patriotic themes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-rr-colonies-for-polavaram-displaced-in-progress/article35932624.ece
16 August 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA protests Karnataka’s travel curbs||A.K.M. Ashraf, MLA from Manjeswaram in north Kerala, observed a one-day fast on Independence Day against the restrictions imposed by the Karnataka government on travellers from Kerala in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases. Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, inaugurated the protest on the Thalappadi border. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ashraf accused Karnataka of turning down the Centre’s suggestion that vaccinated individuals be allowed to enter the State without undergoing COVID-19 test. The Centre had told the Karnataka government that RT-PCR test should not be made mandatory for inter-State travellers who had received two doses of COVID vaccine. According to Karnataka’s guidelines, only emergency travel is permitted from Kerala. Maintaining that the restrictions should be immediately lifted, the MLA alleged that such decisions were taken with a political motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-mla-protests-karnatakas-travel-curbs/article35931949.ece
16 August 2021||Kurnool,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for setting up KRMB office in Kurnool grows louder||The demand for establishing the Krishna River Management Board headquarters in Kurnool city is gathering steam with several people’s organisations from the Rayalaseema region once again raising their voice for the same during the 75th Independence Day celebrations on Sunday. Describing the demand as the ‘most feasible and useful’ for the monitoring of the Krishna, the Tungabhadra, the Hagari and the Hundri rivers, organisations such as the Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi (RSSS) condemned the move to shift to the KRMB headquarters to Visakhapatnam, saying that the port city has no connection with the river basin. ‘Easy monitoring’ Setting up the headquarters in Kurnool will make it easy for the officials to track and monitor the water flow or other dynamics as this area is in the head reach. The first entry point of water of these rivers is in Kurnool district and its surrounding areas, the RSSS representatives argued, adding that proper supply of water to all regions is possible as the Srisailam Reservoir and Pothireddypadu distribution point are very close to Kurnool. “Kurnool is the most convenient place for people from Telangana and Karnataka States to come and participate in the meetings of the KRMB,” they observed. To resolve the disputes pertaining to water sharing between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh like that of the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme, and that related the Rayalaseema ayacutdars, Kurnool would be the nearest place. The proposed Jurala-Pakala, Palamuru lift scheme, Gundrevula Reservoir, checkdam are near the Raghavendra Mutt in Kurnool. The State government must take this decision of establishing the KRMB office in Kurnool and communicate the same to the Centre so that future meetings of the KRMB are held in Kurnool, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-for-setting-up-krmb-office-in-kurnool-grows-louder/article35931996.ece
16 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inspects works on Owk tunnel||State Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar inspected ongoing works on the Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi Project (GNSS) and the Owk Tunnel. The Minister said the government was according top priority to welfare and development schemes and that it would do everything to make the district one of the best.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-inspects-works-on-owk-tunnel/article35931995.ece
16 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held after teacher commits suicide||The Kerala police arrested two persons in connection with the death of a teacher at Vengara near here on Sunday. Suresh Chaliyath, an art teacher and film and drama worker, was found hanging in his house on Friday. He had been attacked by a gang in front of his family a few days ago in an apparent incident of moral policing. ‘Insulted before family’ Suresh’s friends and family said he ended his life after having been insulted in front of his mother and children. He was attacked allegedly for sending WhatsApp messages to a woman friend. The police arrested Mujeeb Rahman, 44, and Nisamuddeen, 39, in connection with the attack. They were produced in a court here and remanded in judicial custody. More involved: police The police said some others were also involved in the crime. They said a detailed investigation was on into the circumstances that led to Suresh’s death. Suresh’s friends and supporters on social media demanded stringent action against those who beat him up in the name of a WhatsApp message. The police too said moral policing would not be encouraged at any cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-after-teacher-commits-suicide/article35931950.ece
16 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||181 new cases in Nellore dist.||The cumulative coronavirus tally crossed the 2.69 mark in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as 283 persons (102 in Prakasam and 181 in Nellore district) in the region tested positive for the infection in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. Meanwhile, one more person died of the infection in SPSR Nellore district taking the toll to 2,006 in the region. For the third day in a row, Prakasam district registered zero deaths. The number of active cases came down to a little over 3,800 in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/181-new-cases-in-nellore-dist/article35931999.ece
16 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE/TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers reiterate govt.’s commitment to development||People from different walks of life took part in the 75th Indendence Day celebrations on the South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, in strict adherence to the COVID-19 norms. Inspecting a guard of honour by the police personnel in Nellore, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy highlighted various initiatives launched by the YSRCP, saying that the government was committed to development of the State. As part of the celebrations, the tricolour was hoisted on a 100-foot-high mast at the Collectorate building, which once served as a British bastion. Hoisting the national flag, Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu exhorted the GenX to draw inspiration from the supreme sacrifices made by the freedom fighters. The flag could be seen by denizens residing in about 5 km radius in the city. Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council Pro-tem Chairman Vitapu Balasubrahmanyam and BJP MLC Vakate Narayana Reddy counted some embarrassing moments after not finding their seats in the VIP gallery. In Ongole, Social Welfare Minister P. Viswarup, after inspecting a guard of honour, said the network of villlage and ward volunteers had ensured benefits of the ‘Navaratnalu’ schemes to the targeted sections of the society. Veligonda project Announcing the completion of the first phase of the Veligonda project, the Minister said farmers could expect the Krishna water in 2022. The second phase would be completed in September 2023. The Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board has undertaken the Ramayapatnam seaport works. The State government has acquired 9,240 acres of land in and around the coastal village to spur the port-based development. Drinking water supply to Ongole city would augmented with a Rs. 132-crore project to draw water from the Gundalakamma , he said. In Tirupati, the national flag was hoisted atop several institutions and private buildings marking the Independence Day. Tirupati Mayor R. Sireesha hoisted the flag in the presence of Member of Parliament M. Gurumoorthy and MLA B. Karunakar Reddy. The tricolour was hoisted at National Sanskrit University, Sri Venkateswara, Sri Padmavathi Mahila, SVIMS and SV Veterinary University campuses by their respective Vice-Chancellors. At Tirupati Urban police headquarters, Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu hoisted the flag and inspected the guard of honour. In Kadapa, in-charge Minister Adimulapu Suresh hoisted the flag in the presence of Deputy CM S.B. Amzath Basha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-reiterate-govts-commitment-to-development/article35931998.ece
16 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots press their demand for repeal of farm laws||Farmers under the banner of the ‘Samukta Kisan Morcha’ observed the Independence Day as ‘Kisan Mazdoor Azaadi Sangram Diwas’ to press their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws. After hoisting the national flag, farmers led by All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC) Prakasam District Convenor Ch. Ranga Rao came in a procession to the busy Church Centre raising slogans against the Narendra Modi government for not providing statutory backing to the Minimum Support Price(MSP) regime. “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is not meaningful to the toiling farmers as it is only the big companies who have been benefited by the policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre,” they said. ‘No remunerative price’ Accusing the party of currying favours with big corporate firms, the farmers lamented that they were unable to get a remunerative price for not just food grains but also for pulses, edible oil and fruits and vegetables. Due to the second wave of the pandemic, farmers struggled to take their produce to the consumers leading to a crash in the market prices for all farm produce, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ryots-press-their-demand-for-repeal-of-farm-laws/article35932001.ece
16 August 2021||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PPA CEO to visit Polavaram today||Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA), J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, will visit the project site in West Godavari district on Monday. The CEO, during his two-day tour, will inspect the head works and the R&R Colonies, said the officials. Officials of the State Projects Wing of the Union Ministry of Jal Sakthi, A.S. Goel and Anup Kumar Srivastava, will visit Polavaram project on August 20. They will conduct a meeting with the Irrigation Department officials and review the progress of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ppa-ceo-to-visit-polavaram-today/article35932576.ece
16 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A unique way of ringing in the 75th Independence Day||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated in a unique way on a small punt in the backdrop of the twin bridges spanning the Godavari, here in East Godavari district on Sunday. Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat, accompanied by public representatives and children, hoisted the national flag on the punt at the Pushkar Ghat. Those on board the punt spent a few minutes carrying the tricolour, attracting spectators. Later, the audience was allowed to take photographs as part of the celebrations. “The Pushkar Ghat is an ideal place to celebrate the 75th Independence Day celebrations. The site is unique and has a rich heritage along with the historic Havelock bridge and road-cum-rail bridge,” Mr. Bharat said. “Our city of Rajamahendravaram had played a laudable role in the freedom struggle. It is also known as the ‘Cultural City’ of Andhra Pradesh. A roadmap is being prepared to give a fillip to the city by improving infrastructure and tourism facilities,” Mr. Bharat said. Post celebrations, Mr. Bharat led a rally on a horse with the tricolour in his hand, meeting locals on the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-unique-way-of-ringing-in-the-75th-independence-day/article35932626.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala adds 18,582 cases, TPR at 15.11%||Kerala registered a COVID-19 test positivity rate of 15.11% on Sunday, reflecting as 18,582 new cases from 1,22,970 test samples. ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients rose from 2,032 on Saturday to 2,100, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support jumped from 785 to 829. The State’s active cases dipped to 1,78,630 patients. Cumulative case fatality stood at 18,601 with 102 recent deaths added on Sunday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,065. Malappuram district reported 2,681 cases, Thrissur 2,423, Kozhikode 2,368, Ernakulam 2,161, Palakkad 1,771, Kannur 1,257, Kollam 1,093, Alappuzha 941, Kottayam 929, Thiruvananthapuram 927, Idukki 598, Pathanamthitta 517, Wayanad 497, and Kasaragod 419 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 16 COVID-19 deaths and 1,506 infections on Sunday. The active cases tally came down to 17,865. Of 65,600 fresh samples tested, 2.30% returned positive. Krishna and Chittoor districts reported four deaths each, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam two each and Guntur, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari one each. East Godavari reported a high of 319 infections, followed by Chittoor (217), Nellore (181), West Godavari (170), Guntur (162) and Prakasam (102). Telangana saw a sharp drop in cases on Sunday, as tests also came down by around 40,000. Only 50,126 samples were tested and 245 were positive. The highest of 52 was from Greater Hyderabad. One patient died. T.N. sees drop in cases The daily count of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, which was hovering around 1,900, came down to 1,896 on Sunday, along with a marginal reduction in the number of tests. While the number of persons tested came down from 1,59,684 the day before to 1,56,973, the number of cases came down from 1,916. The fresh infections took the total number of cases to 25,88,781. The State reported 23 deaths, taking the toll to 34,519. With the recovery of 1,842 patients, the active cases stood at 20,458. Among the districts, Coimbatore reported the highest number of 225 cases, followed by Chennai (216). Erode (179), Salem (127), Chengalpattu (115), and Thanjavur (106) reported more than 100 cases. Another five districts reported more than 50 cases. Six districts reported fresh infections in single digit.  (With contributions from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-adds-18582-cases-tpr-at-1511/article35931944.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fulfil ideals of founding fathers, says Pinarayi||Urging the nation to introspect on whether it has remained faithful to its founding ideals, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the country could achieve independence in the truest sense only when parliamentary democracy and Constitutional bodies functioned in line with their fundamental principles. The nation must also remain steadfast to the dream of its founding leaders to progress as a secular, socialist and pluralistic society, he said in his address after unfurling the national flag during the 75th Independence Day celebrations at the Central Stadium on Sunday. ‘Ecology an investment’ The Chief Minister also used the opportunity to lay stress on environmental protection. Pointing out that biodiversity conservation was equally important as national security, he emphasised on the need to consider ecology as an investment for the future. The greatest challenge faced in environmental conservation is carbon emission from industries and vehicles. Considering the various hazards including climate change and pollution, the State government has focused its efforts on achieving carbon neutrality. Priority was being ensured to protect nature even while undertaking developmental initiatives, Mr. Vijayan said. Pointing out that the platinum jubilee of the country’s Independence coincided with the 25th anniversary of the People’s Plan campaign in the State, the Chief Minister said Kerala had succeeded to a great extent in ensuring public participation in governance. After delivering his address, Mr. Vijayan interacted with some of the COVID-19 front line warriors who were invited to the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fulfil-ideals-of-founding-fathers-says-pinarayi/article35931952.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild balsams named after Achuthanandan, Shailaja||Researchers have identified three new species of wild balsam in the State, of which two have been named after Communist veteran and former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan and the former Health Minister K.K. Shailaja. The species, belonging to the genus Impatiens (family Balsaminaceae), were spotted in the Western Ghats region of southern Kerala and the Idukki district during floristic surveys. Plants of this genus are popular as ‘Kashithumba’ in Malayalam. A plant with whitish-creamy flowers found in the Kallar forest, Thiruvananthapuram district, has been named Impatiens achudanandanii after Mr. Achuthanandan. A discovery from the Sankhili forest in south Kerala, christened Impatiens shailajae, honours Ms. Shailaja. Impatiens danii, spotted in Munnar, Idukki, is named after Mathew Dan, scientist and head, Plant Genetic Resource Division, Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Thiruvananthapuram. Biodiversity journal PhytoKeys has published the research findings by V.S. Anil Kumar and S. Arya of the Department of Botany, University College, Thiruvananthapuram; V. Suresh, Department of Botany, Government Victoria College, Palakkad; G. Govind, Plant Genetic Resource Division, JNTBGRI; and Vishnu Walsan K., Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. Rather unusual New species are often named after individuals, but living politicians being honoured in this way is, perhaps, not that common. Contributions made by the individuals, and not political considerations, prompted the naming of two species after Mr. Achuthanandan and Ms. Shailaja, Dr. Anil Kumar told The Hindu . The former Chief Minister was honoured “for his ardent efforts in the conservation of the pristine environment of Western Ghats, especially Mathikettan shola,” the PhytoKeys article said. A species has been named after Ms. Shailaja for her handling of the “various epidemic and pandemic (COVID-19) situations in the State of Kerala through scientific temper.” Dr. Dan, meanwhile, has been honoured for his contributions to systematics and conservation of angiosperms in the Western Ghats. Tiny populations Given their tiny populations, all three species can be classified as Critically Endangered (CE), applying the IUCN criteria, the research team said. Found at an altitude of 1,200 metres, Impatiens achudanandanii is a straggling, glabrous herb. Only three or four populations were found, and that too within a 1-km area. Threats from landslips The species faces threats from wild elephants and landslips. Impatiens danii is a 10-20 cm tall plant with a white flower which sports a yellow blotch on the throat. Impatiens shailajae belongs to the section Tuberosae, and was found along steep slippery cliffs in the deep forest. The genus Impatiens is represented by more than 210 taxa in India. Over 106 species are endemic to the Western Ghats, of which 80% are endangered, the article said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-balsams-named-after-achuthanandan-shailaja/article35931957.ece
16 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surendran booked for ‘disrespecting’ Tricolour||The Museum police booked BJP State president K. Surendran for allegedly disrespecting the national flag. During the Independence Day celebration held at the party’s State committee office, Mr. Surendran hoisted the national flag upside down for a few feet before realising the folly and pulling it down and hoisting it correctly. Acting on a complaint submitted by CPI(M) Palayam area committee member R. Pradeep and Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Samithi state vice president V. Pappachan, the police registered a case under provisions of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, that prohibits desecration of or insult to the country’s national symbols. Meanwhile, the Youth Congress submitted a complaint before the Cantonment police against the hoisting of the national flag close to the CPI(M) party flag at its headquarters, AKG Centre here. The police are yet to register a case in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surendran-booked-for-disrespecting-tricolour/article35932129.ece
16 August 2021||THOTLAVALLUR (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Man’s body retrieved from Krishna river||The AP State Disaster Response Force (APSDRF) 6th Battalion personnel retrieved the body of Jampana Shivayya (52), who reportedly drowned in the Krishna river, on Sunday. A native of Devarapalli village in Krishna district, Shivayya, who went into the swelling river to graze cattle in Thotlavallur mandal on Saturday, was reported missing. Meanwhile, in a separate operation, the NDRF, APSDRF, Fire and Police personnel retrieved the 132 lorries and two tractors that were stranded in the floodwater at Chevitikallu village in Krishna district, on Sunday. “Following the direction of Collector J. Nivas, a team was pressed into service and the operation was completed by Sunday noon. There was no human or property loss,” said NDRF 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan. Kanchikacherla SI J. Lakshmi said all the lorries which were trapped in the river were brought out, and an alert sounded as the discharge was heavy from the Pulichintala project and other streams from Telangana. “We appeal to the villagers not to enter the river which is in spate,” said Kanchikacherla Mandal Revenue Officer V. Rajakumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mans-body-retrieved-from-krishna-river/article35932669.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renewable energy project to cater to needs of TTD, says EO||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has said that the temple trust board will undertake every measure to ensure environmental protection at Tirumala and the preservation of greenery in the Seshachalam Range. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at the TTD administrative building on Sunday, marking the 75th Independence Day, Mr. Jawahar Reddy highlighted the plan to generate 5 MW power from a project sprawling over 25 acres atop Dharmagiri, dubbing it as a major initiative to ensure green energy to meet the TTD’s needs. Similarly, 35 electric cars procured from the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) would be deployed at various points. “The implementation of ban on plastic products has been intensified at Tirumala and pure drinking water is made available under the ‘Jala Prasadam’ scheme, which obviates the need for pilgrims to carry pet bottles with them,” Mr. Reddy said. The garlands used in various rituals would be recycled to produce ‘Agarbathi’ which would be sold under the TTD label. ‘Panchagavya’ products Apart from promoting 15 ‘Panchagavya’ products, the TTD has also signed pacts with the SV Veterinary University for embryo transfer and animal feed production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renewable-energy-project-to-cater-to-needs-of-ttd-says-eo/article35932588.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily recital of national anthem completes 3 years in Punganur||The daily recital of the national anthem in the Punganur municipality completed three years on the 75th Independence Day on Sunday as a 150-foot-long national flag was paraded with great enthusiasm as part of the celebrations. The municipality with a population of 60,000 shot to fame on August 15, 2018, with the municipal authorities launching the novel programme of recital of the national anthem everyday. As soon as the audio amplifiers blare the ‘Jana Gana Mana’, the town came to a standstill. Even the pedestrians and motorists stopped on their way to join the chorus. Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, the local legislator, has been supporting the programme. As the daily practice completed three years this Independence Day, denizens led by Municipal Commissioner K.L. Varma joined to sing the national anthem. “This year, we have created a record of sorts by roping in around two-thirds of the population for the event who reicted the national anthem in unison in a virtual mode due to the coronavirus situation,” said Mr. Varma. As per the plan, the denizens downloaded the national anthem on their mobile phones and recited with it from their respective houses. A huge national flag measuring 150 feet was carried by students in the streets as balloons representing the colours of the national flag were released. Municipal Chairperson Aleem Basha took part in the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-recital-of-national-anthem-completes-3-years-in-punganur/article35932003.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, a museum to highlight ‘Navaratnalu’||Soon, a museum dedicated to Navaratnalu, the State government’s nine flagship schemes, is coming up in Srikalahasti. The museum, a first-of-its-kind, is being built at the entrance to the Jagananna Colony on KVB Puram Road, where 5,000 new beneficiaries are getting own houses. Srikalahasti legislator Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy, who first coined the term ‘Janam kosam Jagan’ way back in 2005 when Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not even into active politics, came up with the idea to develop the ‘Navaratnalu’ as a brand. With housing getting the top priority, the main building is a replica of the houses being constructed for the poor. On its either side in the lawn are four each outstretched hands, depicting schemes like Rythu Bharosa, Aarogyasri, fee reimbursement, Jalayagnam, Ammavodi, prohibition, social security pensions and YSR Asara/Cheyutha. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy and MP (Rajampet) P.V. Midhun Reddy will inaugurate the museum on Monday. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy, who terms the museum a ‘welfare temple’, says: “There are 10,000 flats already built by late YSR at Rajiv Nagar. The beneficiaries will collectively own this temple.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-a-museum-to-highlight-navaratnalu/article35932135.ece
16 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 hurt as RTC bus falls in pit off ghat road||Twenty passengers on board an APSRTC bus had a miraculous escape on Sunday when they escaped unhurt after the vehicle fell into a roadside pit abutting the Bhakarapet ghat road, 30 km from here. Gangadharam, driver of the Ballari-Tirupati bus, reportedly suffered a heart attack at that time. While feeling a sharp pain in the chest, he reportedly found it difficult to negotiate the curve on the serpentine ghat road and collapsed on the wheel. Amid the screams of the passengers, the bus went astray and fell into a huge pit near the Kalyani dam. All the passengers jumped out of the overturned bus, but 20 of them were found to have suffered minor injuries. The driver was rushed to Ruia hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-hurt-as-rtc-bus-falls-in-pit-off-ghat-road/article35932585.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Authorities gear up to ensure safe environment in schools||Schools in the State are set to reopen on Monday after a long gap. Children, who have been away from the classroom teaching for the longest time, experience mixed emotions. A large chunk of parents are apprehensive about sending their children to schools amidst daily reports of a gradual increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, and the impending threat of the third wave of the pandemic looming large. The government, meanwhile, has been assuring the parents that the health of their children will be given top priority. The SOPs All schools will be sanitised and a strong safety net of COVID-19 guidelines have been put in place to keep the virus at bay. The authorities have circulated a set of instructions to be followed by all the school managements. As per the instructions, all schools will be opened in areas that have less than 10% positivity rate. The village or ward secretariat should be taken as a unit to determine the positivity rate on a weekly basis. Students in a classroom should be divided into batches with not more than 20 in each batch. The regular school timing will be followed and all teaching and non-teaching staff must attend every working day. The schools that have sufficient space to conduct all classes in a single day with students divided in batches, should go ahead with daily classes. The institutions that do not have adequate facility to accommodate all the students on a single day, should opt for classes on alternate days. The headmasters have been directed to first focus on preparing the students for the classroom interaction by mitigating the learning loss that occurred during the pandemic and then plan for regular academic activity, without compromising on the COVID-19 guidelines. They have also been asked to prepare school-wise SOPs in consultation with the parents’ committees, and communicate the same to the respective education officers. The schools have been asked to do away with morning assembly, group activities and games until further orders. Random testing Parents dropping the children should be examined for COVID-19 symptoms. Besides masks and sanitizers, six feet physical distance should be maintained in seating arrangement in the classrooms. The Health Department has recommended, among other measures, random testing of students and one staff from each school every week. If they test positive, the entire class will be tested. Prohibition of sharing of items like pens, books, water bottles and plates and constitution of a school-level task force include the other recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amid-protocols-schools-in-ap-set-to-reopen-today/article35932130.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Continuation of vaccination centres in schools a cause for concern||With the schools set to reopen on Monday, the continuation of permanent vaccination centres in a few schools in the city has become a cause for concern for the students and faculty. The city has 12 permanent vaccination centres, and nine of them are in educational institutions, including private and municipal schools. These centres have been functioning in the classrooms since May this year with hundreds getting vaccinated at each centre every day. On days when special drives are conducted, thousands visit the centres for vaccination. Also, there are a few COVID-19 sample collection centres in educational institutions. “We are making arrangements to shift the permanent vaccination centres from the educational institutions. We are scouting for alternative buildings in the vicinity of the existing centres,” said Geeta Bhai, VMC Chief Medical Officer (Health). “There is no problem with the vaccination centre at KBN College as it is in a separate block. We are trying to make similar arrangements, if possible, at the remaining institutions,” she said. “Alternative arrangements will be made in a couple of days. We will ensure that these centres are isolated, even if they are on the same premises, and reduce the number of rooms allocated to them,” said K.V.R.R. Raju, VMC deputy education officer. Vaccination centres are located at KBN College, Bhavanipuram Shadhikhana, Lowtha Subbarao Municipal School, MLC MC Elementary School (Old HB Colony), Rajiv Nagar CHC, AKTPM Municipal High School, MK Baig Municipal High School (Singh Nagar), Sadgathi Vidyanikethan (Madhuranagar), GDET Municipal School (Patamata), APSRM Municipal School (Krishna Lanka), Sample Building (Ranigari Thota) and Bishop Grassi School (Gunadala).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/continuation-of-vaccination-centres-in-schools-a-cause-for-concern/article35932671.ece
16 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freedom fighters’ role recalled on I-Day celebrations||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated with patriotic fervour at the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and other government offices across the district on Sunday. District In-charge Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy hoisted the national flag in the presence of Collector J. Nivas and SP Siddharth Kaushal at the police parade grounds at Machilipatnam. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Reddy recalled that while Yerneni Subrahmanyam was the only person from the district who took part in Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘Salt Satyagraha’, several freedom fighters from the district, including Pingali Venkaiah, rendered their services to the nation. Collector Mr. Nivas and SP Mr. Siddharth distributed merit certificates to those who performed well in discharging their duties. Independence Day’s State tableaux, consisting of models representing various departments and their achievements, attracted onlookers as it passed through Labbipet, Benz Circle, NTR health university, Machavaram, old bus stand and MG Road. The ruling YSRCP celebrated the 75th Independence Day with patriotic fervour across the State. Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy hoisted the flag at the party’s central office in Guntur on Sunday. The event was attended by senior YSRCP leaders and supporters. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy exhorted the party cadres to work towards realising the vision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said welfare schemes were being implemented irrespective of caste, religion and party affiliation for the last two years ever since the YSRCP formed the government. He said radical changes were being made across the State and said assets were being created for the people. He reminded that the Chief Minister has fulfilled most of the promises made in the party’s manifesto despite financial constraints due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, Commandant of the 10th Battalion of the National Disaster Response Force, Zahid Khan, along with other officers hoisted the national flag and celebrated the 75th Independence Day at the battalion’s new headquarters at Kondapavuluru in Krishna district on Sunday. Mr. Khan felicitated NDRF SI K. Hanumantha Rao, who was selected for a Police Medal. He appealed to officers and jawans to work hard, and recalled the role played by freedom fighters and the sacrifices they made to achieve independence for the nation. South Central Railway (SCR), Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager, Shivendra Mohan, hoisted the national flag at the DRM’s office. He reviewed the parade, received the guard of honour, and presented merit certificates to 35 employees who showed extraordinary performance in discharging their duties in the division. South Central Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation president Jaya Mohan hoisted the flag at Jack and Jill English Medium School near Railway Station and distributed fruits to patients admitted at Railway Hospital. Police parade Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu called upon the police force to work with honesty and serve the nation. He hoisted the national flag at the Police Commissioner’s office and received the guard of honour at a parade held to celebrate the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freedom-fighters-role-recalled-on-i-day-celebrations/article35932668.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||I-Day fete an online affair for students||Patriotic fervour marked the Independence Day celebrations in the State. The tricolour fluttered high at schools, colleges, government and private buildings on Sunday. In educational institutions, representatives of the management and staff became part of the celebrations while students were asked to attend online. At the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh campus at Tadepalligudem, Director of the institute C.S.P. Rao hoisted the national flag. Recalling the sacrifices made by freedom fighters, he underscored the need to work with commitment towards realising the dreams of those who made the supreme sacrifice by laying down their lives so that people could live in free India. Reaching out to students through virtual mode, he said the institute was striving to build state-of-the-art research and development laboratories and to achieve 100% placements this year. Local MLA K. Satyanarayana, the chief guest on the occasion, urged students to contribute their mite in nation-building activity. He was later felicitated by Mr. Rao and Registrar D. Sankar Reddy. Later, they planted saplings on the premises of the campus. At KCP Siddhartha Adarsh Residential Public School, president of the school Nalluri Venkateswarlu, convenor V. Sasikala, principal Sri Hari and a handful of teachers were present at the flag hoisting ceremony. A skit on national integration was presented by male teachers while women teachers enacted the role of women freedom fighters. The celebrations were marked by songs, dance, recitation of patriotic poems and other activities. Awarded A group of students from P. Balayogi Gurukulam, Pedatadepalli at Tadepalligudem who have formed a Scotland Bagpipe Band and have won accolades from various quarters for their fine performances, participated in the Independence Day parade and received a trophy from the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for their achievements. The team found its way into Asia and India Book of Records in the past. Secretary, AP Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society B. Navya and school principal Rajarao received the trophy on behalf of the group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-day-fete-an-online-affair-for-students/article35932673.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 deaths, 1,506 infections in State||The State reported 16 COVID-19 deaths and 1,506 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 19,93,697 and the toll to 13,647. With 1,835 persons recovering during the period, the number of recoveries increased to 19,62,185. The recovery and mortality rates remained at 98.42% and 0.68% respectively. The active cases tally came down to 17,865. Of the 65,600 samples tested during the period, 2.30% turned positive. The positivity rate of the 2.56 crore samples tested so far was 7.77%. Krishna and Chittoor districts reported four deaths each in the last 24 hours. They were followed by East Godavari and Visakhapatnam (two each) and Guntur, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari (one each). There were no deaths in five districts. Four districts reported fewer than 50 infections in the past one day. East Godavari reported a high of 319 infections. It was followed by Chittoor (217), Nellore (181), West Godavari (170), Guntur (162), Prakasam (102), Krishna (98), Visakhapatnam (75), Vizianagaram (72), Srikakulam (45), Kadapa (27), Anantapur (23) and Kurnool (15). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,82,708), Chittoor (2,35,088), West Godavari (1,72,157), Guntur (1,70,655), Anantapur (1,56,794), Visakhapatnam (1,53,773), Nellore (1,37,538), Prakasam (1,31,889), Kurnool (1,23,587), Srikakulam (1,21,435), Krishna (1,11,697), Kadapa (1,11,633) and Vizianagaram (81,848).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-deaths-1506-infections-in-state/article35932578.ece
16 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Do not burden women welfare secretaries with policing duty’||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has asked the State government to withdraw G.O. No. 59 that changes the designation of the Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsi / Ward Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsi as Mahila Police. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Lokesh urged the government not to play with the lives of the women welfare secretaries, who were not at all interested to wear khaki dress at this juncture. They had been assigned women welfare activities in their official job chart, and were being asked to take up policing duty as well, he said. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is requested not to cause any embarrassment, or harm to the women welfare secretaries. G.O. No 59 is thoughtless, and has to be scrapped,” Mr. Lokesh said, adding that the women welfare secretaries too had raised objections in front of their superiors, who were not trying to provide solution till date. Stating that he had received a letter from the aggrieved women welfare secretaries seeking the TDP’s support, Mr. Lokesh said that the government should favourably consider their demand for bringing their services under the Women and Child Welfare Department. The demand of the women welfare secretaries was justifiable as they had been recruited for the purpose of women and child welfare activities only. More than 15,000 were appointed as women welfare secretaries. Women aged above 42 and those who were differently-abled had joined the post. “It is unwise on the part of the government to put them on policing duties now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-burden-women-welfare-secretaries-with-policing-duty/article35932590.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unsung heroes honoured at VIT-AP||As part of the Independence Day celebrations, the management of VIT-AP felicitated 13 unsung heroes from different fields on Sunday. They included drivers from the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Shaik Shafi and Md. Subhani, the latter was honoured posthumously. Six rescue services awards were given to the AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services Management personnel and five other awards were given to the AP State Police department personnel for their selfless services. The recipient of the awards from the Fire Department were Assistant District Fire Officer, Kakinada J. Ramanaiah, Leading Fireman P. Satheesh and Fireman P.V.V. Satyanarayana from the Jagannaikpur fire station in East Godavari district, driver-operator from the Kothavalasa fire station in Vizianagaram district S. Vara Prasad, driver-operator Ch. Ramesh Varma and fireman B. Ramakrishna from the Vizianagaram fire station. From the Police Department, R. Vijaya Krishna Arjun from Kakinada, D. Venu from the Somasila police station in Nellore district and M. Kulayappa from Kadapa, D. U. Maheswara Rao and Ch. Yesuratnam from the 6th battalion, APSP, were honoured. Founder and CEO, NADSOL Techno Labs, Haranath Anamala hoisted the national flag. Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said valour and courage should recognised because only then the younger generation would understand the significance of traits like selfless service and patriotism in its true sense. University registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar, assistant director, student welfare, Anupama Namburu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unsung-heroes-honoured-at-vit-ap/article35932674.ece
16 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plans afoot to set up pumped hydro storage projects in State||Energy Secretary N. Srikant has said that the power utilities in the State have saved about Rs. 2,345 crore by purchasing cost-effective power from the markets and are now focused on strengthening the infrastructure to supply quality power to consumers. Hoisting the national flag at the Vidyut Soudha on Sunday marking the 75th Independence Day celebrations, Mr. Srikant said efforts were under way to make power utilities more consumer-centric. “The State has become a role model in procuring cost-effective power since 2019-20 fiscal year. Nearly Rs. 1,360 crore was saved by surrendering 625 MW of power to the NTPC and reducing the Central transmission utilities’ point of connection charges,” he said. Mr. Srikant further said that the government was contemplating setting up pumped hydro storage projects in various districts with a total capacity of 33.24 gigawatts to improve the power supply scenario. The government has identified 1.45 lakh acres in Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur for ultra-mega renewable energy parks. A slew of other measures have been taken to improve the performance of the power sector, he added. AP-Transco Joint MD K. Venkateswara Rao and Directors K. Praveen Kumar (grid and transmission) and K. Muthupandian (finance), Genco Directors G. Chandrasekhar Raju (thermal) and B. Venkatesulu Reddy (finance) were present .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plans-afoot-to-set-up-pumped-hydro-storage-projects-in-state/article35932583.ece
16 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJ calls for efforts to make vision of our founding fathers a reality||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Arup Kumar Goswami has said Independence Day is an occasion for people to introspect as to what has been achieved in the last 75 years and the ways to maintain it. Participating as chief guest in the Independence Day celebrations at the High Court on Sunday, Justice Goswami said that Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was apprehensive in his speech in the Constituent Assembly on November 25, 1949, of the danger of India losing its independence due to the threat posed by the old enemies within (caste, creed etc.) and the forces that jeopardise the political and social democracy. “This is, therefore, the time to rededicate ourself to achieving the aspirations of the founding fathers of our nation, by always keeping in mind the fact that they secured independence for the embattled nation at great personal costs, and the future generations need to savour the fruits of freedom,” he said. Advocate-General S. Sriram said Independence Day was the time to ponder over if Indians were free from the imbalances they had sought to correct. “The focus should be on guaranteeing to the future generations the right to equality and opportunities,” Mr. Sriram said. “It should be a collective endeavour to pass on the baton (of freedom) with as much purity and as free a manner in which it was given to us by our founding fathers,” he observed. Justices Joymalya Bagchi and C. Praveen Kumar, other judges of the High Court, Assistant Solicitor General N. Harinath, AP High Court Advocates’ Association president Y.V. Ravi Prasad and Bar Council chairman Ghanta Rama Rao were among those present on the occcasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cj-calls-for-efforts-to-make-vision-of-our-founding-fathers-a-reality/article35932581.ece
16 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain likely over coastal districts||Coastal districts of the State are very likely to witness light to moderate rainfall or thundershowers at many locations during the next three days until Wednesday due to a cyclonic circulation present over the west-central Bay of Bengal off the north Andhra Pradesh coast. The cyclonic circulation is likely to turn into a low-pressure area in the next 48 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) inference. The IMD also warned of very likely occurrence of thunderstorms and lightning with heavy rainfall at one or two places during the next three days. Rayalaseema region will witness light to moderate rainfall at a few places during the same period. Meanwhile, many places in the State witnessed rainfall on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-likely-over-coastal-districts/article35932672.ece
16 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, Jana Sena to fight govt.’s ‘anti-people’ policies||The BJP and the JSP will make efforts for the development of Andhra Pradesh, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said. BJP leader Sunil Deodhar said the alliance partners would fight against the the government’s ‘anti-people’ policies.” JSP chief Pawan Kalyancelebrated the Independence Day near Mangalagiri. The leaders of both the parties met on Saturday night under the leadership of Mr. Veerraju and Mr. Pawan Kalyan, and discussed their future course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jana-sena-to-fight-govts-anti-people-policies/article35932579.ece
16 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to pass fruits of freedom to all, says Speaker||Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam and Legislative Council pro tem chairman V. Balasubrahmanyam hoisted the national flag on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, at the Legislature Complex on Sunday. Addressing the gathering at the Assembly, Mr. Seetharam said the country had achieved freedom due to the sacrifices of many leaders. A concerted effort was needed to pass on the fruits of freedom to every individual, he added. He said a lot of development had been achieved in the last seven-and-a-half decades, and much more remained to be accomplished. Independence Day was an occasion to express our solidarity with the armed forces who were fighting the enemies across the borders, and rededicate ourself to removing the socio-economic disparities in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-pass-fruits-of-freedom-to-all-says-speaker/article35932582.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. committed to establishing three capitals: Kannababu||District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has reiterated the commitment of the government in implementing its three-capital plan for the all-round development of the State. Visakhapatnam will be developed on par with international standards and made the Executive capital to ensure development of North Andhra region, he said. Mr. Kannababu, who holds the portfolios of Agriculture, Cooperation, Marketing and Food Processing, hoisted the national flag and saluted it on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day celebrations held at the Police Parade Grounds here on Sunday. He inspected the police parade and received the guard of honour from the police contingents. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, MPs M.V.V. Satyanarayana and B.V. Satyavathi, District Collector A. Mallijarjuna, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, SP (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao, MLAs and a large number of officials and non-officials were present. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Kannababu elaborated the development activities initiated in the district, through various departments like Agriculture, Horticulture, Fisheries, DRDA, Tribal Welfare, School Education, District Industries Centre(DIC), Housing and Tourism. He said that the redevelopment of Rushikonda Beach Resorts was taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 92 crore. The Central government has sanctioned Rs. 54 crore for improvement of pilgrim amenities at Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam, under its ‘PRASAD’ (Pilgrim Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive) scheme. He said that the State government has allotted two-acre land to Olympian P.V. Sindhu for setting up a Badminton Academy, as part of its efforts to promote sports in the district. The village and ward secretariat system, launched on October 2, 2019, was contributing to the provision of over 500 services to the citizens at their doorstep. The cultural programmes presented by schoolchildren and the tableaux of various departments caught the attention of the gathering. Noted physician from the city Kutikuppla Surya Rao, who had received the Padma Shri award in the past, was felicitated by the Minister, Collector and other officials. Mr. Kannababu distributed assets worth Rs. 319 crore to beneficiaries from the district, under various welfare schemes and meritorious awards to district officials, government employees and staff of various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-establishing-three-capitals-kannababu/article35932683.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM lauds officials for their performance despite COVID||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated by Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) at the new Football Ground at Thatichetlapalem here on Sunday. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Kumar Satpathy hoisted the national flag and saluted. He received the guard of honour presented by the contingents of Railway Protection Force (RPF), Bharat Scouts & Guides and Civil Defence. He appreciated the railway personnel for their relentless efforts in flagging the division’s performance high despite the pandemic situation and hoped they would continue their hard work to achieve greater heights in the near future. The first oxygen express was run by Waltair Division, carrying seven tankers of Liquid Medical Oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-lauds-officials-for-their-performance-despite-covid/article35932684.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC initiated 457 works with over Rs. 59 crore, says Mayor||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari has said that the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has initiated 475 works for 2021-22 with a budget of Rs. 5909.63 lakh. Out of them, 161 works were completed, 50 works are in various stages of completion, 35 are yet to start and 221 works are in the stage of issuing tenders, she said Ms. Hari Venkata Kumari along with GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana hoisted the national flag at the GVMC office and later garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi near the corporation building as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. Delivering the keynote address, the Mayor said that work on the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant, being set up at Kapuluppada in over 17 acres, was in final stages. She announced that it would be inaugurated on October 10. Port Trust Visakhapatnam Port handled 23.48 million tonnes of cargo between April and July 2021 as against 21.03 MT during the corresponding period in the last fiscal, registering a growth of 12%, Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) Chairman K. Ramamohana Rao has said. The VPT Chairman hoisted the national flag and took the ‘Rashtriya Salami’ presented by the CISF contingents at the Port Stadium at Akkayyapalem. Cmde Hemant Khatri, IN (Retd), Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), hoisted the national flag at HSL. Merit certificates Around 70 police officers from the district police received merit certificates from District Collector A. Mallikarjuna at the Independence Day celebrations held at the Police Parade Grounds here on Sunday. DSB Visakhapatnam Rural L Revathamma, Circle Inspector Narsipatnam Rural, K. Srinivasa Rao and Inspector of Anakapalle (Town) L Bhaskara Rao were among the recipients. Earlier, Deputy Inspector General (DIG Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao took part in Independence Day celebrations at the DIG camp office along with their families. Andhra University Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy hoisted the national flag and took part in the Independence Day celebrations at the AU Grounds here on Sunday. Rector K. Samatha and Registrar V. Krishna Mohan were present. Dredging Corporation of India (DCI) MD and CEO G.Y.V. Victor hoisted the national flag at the head office of the company here on Sunday. He recalled the sacrifices of the freedom fighters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-initiated-457-works-with-over-rs-59-crore-says-mayor/article35932688.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists criticise DGP’s statement||The CPI (Maoist) found fault with Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang’s remarks that the Maoists were creating issues for their existence and that the party was losing support from the tribal population. They also condemned his statement that cadres were surrendering due to the weakening of the movement. Secretary, Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC), Ganesh, in a letter released on Sunday, alleged that Mr. Sawang was behaving like a YSR Congress Party worker. He said that the actual reasons for the recent surrender of the cadres was selfishness, political weakness and deterioration of their spirit of sacrifice. He criticised the State government saying that it was pushing people into a debt trap. People of various sections were suffering due to ‘anti-people’ policies of the ruling party and were staging protests. But people like Mr. Gautam Sawang were overlooking them, Mr. Ganesh alleged. “If the CPI(Maoist) do not have presence in the Agency areas, why was the Police Department sending a large number of personnel into the Agency for combing operations, setting up police camps and illegally arresting a number of tribal people?” he asked. He said that though it was a fact that the movement was weakening in Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB), history revealed that the Maoists had fought against all odds and regrouped themselves. He said that during 1980s, there were very few Maoists, but by 2002, the AOB had formed into four divisions with over 200 cadres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-criticise-dgps-statement/article35932136.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims two deaths||The Visakhapatnam district reported 75 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,54,283. During the same time period, the district reported two deaths, taking the toll to 1,066. This is for the first time in the month, that the district witnessed two deaths in a day. As many as 101 persons, undergoing treatment, recovered from the virus, according to the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-two-deaths/article35932687.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal freedom fighters’ museum to be set up at Tajangi||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare Pushpa Srivani said that the State government would establish a tribal freedom fighters’ museum at a cost of Rs. 35 crore at Tajangi, near Lambasingi, in Chintapalle mandal in the district. She said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would lay foundation stone for the museum. Ms. Pushpa Srivani made the announcement during the inaugural of a new building for Tribal Cultural Research and Training Institute, near Rushikonda, here on Sunday, which was constructed at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Union Minister of Tribal Affairs Arjun Munda, who took part in the programme virtually, expressed happiness for commissioning a new institute for tribals.  Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi and ITDA Project Director R. Gopala Krishna were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-freedom-fighters-museum-to-be-set-up-at-tajangi/article35932690.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freedom from ignorance is real freedom, says Bombay High Court Judge||Bombay High Court Judge Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu has said that freedom from ignorance is real freedom and teachers play a huge role in moulding their students into great personalities. Justice Naidu participated as the chief guest at the 75th Independence Day celebrations at Sri Prakash Vidya Niketan at Payakaraopeta in the district on Sunday. He hoisted the national flag and received the guard of honour by the NCC cadets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freedom-from-ignorance-is-real-freedom-says-bombay-high-court-judge/article35932685.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KSPP launched at GITAM, Hyderabad campus||Kautilya School of Public Policy (KSPP) was inaugurated at GITAM Deemed to be University, Hyderabad campus, on Sunday. GITAM president M. Sri Bharat, Pro Vice-Chancellor, GITAM, Hyderabad, N. Siva Prasad and KSPP Dean Syed Akbaruddin among others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kspp-launched-at-gitam-hyderabad-campus/article35932686.ece
16 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||519 kg ganja seized, six persons arrested||The rural police arrested six persons while they were allegedly transporting 519 kg of ganja at K.D. Peta in the district on Sunday. Based on credible information, a team led by K.D. Peta SI Surya Narayana intercepted the vehicle near Bheemavaram checkpost, and seized the ganja. The police also seized Rs. 11,500 from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/519-kg-ganja-seized/article35932636.ece
16 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for COVID third wave, says Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister in-charge of Tribal Development Pamula Pushpa Srivani urged government officials to work in tandem to prevent the likely onset of a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. She said that many frontline workers had lost their lives to the virus while rendering services to the public, and said the 75th Independence Day was dedicated to those families which lost their dear ones in serving the public. Along with top women officials including Collector A. Suryakumari and Superintendent of Police Deepika M. Patil, Ms. Srivani participated in the parade at Cantonment Police Grounds. After hoisting the tricolour, Ms. Pushpa Srivani said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was giving top priority to both development and welfare in Vizianagaram district. She urged celebrities who belonged to Vizianagaram but are now settled down in other parts of the country and across the world to adopt government hospitals and educational institutions in the district and ensure their speedy development. Earlier, Ms. Pushpa Srivani visited stalls and highlighted the achievements of the government. The Deputy Chief Minister handed over awards and appreciation certificates to Kesali Foundation head and former Member of AP State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights Kesali Apparao, Puvvada Anjaneyulu and Puvvada Bhaskara Rao Charitable Trust’s executive committee member P.A. Vardhan, and Panchamukha Nitya Annadana Trust secretary Perla Kamaraju for serving the public at the peak of the first and second waves of COVID-19. District Cooperative Marketing Society chairperson Avanapu Bhavana asked officials and staff to extend service to the farmers as they were the backbone of the country. After hoisting the tricolour at the DCMS office, she said that the society was able to do business worth nearly Rs. 15 crore every year, and said it would rise to Rs. 20 crore in the current financial year with optimum utilisation of resources. YSRCP senior leader Avanapu Vikram said Rythu Bharosa and other schemes were benefiting farmers and helping them overcome financial distress. DCMS business manager B.V.S. Saikumar said that the society was trying to achieve more business with the supply of materials and provisions to schools and hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-covid-third-wave-says-deputy-cm/article35932630.ece
16 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM’s new scheme a ray of hope for N. Andhra: BJP||BJP veteran and the party’s former State treasurer Pakalapati Sanyasiraju on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release more funds for the speedy development of the backward North Andhra region, alleging that it was neglected by successive Congress governments. In a press release, he hailed Mr. Modi’s statement on the allocation of Rs. 100 lakh crore for the development of infrastructure in the country. Mr.Sanyasiraju said that roads, airports and seaports could be developed in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and others district under Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti Bharat Master Plan which was mentioned by Mr. Modi on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day celebrations in New Delhi. “Mr.Modi’s statement has raised hopes of over 17 lakh youth of the region. The State government should cooperate with the Centre in the implementation of the ambitious master plan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pms-new-scheme-a-ray-of-hope-for-n-andhra-bjp/article35932627.ece
16 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SITAM, Vision Digital ink pact for certificate courses||Satya Institute of Technology and Management (SITAM) signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Vision Digital India to improve the skills of students by offering short-term certificate courses which are expected to ensure jobs quickly for them. Vision Digital India chairman Harikrishna Maram and SITAM director Majji Sasibhusana Rao exchanged the MoU on the sidelines of Independence Day celebrations on Sunday on the college premises. “Technological changes are being ushered in at a rapid pace and students must be in a position to meet the expectations of software companies,” Dr. Harikrishna said. He said that 100 courses, including Analytics in Modern Enterprises, Restructuring of Data, Business Case Studies-Problem Solving, and Refining Data-Creating Predictive Models, would ensure practical experience with the guidance of experts in respective courses. He said that the company is currently extending its services to over 26,000 students of nearly 170 colleges across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sitam-vision-digital-ink-pact-for-certificate-courses/article35932632.ece
16 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People eagerly waiting to vote for Congress’||Vizianagaram District Congress Committee president Saragada Ramesh Kumar on Sunday said that it is due to the excellent performance of previous Congress governments that were in power at the Centre from 1947 that the country has been able to achieve so much growth. Mr. Ramesh Kumar hoisted the national flag on the DCC office premises to mark the 75th Independence Day. He alleged that both the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the State and Centre respectively were unable to meet people’s expectations, adding that people were eagerly waiting to vote for the Congress in the 2024 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-eagerly-waiting-to-vote-for-congress/article35932628.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. taking decisions with clear vision for future: CM||The government came to the rescue of the poor by providing them treatment for various diseases under the Aarogyasri scheme and was in the process of giving a major uplift to hospitals and setting up medical colleges. The reforms in various sectors were yielding the desired results and the establishment of village and ward secretariats was a major step that took governance to people’s doorstep. Direct Benefit Transfer Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said as the people reeled under the impact of the pandemic, the government had put money into their hands through Direct Benefit Transfer. He insisted that the government was careful in utilising its resources and that the ultimate goal of the government was the betterment of all regions of the State. He said the government was taking decisions with a clear vision and that he was striving to rectify certain ‘institutional lapses’ which hampered the growth. “This is a historic occasion. We have achieved many things but we can’t afford to be complacent as there are many challenges. It’s time to pull up the socks by learning from our past experiences,” he said. Education The Chief Minister said his government’s top priority was education . Due emphasis had been laid on delivering the ‘right to English medium education’, and decentralising administration down to village level . In tune with the government’s priority to the farm sector, nearly Rs. 83,000 crore had been spent in the last 26 months. Support was being extended to farmers from the sowing stage to sale of crops through Rythu Bharosa Kendras and other means, he said. He mentioned that the Disha police stations were giving the much needed protection to women and girls and that steps were taken to set up special courts to try offences under the Disha Act.  He, along with Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang watched the ceremonial parade .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-taking-decisions-with-clear-vision-for-future-cm/article35932575.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New-look school campuses await children today||The Chief Minister will launch the second round of the scheme at Singamsetti Prabhavati Zilla Parishad High School in P. Gannavaram mandal of East Godavari district. He will also distribute school kits to children under the second phase of the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka at the same event. The school authorities said the objective of providing the school paraphernalia to students on the very first day of the new academic year was to spare them the trouble of waiting for the textbooks and notebooks and other equipment needed for a perfect head start to their academic journey. Under the Vidya Kanuka scheme, 42,32,064 school kits will be distributed to students of the government and aided schools at a cost of Rs. 731.30 crore for the academic year 2021-22. The reopening of schools will also coincide with the launch of the second phase of the school infrastructure programme in 16,368 schools at a cost of Rs. 4,535 crore. The total cost of the project, proposed to be implemented in three phases, is estimated at Rs. 16,025 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-look-school-campuses-await-children-today/article35932635.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New-look school campuses await children today||The school authorities said the objective of providing the school paraphernalia to students on the very first day of the new academic year was to spare them the trouble of waiting for the textbooks and notebooks and other equipment needed for a perfect head start to their academic journey. Under the Vidya Kanuka scheme, 42,32,064 school kits will be distributed to students of the government and aided schools at a cost of Rs. 731.30 crore for the academic year 2021-22. New frills have been added to 15,715 schools under Nadu-Nedu’s first phase at a cost of Rs. 3,699 crore. The reopening of schools will also coincide with the launch of the second phase of the school infrastructure programme in 16,368 schools at a cost of Rs. 4,535 crore. The total cost of the project, proposed to be implemented in three phases, is estimated at Rs. 16,025 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-look-school-campuses-await-children-today/article35931993.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebration time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebration-time/article35932702.ece
16 August 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||Bengaluru-Hyderabad NCB units unearth Alprazolam racket||In a joint operation, officials working with the Benglauru unit and Hyderabad sub-zone of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) unearthed another inter-State Alprazolam manufacturing racket and arrested five people on Saturday. The accused were producing the short-acting tranquilliser at a clandestine laboratory in Hyderabad — the second to be uncovered in two months. Around 3.25 kg of Alprazolam was recovered. After receiving a tip-off, a team led by zonal director Amit Ghawate intercepted two cars near Medak on the Hyderabad national highway and apprehended four people, identified as Y. Sudhakar, A. Naresh, K.P. Kumar, and A. Srikanth. A total of 3.25 kg of Alprazolam and Rs. 12,75,000 in cash was recovered from them, which is proceeds of drugs, said the NCB. The probe revealed that Sudhak was the supplier and manufacturer, while A. Naresh was the receiver. They were apprehended during an exchange of Alprazolam and cash. Following a spot interrogation, the NCB team located a clandestine laboratory that was operating in a residential area, in the house of Y. Sudhakar at Balanagar, Hyderabad. “In this lab, raw Alprazolam at various stages of manufacturing was found along with apparatus such as flasks and reactors,” Mr. Ghawate said. Some quantity of Alprazolam and a large quantity of raw material was seized from this clandestine lab as well. The team also uncovered another manufacturing facility in an adjoining flat and a makeshift storage room just below the overhead water tank. According to the NCB, the accused had purchased a new reactor and drier to expand their Alprazolam manufacturing operations. In a follow-up operation, the fifth accused, R. Pamarthi, who was operating the laboratory, was also apprehended. He had procured a licence to manufacture genuine medical formulation in the name of M/s. Kartikeya Life Sciences, but misused it for clandestine manufacture of Alprazolam, said the NCB. This syndicate has been operating for over five years. Further investigation is on. Alprazolam is a psychotropic substance belonging to the Benzodiazepine class, which are anti-depressants. Its illegal manufacture and sale is a cause of concern for law enforcement agencies. In June this year, the bureau had unearthed an illegal drug manufacturing facility in Bidar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bengaluru-hyderabad-ncb-units-unearth-alprazolam-manufacturing-racket/article35932181.ece
16 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Patriotic fervour marks I-Day celebrations||Government Whip and Pinapaka MLA Rega Kantha Rao said nearly 90% of the pump house works and 70% of the concrete lining works of the Sitarama Lift Irrigation Project (SRLIP) have been completed. Addressing the gathering at the 75th Independence Day ceremony after unfurling the national flag at Pragathi Maidan in Kothagudem on Sunday, Mr Kantha Rao said the Rs. 13,058-crore SRLIP, after completion, would help tap the flood waters of the Godavari for irrigating thousands of acres of parched lands in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Khammam and Mahabubabad districts.  Collector D Anudeep, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt and others attended the ceremony. The I-Day was celebrated on a grand scale at the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) head office in Kothagudem. SCCL Directors N Balram and S Chandrasekhar felicitated 11 best employees, one each from the 11 Areas of the Singareni coalfields, on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/project-works-in-full-swing/article35932445.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Essence of freedom across Telangana||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated with enthusiasm and patriotic fervour across the State in government and private institutions, government offices, and private establishments, by political parties and others. Tricolour flies high Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan hoisted the national flag in Raj Bhavan and took the guard of honour. She greeted people, Raj Bhavan officers, staff and police and offered sweets and performed a puja at a temple on the premises and left for Puducherry for taking part in Independence Day fete there. Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Pocharam Srinivas Reddy unfurled the Tricolour on the Assembly premises and asked the elected representatives to rededicate themselves to progressive and welfare administration to bring smiles on the faces of all. Pro-tem Chairman of Legislative Council V. Bhoopal Reddy hoisted the national flag on the Council premises. Ministers Satyavathi Rathod hoisted the national flag in Mahabubabad, Talasani Srinivas Yadav in Medak, Puvvada Ajay Kumar in Khammam, Errabelli Dayakar Rao in Jangaon and explained the welfare initiatives of the State government aimed at improving the living standards of people. Chief Justice of Telangana High Court Justice Hima Kohli hoisted the national flag in the court complex and spoke about the severe impact of COVID on judicial and support staff as also the efforts being made to reduce the load of pending cases. Lokayukta Justice C.V. Ramulu unfurled the national flag at the Lokayukta office, where Upa-Lokayukta V. Niranjan Rao participated. At Pragati Bhavan, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao hoisted the Tricolour and paid tributes at the Veerula Sainik Smarak memorial by laying a wreath as a mark of honour for martyred soldiers at Parade Grounds. Senior officers of Armed Forces Lieutenant General T.S.A. Narayanan, Commandant MCEME, Major General R.K. Singh, GOC-TASA, Air Vice Marshal Pawan Mohey, Commandant-CDM, Air Vice Marshal K.S. Suresh Kumar, Commandant-CAW, Major General Prit Pal Singh, GOC-Bison Division, Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, Station Commander, Commodore Mukesh Kumar, Director-DMDE and veterans laid wreaths and paid homage to martyrs. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar unfurled the national flag at the make-shift Secretariat in Burgula Ramakrishna Rao Bhavan. Principal Secretary (General Administration) Vikas Raj, Commissioner and Inspector General of Stamps and Registration V. Sheshadri, Secretary (SC Development) Rahul Bojja and others participated. Commissioner of I&PR participated in Independence Day celebrations at Samachar Bhavan and hoisted the national flag. Director General G. Narendra Kumar at NIRD-PR and Vice-Chancellor Prof. B.J. Rao at University of Hyderabad hoisted the national flag. The national flag was hoisted by Chairman and Managing Director of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd N. Sridhar at Singareni Bhavan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shobha at Aranya Bhavan, in-charge CMD of TS-Transco C. Srinivasa Rao at Vidyuth Soudha, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of the Forest Development Corporation G. Chandrashekhar Reddy at Botanical Gardens, Chairman B. Ramana Naik at Institution of Engineers (India). Similarly, Independence Day was celebrated at various party offices. President of TPCC Revanth Reddy hoisted the national flag at Gandhi Bhavan, secretary general of TRS and MP K. Keshava Rao at Telangana Bhavan and State president of BJP Bandi Sanjay Kumar at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Bhavan. At Makhdoom Bhavan, CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy hoisted the national flag. As part of the Independence Day celebrations at NMDC, CMD Sumit Deb along with senior most employee at the Head Office A. Shankariah unfurled the Tricolour at the corporate office here in the presence of Director (Production) P.K. Satpathy, Director (Finance) Amitava Mukherjee, Director (Commercial) Alok Mehta and Director (Technical) Somnath Nandi and employees. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Deb urged everyone to participate in Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. He also highlighted the contribution of PSUs in nation building and their resilience in the face of adversity as a testimony to their strength and service. At the celebrations organised by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI), president K. Bhasker Reddy hoisted the national flag at Federation House here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/essence-of-freedom-across-telangana/article35932427.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalit protection fund to be launched with Dalit Bandhu||As the stage is being set for the launch of pilot project of Telangana Dalit Bandhu at Huzurabad on Monday, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that a special corpus, Dalit Protection Fund, is being created simultaneously to help the families of beneficiaries in the event of the selected beneficiary facing unforeseen hardships. The first of its kind scheme in the country envisages coverage to the beneficiaries’ families with their contribution of Rs. 10,000 each and the government giving a matching grant to the corpus of the protection fund. “The government is preparing to give financial support through the fund to those who are at risk,” the Chief Minister said. He revealed the finer details of the ambitious scheme during his address after unfurling the national flag on the 75th Independence Day on Sunday. Mr. Rao said the scheme, his brainchild, had been designed after consulting experts and assessment of various factors, including the failure of the governments in the past to effectively monitor the schemes introduced for dalit welfare. Accordingly, Dalit Bandhu Samitis would be established at different levels – from village level to State level – and these would be entrusted with the responsibility of managing the dalit protection fund. District Collectors would have a crucial role in the implementation of Dalit Bandhu and management of protection fund. Identity card The government had resolved to introduce special comprehensive policy for monitoring results of the scheme. An identity card, with a special chip, would be given to the beneficiaries under the scheme and this would help the government in monitoring the results from time to time. The project would be implemented fully in Huzurabad and partially in other constituencies and it had been contemplated as dalits were not satisfied with limited support like small loans and subsidies that could not bring any significant change in their lives. While giving the assured Rs. 10 lakh as grant to beneficiaries, the government would give freedom to choose the employment, business with the investment money provided to them. The government would assist the beneficiaries who feel they have expertise in any field. In case of those in a dilemma in choosing the employment mode/business, the government is prepared to assist and guide them. Flexibility would also be given to beneficiaries to form groups so that bigger units would be established.  The government did not limit itself to giving financial motivation, but would implement special reservations for dalits to promote them in various business areas. Special reservations would be provided to them in areas like setting up fertilizer shops, medical shops, hospitals, hostels and other trades which needed licence from the government. “The Telangana government is creating new standards through Telangana Dalit Bandhu in pursuit of values of equality enshrined in the Constitution. The scheme will become a movement and will be a role model for others,” he averred. The Chief Minister earlier inspected parade by Samman Guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-protection-fund-to-be-launched-with-dalit-bandhu/article35932442.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safety gear to workers not part of GHMC contract||Sewage workers continue to die in manholes despite legal provisions against manual scavenging, but ironically, officialdom hides behind the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 when it comes to safety precautions. GHMC includes no clause about safety gear for workers in its agreements with contractors when it comes to cleaning or de-silting of sewerage or stormwater drains. The agreements merely contain one perfunctory clause about the contractor’s responsibility towards workers’ safety, and medical insurance for them. Safety gear such as full body suit, gloves, boots and helmet do not find place in the agreement, let alone oxygen cylinders. When questions are raised about the same in the instance of death of workers, contractors and GHMC officials end up blaming each other. Contractors’ refrain is that the civic body does not include cost of safety gear to workers in the tender document, while officials say it is the contractor’s obligation. “The contractor is prohibited by law from using manual labour to get into the sewage lines. Hence, there is no question of providing funds for safety gear,” says an official under the condition of anonymity. Regardless of the prohibition against manual scavenging, however, use of manual labour for cleaning of sewage/stormwater pipelines continues unabated. Officials are also quick to point out that the prohibition against manual scavenging is applicable only to the sewerage lines, and not the stormwater drains. However, sewerage and stormwater drains alternating between each other is a phenomenon peculiar for Hyderabad, which provides an escape route for all concerned except the worker. Stormwater drains contain ‘dry flows’ even when there are no rains, as several sewage lines from household as well as commercial establishments are directly connected to them. The drain in which the two workers met their untimely death recently in Vanasthalipuram is just a case in point. Initially built as sewerage line, the drain is doubling up as stormwater line too, and no safety gear was provided to the workers. GHMC officials, nevertheless, continue to stick to their claim that it was a stormwater drain, in order to escape from legal implications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/safety-gear-to-workers-not-part-of-ghmc-contract/article35932421.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kapinjal Chowdhury wins Hyderabad round of BL quiz||Kapinjal Chowdhury of TCS won the Hyderabad regional round of BusinessLine’s Cerebration 2021, one of India’s premier corporate quiz championship, in virtual mode on Sunday. B. Naveen Kumar of Sai Mitra Constructions came second. The preliminary online quizzing took place from August 4 to 11 to shortlist top six from each of the six cities of Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi and witnessed more than 6,000 participants. The Hyderabad regional round took place at 4 p.m. on Sunday with six participants namely: Kapinjal Chowdhury, TCS B. Naveen Kumar, Sai Mitra Constructions Vishnu Santhosh S, HPCL Surya Prakash, Indian Bank Siddharth Mishra, Cognizant Shivani Panda, Amazon After a gruelling four rounds of quizzing, Kapinjal Chowdhury of TCS emerged as the winner of the Hyderabad regional round with 57 points. In second place was B. Naveen Kumar of Sai Mitra Constructions with 41 points followed by Surya Prakash of Indian Bank in third place with 10 points. Some of the interesting questions answered by participants included: Q: In certain products of the brand the ‘road ahead’ visual identity will be replaced with an identity that takes inspiration from the ‘Explore the Impossible’ motto, and “reflects ambition and the ability to take new challenges, head-on”. The first implement of the new logo was seen on Sunday. What identity? A: New Mahindra SUV logo on Mahindra XUV700 Q: What philosophical term, coined in 1972 by Sicco Mansholt, one of the Founding Fathers of the European Union, is misattributed to a former monarch of a neighbouring country as he used that as a governance measure? A: Gross National Happiness (used by Bhutan) Editor BusinessLine Raghuvir Srinivasan gave the welcome address and Deputy Zonal Head Hyderabad Region, Union Bank of India, N.V.S Yoganand also spoke. The quiz master for the event was Ajay Poonia The partners for the BusinessLine Cerebration Quiz are: Title sponsor: Union Bank of India. Powered by: CFA Institute In Association with: ManageEngine The Hyderabad regional round can be viewed at https://bit.ly/BLCQ4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kapinjal-chowdhury-wins-hyderabad-round-of-bl-quiz/article35932431.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crop loan waiver up to Rs. 50k to be effected from today||The amount for crop loan waiver up to Rs. 50,000 per farmer, as part of the waiver announced as a pre-poll promise in 2018, would be transferred into their bank accounts from Monday, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said here on Sunday. The process would go on till the month-end. A trial run on the process was carried out on Sunday so that it could be hassle-free and there are no hurdles in the transfer of the amount directly to the bank accounts of farmers as was being done in case of transfer of the investment support amount at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre every crop season under the Rythu Bandhu scheme, the Minister stated. As part the second phase of the crop loan waiver announced in 2018, the overdue amount till March 31, 2018 from Rs. 25,001 to Rs. 50,000 would be cleared by the government. As was done in Rythu Bandhu, the second phase of crop loan waiver would be done in batches – for example, up to Rs. 30,000, Rs. 35,000, Rs. 40,000, Rs. 45,000 and Rs. 50,000. A total of 6,06,811 farmers with a crop loan overdue amount of Rs. 2,005.85 crore would be cleared in the second phase. An amount of Rs. 408.38 crore pertaining to 2.96 lakh farmers was cleared in the first phase of 2018 crop loan waiver. The Minister stated that as part of the loan waiver announced in 2014, an amount of Rs. 16,144.1 crore was cleared between 2014 and 2018. The Minister reiterated that the government is committed to encourage the farming community towards change in the cropping pattern to suit the market demands as also to improve their income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-loan-waiver-up-to-rs-50k-to-be-effected-from-today/article35932415.ece
16 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Scuffle breaks out between BJP corporator and TRS MLA||Malkajgiri BJP corporator Vurapalli Sravan accused TRS MLA Mynampally Hanumantha Rao and his followers of attempting to kill him following a scuffle that broke out between them during flag hoisting at GHMC Circle office on Sunday. The corporator, who was severely injured, was rushed to a nearby private hospital. According to police, an argument broke out between them on the issue of developmental works for which the latter allegedly reacted sharply and used objectionable words which angered the MLA and his cadre. In a video that went viral on the internet, the MLA was seen raging towards Sravan using unparliamentary language near the flag post, while the supporters of both the parties were seen hurling plastic chairs at each other. The corporator along with his supporters staged a ‘rasta rako’ demanding action against Mr. Rao and lodged a complaint against the MLA with Malkajgiri police accusing him of attempt to murder. He also accused him of outraging the modesty of Moula Ali division corporator Sunitha Yadav. “He also pushed Neredmet corporator Rajyalami, Pankajam and others and attacked my party workers,” Mr. Sravan told police in his complaint copy. Based on his complaint, a case was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Section 2 of Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, against Mr. Rao and his supporters. The TRS legislator also lodged a complaint against Mr. Sravan. “Based on the complaint and counter-complaint, two cases were registered and a probe is on,” police said. Later in the afternoon, BJP State president Bandi Sanjay met Mr. Sravan at the hospital and “warned” the MLA of exposing his illegal activities in the area. For which Mr. Rao held a press conference and abused Mr. Sanjay in foul language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scuffle-breaks-out-between-bjp-corporator-and-trs-mla/article35932440.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fill all teacher post vacancies, BC body asks State govt.||National Backward Classes Welfare Association (NBCWA) president R. Krishnaiah has demanded that the State government fill 40,000 teacher post vacancies in government schools and 10,000 vacancies of lecturer and assistant professor posts in govt. colleges and universities immediately. Speaking to student union leaders of different universities who met him here on Sunday, he said the State govt. is talking about recruitment to fill vacancies in govt. departments but there is no word on filling the teacher post vacancies. Quoting the latest Pay Revision Commission report, he said it had put the teacher post vacancies at 24,000, physical eduction teacher posts at 10,000, art and craft teachers at 5,000, computer teachers at 4,000, librarians at 3,000 and clerical posts at 10,000. Besides, the vacancies of teachers in aided schools was put at 4,900, in model schools at 2,000, in Kasturba Gandhi schools at 1,500 and other residential schools at 12,000. The system of imparting education is being degraded due to such huge number of vacancies, in spite the availability of over 6 lakh candidates qualified with B.Ed and D.Ed. In addition to such posts, the supervisory posts are also vacant in large numbers, Mr. Krishnaiah said adding that 564 out of 589 mandal education officer posts and 80 of district education officer posts are also vacant. He appealed to the government not to close schools and reduce the number of sanctioned posts of teachers in the name of rationalisation as it would weaken the public sector education system badly. On the vacancies in government colleges and universities, he said posts of 4,800 junior college lecturers, 2,000 degree college lecturers, 900 polytechnic, ITI and DIET lecturer posts and 2,200 assistant professors are not being filled for many years affecting the quality of education being offered to students. He suggested the government not to view the teacher posts vacancies from the angle of employment but look at it from the perspective of students’ future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fill-all-teacher-post-vacancies-bc-body-asks-state-govt/article35932435.ece
16 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||City has a long intimate association with alams||Hyderabad’s oldest Ashoorkhana is the one on top of the Maula Ali hillock built in 1578. It’s most resplendent Ashoorkhana is the Badshahi Ashoorkhana with brilliant tilework built in 1591, and the annual procession on the tenth day of Muharram from Bibi ka Alawa in Dabeerpura built in 1784 is the most moving one. But beyond these three Ashoorkhanas and the alams that are displayed during Muharram, Hyderabad has a long intimate association with the battle standards that are part of the Muharram observances. “This is the alam my grandfather planted on the edge of the Musi River during tughiyani (great flood of September 28, 1908) and the water passed 10 feet from it,” informs Talib Ali, about one of the alams installed at his home in the Langar Houz area. The door has the name of Late Mir Iqtadar Ali, inside there are 32 alams, some with their missing pairs. “During partition some of our relatives went away to Lahore in Pakistan and so we have one instead of the pairs that were created by our ancestors,” informed Shoeb Ali in another house in Langar Houz. Inside Aun Mehdi’s palatial house in Langar Houz are the alams that once used to be belong to his ancestor Prime Minister Mir Alam. The alams carry a tale of strife as the Shirdals that were part of the alams are now replaced by a non-figurative geometrical pattern. “Scattered across the city, there are many ashoorkhanas. While many think there is only on Badshahi Ashoorkhana there are in fact two. There are two Hussaini Alams. This is one of them,” says Mubbashir Ali Khan as he opens a small doorway in the Chota Bazaar area of Golconda. Under a low-roofed arch are the alams whose replicas are now housed in the Hussaini Alam Ashoorkhana. The alams share space with a disused scooter in what used to be part of the Naumahalla complex in Golconda Fort. On the other side of the Musi River are Ashoorkhanas whose construction style shows European influence in the arches and decorations on arches. A lane through which only a single person can pass leads to the Ashoorkhana that used to be part of Mahlaqa Bai Chanda’s devdi near the complex where nobility like Mir Momin used to live in a different era. The Ashoorkhana has a miniature masjid similar to the one near the foothill of Maula Ali hillock. As children wander about, men and women come and offer flowers reverentially touch or kiss the alam and move on. The buzz on the street in Hyderabad is about the 38-year-old elephant Madhuri brought from Kolhapur will be used for the ceremonial procession of alams on the 10th day of Muharram on August 20. But till then, old city comes alive with marsiyas, nohas at majlis being marked at homes and ashoorkhanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/citys-association-with-alams/article35932434.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi condemns attack||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar condemned the attack on Malkajgiri corporator Sravan and demanded the perpetrators behind the “unprovoked” attack be arrested immediately. The party chief met the corporator along with senior leaders Vijayshanti, Vijayarama Rao, N. Ramchander Rao, NVSS Prabhakar and others after he learnt of the attack. He demanded the police personnel present during the attack to be suspended as they took no action. The party has called for “Malkajgiri bandh” on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-condemns-attack/article35932436.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tests drop by around 40k||Telangana witnessed a sharp drop in COVID cases on Sunday as tests came down by around 40,000. For the last one week, around 80,000 to 90,000 samples were being tested leading to detection of 450-500 cases. However, only 50,126 samples were tested on Sunday (August 15) and 245 people tested positive. Such a low number of cases was last detected when the second wave was just showing signs in the middle of March this year. Of the 245 new cases, the highest of 52 was from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by 30 in Karimnagar, and 17 in Nalgonda. No COVID case was detected in Yadadri Bhongir, Nagarkurnool, and Kamareddy. One COVID patient died. From March 2, 2020, to August 15 this year, over 2.33 crore samples were examined and 6,52,380 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 7,268 were active cases, 6,41,270 have recovered, and 3,842 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tests-drop-by-around-40k/article35932638.ece
16 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI CGM urges staff to ingrain better work culture||State Bank of India Hyderabad (SBI) Circle Chief General Manager Amit Jhingran has underscored the need for the staff to ingrain better work culture, as part of which they should welcome customers with a smile, serve them courteously and resolve their problems. Speaking after unfurling the Tricolor as part of the Independence Day celebrations organised at SBI Local Head Office in Koti here on Sunday, he urged them to “work with passion, discipline, hard work, focus, belief and self confidence.” Also, he asked them to re-dedicate themselves to the cause of building a strong Aatmanirbhar Bharat. The senior banker recollected the contribution made by SBI for national growth by lending to MSMEs as well as for agriculture, retail and infrastructure sectors through a host of financial products and also appreciated the work of the staff. The Hyderabad Circle, in a release, said staff and their wards who excelled in academics and sports were felicitated on the occasion. As part of corporate social responsibility initiatives, the bank donated groceries, blankets, clothes, masks and sanitisers to Lalana Welfare Organisation, Nagole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-cgm-urges-staff-to-ingrain-better-work-culture/article35932428.ece
16 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Painting exhibition on Alluri Seetharamaraju in New Delhi||Union Minister of Culture, Tourism, and Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) G. Kishan Reddy inaugurated an titled, Exhibition Katha Kranthiveeron Ki, a dedicated painting exhibition on Alluri Seetharamaraju and exhibits of paintings of Shaheedi Diwas, Champaran Satyagraha and Jallianwala Bagh at Lalit Kala Galleries, Rabindra Bhavan, in New Delhi, on Sunday. Ministers of State for Culture Arjun Ram Meghwal and Meenakshi Lekhi also graced the event, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/painting-exhibition-on-alluri-seetharamaraju-in-new-delhi/article35932438.ece
16 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Zarda manufactures held||The sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) team along with Mirchowk police raided a place at Pathargatti and apprehended two persons who were manufacturing banned zarda products. They named the product ‘Rocket Tobacco’ and transported it to traders in and around the city to make a quick buck. Police seized zarda raw material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/zarda-manufactures-held/article35932439.ece
16 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Kin of dead tribals suspect foul play||The mystery shrouding the death of three persons of a tribal family at Chandru Tanda in Tirumalayapalem mandal on Saturday night took a new turn with the irate family members of the deceased alleging that the trio were murdered by their close relative by poisoning. Sixty-year-old Boda Haridas, his 55-year-old brother Malsur and their 30-year-old relative Bhadru, died in a span of one hour after consuming liquor at a post-death ritual ceremony held at the house of their close relative Chinna, a rural medical practitioner (RMP), at Chandru Tanda on Saturday night. It was initially suspected that they might have died either due to spurious liquor or food poisoning. However, the case took a new twist with the angry family members of the trio tried to attack the house of Chinna at Chandru Tanda on Sunday afternoon accusing him of mixing some poisonous substance in liquor that was served to the victims at the dinner party at the latter’s house on Saturday night. They alleged that Chinna nursed a grudge against the trio owing to a previous rivalry over a land issue and masterminded their murder by poisoning. The Tirumalayapalem police registered a case against Chinna and his father based on a complaint filed by the family members of the three deceased persons. As a tense situation prevailed at Chandru Tanda, the police mounted a vigil in the village to prevent untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kin-of-dead-tribals-suspect-foul-play/article35932446.ece
16 August 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Journalist meets watery grave||Ch. Nagaraju, a reporter working with a vernacular daily, met watery grave on Saturday night. According to police, Nagaraju used to go for a walk regularly on the tank bund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/journalist-meets-watery-grave/article35932444.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Wishful thinking among the Opposition parties in State||The announcement of Dalit Bandhu scheme by the State government with the possibility of by-election to Huzurabad Assembly constituency in the near future has given rise to wishful thinking among the opposition parties. In the recent past, several leaders of the opposition parties have not missed even a single opportunity, particularly after the by-election to Nagarjunsagar Assembly seat, to term by-elections as a panacea to all problems at constituency and at State-level. Former Minister A. Chandrasekhar, now in BJP, recently said people, particularly those of the shepherd community, in his Vikarabad constituency are praying for resignation of the sitting TRS legislator so that by-election could get them sheep units sanctioned under the sheep distribution scheme. He pointed out that the beneficiaries had borrowed money to mobilise 20% of their contribution in the unit cost over a year back and are yet to get the units sanctioned. Speaking at Dalita-Girijana Dandora meet in Indervelli, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy too echoed similar view stating that by-elections to 118 Assembly seats, since Huzurabad is already vacant, could make the government address all problems of people.   The State government has initiated steps for the formal launch of the pilot project of Telangana Dalit Bandhu, the scheme aimed at financial motivation of dalit families in a phased manner, at Huzurabad. With Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao slated to launch the scheme at a public meeting on Monday, the Karimnagar district education officer reportedly assigned duty of mobilisation of people from villages to a group of teachers. A communication addressed to teachers was all set to turn into a controversy as teachers openly opposed the decision to entrust them with such responsibility. Senior officials intervened in the matter and avoided the controversy ensuring that teachers were not given such duties.   There is no doubt that the TRS has taken the upcoming by-election to Huzurabad Assembly constituency as a matter of prestige which is evident from the head start it has taken over the rivals in the campaign. A matter of concern for TRS was what if the Election Commission of India delayed the election in view of the COVID-19 pandemic? Also, the prestigious Dalit Bandhu scheme of government was set for launch on Monday apparently on expectations that the polls would be somewhere round the corner. On any given day, at least four Ministers are busy campaigning for TRS in the constituency. All this will come to a naught if the polls are delayed inordinately. The BJP, on the other hand, has thought of another way of dealing with the uncertainty over the poll schedule. It has worked out the padayatra of the State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar from August 24 in a way that the programme will be outside of the constituency as long as the schedule was not announced. Once announced, the padayatra will enter the constituency and turn into a campaign by Mr. Sanjay Kumar. (B. Chandrashekhar, M. Rajeev and N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wishful-thinking-among-the-opposition-parties-in-state/article35932443.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||It is high time that TSRTC focuses on efficient handling of its operations in Hyderabad region. Bus shelters do not exist at many places, proper benches are not there for passengers to sit while waiting for buses and there is lack of cleanliness at several bus bays. Besides, buses on many routes have been taken out of service without any notice. I request TSRTC to have a competent authority to focus on bus operations, grievance redressal and monitor systems pertaining to the twin cities. N.S. Aditya Saifabad    City buses like 100-R (Snehpuri - Nampally) and 90-D (Dilsukhnagar - Secunderabad Station) were discontinued with the second wave of COVID and lockdown imposed. But, these services continue to be withdrawn even now. As a result, auto drivers are charging abnormal rates of Rs. 80-Rs. 100. Also, I request TSRTC authorities to construct bus shelters at Snehpuri-Hanuman Temple (R.K. Puram) and at Telephone Colony. The one at R.K. Puram is in deplorable condition. B. Rajendra Prasad Ramakrishnapuram    It’s been a matter of utmost concern that street lights in many prominent places in the city are not functioning especially in prime time i.e. after 8 p.m. Hence, commuters are being subjected to unwarranted difficulties. Further, roads in many important locations like Ramakrishna Math, Domalguda, are getting repaired frequently due to which people are facing a lot of problems. I request GHMC to look into these issues. K. Satish Reddy Domalguda      Senior citizens visiting Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) for passport renewal or fresh applications are finding it extremely difficult to wait outside, especially at Ameerpet premises when they reach a little earlier than their allotted time slots. As there are no waiting halls or seating arrangements in the compound area, the elderly are forced to stand in the hot sun or bad weather conditions till their turn. I request the authorities concerned to arrange necessary canopy structures along with a few chairs for the benefit of old people. K. Ramayanam Balanagar    JJ Nagar post office is an offshoot of ECIL post office with the former getting a new pincode 500103 and the latter retaining 500062. However, this is not getting reflected in the system and therefore, we are not able to change the pincode in our passports, Aadhaar cards and other important documents. All letters reach the ECIL post office and are then redirected to JJ Nagar P.O. leading to delay. I request the authorities concerned to incorporate the new pincode in all their systems like Mee Seva as early as possible. D. Nagarjuna Kushaiguda  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article35932429.ece
16 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||No relief in sight for parking at Sadar Bazar||It could be a long wait before the parking woes of the shoppers thronging the congested Sadar Bazar and the neighbouring market areas in the Old City might finally end. Hit by the COVID-induced lockdown, legal tangles and tussle over land transfer, all the three multilevel parking projects of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram are running behind schedule and the fate of the largest of them, the 8,332-sq m six-storey parking lot with a multiplex and a commercial space, hangs in the balance. Though the Letters of Award (LoA) have been given for all the three projects — near Jama Masjid off Old Railway Road, at Kaman Sarai, and behind the post office in Sadar Bazar — the construction is yet to kick off at two of the sites. As per the contract, all the three lots are to be constructed in two years’ time. Completion time limit The work for the 3,186 sq m parking lot near Jama Masjid began in August last with a delay of over a year due to COVID-induced lockdown, but the project is not likely to be completed within the mandatory 24 months. An official, not willing to be identified, said that only 25% of the work was completed so far and going at the present pace, the construction could not be completed within the time frame fixed in the contract. “This year, too, a lot of time was lost due to the lockdown restrictions. Besides, carrying out construction in a congested market area throws up many challenges. The work is carried out round-the-clock and the casting job is done mostly after 10 p.m.,” said the official involved with the construction project. Total capacity The six-storey parking lot with three basements has a total capacity of 260 four-wheelers and 154 two-wheelers and would mostly cater to the shoppers visiting Sadar Bazar, Bhuteshwar Mandir market, Jama Masjid market, and the shops along the Basai Road and Jail Road. Ramesh, running Bharat Handloom House, near the parking lot expressed hope that the project, once completed, would meet the parking needs in the area to a large extent. “There is no parking space in this area, expect two small open parking lots near Sohna Chowk with a capacity of hardly two dozen of them. The motorists are forced to park their vehicles on the roadside, slowing down the traffic movement and adding to the congestion. This parking lot will be a big relief,” said Mr. Ramesh, who deals in bedsheets, wallpapers and mattress covers’ business. The work for the second and the bigger parking lot behind the post-office — measuring 3,840 sq m — and catering mostly to those coming to the Sadar Bazar has been hit due to delay in transfer of land from the Public Works Department to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. The LoA for the project, with a capacity of 368 four-wheelers and 144 two-wheelers, was given to M/s Nonu Ram and Sons on February 12, 2020, but the work is yet to start. The parking lot will have five storeys and three basements. Legal problem However, the most ambitious of the three, one at Kaman Sarai, has landed in a legal soup over the demolition of shops and some houses forming the facade of the parking lot with the capacity to hold 1,000 four-wheelers and 195 two-wheelers. The shopkeepers, around a dozen in number, and a family of seven brothers, claiming to be staying on the land for around a century, moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court last year over the matter and the court has directed the municipal commissioner to give them a hearing. Naresh Chawla, one of the shopkeepers, said that they had held meetings with the previous and incumbent municipal commissioners, but there was no solution in sight. “We have been running these shops since 1960s and provided the proof to the commissioner. It is about our livelihood. We are only a dozen shopkeepers. We have demanded that the municipal corporation allot us shops in the front in the upcoming parking lot-cum-commercial complex,” said Mr. Chawla. Raj Kumar Chawariya, the eldest of the seven brothers, claimed they had won against the Haryana Urban Development Authority and the Department of Town and Country Planning trying to displace them from their houses. Only on condition “The corporation came into being in 2007, but we have been staying here since 1925. We also own seven shops. We are ready to vacate the land, if the government offers us houses in return,” said Mr. Chawariya, lying in a cot in his house recovering from an illness. The local unit of the Congress also owns an office on the site. Meanwhile, the proposed site at Kaman Sarai dug up by the municipal corporation has turned into a pond inundated with rainwater attracting pigs and strays and is a potential breeding ground for mosquitoes and vector-borne diseases in the monsoon season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-relief-in-sight-for-parking-at-sadar-bazar/article35932300.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||2 held for threatening to attack JNU on I-Day||Two men were arrested on Sunday for allegedly threatening to attack Jawaharlal Nehru University on Independence Day. They had uploaded a video on Facebook, the police said. The accused have been identified as Vikas Sehrawat (30), who can be heard making the threatening statement in the alleged inflammatory video, and Raja Kumar, both residents of Uttam Nagar. According to the police, Sehrawat was arrested earlier for allegedly threatening and using foul language on senior Delhi Congress leader and former MLA Alka Lamba in a video. VHP association He told police that he has been associated with the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) since 2018. The police, however, said they are verifying his credentials. Sehrawat has no association with JNU and made the video to seek attention, the police said. Kumar is the owner of the phone from which the video was uploaded. “We received a PCR call from a JNU student on Sunday at 1.51 a.m. at Vasant Kunj (North) police station stating that a video has been uploaded on Facebook page ‘Mahakal Youth Brigade’ alleging that the university would be attacked,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said. After receiving the call, police personnel were deployed in plain clothes at all gates. A few other calls were also received in this regard, the police said. “The students came to the police station and filed a complaint. The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) office-bearers wrote a similar complaint where they alleged that the video promotes disharmony and enmity, using inflammatory language and also openly issuing threats of physical hurt,” the DCP said. Later in the day, JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said the campus was safe and there was nothing to fear. “The campus is safe. We celebrated the 75th Independence Day today [Sunday]. There is absolutely nothing to fear,” he said. Whenever such things happen, security is ramped up, the V-C said. “I myself went around the campus to see the situation and everything is normal,” he added. In its police complaint, the JNUSU said an “open call to gather and march into the JNU campus on August 15 from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m., to hoist the saffron flag” was given in the videos. A case registered against the threat video under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the police said, adding that an investigation is under way. Last year’s violence On January 5 last year, a mob of masked miscreants had stormed the campus and targeted students. While clamour grew for the V-C’s removal after the incident, the Delhi police faced criticism for inaction when the mob was running riot on the campus.  The campus is safe. We celebrated the 75th Independence Day today [Sunday]. There is absolutely nothing to fear M. Jagadesh Kumar JNU Vice-Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-held-for-threatening-to-attack-jnu-on-i-day/article35932296.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Wonder in the waiting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wonder-in-the-waiting/article35932295.ece
16 August 2021||Istanbul,||Afghans fear a return to brutal Taliban regime||As the Taliban mass at the gates of Kabul, they are promising a new era of peace in Afghanistan, with amnesty for those they have been battling for two decades and a return to normal life. But Afghans who remember the Taliban’s brutal rule and those who have lived in areas controlled by the Islamic militants in recent years have watched with growing fear as the insurgents have overrun most of the country while international forces withdraw. In a stunning rout, the Taliban seized nearly all of Afghanistan in just over a week, despite the billions of dollars spent by the U.S. and NATO over nearly two decades to build up Afghan security forces. On Sunday, the insurgents entered the outskirts of Kabul but initially remained outside of the city’s downtown. Meanwhile, Taliban negotiators in the capital discussed the transfer of power, said an Afghan official who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals. The officialdescribed the discussions as “tense.” The fall of Kabul marks the final chapter of America’s longest war, which began after the September 11, 2001, terror attacks masterminded by al-Qaeda’s Osama bin Laden, then harboured by the Taliban government. A U.S.-led invasion dislodged the Taliban. The negotiators on the government side included former President Hamid Karzai, leader of Hizb-e-Islami political and paramilitary group Gulbudin Hekmatyar and the head of the Afghan National Reconciliation Council Abdullah Abdullah, who has been a critic of President Ashraf Ghani, who has reportedly fled the country. Mr. Karzai himself appeared in a video posted onlin, saying he remained in Kabul. “We are trying to solve the issue of Afghanistan with the Taliban leadership peacefully,” he said. ‘They sold the country’ Afghanistan’s acting Defence Minister, Bismillah Khan Mohammadi, didn’t hold back his criticism of the fleeing President. “They tied our hands from behind and sold the country,” he wrote on Twitter. “Curse Ghani and his gang.” The Taliban tried to calm Kabul residents, insisting their fighters wouldn’t enter people’s homes or interfere with businesses. They also said they’d offer an “amnesty” to those who worked with the Afghan government or foreign forces. “No one’s life, property and dignity will be harmed and the lives of the citizens of Kabul will not be at risk,” the insurgents said. But there have been reports of revenge killings and other brutal tactics in areas of the country the Taliban have seized in recent days. Government offices, shops and schools are still shuttered in areas recently captured by the Taliban, with many residents either lying low or fleeing to the capital, Kabul. But already there are indications of a return to the harsh version of Islamic rule Afghans lived under from 1996 until 2001. Many fear the Taliban will roll back two decades of gains by women and ethnic minorities while restricting the work of journalists and NGO workers. An entire generation of Afghans was raised on hopes of building a modern, democratic state — dreams that seem to have melted away. As the insurgents reached the capital early on Sunday, a photo circulated on social media showing the owner of a beauty salon painting over posters depicting women. Young men raced home to change out of their jeans and tee-shirts and into the traditional salwar kamiz outfit. Last month, after capturing Malistan district of Ghazni province, the insurgents went door to door looking for people who had worked with the government, killing at least 27 civilians, according to Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission. After capturing Herat, the insurgents paraded two alleged thieves through the streets with black makeup on their faces. These days, the Taliban leadership says it is open to women’s education, but rights groups say the rules vary depending on local commanders and the communities themselves. Fear is running high among the ethnic Hazara minority, Shia Muslims who were persecuted by the Taliban and made major gains in education and social status over the past two decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghans-fear-a-return-to-brutal-taliban-regime/article35931892.ece
16 August 2021||Kabul,||Kabul airport closed to commercial flights||Senior U.S. military officials say Kabul’s international airport has been closed to commercial flights as military evacuations continue. The suspension of commercial flights cuts off one of the last avenues to escape the country for Afghans fearful of Taliban rule. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss ongoing operations. Scenes of chaos played out at the airport earlier, as Afghans rushed to get on the last flights out of the country. Videos circulating online showed airport personnel struggling to coral crowds boarding a plane on the tarmac, while a man with an injured leg lay on the ground. In the background, a U.S. Air Force plane was landing. The U.S. Embassy in Kabul said on Sunday that the security situation at the airport in the Afghan capital was changing quickly, and that there were reports of gunfire as U.S. troops aided the evacuation of U.S. personnel. “There are reports of the airport taking fire; therefore we are instructing U.S. citizens to shelter in place,” the Embassy said. A source familiar with the situation could not confirm reports of firing there. Secretary of State Antony Blinken had said earlier on Sunday that Embassy staff were leaving the diplomatic compound and moving to the airport as Taliban insurgents entered Kabul. Diplomats were being ferried by helicopter to the airport, where U.S. troops were providing security amid an exodus of Americans and allies and other foreigners. More U.S. forces had been sent in to get U.S. officials out of the country “in a safe and orderly fashion” while maintaining a “core diplomatic presence,” he added. “We’re working to make sure that our personnel are safe and secure. We’re relocating the men and women of our Embassy to a location at the airport,” Mr. Blinken said. Sources had told Reuters that most U.S. staff were expected to be evacuated from Kabul in the coming day or two. Germany on Sunday moved its diplomatic personnel in Kabul from the Embassy to the airport ahead of an evacuation planned from Monday. France will dispatch two military transport planes to the UAE during the night and on Monday for the evacuation of French citizens in Afghanistan. A NATO official said the group was maintaining its diplomatic presence in Kabul and helping to keep the airport running. Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said nobody should bilaterally recognise the Taliban as the government of Afghanistan, adding it was clear that there would be a new administration in the country soon. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-airport-closed-to-commercial-flights/article35932121.ece
16 August 2021||Warsaw,||Israel condemns Poland restitution law||Israel on Saturday condemned Poland’s approval of a law that restricts the rights of Holocaust survivors or their descendants to reclaim property seized by the country’s former communist regime and announced it was recalling its top diplomat in protest. The move ignited a diplomatic crisis between Israel’s government and the nationalist conservative government in Poland. After years of close ties under former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s new government, which includes top officials who are the children of Holocaust survivors, has taken a far more confrontational approach. Polish President Andrzej Duda earlier in the day signed the law, which addresses appropriations done by the communist government that ruled Poland from the end of Second World War until 1989. The law itself says nothing about the Holocaust or Second World War. Instead it establishes that any administrative decision issued 30 years ago or more can no longer be challenged, meaning that property owners who had their homes or business seized in the communist era can no longer get compensation. International pressure It is expected to cut off for all time the hopes of some families — both Jewish and non-Jewish — of reclaiming property seized during that era. Both the U.S. and Israeli governments had strongly urged Poland not to pass the law and Israel had warned it would harm ties. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett called Duda’s signing of the law “a shameful decision and disgraceful contempt for the memory of the Holocaust” and said “Poland has chosen to continue harming those who have lost everything.” Foreign Minister Yair Lapid said that he had instructed Israel’s charges d’affaires in Warsaw to return home immediately and that the new Israeli Ambassador to Poland, who was scheduled to leave for Warsaw, will remain in Israel. The Israel Foreign Ministry also said it was recommending that the Polish Ambassador, who is on vacation home, not return to Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-condemns-poland-restitution-law/article35931896.ece
16 August 2021||Beirut,||Lebanon fuel tank explosion kills 28, overwhelms hospitals||A fuel tank blast in Lebanon on Sunday killed 28 people and left nearly 80 others injured, authorities said.  An adviser to the Health Ministry said the toll from the blast in Al-Tleil village had climbed to 28. The military said a fuel tank that “had been confiscated by the Army to distribute to citizens” exploded just before 2 a.m. Soldiers were among those hurt. The Army began raiding gas stations on Saturday to curb hoarding by suppliers after a central bank decision to scrap fuel subsidies. The official National News Agency (NNA) said the blast followed scuffles between “residents that gathered around the container to fill up gasoline” overnight. Unable to seek treatment in Akkar, Ismail al-Sheikh, 23, who sustained burns to his arms and legs, was driven by his sister Marwa to the Geitawi hospital in Beirut, some 80 km away. “At night, we were informed that the Army was distributing gasoline... so people flocked to fill it in plastic containers... straight from the tank,” Ms. Marwa said. “Most people who were there said that someone had thrown a lighter on the floor causing a fire that sparked the explosion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lebanon-fuel-tank-explosion-kills-28-overwhelms-hospitals/article35931898.ece
16 August 2021||Port-au-Prince,||After quake kills 724, Haiti looks for survivors||The death toll in Haiti’s powerful earthquake jumped to over 700 on Sunday as crews desperately dug through collapsed buildings for survivors in the Caribbean nation still reeling from its president’s assassination. At least 724 people were killed in the 7.2-magnitude tremor that struck Saturday about 160 km to the west of the densely populated capital Port-au-Prince, which was devastated in a massive 2010 quake. Churches, businesses, schools and homes crumbled in Saturday’s quake that trapped hundreds of victims under rubble and left at least 2,800 people injured, the country’s civil protection agency said in an update. Heavy damage was reported in the center of the city of Jeremie, home to around 2,00,000 people and composed primarily of single-story buildings. The damage in Les Cayes also appeared to be significant, including the collapse of a multi-story hotel. Amid ongoing fear of aftershocks, virtually the entire population of that city spent on Saturday night outdoors, sleeping in front of their homes — or what was left of them. Rescue efforts could be hampered by Tropical Storm Grace, which is expected to bring heavy rainfall and possible flash floods to Haiti from late Monday, according to the U.S. National Weather Service. The U.S. and other nations immediately pledged support, with President Joe Biden approving “immediate” aid efforts. USAID head Samantha Power tweeted on Sunday that her agency had deployed an urban search and rescue team to join its earthquake disaster response team in Haiti. Some 1,500 buildings were destroyed and over 5,000 damaged, trapping hundreds under rubble and leaving at least 2,800 people injured, the country’s civil protection agency said in an update. Haiti’s neighbour the Dominican Republic said it was shipping 10,000 food rations and medical equipment. Cuba and Ecuador dispatched medical or search-and-rescue teams. And Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Peru and Venezuela also offered help, as did the United Nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-quake-kills-724-haiti-looks-for-survivors/article35931894.ece
16 August 2021||Tokyo,||Japan Ministers visit controversial shrine||Three Japanese Cabinet Ministers visited a shrine seen by neighbouring countries as a symbol of Tokyo’s past militarism on Sunday, the anniversary of the nation’s Second World War surrender. It came after two other members of Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s Cabinet, including Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi, visited Yasukuni Shrine on Friday, drawing angry reactions from China and South Korea. The shrine in central Tokyo honours 2.5 million war dead, mostly Japanese, who have perished since the late 19th century. But it also enshrines senior military and political figures convicted of war crimes by an international tribunal. Around 200 people participated in the ceremony, which usually gathers 6,000 and was scaled back because of the coronavirus. On Friday, Beijing expressed “strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition” to Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi’s visit to Yasukuni. Mr. Kishi is a brother of former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who also visited the shrine on Sunday. South Korea summoned the Japanese Embassy’s deputy chief of mission to protest Friday’s visits, according to Japanese media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japan-ministers-visit-controversial-shrine/article35931897.ece
16 August 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong democracy group disbands||A pro-democracy group that organised some of the biggest protests during the political upheaval in Hong Kong in 2019 is dissolving, the group said on Sunday. The Hong Kong Civil Human Rights Front said it could no longer operate. The decision comes as the group faces a police investigation for possible violation of a national security law, according to local media. Earlier this week, the city’s largest teachers’ union disbanded in light of what it said were drastic changes in the political environment. Rights group Amnesty International expressed its concern over “the pattern of self-censorship seen this week.” The crackdown follows Beijing’s imposition of the national security law on Hong Kong last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-democracy-group-disbands/article35931895.ece
16 August 2021||KARACHI,||AS--Pakistan-Militant-Attack||The death toll from an overnight grenade attack on a truck carrying women and children in Karachi rose to 12 on Sunday. Attackers targeted the truck on Saturday evening as it shuttled a family from a wedding ceremony in a western Karachi neighbourhood, killing nine people and wounding nine others. The motive for the bombing was not known, though police were quick to rule out sectarian violence.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-pakistan-militant-attack/article35931889.ece
16 August 2021||DHAKA,||AS--Migration-Bangladesh-Rohingya-Shipwreck||More than two dozen Rohingya refugees were missing and feared drowned after a boat carrying them capsized in the Bay of Bengal, the United Nations and Bangladeshi police said on Sunday. The refugees were apparently trying to flee a remote Bangladeshi island. Several thousand Rohingya have been relocated to the island after previously residing in crowded camps near the border with Myanmar.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-migration-bangladesh-rohingya-shipwreck/article35931890.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s fate is tied to the rest of the world||Ever since Independence, India’s fate has been closely tied to the rest of the world. In some sense, it had no choice. A large, newly independent, impoverished, and impossibly diverse country required active engagement with a variety of partners for its survival, security, and development. But a constantly evolving international environment presented India not just with opportunities but numerous challenges. Its frontiers were initially poorly demarcated and poorly integrated. India came to have two nuclear-armed neighbours with which it competed for territory. Several sources of domestic insecurity benefited from support from neighbouring countries. And India often found itself at odds with the great powers, ploughing a lonely furrow when it felt its greater interests were threatened, as on intervention in Bangladesh, nuclear non-proliferation, or trade. An overview Today, the troubles may seem plenty leading with the raging COVID-19 pandemic and its adverse effects on economic growth prospects, especially when coupled with intensifying competition with China and turmoil in Afghanistan. At the same time, India has greater means to tackle them: it is by some measures the sixth largest economy in the world, boasts a well-trained and professional military, and has a growing network of international strategic and economic partners. This brief overview suggests that India’s future, too, will remain intertwined with global affairs. The long and winding road India had to adopt a foreign and security posture even before August 15, 1947. Independence and Partition left behind a messy territorial legacy. India’s first leaders opted for flexible and friendly relations with both the U.S. and the Soviet Union and their respective allies. In fact, India initially received the bulk of development and military assistance from the West; it was only from the mid-1950s onwards that the Soviet Union extended support. India also played an activist role in the decolonising world, extending diplomatic and (in some cases) security assistance to independence movements in Asia and Africa and sending military missions to Korea and the Congo. India’s early efforts were arguably successful in consolidating territorial gains, in accelerating economic growth, and in positioning itself in a leadership role in the post-colonial world. But all these efforts suffered following the 1962 war with China. Despite that immense setback, the world came knocking at India’s door throughout the 1960s. Pakistani military adventurism picked up, resulting in the 1965 war. The question of Indian nuclear weapons acquired greater urgency following China’s test, even as Indian forces pushed back against China in Sikkim in 1967. There were also important economic strides made, including the Green Revolution, undertaken with considerable foreign technical and financial assistance. The 1970s and the 1980s presented India with a more contained canvas. The Indo-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation and the Bangladesh war altered India’s relations with both superpowers and shifted the dynamics of the rivalry with Pakistan. The Indian economy remained relatively closed at a time when other Asian economies had begun to liberalise. This period saw security challenges come closer to home: the peaceful nuclear explosion, the annexation of Sikkim, competition with Pakistan over Siachen, a stand-off with China, an intervention in Sri Lanka, and a countercoup in the Maldives. Domestic security challenges also assumed an external angle, whether in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, or the North-east. Some efforts at resetting relations with the United States, liberalising the economy, and pursuing the nuclear option were made, but the outcomes were inconclusive. After the Cold War The post-Cold War era, therefore, presented India with a range of challenges. The 1991 Gulf war resulted in a balance of payments crisis and the liberalisation of the economy. India then adopted a range of reforms to liberalise the economy, but it faced more than just economic turmoil. The assassination of Rajiv Gandhi, the 1993 Mumbai bombings, and the insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir presented grave new security challenges. Yet, the period that followed witnessed some important developments under the prime ministership of P.V. Narasimha Rao: the advent of the Look East Policy and relations with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations; the establishment of diplomatic ties with Israel; the signing of a border peace and tranquility agreement with China; initial military contacts with the U.S., and preparations for nuclear tests. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee government built further upon these developments, conducting a series of tests in 1998, negotiating a return to normal relations with most major powers within two years, and concluding an important set of agreements with China in 2003. At the same time, efforts at normalising ties with Pakistan were frustrated by the Kargil war, the hijacking of Indian Airlines flight IC-814 to Kandahar (Afghanistan), and the 2001 attack on India’s Parliament. These years also witnessed a rapid growth of the Indian economy, fuelled by a boom in information and communication technology companies, the services sector, and a rising consumer market. After 2004, the Manmohan Singh government worked extensively to resolve the outstanding question of India’s nuclear status. By eliminating barriers to ‘dual use’ technologies and equipment, as well as a host of associated export controls, India had the opportunity to establish robust defence relations with the U.S. and its allies. Yet, the global financial crisis in 2008-09 presaged a slight change in approach, whereby India sought to partner with China and other rising powers on institutional reform, financial lending, climate change, and sovereignty. Coupled with an economic deceleration after 2011, India’s relations with the U.S. and Europe grew more contentious over the next three years. Beginning in 2013, a more assertive China began to test India on the border and undermine Indian interests in South Asia and the Indian Ocean Region. After the second such border crisis in late 2014, a more competitive India-China relationship emerged. With further stand-offs at Doklam and Ladakh between 2017 and 2021, India opted to boycott China’s Belt and Road Initiative, raise barriers to Chinese investment, ban some Chinese technology, and consult more closely with other balancing powers in the Indo-Pacific. Security relations and understandings with the U.S. and its allies (Japan, France, Australia) accelerated after 2014. A greater emphasis on neighbourhood connectivity was adopted. While efforts were made to engage with Pakistan between 2014 and 2016, a series of Pakistani provocations resulted in a deep freeze in India-Pakistan relations, further reinforced by the terrorist attacks at Uri and Pulwama and Indian reprisals. Meanwhile, India’s relations with West Asian partners assumed greater importance. An international India India’s objectives have been broadly consistent: development, regional security, a balance of power, and the shaping of international consensus to be more amenable to Indian interests. At the same time, India’s means and the international landscape have changed, as have domestic political factors. This necessitated different approaches to international engagement between 1947 and 1962, between 1971 and 1991, and between 1991 and 2008. As India enters its 75th year of independence, there are plenty of reasons for cautious optimism about its place in the world. Yet, the ravages of COVID-19 and growing international competition also underscore the difficulties that India will likely face as it attempts to transform into a prosperous middle-income country, a secure polity, and a proactive shaper of international norms. What is certain is that India will not have the luxury to turn inwards. In fact, it was through its global interactions that India defined itself throughout its history as an independent nation. Dhruva Jaishankar is Executive Director of ORF America in Washington DC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-fate-is-tied-to-the-rest-of-the-world/article35931879.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On August 15, 1947, where was Bapu?||While Delhi, the national capital, was being decked up for the grand celebration of Independence and the transfer of power, and Indians geared up to celebrate Independence, where was the man who had helmed the fight for Independence? Where was Bapu? In Beliaghata He was far away, in Calcutta, resolute in his efforts to bring peace and calm to a place that was burning with violence and hatred. The words and actions of Bapu doused the flames. The historic events bear recounting as India celebrates a landmark anniversary of Independence. The conditions were anything but peaceful then; today, 75 years down the line, conditions are not far from reigniting the fires that burned then. This is then a day to reflect on how far we have travelled. Or have we travelled far? On the evening of August 6, Bapu boarded the Calcutta Mail at Lahore; it would take him to Patna and then Calcutta from where he planned to leave for Noakhali (now in Bangladesh), where he had promised the minority community that he would shield them when Partition happened and East Bengal became East Pakistan. Bapu arrived in Calcutta on August 9, 1947. A delegation of Muslims, led by the chief of Calcutta District Muslim League, Mohammad Usman, pleaded with Bapu to remain in Calcutta to ensure the safety of Muslims. Bapu told them he would delay going to Noakhali if they guaranteed the safety and wellbeing of the minority community in Noakhali. If, despite their promise, there was violence in Noakhali, he would go on an unconditional fast unto death. On August 11, Bapu met with H.S. Suhrawardy, the former Premier of Bengal. Suhrawardy too voiced his concern about the safety of Muslims. Bapu asked him to stand guarantee for the safety of the Hindus in Noakhali if he wished for him to stay back in Calcutta. Suhrawardy promised. Bapu told him, “I will remain if you and I are prepared to live together. We shall have to work till every Hindu and Mussalman in Calcutta safely returns to the place where he was before. We shall continue in our effort till our last breath...” It was decided that Bapu and Suhrawardy would meet and live in Hyderi Mansion (now preserved as Gandhi Bhawan) in Beliaghata, the dilapidated and abandoned home of a Muslim family, in a densely populated neighbourhood of very poor Muslims. Bapu and Suhrawardy were greeted by an angry mob of young Hindu hotheads who were furious with Bapu for coming to the rescue of Muslims. Bapu tried to pacify them, but they persisted; their angry protest continued the next day, too. Bapu told them, “I am going to put myself under your protection. You are welcome to play the opposite role if you so choose. I have nearly reached the end of my life’s journey. I have not much farther to go. But let me tell you that if you again go mad, I will not be a living witness to it. I have given the same ultimatum to the Muslims of Noakhali, too; I have earned the right. Before there is another outbreak of Muslim madness in Noakhali, they will find me dead.” Speaking at the prayer meeting at Beliaghata on the evening of August 14, Bapu invited everyone to observe a 24-hour fast and pray for the wellbeing of India and to spend the day hand-spinning. After the prayers, Hyderi Mansion was again attacked. Stones crashed against the windows, shattering glass panes and showering Bapu and the occupants with fragments of glass. The wooden shutters were hurriedly closed. Finally, in order to pacify the mob Bapu stood at a window and spoke with them. When he felt that he had calmed the mob, he called Suhrawardy. Suhrawardy stood next to Bapu, framed in the window illuminated by streetlights, Bapu placed a hand on Suhrawardy’s shoulder; Suhrawardy unequivocally accepted responsibility for the Calcutta killings and expressed his sincere regrets for the tragedy he had caused. This had a profound effect on the crowd. “It was the turning point,” Bapu said. “It had a cleansing effect.” It was around 11 when the rooms occupied by Bapu and his tiny retinue were cleaned. After spinning his regulation quota of khadi yarn, his daily bread labour, Bapu lay down to rest; soon he was fast asleep. At midnight on August 14-15, 1947, Indians rejoiced. India was free. In the Central Hall of Parliament, in a grand ceremony, the British relinquished power and the interim government took charge. India heard the “tryst with destiny” speech made by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, which would be oft-quoted later in India’s history, a testimony to its soul-stirring narrative of what India set out to achieve. But the man who had made that tryst possible was fast asleep, on a thin mattress, in a dilapidated home, in the densely populated poor neighbourhood of Beliaghata in Calcutta, oblivious to all the rejoicing and the celebration. On August 15, 1947, Independence Day, Bapu woke up at 3:45 a.m. He followed his usual daily routine. He received several messages of congratulations, but he was not celebrating. He was praying, fasting and spinning khadi. On Independence Day itself, a large crowd gathered around the Governor’s mansion in Calcutta and laid siege to it, unmindful that now its occupant was an Indian, C. Rajagopalachari. The newly appointed Governor of Bengal was held hostage in the Raj Bhavan for several hours by Indians on Independence Day. Bapu sent a message to the ministers of the cabinet of West Bengal. He wrote, “From today, you have to wear the crown of thorns. Strive ceaselessly to cultivate truth and non-violence. Be humble. Be forbearing. Now, you will be tested through and through. Beware of power; power corrupts. Do not let yourselves be entrapped by its pomp and pageantry. Remember, you are in office to serve the poor in India’s villages.” Together in joy At the prayer meeting that evening, Bapu congratulated Calcutta for the camaraderie displayed by Hindus and Muslims. Muslims shouted the same slogans of joy as the Hindus. They flew the tricolour without the slightest hesitation. What was more, the Hindus were admitted to mosques and Muslims were admitted to mandirs. Bapu had hoped that Calcutta would be entirely free from the communal virus forever. Then, indeed, they need have no fear about East Bengal and the rest of India. “Shaheed and I are living together in a Muslim Manzil in Beliaghata where Muslims have been reported to be sufferers. Now, it seemed as if there never had been bad blood between the Hindus and the Muslims. As I have said above, we are living in a Muslim’s house and Muslim volunteers are attending to our comforts with the greatest attention... Is this to be called a miracle or an accident? I only ask myself whether the dream of my youth is to be realised in the evening of my life.…” This is the wish with which Bapu ended his day, the day that India became independent in 1947. Tushar A. Gandhi is a peace activist who heads the Mahatma Gandhi Foundation which is involved in advocating and spreading Gandhian values||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-august-15-1947-where-was-bapu/article35931883.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Regional identity and being part of the mainstream||I started my political-administrative career as Chairman of a Kannada watchdog committee after being elected, in 1983, from Chamundeshwari constituency. Fighting for the regional identity of Karnataka has always been a part of my political and personal agenda. The question of regional identity, in the realm of nationalism, has become prominent since 2014. A myopic view of “nationalism” by certain sections needs to be countered effectively to protect our dignity and identity. Modern India is conceptualised on the idea of unity in diversity, and all our actions should be sensitive to protecting this beautiful idea. It is unfortunate that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has derived its political ideology from Veer Savarkar’s Hindutva instead of the supreme Constitution of India. Its politics focuses on centralisation, with special attention to undermining the interests of non-Hindi States. The BJP government is intruding into the economic, political, cultural and educational autonomy of States. Modern India has evolved to be more than just the Union of States. We should be moving toward cooperative federalism and not coercive federalism. The policies of the BJP government are inconsistent with the vision of the Constitution drafting committee with respect to Centre-State relations. Revenue deficit State Karnataka is one of the States most harassed by the central government of the day. Karnataka has seen a drain of wealth due to the inconsistent policies of the BJP. From being a revenue surplus State, it is now a revenue deficit State. Karnataka’s share of tax devolution has been reduced from 4.72% in the Fourteenth Finance Commission to 3.64% in the Fifteenth Finance Commission due to a skewed preference to the 2011 population. Unfortunately, States such as Karnataka which gave special attention to population control, were and have been penalised severely. Special grants of Rs. 5,495 crore which were recommended by the Fifteenth Finance Commission for 2020-21 were denied by the Union Finance Minister. In 2019-20, Karnataka got just Rs. 30,919 crore as its share of central taxes instead of Rs. 48,768 crore as recommended by the Fourteenth Finance Commission. In 2020-21, it got just Rs. 20,053 crore as share of central taxes instead of Rs. 31,180 crore as recommended by the Fifteenth Finance Commission. Karnataka contributes more than Rs. 2.2-lakh crore to central taxes but in return receives less than Rs. 30,000 crore. If the States get 41% share of the central taxes, Karnataka should have ideally got at least Rs. 70,000 crore -Rs. 80,000 crore on a pro rata basis for its contribution. It is a known fact that the South has been subsidising the north. Six States south of the Vindhyas contribute more taxes and get less. For example, for every one rupee of tax contributed by Uttar Pradesh, that State receives more than Rs. 1.79. For every one rupee of tax contributed by Karnataka, the State receives less than Rs. 0.47. Karnataka has also been hit by a denial of Goods and Services Tax compensation cess as promised by the central government through the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017. Having presented 13 Budgets, my heart is saddened to see Karnataka deviating from the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act — thanks to the step motherly treatment by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government. Specific issues The problems are more than just the finances of State governments. Many issues of federalism are affecting the identity, social structure and political economy of our State. Our government had requested the central government to include the Karnataka flag in the schedule of the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, based on the recommendations of the committee for the Karnataka flag. It is unfortunate that the central government is still procrastinating over the recommendation without granting formal inclusion. Is the desire of the people of Karnataka to have a flag for their State, to give primacy to the Kannada language and to have greater say in the running of their own lives inconsistent with the objective of building a strong nation? It is no more a secret that a conspiracy is being hatched by the leaders of certain regions to systematically prevent the selection of non-Hindi candidates to government posts and professional courses. A recent example of this can be seen in the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection notification where the examinations were notified to be conducted only in English and Hindi, thereby depriving lakhs of non-Hindi medium candidates an opportunity to apply. About 407 vacant posts in the notification were to be filled in banks located in Karnataka — this means 407 Kannada medium candidates will lose the chance to work in Karnataka. Centralisation of education The National Education Policy is another tool of the BJP to proliferate Hindi in non-Hindi States and to take away the rights of the States by promoting centralisation with respect to education. The policy negates the spirit of the Constitution and is inconsistent with Article 246 of Indian Constitution. Under the new three-language formula, it is consequential for the students from the south Indian States to choose Hindi as the third language. Schools will not have enough resources to arrange for faculty to teach more subjects for third languages, which means Hindi will be the only choice. It is important to recollect that in 1947, India was a young nation and we needed to be cautious of any divisive or secessionist tendencies. India, therefore, became a Union of States with a strong Centre. When Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel went about integrating the princely States into the Union, a strong Centre did make sense. A perspective Today, over 70 years down the line, we have done admirably well as a nation. The Constitution of India has stood the test of time. We have also learnt useful lessons from turmoil in Tamil Nadu over Hindi language imposition and demands of autonomy from certain States such as Punjab and Assam. From a Union of states, we are evolving into a federation of States. Therefore, I do not think the demands for greater federal autonomy and recognition of regional identity are inconsistent with our nation. Karnataka prides itself in its Kannada identity. The oldest written document (in stone) in Kannada found at Halmidi, Hassan district, dates back to the Second century AD. The oldest Kannada Kingdom under the Kadamabas of Banavasi ruled the State during the Fourth century AD. We have been using a red and yellow flag for decades. Yet, Karnataka, as our Poet Laureate Kuvempu said, is the daughter of Bharata, the Indian nation — Jaya Bharatha Jananiya Tanujathe . Siddaramaiah is Former Chief Minister of Karnataka and Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/regional-identity-and-being-part-of-the-mainstream/article35931881.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||An act of hope||When things fall apart, can one hold on to optimism? For years, I have cited Isabel Allende to explain the purpose of writing in general and journalism in particular. In a short essay in Peace Review in 1993, she wrote: “I feel that writing is an act of hope, a sort of communion with our fellow men. The writer of goodwill carries a lamp to illuminate the dark corners. Only that, nothing more — a tiny beam of light to show some hidden aspect of reality, to help decipher and understand it and thus to initiate, if possible, a change in the conscience of some readers.” Threat to freedom A tweet from Muska Dastageer, a lecturer of peace and conflict resolution, political theory, and gender studies at the American University of Afghanistan in Kabul, Afghanistan, shook that belief. Her tweet read: “Everything we worked for, everything we believed in, is disappearing before our eyes.” It was a grim reminder that hard-won rights are not only vulnerable but perishable when there is a political tide of intolerance. Over the past two decades, multiple institutions and innumerable men and women invested their time and energy to create a free environment in Afghanistan. I was part of some of the editors’ meetings that tried to create media institutions in Afghanistan as it was trying hard to come out of the darkness brought in by the Taliban and its associates. I wonder whether my sense of optimism was a form of delusion. One wonders how the international community has become blind to the developments in Afghanistan. It turned a blind eye to Rwanda, the Balkans, and Myanmar. I was shaken to the core when I read the report ‘Please pray for me’ in The Guardian in which a woman journalist documents how she is being hunted by the Taliban. She wrote: “Last week I was a news journalist. Today I can’t write under my own name or say where I am from or where I am. My whole life has been obliterated in just a few days. I am so scared and I don’t know what will happen to me. Will I ever go home? Will I see my parents again? Where will I go? The highway is blocked in both directions. How will I survive?” Giving voice to the vulnerable However, the brave women journalists reaffirm my optimism and give hope another lease of life. For instance, Zahra Joya, a 28-year-old reporter, launched Rukhshana Media in November 2020 to tell stories of Afghanistan’s women, written by Afghanistan’s women. Rukshana, a young Afghan woman, met with a tragic end. In 2015, she was accused of adultery and stoned to death. The idea behind Rukshana Media is the idea behind any credible media organisation: to give voice to the vulnerable. In its short existence Rukshana Media has covered crucial subjects such as women’s reproductive health, domestic and sexual violence, and gender discrimination. Ms. Joya was tired of either Afghan men or the international media representing Afghan women. In an interview she said: “At Rukhshana Media, we are trying to define the story from the perspective of Afghan women.” The fast-changing politico-military situation in Afghanistan is posing a major challenge to initiatives such as Rukshana Media. Ms. Joya is acutely aware of the fact that female journalists are at greater risk of assassination due to the issues they cover and their public role. Women journalists are increasingly using pseudonyms to conceal their identity but refuse to give up. I was moved by Ms. Joya’s determination to continue with her journalism against all the odds. She told The Guardian recently that she would keep her media house going as long as she can. She said: “I see it as a source of hope for many women. Afghanistan may not have much but it is our voice [of the media], and we must preserve it.” When I started the countdown series to my tenure as the Readers’ Editor I wanted to document the potential of journalism in transforming people’s lives. The agency to act against injustice can happen only when citizens have trustworthy and credible information. Journalists from Afghanistan are showing us that journalism continues to be an act of hope, which cannot be obliterated by any menacing force. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-act-of-hope/article35931887.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||An oath in whose name?||Some Cabinet Ministers in Karnataka who took oath recently stood out from the rest. Prabhu Chauhan took the oath in the name of Gaumata and ‘Seva Lal’. Murugesh Nirani took oath in the name of God and farmers. Anand Singh took oath in the name of Vijayanagara Virupaksha and Bhuvaneshwari. All these oaths run against the spirit of the Constitution. An agnostic Constitution During the Constituent Assembly debate on October 17, 1949, the last item to be debated was the Preamble. B.R. Ambedkar proposed the Preamble, “We, the people of India…”. H.V. Kamath moved an amendment to the Preamble, “In the name of God, we, the people of India…”. To this proposal, another member, A. Thanu Pillai, said, “If Mr. Kamath’s amendment is accepted... would not that amount to compulsion in the matter of faith?... It affects the fundamental right of freedom of faith. A man has a right to believe in God or not, according to the Constitution... This amendment should be ruled out...”. Another member, Rohini Kumar Chaudhuri, said, “What does Bande Mataram mean? It means an invocation to a Goddess... We who belong to the Sakthi cult protest against invoking the name of God alone, completely ignoring the Goddess... May I move an amendment to that of Shri Kamath that instead of ‘in the name of God’, would he be pleased to accept ‘in the name of Goddess’?” H.N. Kunzru opposed Kamath’s amendment stating, “I do not see why in a matter that vitally concerns every man individually, the collective view should be forced on anybody. Such a course of action is inconsistent with the Preamble which promises liberty to thought, expression, belief, faith and worship to everyone... We invoke the name of God, but I make bold to say that while we do so, we are showing a narrow, sectarian spirit, which is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution...”. In the end, the President of the Assembly put Kamath’s amendment to vote. The amendment was defeated, thereby excluding ‘God’ from the Preamble. Thus, our founding fathers gave us an agnostic Constitution. Constitutional oaths should be secular. Abhinav Chandrachud, in Republic of Religion , pointed out that public officials who took office under the Government of India Act, 1935 had to take oath which had no mention of God. However, the framers of the Constitution rejected this conception of secularism and brought ‘God’ back into the Constitution by giving office-holders an option to swear in God’s name if they so wished. This was a regressive step. The U.S. Constitution contains no reference to God. While it is customary for the U.S. President to utter the words: “So, help me God...” at the end of the oath, the Constitution does not require it. Calling for an amendment The Supreme Court of India observed in 2012 that the oath by an elected representative should be taken “in the name of God” if the person is a believer or should be “solemnly affirmed” if the person is a non-believer. The case pertained to an MLA, Umesh Challiyil, whose oath had been declared void by the Kerala High Court. Mr. Challiyil had taken oath in the name of Sri Narayana Guru, whom he said he considers and believes as God. Mr. Challiyil challenged the High Court order. While taking up the matter, the Supreme Court said that the oath of an elected representative should be in strict compliance with the wordings of the Constitution. In the light of this verdict, the oaths of the Karnataka Cabinet Ministers would be null and void. The allegiance of a person holding a constitutional post should only be to the Constitution. Once such a person takes the oath in the name of a God affiliated to a particular religion or caste, citizenry cannot expect the absence of affection or ill-will from him. As the Republic belongs to all the citizenry, irrespective of whether he is a theist, atheist or agnostic, and irrespective of his caste or religion, a person occupying a constitutional post should take oath in the format of ‘“solemnly affirm”. The Constitution should be amended accordingly. Faisal C.K. is Under Secretary to the Government of Kerala. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-oath-in-whose-name/article35931888.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Memories||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement, followed by a gazette notification, to mark August 14 as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” 74 years later has received mixed responses. With about two million killed in the most brutal ways, an estimated 1,00,000 women kidnapped and raped, and more than 15 million men, women and children displaced, Partition, the British Raj’s parting shot to India, left an indelible mark in hearts and memories across the subcontinent. For India in particular, that lost its territory and its people to the west and the east, the decision was a painful cleaving that marred much of the joy felt in gaining Independence. The violence that was unleashed by the decision pitted Indians against Indians, Hindus and Sikhs against Muslims, with the worst of the horrors seen in Punjab and Bengal — States that were partitioned in the most mindless and thoughtless display of colonial insensitivity. These stories have remained in public memory, as India consciously chose to set aside its pain and greet Pakistan on its birth, and attempted to carve out a distinct secular identity as it sought to develop itself. The scars were not forgotten, but borne with fortitude and a desire to move on from them. Along the way, the two-nation theory based on religion alone — that Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah fought for so bitterly — disintegrated with the creation of Bangladesh in 1971. Other developments have also helped heal the wounds of Partition, not the least, India’s successes over the past three-quarters of a century, including a growing economy, its technological prowess, and as a respected voice on the global stage. There is no question that a nation cannot know itself without knowing its past, and that the horrors of Partition must be acknowledged, archived, mourned and commemorated. The concern over the naming of the day at this point, however, is that it forces the nation to look back on this traumatic time rather than looking ahead. Given that the trauma was felt not just in India but in three countries, an attempt to mark the day across the subcontinent might have been more inclusive. It is necessary too, to remember not just the violence of 1947 but also the colonial hand that wrought Partition, hold the British Empire to account, and educate successive generations on the perils of imperialism, arbitrary map-making and sowing religious divides in order to rule. The Prime Minister’s reasoning, that the nation must be reminded of the “need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment”, is welcome, but this is an effort to be practised every day, not just one day in the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/memories/article35931874.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Black and white||By bringing out a White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances, the DMK government has made a good start to right the loss of fiscal discipline. Subsequently, the government, in its maiden Budget, lowered the retail price of petrol by Rs. 3 a litre. Even though it only partly fulfils one of the DMK’s important poll promises, it deserves praise for being implemented at a time of financial stress. That TN’s fiscal indicators have not been in great shape, post 2013-14, is well known and even indicated in certain documents of the Union and State governments. The State’s perennially loss-making power, water and transport utilities have only aggravated the situation. A serious financial crisis is waiting to unfold unless corrective steps are taken. This is what has been encapsulated in the White Paper, which has rightly identified the decline in the ratios of the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and overall tax-GSDP as two key areas of concern, in view of the SOTR constituting around two-thirds of the State’s total revenue receipts. With ballooning revenue and fiscal deficits, the State has become overreliant on debt, estimated to be Rs. 2,63,976 per family. The White Paper has cited a lack of proper governance as the reason behind most of the problems. By highlighting the crisis in the water, power and transport sectors, the document has already triggered a question on whether the government will hike taxes and user charges. As it also talks of “profound structural reforms” and “re-orientation of subsidies”, it has signalled that the government favours a targeted approach in subsidy provision. The Budget echoes this by spelling out that the proposed scheme of Rs. 1,000 a month to women heads of families is for “the genuinely poor”. But, in a set-up characterised by the tradition of competitive populism and a close relationship between economic decisions and considerations of electoral politics, it remains to be seen how far the new government can pursue such an approach. After having blamed the previous government for the fiscal situation, the government, through the Budget, could have made a beginning in fiscal consolidation. The explanation for not going for it is that the economy is still recovering from the impact of COVID-19. But an increase in a few taxes and expenditure reduction in some areas would have shown that the government means business. As and when the government chooses to increase utility tariffs, it should ensure that such measures are matched by an improvement in service quality and a simplified and reasonable tax structure. This is where Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s re-assurance, in a recent interview to The Hindu , assumes significance — of not going back on electoral promises for welfare. A rational approach with a human touch would help improve TN’s financial health. The DMK government has time on its side to turn around the fortunes of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/black-and-white/article35931875.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||English is China’s second language||Hong Kong, August 15: The study of English in East Asia is likely to get a boost following the remark by the Chinese Premier, Mr. Chou En-lai to Mr. James Reston of the New York Times recently that English has become the second language in China. Until about three years ago, Russian was the favoured foreign language in mainland China. The confrontation with the Russians had the effect of cutting off contact with all things Russian — including the language. But Mr. Chou also told Mr. Reston that he did not approve of this linguistic discrimination. The study of English in mainland China was intensified even before the birth of “ping pong” diplomacy. There was quite a change from the anti-English purge during the Cultural Revolution four years ago when all vestiges of English — and things foreign — were removed, even to the extent of street signs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/english-is-chinas-second-language/article35931884.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IOA honours Olympic medallists, others with cash rewards||It was the turn of Indian Olympic Association (IOA) to felicitate the medal winners and other members of the Indian Olympic contingent on Sunday. Neeraj Chopra, the lone gold medallist, walked away with a reward of Rs. 75 lakh, silver medallists Mirabai Chanu and Ravi Dahiya received Rs. 40 lakh each while bronze medallists P.V. Sindhu, Lovelina Borgohain and Bajrang Punia were richer by Rs. 25 lakh each. Each member of the bronze-medal men’s hockey team received Rs. 10 lakh each while each member of the Olympic contingent was given Rs. 1 lakh. In another first, each sports federation was richer by, at least, Rs.30 lakh. Neeraj was present in spite of suffering from fever. Understandably, he received the loudest cheers. Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs Anurag Thakur urged the corporate sector to go beyond their contribution through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and to adopt one sport to prepare athletes for the 2024 and 2028 Olympic Games. The Minister also announced the expansion of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) ahead of the next Olympics to accommodate more athletes. The IOA president Narinder Batra hailed the medal winners and the efforts of the National Sports Federations for their work in India’s best Olympic performance. Besides the athletes, their coaches too were presented cash rewards. Neeraj Chopra’s coach was due to receive Rs. 12.50 lakh. Ravi Dahiya and Mirabai Chanu’s coaches gained Rs. 10 lakh each. For the coaches of Sindhu, Bajrang and Lovelina, the reward was worth Rs. 7.50 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioa-honours-olympic-medallists-others-with-cash-rewards/article35932161.ece
16 August 2021||LONDON,||Pujara and Rahane revive India before Wood and Moeen strike||Speedster Mark Wood and off-spinner Moeen Ali struck late on the fourth day to leave the second Test between England and India intriguingly poised heading into the final day. Kohli’s men were 181 for six in their second innings, a lead of 154, when bad light forced an early close. The penultimate day saw fortunes fluctuate. In the morning, Wood had removed the in-form K.L. Rahul and Rohit Sharma. Bigger trouble India was in bigger trouble when Sam Curran captured the prize wicket of captain Virat Kohli to leave the side tottering at 55 for three. Cheteshwar Pujara (45) and Ajinkya Rahane (61), both of whom had previously struggled for runs in this series, checked England's progress albeit it took them 59 overs to add 100 for the fourth wicket. The slide  However, from 155 for three, India lost three wickets for 20 runs. Wood dismissed Pujara before Moeen removed Rahane and the dangerous Ravindra Jadeja. Pujara's 206-ball vigil ended when a Wood delivery leapt off a length, the edge lobbing gently to Root at second slip to leave India at 155 for four. Rahane was caught behind by Jos Buttler trying to cut Moeen; Jadeja was done in by a superb delivery that turned and bounced to clip the top of the off-stump. Wood, recalled after Stuart Broad suffered a potentially series-ending calf injury, had figures of three for 40 in 14 overs. But, worryingly for England, Wood also had a shoulder injury that would need to be assessed after he dived headlong into an advertising board while saving a boundary. sMoeen, brought back in place of Dan Lawrence to an attack missing star all-rounder Ben Stokes and fast bowler Jofra Archer, had two for 52 in 20 overs. Shortly before play ended, the umpires appeared to suggest that the game could not proceed if England took the new ball in the gathering gloom, even though the floodlights were on. England, however, did not want to risk conceding runs in those circumstances, with Rishabh Pant unbeaten on 14 and Ishant Sharma on four. Play resumed on Sunday with England 27 runs ahead following captain Joe Root’s superb 180 not out in his side's first innings total of 391. The Indian openers, Rahul and Rohit, had provided the bulk of the runs in its first innings score of 364, scoring 129 and 83 respectively. But Rahul fell for five on Sunday when, having left the ball so well this series, he edged a 93mph (150 kph) delivery from Wood straight to Buttler. Falling for the pull Rohit pulled a 91mph ball from Wood for six. But, trying to repeat the shot just three balls later even though three fielders were waiting for it, he was caught low down by Moeen, running in from deep square-leg, for 21. India was effectively zero for two at that stage. Kohli, who had battled it out in the company of Rahul in the first innings, survived Curran's review for lbw. But, he was still on 20 when he edged a Curran delivery angled across and was caught behind, sparking a joyful run and celebration from the bowler. Pujara and Rahane dug in before Wood and Moeen sent both back in quick succession and set up an exciting finale.   India 170 for six  India was 170 for six with Pant (15) and Shami (4) batting. Pujara (45), Rahane (61) and Jadeja (3) fell in the third session||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pujara-rahane-revive-india-after-the-fall-of-three-quick-wickets/article35931967.ece
16 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pranav Prince realises a childhood dream||Former India junior captain Pranav Prince, who was studying in US, had planned his vacation in Kerala during Onam. However, a few days before he was to set to take the flight home from Pennsylvania, Pranav got an email from Indian basketball coach Vaselin Matic asking him to join the Indian basketball camp in Bengaluru from August 1. The 18-year-old has now been selected to the senior Indian basketball team that will take part in the qualifying tournament for the FIBA Asia Cup. It is a dream come true for Pranav who graduated from the NBA Academy in Delhi. No two thoughts “I was planning to spend my vacation with my parents during Onam when I got the message from the head coach Matic to attend the camp. I didn’t have to think twice and I changed my plans. “Representing the country was my childhood dream and I am really happy, that I have got a chance now and I will make it count,’’ said the 6ft 8 inches tall Pranav. Pranav says India has a great chance of qualifying from Group H, which has Saudi Arabia and Palestine as the other teams. Pranav, who has been pursuing his higher studies in First Love Christian Academy, now aims to play collegiate basketball in the USA. “The level of competition and standard is very high in USA which is the number one country in basketball. Initially it was tough for me, but my training at the NBA Academy helped me to adjust and I fell into the groove rather quickly. “I travelled and played in a few tournaments for my school and I was the top-scorer in some matches. My game has definitely improved a lot after coming here, but I still have a long way to go,” said Pranav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranav-prince-realises-a-childhood-dream/article35932477.ece
16 August 2021||Munich,||‘Der Bomber’ Gerd Muller passes away||Gerd Muller, the Bayern Munich and former West Germany forward known as Der Bomber (The Bomber) for his scoring-prowess, has passed away. He was 75 and had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease. Muller scored 566 goals for Bayern between 1964 and 1979, helping the team to four German titles, four German Cup wins and three European Cup victories in that time. Prolific He still holds the record for the most goals scored in the Bundesliga with 365, scored in 427 league games. Muller also helped West Germany win the European Championship in 1972, then the World Cup two years later, when he scored the winning goal in the final against the Netherlands. Altogether he scored 68 goals in 62 appearances for West Germany. It was a national record only surpassed in 2014 by Miroslav Klose, who needed 129 appearances to match him. Müller made 607 competitive appearances for Bayern and his record of 40 goals scored in the 1971-72 Bundesliga season was only beaten last season, when current Bayern forward Robert Lewandowski scored his 41st in the last minute of the last game.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/der-bomber-gerd-muller-passes-away/article35931974.ece
16 August 2021||London,||I will let the ball do the talking: Siraj||Mohammed Siraj is taking wickets and his new mode of celebration involves an underlying message for all his critics asking them to just keep shut. Siraj was the pick of the Indian bowlers with four wickets in his first appearance at the Lord’s and he was asked about his “finger on lips” gesture after getting each and every England wicket in the second Test. So what’s the back story? “This story (celebration) is for the haters (critics) because they used to say a lot of things about me, like he cannot do this and cannot do that. So, I will only let the ball do the talking and hence this is my new style of celebration,” Siraj said at the virtual press conference after the third day’s play. The plan He said that the plan of the fast bowlers was to be consistent and bowl in one area. He also underlined the importance of four fast bowlers in these conditions. “It was important (to play with fourth fast bowler), because we have taken three wickets at the start and our fast bowlers were effective and bowling consistently in one area. “The role of fast bowlers is important in England because when you come here, you want to try things, but our plan was to be consistent and bowl at one place,” he said. Siraj also said his plan was to bowl consistently. “When I played Ranji Trophy for first time, my plan was to hit consistently in one area, that is my simple plan and not to try anything. If I would have tried more things, it could have affected the team, and my bowling figures,” he said. Part of the game The Indian bowlers conceded a lot of extras but Siraj said it was part of the game. “What can I say about it (conceding extras), this happens, it is part of the game, extras, it is not that anyone has purposely conceded extras, it’s okay,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-will-let-the-ball-do-the-talking-siraj/article35931968.ece
16 August 2021||LONDON,||Rohit needs to be a little more selective with his shots: Rathour||India batting coach Vikram Rathour on Sunday said that Rohit Sharma needs to be a “little more selective” with his shots after the opener fell to a pull shot for the second time in the Test series against England. “There will be an analysis every time they get out... we will have a talk about what happened and what they were thinking when they played that shot,” said Rathour at the virtual conference after the fourth day’s play. “As far as Rohit is concerned, I think he has made it clear that this is the shot which fetches him runs and he is going to play those shots... we back him to play those shots, but the only thing he needs to do is to be a little more selective.” According to Rathour, skipper Virat Kohli, who was dismissed on 20, was done in by a lapse in concentration. “It was just a lapse in concentration for Kohli today... I don’t think any old weakness is coming back,” said Rathour. “It will be a typical fifth day Test wicket where the ball will go up and down, and will also turn. If we can take the target close to 200, it won’t be easy for England,” he felt. “Jadeja was accurate in the first innings. If he gets turn, he can create problems for the batsmen, and our pace attack is bowling well too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-needs-to-be-a-little-more-selective-with-his-shots-rathour/article35932133.ece
16 August 2021||Paris,||PSG. fans give Messi a superstar welcome||Lionel Messi got a first proper taste of his new home on Saturday as he was presented to a full stadium of Paris Saint-Germain fans before watching his team-mates beat Strasbourg 4-2 in Ligue 1 with Kylian Mbappe playing a starring role. Messi received a rapturous reception as he ran out onto the pitch along with PSG’s other summer signings, with a 48,000-full house greeting the six-time Ballon d’Or winner despite the welcome ceremony taking place an hour before kick-off. Messi joined fellow recruits Sergio Ramos, Gianluigi Donnarumma, Georginio Wijnaldum and Achraf Hakimi on a stage set up on the turf at the Parc des Princes. The Argentine later watched from the stands alongside Neymar and Angel di Maria — the trio not yet considered match-fit having enjoyed an extended break after playing at the Copa America — as Mauricio Pochettino’s team survived something of a scare to beat Strasbourg. Among the spectators were Formula One driver Pierre Gasly, French former Olympic judo champion Teddy Riner and NBA star Evan Fournier. All wanted to get a glimpse of Messi, but the Argentine is not likely to make his Paris debut for another couple of weeks yet. While Messi is the new idol of the PSG support, those fans jeered when Mbappe’s name was read out by the stadium announcer ahead of kick off. The France striker is in the spotlight with speculation that he will seek a move away from PSG before the transfer window shuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-fans-give-messi-a-superstar-welcome/article35932245.ece
16 August 2021||Lahti (Finland),||Maximum points for Team MRF Tyres||Team MRF Tyres took maximum points with a win in the Ralli SM (Finnish Rally Championship) and the Top Building Ralli SM here this weekend. The team of Emil Lindholm and Reeta Hämäläinen were strong over each of the nine stages and 110.45km of competitive action, finishing second overall but as the leading driver was not registered for points, it meant a maximum haul for Team MRF Tyres. Two stage wins Lindholm and Hämäläinen took two stage wins on Friday and a second-place to lead into the night’s service. Saturday’s race saw two loops of three stages. Maintaining good speed, Lindholm and Hämäläinen were always inside the top five places in all stage times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maximum-points-for-team-mrf-tyres/article35932147.ece
16 August 2021||Melbourne,||Aussies get CA’s nod for IPL return||Cricket Australia (CA) has cleared the way for the country’s leading players to return to the rescheduled IPL in the UAE starting next month ahead of the T20 World Cup. CA has issued NOCs for the players to return to the IPL, while a planned T20 tri-series with Afghanistan and West Indies may be re-purposed as (T20) World Cup warm-ups, according to a report in cricket.au.com .  CA’s clearance came after the Afghanistan Cricket Board (ACB) confirmed the postponement of a three-match ODI series between the two nations originally planned to be held in India in the lead-up to the T20 World Cup, the report said. A mooted T20 tri-series also involving the West Indies was due to form an important part of the World Cup preparations for all three squads, and Afghanistan authorities are continuing efforts to secure a venue. With the initial group stages of the T20 World Cup expected to be played primarily in Oman, the UAE venues could be free to host the matches between the end of the IPL and the start of the World Cup’s Super 12 stage, expected to begin on October 23. Seven players who participated in the initial stage of this year’s IPL —David Warner, Glenn Maxwell, Steve Smith, Marcus Stoinis, Jhye Richardson, Kane Richardson and Daniel Sams — are now expected to retur. Pat Cummins said he will miss the IPL reboot due the impending birth of his first child but has committed to Australia’s T20 World Cup tilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aussies-get-cas-nod-for-ipl-return/article35932149.ece
16 August 2021||Chennai,||Super Gillies pip Warriors in exciting finale||In the end, it boiled down to left-arm spinner Sai Kishore sending down the last over to a rampant Saravana Kumar. Thirteen runs were needed, three wickets remained. The match had gone down to the wire. Then, varying his speed and angles, the nerveless Sai Kishore, remarkably, conceded just four runs as the final threw up a grandstand finish. A humdinger it was. Defending champion Chepauk Super Gillies, defending 183, overcame bravehearts Ruby Trichy Warriors by eight runs to retain the Shriram Capital TNPL tournament after the shoot-out at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Sunday. Saravana remained unbeaten with a 25-ball unbeaten 45 of heart and fight, giving it his all and slumping to his knees in dejection at the end of it all. What a final! In the first half of the contest, N. Jagadeesan’s 58-ball 90, dotted with gems of bravado, ingenuity, power and placement, was the fuel the Super Gillies needed. Motoring on Jagadeesan’s blitzkrieg, defending champion Super Gillies, posted a challenging 183 for six, and kept themselves in the game with some outstanding catching as the contest swung one way then the other. However, the Trichy Warriors, fearless, kept coming back hard. Saravana is not just a probing seam bowler but is also a compelling striker of the ball. His scintillating blows kept the Warriors in the chase. Earlier, southpaw Adithya Ganesh, with his flourishing backlift, waded into the bowling, but could not kick on falling to B. Arun’s off-spin. Another in-form left-hander Nidhish Rajagopal (26 off 17) promised much before pulling R. Sathish into the man on the mid-wicket fence. These were the crucial blows. Super Gillies lifted their fielding when it mattered. Left-arm spinner R. Alexander plucked a brilliant, diving return catch to dismiss Adnan Khan. At the start of the chase, Amit Sathwik and S. Santhosh Shiv tore into the bowling making light of the stress. Fatal miscue Paceman Sonu Yadav’s reflex return catch sent Santosh Shiv back. And the brilliant Sathwik, 36 off 16 with a spectacular straight six off M. Siddharth, fatally miscued Sonu. Power hitter Antony Dhas was promoted but could never quite get going. Earlier, Jagadeesan innovated, created, used his feet, seldom lost balance — this was no slogging — and fired the ball through the gaps on either side. And Jagadeesan (on 26 then) was reprieved when a diving Adnan Khan grassed an offering, seamer Poiyamozhi being the bowler to suffer. And Jagadeesan made the Trichy Warriors pay for the lapse.  The scores: Chepauk Super Gillies 183/6 in 20 overs (Kaushik Gandhi 26, N. Jagadeesan 90, Rahil Shah 2/31, M. Poiyamozhi 2/37) bt Ruby Trichy Warriors 175/7 in 20 overs (Amit Sathvik 36, Nidhish Rajagopal 26, P. Saravana Kumar 45 not out, Sonu Yadav 2/32). Chepauk Super Gillies wins by eight runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-gillies-pip-warriors-in-exciting-finale/article35932203.ece
16 August 2021||KINGSTON,||Seales scalps five, Windies need 168||Jayden Seales became the youngest West Indies bowler to claim five wickets in a Test innings as Pakistan was dismissed for 203 on the fourth day of the first Test at Sabina Park on Sunday. West Indies, needing 168 to take a 1-0 lead in the two-match series, was 38 for three at lunch with left-arm pacer Shaheen Afridi taking all three wickets. Earlier, Seales, 19, finished with five for 55 as Pakistan lost its last five wickets for 43 runs after resuming on 160 for five. Babar Azam, unbeaten on 54, adfrom captain Babar Azam helped Pakistan overcome a lengthy rain interruption to build a 124-run lead over the West Indies as it reached 160 for five in its second innings on the third day of the first Test. Babar proved the mainstay of the innings as runs came slowly on a difficult pitch after Pakistan dismissed the Windies for 253 not long after the start of the day’s play. West Indies opening bowlers Kemar Roach and Jayden Seales took two wickets each to take the early initiative as Pakistan was 117 for four shortly before tea when a rain storm stopped play for more than two hours. Roach was responsible for the dismissals of Imran Butt (0) and Azhar Ali (23), while Seales took two in a single over as he first had opener Abid Ali (34) and induced a faint edge from Fawad Alam (0). Jason Holder picked up Mohamed Rizwan (30).  The scores: Pakistan 217 & 203 in 83.3 overs (Abid Ali 34, Babar Azam 55, Mohd. Rizwan 30, Kemar Roach 3/30, Jayden Seales 5/55) vs. West Indies 253 in 89.4 overs (Kraigg Brathwaite 97, Jason Holder 58, Mohd. Abbas 3/43, Shaheen Afridi 4/59) & 38/3 in 13 overs (Afridi 3/17), a t lunch .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/seales-scalps-five-windies-need-168/article35931964.ece
16 August 2021||London,||Son fires Spurs past Man City||Son Heung-min made up for the absence of Harry Kane by scoring a second-half winner to give Tottenham a 1-0 win over defending champion Manchester City on Sunday in its opening game of the Premier League season. With Kane left out of Tottenham’s team altogether amid continued speculation about a pending move to City, Son led the attack instead and showed that Spurs still have a top-class scorer to count on.  The results: Premier League: Newcastle 2 (Wilson 5, Murphy 40) lost to West Ham 4 (Cresswell 18, Benrahma 53, Soucek 63, Antonio 66); Tottenham 1 (Son 55) bt Manchester City 0.   Bundesliga: Mainz 05 1 (Niakhate 13) bt RB Leipzig 0.   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 1 (Aspas 59-pen) lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Correa 23, 63).   Saturday: Premier League: Norwich 0 lost to Liverpool 3 (Jota 26, Firmino 65, Salah 74).   La Liga: Cadiz 1 (Alfonso Espino 90+7) drew with Levante 1 (Morales 39).   Mallorca 1 (Olivan Herrero 25) drew with Real Betis 1 (Juanmi 59); Alaves 1 (Joselu 65-pen) lost to Real Madrid 4 (Benzema 48, 62, Nacho 56, Vinicius Junior 90+2); Osasuna 0 drew with Espanyol 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 5 (Reus 23, T. Hazard 32, Haaland 34, 70, Reyna 58) bt Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Passlack 27-og, Hauge 86).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-eases-past-norwich/article35931972.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Vinesh sends her apology to WFI||Suspended wrestler Vinesh Phogat has sent her apology to the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI), which had barred her from competitions on grounds of indiscipline during the Tokyo Olympics but the parent body may still not allow her to compete in the upcoming World Championship. Vinesh, who exited from the Tokyo Games following her shock quarterfinal defeat, was suspended by the WFI for not staying and training with her teammates and for sporting the name of her personal sponsor on her singlet instead of the official sponsor of the Indian contingent. A day after her suspension, Vinesh had revealed her physical and mental struggle during the Games where she did not have the services of her personal physio. The 26-year-old on Friday replied to the notice sent to her by the WFI. “WFI has received the reply and Vinesh has apologised,” a source, aware of the developments, said. “But it is very much possible that despite apology, she may not still be allowed to travel to the World Championship,” the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-sends-her-apology-to-wfi/article35932163.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Niki Poonacha supports a social cause||Former National champion Niki Poonacha is finding time for a social cause amidst his tennis training. The 26-year-old Niki, who had won the last ITF men’s tournament here in April, is helping in organising a men’s ranking tournament in Chennai in collaboration with Rotaract Club of Madras and the Tennishub. “The tournament will be held at the PowerPak Tennis Academy from September 2 to 5. The winner and runner-up will get Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000,” said Niki. “All the funds raised from the event will be donated to Mahaishwar School for mentally challenged.” Niki has been training well for the international circuit. “I am looking forward to competing in Tunisia and Egypt soon,” said Niki. Registration for the tournament can be done on the link, https://forms.gle/ qXRkcSUgt1BKVuSi7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/niki-poonacha-supports-a-social-cause/article35932151.ece
16 August 2021||Hyderabad:,||Alluring Silver wins Nizam’s Gold Cup||Trainer P. Shroff’s Alluring Silver, ridden by Akshay Kumar, won the Nizam’s Gold Cup (Gr.2), the feature event of Sunday’s (Aug. 15) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Rishad Pandole & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg, Mr. Mukul Sonawala & Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP.  1. BAKHTAWAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): MUASER (Nakhat Singh) 1, N R I Sport (Uday Kiran) 2, Wallop And Gallop (Deepak Singh) 3 and Siri (B.R. Kumar) 4. 2-3/4, 1/2 and 2-1/4. 1m, 15.49s. Rs. 18 (w), 10, 81 and 26 (p). SHP: 456, THP: 57, FP: 1,115, Q: 1,081, Tanala: 5,295. Favourite: Muaser. Owner: Mr. Faiyaz Ali Khan. Trainer: Ananta Vatsalya.  2. BAKHTAWAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): HARD TO TOSS (Ashad Asbar) 1, Special Effort (Nakhat Singh) 2, Jean Lafette (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Reining Queen (Gaurav Singh) 4. 3, Nk and 2-1/2. 1m, 14.41s. Rs. 43 (w), 13, 21 and 10 (p). SHP: 71, THP: 84, FP: 740, Q: 368, Tanala: 1,413. Favourite: Jean Lafette. Owners: Mr. Shailendra Singh & Mr. K S N Murthy. Trainer: D. Netto.  3. MICA EMPRESS PLATE (1,200m) rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): SCRAMJET (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Lagos (Akshay Kumar) 2, Lockhart (P. Gaddam) 3 and N R I Magic (P. Sai Kumar) 4. Hd, 8-3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 12.50s. Rs. 15 (w), 10, 11 and 42 (p). SHP: 24, THP: 144, FP: 27, Q: 20, Tanala: 644. Favourite: Scramjet. Owners: United Racing and Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: K S V Prasad Raju.  4. RAM TILAK PLATE (1,200m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): JUST INCREDIBLE (B.R. Kumar) 1, Moringa (P. Gaddam) 2, Fashion Universe (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Flying Jet (Santosh Raj) 4. Sh, 3/4 and 2. 1m, 14.16s. Rs. 28 (w), 14, 36 and 15 (p). SHP: 159, THP: 59, FP: 901, Q: 586, Tanala: 2,191. Favourite: Just Incredible. Owners: Mr. Ashok Rupani & Mr. Sunder Peshwani. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  5. BROWN JACK PLATE (1,400m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MARK MY DAY (B.R. Kumar) 1, Good Connection (Zervan) 2, Siyavash (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Royal Pal (Nakhat Singh) 4. Not run: Starwalker. 1/2, 5 and 3. 1m, 26.21s. Rs. 151 (w), 18, 11 and 14 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 32, FP: 853, Q: 220, Tanala: 1,832. Favourite: By The Bay. Owners: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  6. NIZAM’S GOLD CUP (Gr. 2) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o & upward: ALLURING SILVER (Akshay Kumar) 1, Bisate (Neeraj) 2, Salazaar (Sandesh) 3 and North Star (P.S. Chouhan) 4. Nk, 1-1/2 and 2-3/4. 2m, 4.96s. Rs. 16 (w), 10, 16 and 12 (p). SHP: 61, THP: 60, FP: 160, Q: 84, Tanala: 240. Favourite: Alluring Silver. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Rishad Pandole & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg, Mr. Mukul Sonawala & Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. STAR HAVEN PLATE (1,200m), rated 25 (Cat. III): ALLURI’S PRIDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Berkeley (Gaurav Singh) 2, That’s My Speed (B. Nikhil) 3 and Astronaut (P. Gaddam) 4. 1/2, Nk and 2-3/4. 1m, 15.71s. Rs. 19 (w), 13,15 and 52 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 206, FP: 92, Q: 63, Tanala: 3,144. Favourite: Alluri’s Pride. Owner: Mr. Alluri Ajay Kumar. Trainer: S. Sreekant. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 9,254 (41 tkts.) and 30%: 1,465 (111 tkts.); Treble: (i) 406 (117 tkts.), (ii) 1,944 (36 tkts.); Mini jackpot: (i) 865 (59 tkts.), (ii) 4,000 (15 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alluring-silver-wins-nizams-gold-cup/article35932148.ece
16 August 2021||WROCLAW,||Golden day for Indian recurve archers||Indian recurve archers celebrated Independence Day in style by collecting multiple gold medals in the World Youth archery championships here on Sunday.  The cadet men’s team, comprising Bishal Changmai, Amit Kumar and Vickey Ruhal, beat France 5-3 to emerge as the champion. Bishal joined hands with Tamanna to defeat Japan 6-2 for the cadet mixed team title. Parth Salunkhe, Aditya Choudhary and B. Dhiraj helped India rally to beat Spain 5-3 and win the junior men’s crown. The Indian duo of Salunkhe and Komalika Bari got the better of Spain 5-3 to claim the junior mixed team gold. Komalika fought back to beat Elia Canales of Spain 7-3 and emerge victorious in the junior women’s individual final.  The results: Recurve: Gold medal matches: Cadet men’s team: India bt France 5-3; Cadet mixed team: India bt Japan 6-2; Junior men’s team: India bt Spain 5-3; Junior mixed team: India bt Spain 5-3; Junior women: Komalika Bari (Ind) bt Elia Canales (Spn) 7-3   Bronze medal matches: Cadet women’s team: India bt Germany 5-3; Cadet women: Manjiri Alone (Ind) bt Quinty Roeffen (Ned) 6-4.   Cadet men: Bishal Changmai bt Dauletkeldi Zhangbyrbay (Kaz) 6-4; Junior women’s team: India lost to Ukraine 1-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/golden-day-for-indian-recurve-archers/article35931959.ece
16 August 2021||LONDON,||Trapping the ball, or tampering with it?||The England team caused a flutter when two players tried playing football with the red Dukes ball during the post-lunch session on the fourth day of the second Test at Lord’s on Sunday. A footage from the official broadcaster showed an England player passing the ball to another who used his spikes to trap it, raising a storm as accusations of ball tampering flew thick and fast. The incident happened in the 35th over of India’s second innings, bowled by Ollie Robinson. The footage didn't show the face of the players. The umpires didn’t change the ball. The issue has not escalated as nothing has been confirmed so far and the Indian team hasn’t lodged an official complaint with match referee Chris Broad. When an Indian fan asked Stuart Broad on social media if playing football was intentional, the injured England seamer replied: “Of course, it wasn’t.” Broad said the umpires should have checked the ball after the incident to ensure nothing has happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trapping-the-ball-or-tampering-with-it/article35931961.ece
16 August 2021||KOCHI,||World u-20 athletics postponed by a day||The World Athletics under-20 championships, scheduled to begin in Nairobi on Tuesday, has been postponed by a day and will start on August 18. However, there is no change in the closing date (August 22). “The impact of COVID on teams travelling and logistics of moving vital equipment around the world have proven to be a challenge,” explained World Athletics. “However, the full athletics programme will be accommodated across five days rather than five-and-a-half days.” The Indians had some anxious moments at the New Delhi airport on Saturday night as they got ready to fly to Nairobi via Doha. Officials of the airline, which was to fly the team to Doha, asked for a letter from the Kenyan Health Ministry to clear the athletes for the flight. “We have the invitation from World Athletics and every athlete has an individual QR code from the Kenyan Health Ministry but they were not accepting it,” said a coach with the team. The matter was sorted out and the team reached Nairobi on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-u-20-athletics-postponed-by-a-day/article35931960.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Rane strikes, BFC enters group stage||Bengaluru FC progressed to the group stage of the 2021 AFC Cup with a 1-0 win over Club Eagles at the National Stadium, in Male on Sunday. Jayesh Rane’s first-half strike was enough to decide the match as Marco Pezzaiuoli’s side joined ATK Mohun Bagan, Maziya S&RC and Bashundhara Kings in Group D. The winner came in the 25th minute when Eagles failed to clear Sarthak Golui's long throw from the left and the ball fell to Rane, who placed his shot into the bottom corner. BFC's group stage opener will be on August 18 against ATK Mohun Bagan at the same venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rane-strikes-bfc-enters-group-stage/article35932138.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Reign continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reign-continues/article35932247.ece
16 August 2021||PARIS,||Will be out for many months: Federer||Roger Federer said on Sunday he will undergo further knee surgery and admitted he “will be out for many months”, a decision which casts more doubt on his future in the sport at the age of 40. “I will be on crutches for many weeks and out of the game for many months,” said Federer in a video posted on his Instagram account. The decision rules him out of the US Open, which begins in two weeks’ time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-be-out-for-many-months-federer/article35932131.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Narayanan finishes runner-up||S.L. Narayanan (7 points) finished runner-up after a draw with Israel’s Ilia Smirin in the ninth and final round of the RTU Open chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Sunday. Germany’s Alexander Donchenko won with 7.5 points from nine rounds.  The results (involving Indians): Ninth round: Ilia Smirin (Isr, 6.5) drew with S.L. Narayanan (7); M. Karthikeyan (7) bt Nikita Meshkovs (Lat, 6); Tomas Laurusas (Ltu, 7) bt Arjun Erigaisi (6); Gergley Kantor (Hun, 7) bt D. Gukesh (6); Nihal Sarin (6) drew with Arjun Kalyan (6.5); S. P. Sethuraman (6.5) bt Raja Harshit (5.5); Luka Budisavljevic (Srb, 6) drew with Aravindh Chithambaram (6); Kirill Chukavin (Est, 5.5) lost to R. Praggnanandhaa (6.5).  Mendonca fares better Leon Mendonca came up with an improved showing, scoring two points from four rounds, to occupy the 14th spot after 12 rounds of Kramnik Challenge online rapid chess tournament on Saturday. With three rounds to go, USA’s Awonder Liang headed the table with 9.5 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narayanan-finishes-runner-up/article35931962.ece
16 August 2021||LONDON,||Let’s play!||The Indian women‘s team all-rounder Deepti Sharma on Sunday was bestowed with the honour of ringing the ‘five-minute’ bell to mark the start of the fourth day’s play at the Lord’s on Sunday. The custom was started by the MCC in 2007.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lets-play/article35931966.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Siddanth and Pravanthika triumph||Siddanth Gupta of Chennai and R. Pravanthika (Kancheepuram) clinched the men’s and women’s singles titles in the Tamil Nadu State badminton championships held here on Sunday.  The results: Men: Singles: Siddanth Gupta (Che) bt S. Rithvik Sanjeevi (Che) 12-21, 21-18, 21-18. Doubles: Lokesh & Naveen (Cbe) bt Arjun Krishnan & Mohanraj (Tvlr) 22-20, 21-15.   Women: Singles: R. Pravanthika (Kanchi) bt M. Nivetha (Cbe) 15-21, 21-16, 21-18. Doubles: V. S. Varshini & R. Tanusree (Mdu) bt R. Pravanthika & Ramya Tulsi (Kanchi) 21-15, 22-20.   Mixed doubles: Lokesh & M. Nivetha (Cbe) bt Varshath/Arul Bala 21-13,18-21, 21-13 .      Moideen (82) and Sathish (four for 28) enabled Equitas Bank script a 33-run win over InduSind Bank in the G.R. Kuppuswamy memorial cricket tournament held here on Sunday.  The scores: Equitas Bank 177/8 in 30 overs (Rajesh 35, Moideen 82, Santosh 4/32, Madan 3/48) bt InduSind Bank 144 in 28.3 overs (Ram 26, Jhon 83, Sathish 4/28, Vinoth 3/16) .    Mandeep Reddy Kudumala of Karnataka defeated Arya Bhattacharya (West Bengal) 6-1, 6-3 in the boys’ final qualifying round of the Tennishub-MPTA National junior (u-18) tennis championships here on Sunday.  Other results (final qualifying round):   Boys: Akarsh Vinayak Gaonkar (Kar) bt Vineeth Mutyala (TS) 7-6(4), 6-4; Samuel Jones Suresh Antony (TN) bt M. Gowin Sehwaag (Kar) 6-3, 6-1; Keerthivassan Suresh (TN) bt Adith Amarnath (Kar) 6-2, 7-5; Samar Bir Singh Sidhu (Pun) bt Kritanta Sarma (Asm) 3-6, 7-6(5), 6-3; Azmeer Shaikh (Mah) bt Parth Malik (TS) 7-5, 6-4; Prajwal Prasanna Tewari (Mah) bt R. S. Rethin Pranav (TN) 6-2, 7-5; Jason Michael David (Kar) bt Shafaat Ali Asghar (Raj) 6-1, 6-3.   Girls: S. Madhuriuama (Mah) bt Kanika Sivaraman (TN) 6-2, 6-4; Lakshanya Viswanath bt Arunkumar Nagaroshne 6-1, 6-2; Kristi Boro (Asm) bt Ravindra Deepa Yazhini (TN) 6-3, 6-1; Tentu Sri Chandrakala (TN) bt Samya Singh 6-1, 6-0; Chahana Budhbhatti (TS) bt Anusuya Subbiah (TN) 6-1, 6-3; Charmi Gopinath (Kar) bt K. Miruthula Mahalakshmi (TN) 6-7(9), 6-4, 6-2; S. R. Ananya (TN) bt Riyah Dugar (TN) 6-4, 7-6 (3); Gagana Mohankumar (Kar) bt Sachi Anirudhaa Patwardhan (Mah) 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siddanth-and-pravanthika-triumph/article35932199.ece
16 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI:,||Ram scalps five||Ram claimed five for 22 as SDR defeated Pusco by 94 runs in the Thoothukudi DCA first division league. In the second division, Eswarapandian's five-wicket haul went in vain as Youngstar lost to Seconds-A by one wicket.  The scores: I div.: SDR 158 in 40.4 overs (Muthukumar 40, Ganesh 31) bt Pusco 64 in 25.4 overs (Ram 5/22, Anand 3/22).   II div.: Youngstar 146 in 32.4 overs (Chinnaraja 39, Prem 4/40, Sethu 4/23) lost to Seconds-A 147/9 in 38 overs (Nazar 43, Eswarapandian 5/34).   Ramesh Flowers 267 in 39.3 overs (M. Marimuthu 77, Marudhupandi 55 n.o., Berthan 33, Minish 3/30, Rajan 3/64) bt USC 131 in 31.1 overs (Rajan 32, R. James Raj 4/33).   III div.: Pearlcity 144 in 31.2 overs (Prakash 37, Abhi 31, Xavier Selvin 4/33, S. Selvin 3/26) bt Thermal-A 132 in 26.1 overs (Seelan 4/25) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ram-scalps-five/article35932243.ece
16 August 2021||Kent,||Sharma eyes good finish despite last hole trouble at Cazoo Classic||India’s Shubhankar Sharma was going great guns at 6-under through 17 holes and headed for a top-5 finish when he ran into a double bogey at the last hole of the third round at Cazoo Classic golf here. He ended the day at 4-under 68 and was 7-under through 54 holes and from tied-3 at one stage, slipped to tied-19 at the end of the day. Gaganjeet Bhullar, S.S.P. Chawrasia, Shiv Kapur and Ajeetesh Sandhu all missed the cut. Denmark’s Rasmus Højgaard moved into a commanding three-shot lead.    Tvesa Malik had a poor third round carding 5-over 77 and slipped down to 67th place at the Trust Golf Women’s Scottish Open after the end of the third round. Tvesa, who had two good rounds to start the week at 73-72 found the Links conditions hard to handle and had a nightmarish stretch in the middle of the round as she triple bogeyed on Par-4 seventh hole and then had bogeys eighth, ninth and 10th holes.    India’s Anirban Lahiri left a few birdie chances but finished bogey free with a card of 3-under 67 that saw him jump 13 places to tied-28th at the end of the third round of the Wyndham golf championship here. Russell Henley shot 1-under 69 on Saturday to take a three-stroke lead.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharma-eyes-good-finish-despite-last-hole-trouble-at-cazoo-classic/article35932143.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 06:58 IST,||Sudoku — August 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-16-2021/article35932827.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A passage through||In the late 17th Century, East India Company galleons sailed up the Bay of Bengal into the waterlogged delta of the Ganges-Brahmaputra and weighed anchor. Legend has it that administrator Job Charnock ‘established’ the city of Calcutta at the site of three extant villages, near the banyan tree where he liked to smoke his hubble-bubble. Over time, Calcutta became the hub for Company trade, the capital of the sub-continent and seat of the province of Bengal. Businessmen and soldiers, artists and memsahibs, all drawn to Bengal’s riches in wealth and culture, flocked to it. Among them was Flemish marine painter, printmaker and ethnographer, Balthazar Solvyns, perhaps the only European artist to have documented the people and material culture of Bengal in the decade he lived there. An exhibition by DAG featuring the 288 etchings of Solvyns that he titled Les Hindous opened recently in New Delhi. The works were published by the artist in Paris between 1808 and 1812. “What makes Solvyns exceptional, among foreign artists in India of his time, is his focus on the whole spectrum of society from high to low. Most British painters, for example, were portrait painters seeking patronage from the elites; or they portrayed architecture and landscape. Solvyns addressed Indian society as a whole, and did not neglect its less privileged members,” says Giles Tillotson, senior vice president, Exhibitions and Publications at DAG, in an email interview. Curated by Tillotson, the exhibition is accompanied by a book that introduces, illustrates and contextualises this body of work. Tillotson had earlier curated an exhibition based around a set of Oriental scenery by Thomas and William Daniell in the Red Fort. Les Hindous can be viewed in the high-vaulted halls of Bikaner House in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi. The paintings are of individuals and of groups, a hat tip to Calcutta’s growth as a cosmopolitan city. So while a native, dhoti -clad man blows the ramsingha (serpent horn), women in flounces and petticoats stroll through the European quarters. The colours are muted, but the exposed brickwork and colonnades are stark. At the bazaar, palm trees are in the distance as men and women crowd the baskets selling wares, but it is the different types of clothing, the drape of the sari or the dhoti , indicating caste and class, that underline Solvyns’ keen powers of survey. “All the works are coloured etchings on paper and hence the works are rested in light and temperature-controlled environments between exhibitions,” says Tillotson, adding, “Each work in this series is based on close observation — of a person or an object such as a boat, cart, a musical instrument... It is also accompanied by text, written by the artist, describing the person or object, explaining them to Western audiences.” The storyteller The descriptive texts are quaint with phonetic spellings for a Parisian viewer, but they also reveal an ethnographic study of Bengal. The works also feature ‘nautch’ girls and fortune tellers apart from the gamut of weavers, boatmen and merchants, lending the portraits a touch of the exotic. “Inevitably, the gaze is in part European. Solvyns is attracted to some things that are strange to Western eyes. Some of the ceremonies and religious rites fall in this category — like the views depicting sati or charak puja. But one also gets a strong sense of Solvyns gathering information from the people he met, his informants, particularly Bengali Brahmins.” The series also covers carts and palanquins, apparatus for smoking and natural history. Solvyns did not arrive in India with the intent of portraying its people to Europe. In the early years, he decorated carriages and restored paintings for a living. It opened to him a world of customs, dress and character he may not have seen otherwise. Or, neither would have we, of that India veiled now by the mists of time.  The exhibition is on till August 20 at Bikaner House, New Delhi. It can also be viewed online at https://dagworld.com/ The_Hindus/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-passage-through/article35932533.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In Velu Nachiyar’s shoes||Against a smoky backdrop, Velu Nachiyar stands, spear and shield in hand. Adorned in a red sari and jewellery from a bygone era, her posture exudes power. For Tamils worldwide, Nachiyar is “veeramangai”; the first Indian queen to have waged a war against the East India Company. But in this frame, Chennai-based actor and theatre practitioner TM Karthik embodies the role. In an unusual series of photographs, which was launched ahead of Independence Day, Karthik, takes on the roles of five women who rewrote India’s history. Done in collaboration with Pearls Beauty Academy, the series features the actor dressed as Velu Nachiyar, Rani Lakshmibai (Rani of Jhansi), Rani Padmini, Kittur Rani Chenamma and Begum Hazrat Mahal. With costumes and makeup by the Academy and pictures by Ashok, a freelance photographer, the project attempts to tell these stories again. “I wanted to do a series on Tamil women warriors, but realised that not many would know who they are. The aim was also to reach many. So we selected warriors across India,” says Karthik. Inspiration for poses, costumes and jewellery came from early paintings and images that Karthik found in books. While a few costumes were purchased, others were borrowed from her 91-year-old grandmother, says Aarthi Balaji, director of Pearls Beauty Academy. “We wanted to highlight Indian culture and heritage through the jewellery and makeup; things that are almost lost now,” adds Arthi.  The series can be viewed on Pearls Beauty Academy’s social media handles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-velu-nachiyars-shoes/article35932532.ece
16 August 2021||Amritsar,||Won’t tolerate any aggression from Pak., says Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday vowed to protect the State against the “nefarious designs” of Pakistan and said “we want peace but will not tolerate any aggression or attack on our territory”. Any threat to Punjab will mean danger to entire India, he said. Addressing the people of Punjab after unfurling the Tricolour here on the occasion of the country’s 75th Independence Day, Capt. Singh also pledged to continue fighting with the farmers for the repeal of the Centre’s farm laws. Calling for extreme vigil against Pakistan, he said, “We want peace but will not tolerate any aggression or attack on our territory. We will teach them (Pakistan) the lesson of their lifetime if they try to be adventurous.” On the use of drones by Pakistan to smuggle arms and drugs into Punjab, Capt. Singh warned that Pakistan will not let go of any opportunity to take advantage of any of the State’s vulnerabilities. Stressing the need to ensure peace in the State to promote the development of industry and the progress of its people, he said his government will not tolerate any threat, including those from gangsters and terrorists. “We will deal with them squarely,” he said, adding “any threat to Punjab will be a danger to our entire nation”. Capt. Singh said since his government took charge, 47 Pakistani terrorist modules and 347 modules of gangsters have been busted. Some key gangsters have been deported from Armenia, the UAE and other countries while more are awaiting deportation. In his address, the Chief Minister also spoke about the legal efforts made by his government to get the sacrilege cases back from the Central Bureau of Investigation. Since taking over the cases from the CBI, the Punjab police has filed chargesheets in four of these cases against 23 people, 15 police personnel have been suspended, 10 people have been arrested and 10 challans presented, he said. Farm laws Later, during an informal interaction with mediapersons on the sidelines of the Independence Day function, Capt. Singh expressed concern about the continuing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agricultural laws. He said he raised the issue recently in his meetings with the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wont-tolerate-any-aggression-from-pak-says-amarinder-singh/article35932277.ece
16 August 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases rise again, exceed 64,000||Maharashtra’s cases outweighed its recoveries for the third consecutive day on Sunday, with a mere 3,710 patients being discharged as against 4,797 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally has risen to 64,219. As many as 130 deaths pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,35,039. The case fatality rate stands at 2.11%. The total cases have reached 63,92,660 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 61,89,933 with the recovery rate standing at 96.86%. “Of a total 5,09,59,730 laboratory samples tested thus far, 63,92,660 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 12.54%) have returned positive with over two lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported more than 750 new cases, taking its total case tally to 11,04,041 while 13 deaths pushed the toll over 18,480. As per district authorities, the active cases stand at a little over 7,800. Mumbai recorded 262 new cases to take its total tally to 7,39,331 while the active count has declined to 3,096. Four fatalities took the toll to 15,981. Ahmednagar registered 789 new cases and two deaths, taking its total cases to 2,98,248 of whom 5,413 are active. The district’s death toll has touched 6,344.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtras-active-cases-rise-again-exceed-64000/article35932538.ece
16 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam employees to get extra week’s leave annually||The Assam government has decided to grant an extra week’s leave to its employees every year to spend time with their elderly parents. The special leave will come with a condition – the employees cannot use it for any other purpose. Announcing the “geriatric care” leave as an Independence Day bonus, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the employees can avail the leave at any given time. “I understand that we need to work hard to run the family but can’t the government employees spend seven days with their aged parents? The government will grant the leave,” he said in his I-Day speech on Sunday. “We have to resolve that we won’t keep our parents in old age homes. In the Indian ethos, nothing is more disturbing and shameful than to see elderly parents in old age homes,” he said. The Chief Minister also appealed to the traders to take a week’s break from business and to accompany their parents on pilgrimages. The proposal for leave came a week after the government linked geriatric care to the employees’ pay by pushing through the Assam Employees’ Parent Responsibility and Norms for Accountability and Monitoring Amendment Bill. This will make it mandatory for the employees to take care of their parents or face deduction from their pay that would be used for their parents’ welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-employees-to-get-an-extra-weeks-leave-annually/article35932282.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CM stresses on Deshbhakti, yoga in I-Day speech||Speaking during the Independence Day celebrations at the Delhi Secretariat, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday thanked those who had fought for India’s freedom, the bravehearts who managed to keep the freedom intact for 74 years and the doctors, nurses, and paramedics who put their lives at stake to serve the people of this country during the pandemic. Also, Mr. Kejriwal announced a host of measures, including the introduction of Deshbhakti curriculum in government schools, making yoga a mass movement, innovation in governance and shared a vision for Delhi’s future in his address. “As we celebrate the 75th Independence Day, we should also prepare for the Delhi we want to see on the 100th Independence Day. I seek a pledge from all the people of Delhi that together we will make it the most liveable city all over, and from all the people of the country that we will make India the number one country in the world,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the government was working towards the promises made in the Budget presented in March, which was to make the per capita income of Delhi equal to Singapore and every person will have a high standard of living. The other promise, he said, was to make Delhi modern with world-class infrastructure and public services so that it can bid to host the 2048 Olympic games.  Speaking about the Deshbhakti Curriculum, which will be taught in all Delhi government schools from September 27, the birth anniversary of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Mr. Kejriwal said the curriculum is designed to motivate children to take pride in the country. “This won’t have any rote-learning involved. It will be activity-based, through which, emotions will be developed among children. They will be told the history of this country and its bravehearts and made to realise their duty towards this country. This curriculum will train children to contribute to the development of the nation and also make sacrifices for the country in times of need,” Mr. Kejriwal said, adding that “if we are able to guide the kids to the right path today, we will be able to ensure a bright future for our country.” Yoga classes from Oct. 2 He said the Delhi government is going to start yoga classes all over the city from October 2. Mr. Kejriwal added that preparations need to be made to start winning 70 medals at the Olympic games and that the newly established Delhi Sports University would help to identify and nurture talent to achieve the goal. Speaking about the pandemic, Mr. Kejriwal expressed his gratitude to the medical fraternity said the Delhi government did not consider their duty to be any way less than that of a soldier.  “The Delhi government maintains a policy of providing a Samman Rashi of Rs. 1 crore in case a soldier martyrs on duty; we extended the same policy to doctors and frontline workers and are providing a Samman Rashi of Rs. 1 crore to all such doctors, nurses, paramedics and frontline workers who martyred on duty, he said. Mr. Kejriwal said because of the dedication of the people, Delhi has become a laboratory of finding new ways of governance and the digitisation of the transport office that happened last week will be extended to all other departments. “Delhi has given a model to the country. I hope this model of governance can be implemented all over the country,” Mr. Kejriwal said.  ...we extended the same policy to doctors and front-line workers and are providing a Samman Rashi of Rs. 1 crore Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-stresses-on-deshbhakti-yoga-in-i-day-speech/article35932313.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia inaugurates archival exhibition on freedom struggle||An archival exhibition on the freedom struggle in Delhi was inaugurated at the Secretariat as part of programmes to celebrate India’s 75th year of Independence. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia inaugurated the exhibition, which has been put together by the General Administration Department in collaboration with the Department of Delhi Archives, Govt. of NCT of Delhi. He said: “The exhibition is a showcase of the vibrant history Delhi has, and the great fight put up by our freedom fighters for an independent India. The path to peace and non-violence enshrined by Mahatma Gandhi will continue to be a great learning for all of us for years on.” The exhibition showcased events of India’s freedom struggle in Delhi starting from the first war of Independence in 1857 up to 1947. The displays take visitors on a journey from the genesis of the freedom struggle in Delhi and the rising dislike for the East India Company’s rule. The exhibition displays the vibrant history of Delhi, showcasing the works of freedom fighters, especially Mahatma Gandhi’s struggle for peace and non-violence. The visuals showcase the role played by teachers, students and women from Delhi in the freedom struggle and the religious unity during the period. It also showcases how students from St. Stephen’s College, Hindu College and Indraprastha Girls College were a part of the struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-inaugurates-archival-exhibition-on-freedom-struggle/article35932315.ece
16 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers hold ‘Tiranga Yatra’||A large number of farmers, including women, took out processions across Haryana riding tractors, motorcycles and on foot holding Tricolours to observe the 75th Independence Day as “Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas” on the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. In most of the places, however, the processions were held as “Tiranga Yatra”. Convoys of tractor-trollies full of men, women, youth and children and bikes mounting national flags took out marches across the State and hoisted the Tricolour at various places including toll plaza protest sites. At four sub-divisions in Jind, hundreds of vehicles, mostly tractors, took out “Tiranga Yatra” along all the main roads. Five places witnessed similar processions in Bhiwani. Led by khap leaders, farmers took out “Tiranga Yatra” in Charkhi Dadri. Holding Tricolours, the farmers walked through the roads of the district raising slogans. Several tractors with Tricolours tied in their front were also part of the procession causing a traffic jam like situation. Addressing the farmers at Kitlana toll plaza on the conclusion of the procession, Dadri Independent MLA and Sangwan khap president Sombir Sangwan said farmers and their soldier sons and daughters were the true guards of Tricolour. Taking a dig at the BJP’s State-wide “Tiranga Yatra”, farmer leader Raju Maan said it was aimed at creating differences between the communities, but the farmers’ yatra had lent strength to brotherhood. In Yamunanagar, a huge procession was taken out. A massive show of strength was on display in Hisar with 2,000 tractors and unaccounted bikes, said an SKM statement, adding that there were celebrations in Palwal, Sirsa, Gurugram, Panipat and Karnal, besides at Singhu and Tikri borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-hold-tiranga-yatra/article35932279.ece
16 August 2021||Mumbai,||Will have to bow before China if dependence increases: Bhagwat||If dependence on China increases, we will have to bow before it, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at a Mumbai school on the 75th Independence Day, the RSS chief also said “swadeshi” means doing business on India’s terms. “We use the internet and technology a lot. Our country does not have the original technology. It comes from outside,” Mr. Bhagwat said. “No matter how much we shout as a society about China and boycott Chinese items, but from where does everything that is in your mobiles come from? If the dependence on China increases, then (we) will have to bow before China,” Mr. Bhagwat said. Economic security is important, he said, adding the adaptation of technology should be based on our terms. “We have to be swa-nirbhar,” he said. “Swadeshi does not mean ignoring everything else. International trade will remain, but on our terms,” he said. We have to be self-reliant for that, he added. “What we can manufacture at home should not be brought from the market,” he said. He said the economic vision should be to produce more and competition should be for the best quality of produce. “We are not against international trade and commerce but our production must be in villages. It should not be mass production but production by masses,” he said. A decentralised production will help India’s economy generate employment and self-employment opportunities, he said. With more producers, more people will be self-reliant, he said, adding the revenue generated should be distributed equitably. Industries should get encouragement from the government, Mr. Bhagwat said. The government should act as a regulator and not do business itself, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-have-to-bow-before-china-if-dependence-increases-bhagwat/article35932535.ece
16 August 2021||New Delhi,||Minor girl among two dead as fire breaks out at hotel in Dwarka||Two persons died after a fire broke out at a hotel here on Sunday, police said. The incident took place in south-west Delhi’s Dwarka around 7.30 a.m., they said, adding one of the deceased has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Bagdola in Sector-8, Dwarka. Police refused to reveal the identity of the minor girl, who lost her life in the tragedy. “We received information regarding the blaze in the four-storey hotel building at 7.40 a.m. and eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot,” said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service. According to police, the building is owned by Sidharth and Karuna from Ranchi but the hotel was being run by Sunil Gupta, who further sublet it to Harshit from Dashrath Puri. “When our team reached the spot, no hotel staff was found there. Subsequently, FSL and crime team were also called to the spot. After extinguishing the fire, two bodies including that of a woman were found on a staircase. Both the bodies were shifted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital,” a senior police officer said. During an inquiry, it was found that the same hotel had been prosecuted under relevant sections of the Delhi Police Act twice earlier and a case was also registered against it under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the officer said. Lokesh (21), an eyewitness, told police that there was a short circuit around midnight and the power came back around half-an-hour later. A case was registered against the hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minor-girl-among-two-dead-as-fire-breaks-out-at-hotel-in-dwarka/article35932304.ece
16 August 2021||Gurugram,||Young athletes inspired by India’s show at Olympics||After India’s best-ever medal haul in the Olympics, there is a buzz around the local training grounds. There is renewed energy and motivation among the youth. At a stadium in Gurugram, the brisk morning air has an edge to it, and every athlete is striving to live the Olympics motto – ‘Citius, Altius, Fortius’. “A lot of children that come here to train are like mausami mendhak (fair-weather frogs). They will train as long as they are in their comfort zone, but when the going gets tough, they disappear.”, Akhil Kumar, boxing coach at the Nehru Stadium in Gurugram said about the young athletes that he trains. The ones that remain, he went on, are like rough diamonds. Boxing as a sport gained immense popularity in India after Vijender Singh’s historic bronze medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Sahil Bansal, now a State level boxer, is one such athlete. “Do I want to go to the Olympics someday? Woh toh jaana hi hai !! [That is the objective!],” he says. As the talk turns to the Olympics, he says that he really enjoyed watching the games, even though his favourite boxer, Amit Panghal did not win a medal. For others like Aditya Chauhan, a State-level table tennis player, India’s performance at the Olympics was a source of inspiration. Despite both Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra exiting the games in the third round, the performances were extremely encouraging. “Sharath Kamal’s match versus Ma Long, the third best player in the world, was one of the best games of the Olympics for me,” Mr. Aditya says. Shift in mentality Coaches say that the shift in mentality of young athletes is extremely heartening, as they are no longer content with just being at the Olympics. The objective now is to win medals. The pandemic affected India’s tryst with the Olympics as well, particularly in gymnastics. “It [our performance in the Olympics] was good, but not that good for gymnasts,” said Kanika Chaudhary, a 12-year-old national level gymnast. “It was really difficult to practice alone at home with lack of proper equipment, and the most we could really do was maintain our fitness levels as much as possible. Our coaches sent us training routines and diet charts on WhatsApp to help us during the lockdown.” Taking up challenges As the threat of the third wave of the pandemic looms large over the country, young athletes are ready to take the challenges head on. Coaches and trainers have adopted technology, be it through Zoom training sessions or WhatsApp conversations to train athletes so that the fight for international success will continue even if stadiums and facilities are shut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/young-athletes-inspired-by-indias-show-at-olympics/article35932308.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to reserve 70% vaccination slots for first dose recipients||To ensure more people get vaccinated, the Delhi government on Sunday said it will be reserving 70% of vaccination slots of Covishield and Covaxin at State-run facilities for those receiving the first dose. “First dose proportion of Covishield may be increased from 40% to 70% of the total slots being created. The first dose proportion of Covaxin may be increased from 50% to 70%...,” the order said. It added that private COVID vaccination centres can continue to administer both doses of the vaccines but are advised to factor in-stock availability for the second dose while planning and publishing the slots for the two doses. According to the vaccination bulletin, the Capital has 2,85,550 doses of Covixin and 4,57,230 doses of Covishield available, which is enough to last for six days. The health bulletin released on August 15 said 1,57,709 beneficiaries were vaccinated in 24 hours, of which 90,210 were given the first dose. The total number vaccinated so far stands at 1,14,99,675, of which 32,64,684 have received both doses. The bulletin added that 53 positive cases and zero deaths were recorded in the city in 24 hours. A total of 65,007 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.08%. There are 513 active cases in the city out of which 169 are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-reserve-70-vaccination-slots-for-first-dose-recipients/article35932310.ece
16 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Health card to bear treatment cost in Odisha||Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday said Odisha would provide smart health cards to 3.5 crore people in the State under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY), which would enable each family to get treatment cost up to Rs. 5 lakh per annum. Odisha is said to be the first State to provide such smart health cards. Addressing the State-level 75th Independence Day celebrations here, Mr. Patnaik said, “All the people of Odisha are my family. The news of people selling land, jewellery or stopping sending children to school to manage their treatment costs pains me. Therefore, I decided that people should get hassle-free quality treatment at best available health care facilities.” The BSKY was redesigned to provide smart health cards to people that would work as a debit cards for a certain amount, he said. According to the re-launched BSKY, each family can avail treatment cost up to Rs. 5 lakh per annum while women members can avail this benefit up to Rs. 10 lakh every year. The health scheme is meant for 3.5 crore people in 96 lakh families. Stating that the initiative would transform health service delivery system, Mr. Patnaik said the beneficiaries could avail services in more than 200 hospital chains of the country, including Odisha. “This card will be given to all the beneficiaries phase wise. Beneficiaries of national and State food security schemes, Annapurna and Antodaya, will get this card,” said Mr. Patnaik. Hockey medal The Chief Minister expressed satisfaction over the Indian men’s hockey team winning a medal at the Olympics after a gap of 40 years. Stating that investment in youth was an investment in the future, he assured all help would be extended to make the team the best again in the world. Under 5T (team work, technology, transparency, transformation and time limit) action plan, 1,072 schools had been transformed in the first phase, said Mr. Patnaik. Similarly, more than 5,00,000 alumni had come forward to develop 32,000 schools under ‘Mo School’ campaign. Describing COVID-19 as the biggest health crisis in the world history, the Chief Minister hoped that the human race would surely succeed in tackling the pandemic. He said Odisha was proud of helping in saving a lot of precious lives by supplying medical oxygen to 17 States for two months. There has been no untoward incident reported during the Independence Day celebrations in the left wing extremism-affected districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/health-card-to-bear-treatment-cost-in-odisha/article35932274.ece
16 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam villagers tell wetland’s tragic tale through photos||About six years ago, dairy farmer Pramod Kalita felt he needed to document the deterioration of the wetland that sustained his forefathers and ensured ample food for herds of elephants that would troop past his village Chakardeo. His informal group of 25 members pooled money for three digital single-lens reflex cameras and went about clicking the elephants, trees, birds, boats, a massive garbage dump and warehouses and a “killer railway track skirting Deepor Beel, a freshwater lake on the south-western edge of Guwahati”. Designated a Ramsar Site in 2002 and an Important Bird Area for sustaining a range of aquatic life forms besides 219 species of birds, the beel has shrunk 35% since the 1990s. Its official area now is 4,014 hectares of 15.5 square miles. As India marked the 75th I-Day on Sunday, a row of trees separating the southern edge of Deepor Beel from a road turned into a photo exhibition gallery. A few feel-good pictures aside, the show told the tragic tale of a once-rich and much larger wetland. “Fewer elephants come to the wetland than two-three decades ago because the wetland has lost or is losing at least five aquatic plants and reeds the animals gorged on. The number of fishermen has come down from 850 to some 100 because the water is contaminated,” Mr. Kalita said. To make things worse, picnic spots, snacks shops and eateries along the road have contributed to the littering of the wetland. Five green groups — Midway Journey, Earthful Foundation, Fridays for Future, Climate Front India, North East Development Agency and Xondhan — got together to clear and segregate the trash around the photo exhibition ‘gallery’ on Sunday. They honoured some “ haati bondhus ” (friends of elephants), elderly residents of villages in the vicinity, who keep a watch on the pachyderms during their movement between the elevated Rani Reserve Forest and Deepor Beel. Romila Boro, Hareswar Tumung and Bijoy Rabha were each given a framed artwork depicting elephants negotiating the killer track. “The drawings were by children of an institute,” said Bijoyinee Sarma of Earthful Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-villagers-tell-wetlands-tragic-tale-through-photos/article35932286.ece
16 August 2021||Pune,||As varsities come to terms with online exams in pandemic-riven world, Pune start-up shows the way||For long, the spectre of technical glitches, question paper leaks and proctoring woes have haunted universities and educational establishments struggling to conduct online examinations smoothly in a pandemic-racked world. However, a Pune-based start-up may have the answer to these problems. Already a force to reckon with in its sphere, WeShineTech was conceived by brothers Anupam and Utkarsh Mangudkar, along with tech expert Ramkrishna Kulkarni, in a single-room apartment in Pune’s Bavdhan area, and is sweeping away the cobwebs of outmoded varsity exam processes. Their modest website belies the innovation of their products: WeShineTech’s UniApps package — a suite of applications to automate university examination processes — assures secure conduct of exams in areas with erratic Internet connectivity using minimal infrastructure. Their superior question paper delivery and assessment modules are revolutionising online conduct of exams in colleges and varsities in Maharashtra and other areas in the country’s rural hinterland. “After completing my engineering, I began working with Persistent Systems in 2008. There, I discovered people struggling to use the Internal assessment tool for learning and training. Next, year, the CAT exams went online and almost immediately encountered technical problems. This got me seriously thinking about coming up with an ERP that would counter these glitches and the seeds of WeShineTech were thus sown,” says Anupam Mangudkar, CEO, WeShineTech. WeShine’s prototype was ready in 2011. But the trio’s vision made it among the few start-ups in the country to actually anticipate the exigencies of universities in the COVID-19 pandemic, which has rendered the physical conduct of exams virtually impossible. “The world was changing and the online conduct of varsity exams and other competitive was here to stay. It was a potential market. While varsities and colleges eventually would have moved to the online format, the pandemic has proved to be the great disruptor, greatly accelerating the process,” says elder sibling Utkarsh Mangudkar, Chief Marketing Officer and co-founder, WeShineTech. Today, the start-up is catering to more nearly 20 State universities, including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Goa, besides the Pune and Mumbai universities, with their ERP software modules being used to set, assess and deliver nearly 60,000 question papers on different subjects and exams. “We started off with colleges and coaching classes in Pune and found we were rapidly converting orders. Our big break came in 2012, when the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) used our product to two engineering papers online on a pilot basis. Prior to the introduction of our products, system failure was rife. Very soon, more than 40,000 students from 100 colleges affiliated to the Pune University were taking exams using our ERP modules,” says Mr. Anupam Mangudkar, adding that a high point was reached in 2014, when nearly two lakh students took 20 lakh exams. Rural hinterland An ace in the hole that the brothers and Mr. Kulkarni had was to make their offering work perfectly with the bare minimum infrastructure requirement — inexpensive Android phones with a 2G connection and patchy Internet connectivity. This factor proved crucial while expanding into Maharashtra’s rural areas. “From 2014 onwards, we started receiving positive signals from Maharashtra’s rural hinterland, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University in Aurangabad and the Nanded university, besides SPPU-affiliated colleges in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These provided a veritable training ground to perfect our products,” says Mr. Utkarsh Mangudkar, remarking that, soon, colleges in Beed and Buldhana took the Pune varsity’s lead and adopted their software. The other knotty problem they have managed to counter successfully is maintaining the integrity of question papers. “Paper leaks were galore in the traditional exam process owing to multiple change of hands, with exam papers delivered several days before exams and involving complex logistics and onerous storage and security arrangements like bank lockers, police personnel and so on. Furthermore, eleventh hour changes in the question papers are not possible and worryingly, there was no method to trace leaked question papers to their source within a short time. There was also no way to verify and ensure that only authorised personnel had access,” observes Mr. Anupam Mangudkar. However, WeShineTech’s QP delivery (QPD) and management system facility, with its multiple leak-proof mechanisms such as biometric authentication (face and fingerprint recognition), IP restrictions, watermarking of downloaded question papers and an access control mechanism, along with a facility to enable question paper corrections, is proving to be a winner, with the exam integrity maintained even when the student is sitting at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/as-varsities-come-to-terms-with-online-exams-in-pandemic-riven-world-pune-start-up-shows-the-way/article35932540.ece
16 August 2021||Gangtok,||Sikkim relaxes COVID curbs to attract tourists||The Sikkim government on Sunday relaxed the COVID-related restrictions, allowing tourists who have got one dose of vaccination to enter the State, officials said. The government also allowed shops, commercial establishments and other businesses to remain open till 8 p.m., instead of 5 p.m., they said. The government also exempted tourist vehicles and two-wheelers from the odd-even scheme. Private vehicles and taxis ferrying locals will have to comply with the odd-even regulation, officials said. RT-PCR test However, those who are coming to the State with a single-dose vaccination will have to produce a COVID negative certificate of RT-PCR test conducted within 72 hours, they said. Those who have taken both doses would not need any test certificate, they added. Those below 18 years will have to show COVID-negative certificate of RT-PCR test, officials said. The government also allowed casinos in hotels for in-house customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sikkim-relaxes-covid-curbs-to-attract-tourists/article35932283.ece
16 August 2021||New delhi,||Jessica Lall’s sister Sabrina passes away||Sabrina Lall who had fought a long battle to bring the killers of her sister Jessica Lall to book passed away on Sunday evening, her brother said. Sabrina, in her early fifties, was ailing for long and was suffering from cirrhosis of the liver. “She was not keeping well and had been in and out of hospital. Yesterday [Saturday], her condition deteriorated at home and we took her to hospital. Today, in the evening, she passed away,” her brother Ranjith Lall said. Last year, in an interview, Sabrina had spoken about her plans to start a foundation in memory of her sister to aid women in similar situations to get justice. Jessica Lall was murdered in 1999 at a upscale restaurant in the national capital. Calling Jessica her closest friend, Sabrina had said she missed her sister’s presence in her life every day. “She was jovial and positive in life. It is not just birthdays and death anniversaries that I miss her, it is every day. I have lots of pictures of hers in my home and not that I need them to miss her, but they are there to remind me of her,” Sabrina said.  She was not keeping well and had been in and out of hospital. On Saturday, her condition deteriorated and we took her to hospital. Today she passed away Ranjith Lall Brother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jessica-lalls-sister-sabrina-passes-away/article35932306.ece
16 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DSEU to give on-the-job training to its students||The Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) on Sunday announced that it has introduced Graduate Apprenticeship Programmes in three of its degree programmes that will provide students with an opportunity to earn while they learn on the job. The three courses where apprenticeship embedded programmes will be offered are BBA Retail Management, BMS Land Transportation, and BMS E-Commerce Operations. DSEU Vice-Chancellor Neharika Vohra said the programme is a step towards ensuring our students gain relevant and adequate industry exposure as per the requirement of the industry. “Under the programme, students will undergo on-the-job training [OJT] while applying classroom-based learning during the three-year degree course. The curriculum for these courses shall run in a hybrid model with requisite academic portions aligned as per the UGC credit system for degree programmes. This way students will be granted credits for the training and work experience in the real work environment,” Ms. Vohra said. The university said during the 3-year degree programme BBA in Retail Management, the students will undergo a 21-month long apprenticeship period. Similarly, in BMS Land Transportation and BMS e-Commerce Operations, the students will be exposed to the industry during the first two years via internships, live projects, and field visits, and in the third year of the programme, a year-long apprenticeship will be offered to all undergraduates in the course. Admissions for the first academic session of the skill varsity are currently open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dseu-to-give-on-the-job-training-to-its-students/article35932311.ece
16 August 2021||Mumbai,||Millionaire hawker accused of extortion booked under MCOCA; properties attached||The Government Railway Police (GRP) have invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against a millionaire hawker accused of extortion, his wife, and six other associates, and attached many of his properties, a police official said on Sunday. The accused, Santosh Kumar Singh alias Bablu Thakur, has properties worth crores, including two high-end cars and a motorcycle, 10 houses in Mumbai, two land plots at his home town in Uttar Pradesh, five acre agricultural land, 1.5 kg gold, insurance policies worth around Rs. 10 lakh, and cash in about 30 bank accounts. Mr. Thakur was allegedly involved in extorting money from hawkers at railway stations and he would beat and attack them with sharp weapons if they refused to pay, he said, adding that apart from other provisions, the accused had now also been booked under the MCOCA. The accused was running the extortion racket at Dadar, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Byculla and Kurla railway stations as well as stations in Thane and Kalyan. Mr. Thakur and his wife Rita Singh have multiple cases registered against them and many of them are still pending in court, Dadar GRP senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Katkar said. “We have invoked the MCOCA against Mr. Thakur, his wife, and six other associates, and attached their properties. The last case was registered against them under Sections 387 (extortion) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code, and further investigation is under way,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/millionaire-hawker-accused-of-extortion-booked-under-mcoca-properties-attached/article35932536.ece
16 August 2021||Chandigarh,||More tickets to the youth in polls: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said during the upcoming Assembly polls, youths will be given more tickets than they got during the last one. Mr. Sidhu also trained guns at the previous SAD-BJP regime accusing them of ‘patronising’ mafias in Punjab. Without naming anyone, he also took potshots at the AAP, claiming that they were after him to join their party. Mr. Sidhu was addressing the Youth Congress workers at the Congress Bhawan here. A march was also taken out by the Youth Congress workers on the occasion of the Independence Day. He promised youths that he would honour the merit and added that he wanted youths to get opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-tickets-to-the-youth-in-polls-sidhu/article35932284.ece
16 August 2021||August 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Colours of India||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/colours-of-india/article35932302.ece
16 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||De-addiction centre owner kills man||Police here have arrested the operator of a drug de-addiction centre for the murder of a liquor addict, an official said on Sunday. The centre is being run at the defence colony near Bhopura, where Bharat Bhushan, also called Shanky, a resident of Sadar Bazar in Delhi, was admitted by his father Prem Chand on July 18. The operator of the centre, Saurabh Tyagi, killed Shanky in a fit of rage after he demanded liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/liquor-addict-murdered-in-ghaziabad/article35932316.ece
16 August 2021||Shimla,||Boulders block highway in Himachal||The Manali-Leh highway in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti district was blocked on Sunday after boulders came tumbling down the mountainside, a State disaster management official said. Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said according to the information received from the Lahaul-Spiti District Emergency Operation Centre, boulders came down near Killing Sarai in Lahaul valley, blocking the Manali-Leh National Highway-3. A team of the Border Roads Organisation has been deployed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/boulders-block-highway-in-himachal/article35932275.ece
16 August 2021||Jaipur,||Centre too stubborn, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday accused the Centre of being too stubborn to heed anyone else, including the Opposition. Counselling the Centre to shun the ‘arrogance’ “which does not last in politics”, Mr. Gehlot said people will teach it a lesson at an appropriate time. “There is a place for dissent in a democracy. When they were in the Opposition, they criticised us,” Mr. Gehlot said after hoisting the Tricolour on the Independence Day here. “They are such people who are determined to rule the country stubbornly without bothering to hear anyone,” he added. The remark prompted State BJP president Satish Poonia to take a dig at Mr. Gehlot and other Congress leaders. “Mr. Gehlot is the first Chief Minister who proudly says he did not venture out of his home during the pandemic,” he said. Referring to the next Assembly elections, he said, in 2023, the people of Rajasthan will “quarantine” Congress out of power. Earlier during the day, I-Day was celebrated with much fervour with the Chief Minister hoisting the flag at Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Stadium and inspecting the guard of honour. While talking to reporters, Mr. Gehlot also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being the “sole PM in the last 75 years who hesitates in taking the name of Jawaharlal Nehru”. He also accused the Centre of keeping various democratic institutions and investigative agenciesunder its pressure and misusing them for political purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-too-stubborn-says-gehlot/article35932280.ece
