19 August 2021||Kabul,||Only Sharia law, say the Taliban||Afghanistan may be governed by a council now that the Taliban have taken over, while the Islamist group’s supreme leader Haibatullah Akhundzada would likely remain in overall charge, said a senior member of the group. The Taliban would also reach out to former pilots and soldiers from the Afghan armed forces to join their ranks, Waheedullah Hashimi, who has access to the group’s decision-making, said in an interview. Many issues regarding how the Taliban would run Afghanistan have yet to be finalised, Mr. Hashimi said, but Afghanistan would not be a democracy. “There will be no democratic system at all because it does not have any base in our country,” he said. “We will not discuss what type of political system we should apply in Afghanistan because it is clear. It is Sharia law and that is it.” Mr. Akhundzada would likely play a role above the head of the council, who would be akin to the President, Mr. Hashimi said. “Maybe his [Mr. Akhundzada’s] deputy will play the role of President,” he said, speaking in English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/council-may-rule-afghanistan/article35989473.ece
19 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Kundapur man facing blasphemy charge in Saudi Arabia returns||Harish Bangera (34) hailing from Kundapur taluk in Udupi district, who was languishing in Saudi Arabia facing the charge of blasphemy, returned to his native place on Wednesday evening. Mr. Bangera, who worked as an air-conditioner technician with a company in Dammam, landed in trouble in 2019 after a blasphemous post was found in his Facebook account and was detained. Later, in a complaint to the Kundapur Police, Mr. Bangera’s wife Sumana, who lives in Beejady near Kundapur, said that some persons had created a fake Facebook account in her husband’s name and posted the blasphemous content in it. The police investigated the case and arrested Abdul Huyez and Abdul Thuyez from Moobidri who had created the fake account and posted the blasphemous content. Human Rights activist Ravindranath Shanbhag of Udupi worked closely with Mr. Bangera’s family for nearly two years to get diplomatic help. The Udupi Police, through the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood and Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia, informed the Saudi Arabian government about the arrest. Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje followed up with Embassy officials to ensure Mr. Bangera’s safe passage to India. Mr. Bangera boarded a flight at Damman airport to Doha and from there, reached Bengaluru. His wife Sumana and other family members received him at the airport and brought him by road to Kundapur. In a message posted on Twitter, Energy and Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar, who is also Minster in-charge of Udupi district, congratulated all those who worked for the safe passage of Mr. Bangera to India. He urged the Union Government to create a cell to address concerns of Non Resident Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kundapur-man-facing-blasphemy-charge-in-saudi-arabia-returns/article35989948.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Shashi Tharoor discharged from Sunanda death case||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Congress leader Shashi Tharoor from all charges, including abetment to suicide, in connection with the death of his wife, Sunanda Pushkar, in January 2014. “The accused [Mr. Tharoor] is discharged,” said special judge Geetanjli Goel while asking the MP from Thiruvananthapuram to furnish a requisite bond. “Most grateful, your honour. It’s been seven-and-a- half years of absolute torture. I really appreciate it,” said Mr. Tharoor, who was present during the videoconference hearing, immediately after the verdict. Sunanda Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tharoor-discharged-from-sunanda-death-case/article35989485.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Plus One public exams from Sept. 6||The Plus One higher secondary and vocational higher secondary public examinations will be held as scheduled next month. The higher secondary examinations will be held from September 6 to 16 and the vocational higher secondary examinations from September 7 to 16. Familiarising students Ahead of the public examinations, model examinations will be held for higher secondary and vocational higher secondary students from August 31 to September 4. These are aimed at familiarising students with the model questions for the year-end examinations. In the wake of the COVID-19 situation, students can appear for the model examinations at home, under the supervision of their parents. They can download the question paper from the higher secondary portalwww.dhsekerala.gov.inat the time specified in the timetable. Doubts can be cleared from teachers through digital means. Teachers will provide the required support to students. The timetable will be made available on the department website. Plus One revision classes had been aired on the KITE Victers educational channel. Live phone-in programmes for clearing doubts will also be telecast after Onam. Audio books for students have also been brought out. Students’ demand A section of students has been demanding the cancellation of the Plus One examinations citing inadequate learning during the past academic year in the wake of online classes. The government has been accused of turning a deaf ear to their complaints of ineffective learning. No improvement exams The fact that there will be no improvement examinations for Plus One has only heightened their anxieties. The Supreme Court had in June refused to intervene in a petition filed by students to cancel class 11 examinations owing to the pandemic, and asked students to approach the High Court.  Model exams will be held for higher secondary and vocational higher secondary students from August 31 to September 4   Model exams will be held for higher secondary and vocational higher secondary students from August 31 to September 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plus-one-public-exams-from-sept-6/article35989857.ece
19 August 2021||YADGIR,||‘Modi, Nadda told us to go to the people and get their blessings’||Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers, New and Renewable Energy Bhagawanth Khuba has launched a scathing attack on the Congress for not allowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to introduce the new Union Ministers, including himself, in the ongoing session and said that the entire country had watched the cunning Congress’ anti-Constitutional attitude. “The Congress, which did not get enough seats even to get the status of Opposition party in the Lok Sabha, will continue with its similar performance in the next Parliamentary elections also,” he said. He was addressing a Janarshivad Yatra programme in Yadgir after receiving a grand welcome. Mr. Khuba said that as per protocol, the Prime Minister wanted to introduce his new Ministers during the session but the Congress did not allow it. Thus, Mr. Modi and party national president J.P. Nadda asked the new Ministers to go to the people and get blessings from them. The Union Minister said that because of Mr. Modi’s social justice concept, today Members of Parliament from Dalit, Adivasi, backward classes and, also women, have got ministerial berths. “The Congress did not set such example by making members from the oppressed communities as Ministers in its entire ruling tenure,” he said. The Union Minister said that 43 crore people have benefited under the Jan Dhan Scheme. As many as eight crore women have been given gas cylinders under the Prime Minister Ujjwal Yojana. As many as 10.50 crore families are benefiting under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. Around 11 crore toilets have been constructed and also four crore houses have been built under housing schemes. The Union government is committed to protecting the country from internal and external threats. When the issue of farmers came, the Modi government had rushed to help them by transferring Rs. 1,50,000 crore and around 10 crore small farmers have benefited under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana, he said. Backing the three new agriculture laws, Mr. Khuba said that those who are continuing the protest in New Delhi are agents and not real farmers. There was no support to the protest from any States, except from Punjab and Haryana. Member of Legislative Assembly Venkatareddy Mudnal, who presided over the programme, said that he submitted a memorandum to Mr. Khuba seeking a facility in Yadgir to store fertilizers enabling farmers to get them on time. District party president Sharanabhupal Reddy, the former MLA Veerabasanth Reddy Mudnal, Chandra Shekhargowda Magnur, Lalitha Anpur, H.C. Patil and others were present.  Backing the three new agriculture laws, Mr. Khuba says those who are continuing the protest in New Delhi are agents and not real farmers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-nadda-told-us-to-go-to-the-people-and-get-their-blessings/article35989785.ece
19 August 2021||YADGIR,||Four men taken into custody for opening fire in the air||Yadgir Rural Police have taken into custody four men for opening fire in the air while welcoming Union Minister of State Bhagawanth Khuba on Wednesday. In a quick action, Yadgir Rural Police rounded up the four men for using Single Barrel Muzzle Loading (SBML) guns and opening fire in the air to welcome Mr. Khuba at Yargol village in Yadgir district. According to information given by Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, Sharanappa, Monappa, Ningappa and Devindra, all from Yargol village, came out of the crowd that had gathered there and opened fire in the air from their guns. Mr. Vedamurthy told The Hindu that of these four, two had licence to use SBML guns to protect agriculture crops from wild animals. However, the other two did not have any such licence. Therefore, a thorough enquiry has been suggested to be made to get to the fact. Meanwhile, a case was registered under Section 25 of the Arms Act. “We will complete the initial investigation and produce all the four before a court,” he said. Later, while addressing the gathering, Mr. Khuba referred to the incident and said that “those were not guns; crackers were burst”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-arrested-for-firing-in-the-air-to-welcome-union-minister/article35989548.ece
19 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP MP booked on sedition charge for remarks on Taliban||Samajwadi Party MP from Sambhal Shafiqur Rahman Barq was booked on sedition charges for allegedly drawing a parallel between the struggle of freedom fighters during India’s Independence and the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban, the police said on Wednesday. He was charged with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings and promote enmity between different groups. The FIR was lodged on a complaint from Rajesh Singhal, reportedly a BJP leader, but described as a private person by the police. On Monday, the five-time MP said the Taliban wanted to run Afghanistan themselves as per their will. When India was fighting against the British, the entire country came together. Similarly, he said, the Taliban wanted to free their country that was captured by the U.S. and, earlier, Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-mp-booked-on-sedition-charge-for-remarks-on-taliban/article35989483.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||In interim measure, SC allows women to take NDA exam||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued an interim order allowing women candidates to take the National Defence Academy (NDA) examination, scheduled to be held on September 5, while questioning why “co-education is a problem” in the armed forces. The directive is subject to further orders from the court. “We consider it appropriate to issue interim direction permitting the women candidates to take part in the examination. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) is directed to take out the necessary corrigendum in view of the interim orders today and give it wide publicity so that the intent of the order is translated into benefit at the ground level,” a Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said.  The court snubbed the Union of India’s affidavit “broadly” suggesting that Sainik schools have “started the process of admitting schools and it will be further expanded”. “As far as Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) is concerned, it is stated that it is a 99-year-old institution, which will complete 100 years next year. The question is whether it completes its 100 years with gender neutrality or not!” the Bench said in its order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-interim-measure-sc-allows-women-to-take-nda-exam/article35989486.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,||PU colleges to open at 50% capacity||Pre-university colleges that are set to welcome students back on campuses on August 23 will have to conduct classes with 50% student capacity. The government on Wednesday listed the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that colleges have to adhere to once offline classes for the first and the second year PU students begin on Monday. Students will be divided into batches and can to report to campus on alternate days. They will continue with online classes on the other days. “For example, those who attend offline classes on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday should attend online classes on Thursday, Friday and Saturday,” the SOP stated. These rules do not apply to PU colleges that have a student strength of less than 100, and adequate infrastructure to ensure COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. They conduct continuous offline classes, stated the SOP. Only districts that have a positivity rate of less than 2% will resume offline classes. Students have to submit consent letters from parents to return to campus. Parents will have to certify that children do not have COVID-19-like symptoms. All teachers should have received at least one dose of vaccination.  Guidelines Students should carry food and water Schools must arrange for hot drinking water Every nook and corner of PU colleges should be sanitised||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pu-colleges-to-open-at-50-capacity/article35989518.ece
19 August 2021||MYSURU,||Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway: Six bypasses to be ready by 2022||Six bypasses along the Bengaluru–Mysuru Expressway, which is under construction, are expected to be completed by January 2022. The six bypasses at Bidadi, Ramanagaram, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya, and Srirangapatna are expected to provide immediate benefits by reducing commute time between the two cities by at least 45 minutes. The bypass at Bidadi will be 7 km while the one between Ramanagaram and Channapatna is 22.35 km. The Maddur bypass will be 4.45 km, the one at Mandya is 10.04 km and the Srirangapatna bypass will be 8.19 km in length. The elevated stretch between Bengaluru and Nidaghatta is 4.42 km, and between Nidaghatta and Mysuru is 3.65 km. The project has been taken up by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at a cost of Rs. 8,066 crore, and is set to be fully functional by September 2022, according to MP for Mysuru Pratap Simha. Brisk progress He told mediapersons here on Wednesday that the project was making brisk progress and would be completed about three months ahead of time, and reduce the commuting time between the two cities to 90 minutes or less from nearly 3 hours at present. Service roads for the bypasses would be taken up soon after completion of the carriageway, he added. Mr. Simha, who made a presentation on the work status along the nearly 118-km stretch, said the expressway would trigger growth and boom in Mysuru similar to what Pune witnessed on completion of the Mumbai–Pune expressway. The six-lane access-controlled highway will have service roads on either side for the entire stretch of nearly 118 km. The entire stretch will have nine major bridges, 44 minor bridges, four rail overbridges, 28 vehicular underpasses, eight vehicular overpass, 13 light vehicle underpass, 13 pedestrian underpass, and two rest areas. Lobbying Mr. Simha said there was lot of lobbying by owners of hotels and restaurant along the route for provision of exit and entry points in more places. But the government would not succumb to such pressure as the purpose of the expressway would be lost. On the physical progress of the project, Mr. Simha said 81% of the work under Package 1 had been completed and 72% had been completed under Package 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengaluru-mysuru-expressway-six-bypasses-to-be-ready-by-2022/article35989977.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,||More NIEIT centres in State to hone IT skills||Union Minister of State for Electronics Information Technology Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Rajeev Chandrashekar has said that he is totally committed to diversifying technology projects to places outside Bengaluru. Steps are being taken to address infrastructure issues in tier-2 cities and other places in the State, he added. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, the third day of his Janashirvada Yatra here, Mr. Chandrashekar said that diversifying technology projects outside Bengaluru is the need of the hour as it is not good for Bengaluru and the State to have projects concentrated at one place. Mr. Chandrashekar said that there are some specific issues, including internet connectivity, in Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Shivamogga and other parts of the State. “I have put people on the job to identify the issues concerning these places and address them,” he said. Simultaneously, the Union Minister said, he has held meetings with industry representatives and is prompting them to invest in centres outside Bengaluru. “We are encouraging them to grow and move their growth out of places such as Bengaluru, Pune and Gurguram,” he said. To hone IT skills, he said, work is on to have more centres of National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIEIT) in the State, which trains youth in IT skills. He was working the State government to accelerate the Bharat Broadband Network Ltd., a project to provide high quality internet to residential houses. He was also pursuing a pilot project to connect 5,000 villages in the country with internet. With employees preferring to work from home in this post-COVID-19 situation, the Government is strengthening infrastructure that will help people work by sitting in Mangaluru, Shivamogga, Sirsi and Hubballi-Dharward, he said. In keeping with the Prime Minister’s vision of making the country a world leader in technology, Mr. Chandrashehar said, a national mission on artificial intelligence, block chain, quantum computing and other emerging technologies will be launched on August 25 and 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-nieit-centres-in-state-to-hone-it-skills/article35989950.ece
19 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||Bid to remove Basaveshwara statue sparks tension||Tension prevailed in Kalaburagi on Wednesday morning when the corporation authorities along with the police made an attempt to remove a Basaveshwara statue installed in a private layout in Yamuna Colony in the city. Scores of residents led by the former Mayor Sharan Kumar Modi assembled at the Ring Road on Kalaburagi-Sedam Road when they heard about the move to remove the statue. A group of angry youth and localites blocked roads for a couple of hours and burnt tyres in protest against the corporation authorities. The angry mob refused to cooperate despite the officials explaining to them that the religious structures were removed as per the orders of the High Court of Karnataka. They said that the demolition was carried out without prior notice. The protestors also threatened that if the corporation authorities did not stop the demolition drive against religious structures, they would intensify their agitation. Corporation Commissioner Snehal S. Lokhande, speaking to The Hindu , said that the demolition of illegal religious structures was stopped today following strong resistance and demonstrations by the local public. The corporation has given prior notice to those concerned. “We will again carry out the drive to remove illegal religious constructions. The corporation has identified 138 such structures in the city and we are taking steps to demolish all illegal structures,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bid-to-remove-basaveshwara-statue-sparks-tension/article35989783.ece
19 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Afghan students in Anantapur stare at an uncertain future||Eleven undergraduate and postgraduate students hailing from various parts of Afghanistan, pursuing studies in the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) Anantapur, are a worried lot and are staring at an uncertain future following the situation arising out of the political strife back in their country in the past one month. Living here on the university campus has been the most difficult thing for them during the strife, as one of the students lost her sister during the current spell of violence and the others are constantly in touch with their parents and loved ones hoping that things improve for the good at the earliest so that they could peacefully continue their studies. Harun Khan and Mohammed Ameen, undergraduate students at the University Engineering College here, told The Hindu that things were improving back in Kabul, where their parents and other family members live. While Harun’s father is a retired army officer, his brother works in a Ministry of the Afghan Government and is waiting for a word from the new dispensation at the Presidential Palace to join duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghan-students-in-anantapur-stare-at-an-uncertain-future/article35989478.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||CBI special court summons Jagan, 21 others on Sept. 22||The CBI Special Court/Enforcement Directorate Court has issued summons to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and 21 others to appear before it on September 22 in connection with the VANPIC case. According to information, the summons have been issued to YSRCP Rajya Sabha member Y. Vijaya Sai Reddy, former Congress Minister and present MP Mopidevi Venkatramana, industrialist Nimmagadda Prasad and over a dozen companies. Former Minister and YSRCP MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao, who was the Revenue and R&B Minister in the Congress government, has also been summoned. Others who have been summoned before the court are: Jagati Publications Limited, Bharathi Cement Corporation Private Limited; Carmel Asia Holdings Private Limited; Silicon Builders Private Limited; Vanpic Projects Private Limited; Vanpic Ports Private Limited; Gilchrist Investments Private Limited; Alpha Villas Private Limited; Alpha Avenues Private Limited; Beta Avenues Private Limited; G2 Corporate Services Limited; Suguni Constructions Private Limited; Nimmagadda Prakash; former Special Chief Secretary in united AP Mylapalli Samuel, IRTS officer K.V. Brahmananda Reddy and former Special Chief Secretary Dr. Manmohan Singh. The case relates to “irregularities” in the Vadrarevu and Nizampatnam Ports and Industrial Corridor (VANPIC) project. The CBI’s 177-page chargesheet referred to the irregularities in its implementation in Prakasam and Guntur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-special-court-summons-jagan-21-others-on-sept-22/article35989479.ece
19 August 2021||Pune,||8,196 recoveries in State||A robust 8,196 recoveries were recorded across Maharashtra on Wednesday as against 5,132 fresh COVID-19 cases, which saw the State’s active case tally dip below the 60,000-mark to touch 58,069. As many as 158 deaths pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,35,039. The case fatality rate now stands at 2.11%. The total cases have reached 64,06,345, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 62,09,364, with the recovery rate standing at 96.93%. “Of a total of 5,14,59,730 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,06,345 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 12.44%) have returned positive, with nearly two samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 950 new cases, taking its total cases to 11,06,581, while 15 deaths pushed the total death toll to 18,538. As per district authorities, the active case tally stands at a little over 8,000. Mumbai reported 285 new cases to take its tally to 7,40,007, while the active case tally declined to 2,904. Five fatalities took the city’s death toll to 15,930. Ahmednagar reported more than 700 new cases and 32 deaths, taking its total cases to 3,00,191, of whom 5,360 are active. The district’s death toll has risen to 6,382. Satara reported 615 new cases and 22 deaths, taking the total cases to 2,31,424, of whom 6,852 are active, while the death toll climbed to 5,609. Neighbouring Sangli reported nearly 450 new cases and eight deaths. Thecase tally stands at 1,96,136, with the active cases rising to 5,303, while its total death toll reached 5,644. Kolhapur reported 220 new cases, taking its case tally to 2,01,826. The active cases fell to 2,814. Ten deaths took the cumulative death toll to 5,723. No jabs in city for 2 days The COVID-19 vaccination drive will remain suspended at the civic and State government-run centres in Mumbai on Thursday and Friday due to shortage of vaccine doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. This is for the third consecutive week in August that the civic body has suspended the drive due to shortage of vaccine doses. Earlier, the civic body had halted inoculation on August 12, 13 and 4. The vaccination drive will resume on August 21, as a fresh stock of vaccines is expected to arrive on Thursday night and will be distributed to all centres the next day, the civic body said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8196-recoveries-in-state/article35989973.ece
19 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam detention centres for foreigners renamed ‘transit camps’||Assam’s detention centres for foreigners and those declared such by specific tribunals have been renamed as transit camps. The State currently has six detention centres within as many central jails at Dibrugarh, Goalpara, Jorhat, Kokrajhar, Silchar and Tezpur. A stand-alone detention centre with a capacity to house 3,000 foreigners is under construction at Agia in Goalpara district. A notification issued by Niraj Verma, Principal Secretary of the State’s Home and Political Department, said “the nomenclature of detention centre is changed to ‘Transit Camp’ for detention purpose” in partial modification of a June 2009 notification. The 12-year-old notification pertained to the setting up of the detention centres. On July 19, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had told the State Assembly that the detention centres have 181 inmates, 61 of whom are declared foreign nationals and 121 convicted foreign nationals awaiting deportation. Two of these centres house 22 children along with their “foreigner” mothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-detention-centres-for-foreigners-renamed-transit-camps/article35989671.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||NIIST develops system for medical waste disposal||The National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has developed a know-how for safely disposing of biomedical waste. The technology involves a solidifying agent, which reduces the risk of spillage and aerosolization, and a disinfectant which helps to dispose the waste as non-regulated medical waste. The CSIR facility said that the technology, 'Disinfection-Solidification System for Pathogenic Biomedical Waste Disposal,' has been transferred to M/s Bio Vastum Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (CML Group), Thrissur. NIIST has come out with the technology at a time when the generation of biomedical wastes has witnessed a sharp increase due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “'The technology enables the disinfection of both liquid and solid biomedical waste samples, and results in gelation or solidification instantaneously upon mixing. The complete microbial disinfection followed by immobilisation reduces the risk of spillage and occupational exposure. Transportation and disposal of such disinfected pathogenic waste are easier and safer for a healthcare facility,” NIIST said. Improper treatment of pathogenic biomedical waste can lead to harmful microbes infecting patients, health workers and the general public. Incineration of the wastes, on the other hand, leads to air pollution and is also expensive. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, the amount of biomedical waste generated has seen a steep increase globally, NIIST scientists noted. Citing the 2016 annual report of the Central Pollution Control Board, they pointed out that India produces 517 tonnes of biomedical waste per day. A joint report by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) and Velocity, pegged the per-day generation in 2018 at 550 tonnes, which was projected to touch 775.5 tonnes per day by 2022. “Kerala produces, on average, 37 tonnes of biomedical waste per day. An additional 18 tonnes of biomedical waste is produced in the State after the surge of COVID-19,” according to NIIST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/niist-develops-system-for-safe-medical-waste-disposal/article35989858.ece
19 August 2021||KOLKATA,||TMC will win Tripura: CM||Coming down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Tripura, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will win the Assembly polls in Tripura. “They are not allowing us to stay in hotels. This is too much. The State of Tripura is not even adhering to the basics of democracy and law and order. Vandalism and hooliganism is going on,” the Chief Minister said. She said leaders of Tripura were joining the TMC in large numbers and that, during the day, Jiten Sarkar, former Speaker of the Tripura Assembly, had written to her, expressing his willingness to join the TMC. “They cannot stop us like this. We will win Tripura. I want that people of Tripura should get benefits of schemes that we have started in West Bengal,” she said. Over the past few weeks, Trinamool Congress leaders have been making visits to the northeastern State. During the day, the Tripura High Court refused to stay the investigation against the TMC’s general secretary and five others for allegedly obstructing the police from performing their duties. Team to Delhi Ms. Banerjee announced that a Ministerial team comprising State Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra, Minister Manas Bhunia and other public representatives of the south Bengal region will visit Delhi and seek allocation for the Ghatal Masterplan, a flood protection infrastructure project for the lower Damodar basin. Large areas of Howrah, Hooghly and Paschim Medinipur districts were flooded a few weeks ago. Ms. Banerjee blamed the calamity on the discharge of waters from the Damodar Valley Corporation, calling it “manmade floods”. Ms. Banerjee said that the State government will seek two more master plans, one for the Sundarbans, which is prone to natural disasters, and also for the Digha sea front. The Chief Minister said that the team led by Ministers will visit Delhi next week. ‘Do not throng camps’ The Chief Minister also urged people to not throng camps in the Duare Sarkar outreach initiative for implementing several schemes of the State government. “The camps will continue till September 15 and if required, we will extend by a few days,” she said. Ms. Banerjee’s request comes at a time the Duare Sarkar camps are seeing large gatherings, particularly for a new scheme, the Laksmi Bhandar , in which a cash transfer of Rs. 500 per month will be given to every woman from the general category community, and a total of Rs. 1,000 per month to those from reserved communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-will-win-tripura-cm/article35989901.ece
19 August 2021||Mumbai,||BDD chawl redevelopment: beneficiaries to be charged only stamp duty of Rs. 1,000||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday decided to charge beneficiaries only Rs. 1,000 as stamp duty on agreements for new flats, which will be available after the redevelopment of Bombay Development Directorate chawls by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. As per the agreement, every eligible resident will get a 500 sq. ft home free of cost. “We have decided to charge only Rs. 1,000 as stamp duty on agreements for the new flats,” said State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad. A total of 207 chawls were constructed between 1921 and 1925. They are located in prime locations in Mumbai such as Worli, Naigaon, NM Joshi Road and Sewri. Each building is four-storeyed — ground plus three floors — and consists of 80 flats. The State government has decided to redevelop these buildings, which will benefit 15,584 people. The redevelopment of these structures, which are 96 years old, was planned in 2016 by the previous Bharatiya Janata Party-led State government. The project, however, could not take off and it was two weeks ago that the redevelopment work began. A consortium of Tata Projects and Capacite Infraprojects will construct 40-storeyed towers in the Worli precinct. L&T and Shapoorji Pallonji will be working on several precincts of the redevelopment project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bdd-chawl-redevelopment-beneficiaries-to-be-charged-only-stamp-duty-of-rs-1000/article35989971.ece
19 August 2021||Mumbai,||Extortion case against Singh handed over to CID||An extortion case registered against senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh in Mumbai has been transferred to the Maharashtra police’s Criminal Investigation Department, an official said on Wednesday. The Mumbai Police had formed a special investigation team to probe the extortion case against Mr. Singh and a separate case of similar nature (not related to him), which was being handled by the Unit 9 of the Mumbai Crime Branch. The police on July 22 filed an FIR against Mr. Singh, five other police personnel and two more people for allegedly demanding Rs. 15 crore from a builder, the official said. The FIR was filed on the basis of a complaint submitted by a 57-year-old real estate developer, Shyamsundar Agrawal, at the Marine Drive police station in south Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/extortion-case-against-singh-handed-over-to-cid/article35989974.ece
19 August 2021||ROHTAK,||Haryana ‘sports nursery’ keeps the medal count ticking with Dahiya’s feat||Of the 30 Haryana players at the just-concluded Tokyo Olympics, 12, including men’s wrestling silver medallist Ravi Dahiya, belong to Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University. The university, popularly referred to by its acronym “MDU”, has over the years turned out be the “sports nursery” of the State having produced 270-odd international-level players in various games, including 27 Arjuna awardees, since 1976. Four of the Olympic medallists from the State — boxer Vijender Singh and wrestlers Yogeshwar Dutt, Sakshi Malik and Dahiya — are MDU alumni. While Vijender won bronze at the Beijing Olympics in 2008, Yogeshwar and Sakshi won bronze at the London and Rio Olympics in 2012 and 2016 respectively. In fact, five of the players at Tokyo – Sonam Malik and Anshu Malik (both wrestling), and three members of the  women’s hockey squad – are at present students of the university, ranked 76th on the National Institutional Ranking Framework. Not only this, 93 of the 141 players across eight teams at the Pro Kabaddi League have been the students of the university, says Devender Singh Dhull, Director (Sports), MDU. Besides, 20 MDU alumni have participated and won medals at the Commonwealth Games and 36 at the Asian Games. World-class facilities Though helped by the fact that the districts under the jurisdiction of the university, including Rohtak, Sonipat and Bhiwani, have an age-old culture of sports, especially wrestling and boxing, MDU has created an excellent infrastructure for sports that includes a centrally air-conditioned multipurpose gymnasium hall, an international-standard cricket stadium, AstroTurf hockey field, synthetic athletics tracks, international-standard swimming pool and lawn tennis courts, among others. “The university’s Directorate of Sports has the best coaches for different games and organises around 70 inter-college tournaments/games for its men and women student players. We have students playing all 131 games recognised internationally,” said Dr. Dhull.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-sports-nursery-keeps-the-medal-count-ticking-with-dahiyas-feat/article35989667.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. assures support to Afghans in Karnataka||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has assured all Afghan nationals, including students living in the State, that the government will help them during the crisis. Of the 339 Afghan nationals in Karnataka, 192 have student visas that are nearing expiry date. With the Taliban taking over Afghanistan, many are looking at an uncertain future. The State government, meanwhile, has appointed Indian Police Service officer Umesh Kumar, ADGP, CID, as the nodal officer to assist people from Karnataka who are stranded in Afghanistan. He will coordinate with the Central government and make efforts to bring back Kannadigas from Afghanistan, stated a notification issued by the government. At a police event at the CAR parade ground here on Wednesday, Mr. Jnanendra told reporters, “The State government will extend all help to students from Afghanistan, studying in Karnataka, in addressing their grievances arising out of the strife, if any, in their nation.” He added that the State government would interact with the Union government relating to any issues on extending the visas of affected students. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant also reiterated that Afghan nationals would be provided necessary help. “If they have any problem, they can approach the police and we will try to resolve it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-assures-support-to-afghans-in-karnataka/article35989517.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe into ‘Sulli deals’ hits legal hurdle||Nearly a month and a half after Delhi Police registered a case in connection with photos of Muslim women being uploaded without permission on an app called ‘Sulli deals’, investigators said the hosting platform, GitHub, has replied to their notice. Police sources said a notice under Cr.PC was issued to GitHub to share the details of the IP address of the web page where the photographs were shared, but the company has responded asking the enforcement agency to take the legal route to approach them under Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-into-sulli-deals-hits-legal-hurdle/article35989672.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||India can do more, hints climate official||Alok Sharma, President-designate, United Nations Conference of Parties (COP), said he hoped India would consider more ambitious emissions targets. Mr. Sharma is visiting India as part of a larger international tour building consensus among nations for concrete outcomes ahead of the 26th round of climate talks. “I have been encouraged by the discussions I have had. India is on track to overachieve its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC). I would request if India would consider any NDC that takes into account this overachieving,” Mr. Sharma told reporters on Wednesday. Among those he met were Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-can-do-more-hints-climate-official/article35989516.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Season’s best||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seasons-best/article35989520.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Matter of concern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/matter-of-concern/article35989855.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||For a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-a-living/article35989953.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Roaring success||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/roaring-success/article35989934.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaishankar cuts short trip||In view of the developm- ents in Afghanistan, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is cutting short his visit to the Americas, and will return from the UN after two meetings.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jaishankar-to-cut-short-trip/article35989480.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Three killed in protests||At least three people were killed in anti-Taliban protests in the Afghan city of Jalalabad on Wednesday. More than a dozen people were injured after the Taliban opened fire on protesters.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-killed-in-protests/article35989487.ece
19 August 2021||Hyderabad,||SC Collegium nod for new HC judges||The Supreme Court Collegium at its meeting on Tuesday approved the elevation of P. Sree Sudha, C. Sumalatha and Dr. G. Radha Rani as judges of Telangana High Court. Mr. M. Laxman, N. Tukaramji and A. Venkateswara Reddy were the others who were cleared by the collegium for elevation to the High Court bench. Ms. P. Madhavi Devi was proposed as Judicial Member of Income Tax Apellate Tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-collegium-nod-for-new-hc-judges/article35989813.ece
19 August 2021||MYSURU,||Vaccination for teachers begins in Mysuru||A day after Minister S.T. Somashekhar directed vaccination of all teachers ahead of the reopening of schools and colleges in Mysuru district from August 23, the drive to jab teachers who have not taken a single dose began on Wednesday. The Minister had asked the Department Public Instruction and the Department of Health and Family Welfare to coordinate and get the unvaccinated teachers inoculated on priority with classes for IX and X standards and first and second PU set to commence. Accordingly, the district administration, the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat, and the Departments of Public Instruction and the Health conducted the vaccination camp for teachers at Guru Bhavan. The department had informed teachers who had not taken the first dose of vaccine to assemble at the venue and get themselves immunized for their as well as the children’s safety. Many teachers from the taluks too got the vaccine. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Ramachandra Raje Urs, District RCHO Officer Jayanth, camp medical officer Srivatsa, Teachers’ Association President Some Gowda, Vice-President Malangi Suresh, General Secretary Revanna, Manjunath and others were present. Out of 9,088 teachers in government, aided and unaided schools, 5,875 teachers had been fully vaccinated whereas 2,417 students had been partially vaccinated. As many as 796 teachers have not even got their first dose of vaccine. These teachers would be covered before the schools commence. As many 200 teachers and non-teaching staff, including clerical staff from the schools, got the jab on Wednesday, and the remaining teachers would be vaccinated after two days, the authorities said. In Mysuru district, nearly 85,125 students are studying in Class 9 and Class 10 this year. They include 30,685 children in the government schools, 32,531 in unaided, 17,394 in aided, 639 in Kendriya Vidyalaya and 777 in the Social Welfare Department schools, and 158 in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-for-teachers-begins-in-mysuru/article35989978.ece
19 August 2021||Chennai,||Guidelines issued for reopening of schools||With the State set to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 on September 1, the Directorate of Public Health & Preventive Medicine has issued standard operating procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guidelines-issued-for-reopening-of-schools/article35989566.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||AAP cries foul over Novelty Cinema plot sale||The AAP on Wednesday protested outside the BJP headquarters after the North Delhi Municipal Corporation allegedly sold Novelty Cinema’s plot worth Rs. 200 crore for Rs. 34 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-cries-foul-over-novelty-cinema-plot-sale/article35989668.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi police oppose Natasha Narwal’s plea||The Delhi police have opposed JNU student Natasha Narwal’s plea seeking modification in the bail condition asking her not to leave the city without the court’s permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-police-oppose-natasha-narwals-plea/article35989670.ece
19 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||175 GW renewable energy by next year||Highlighting the Union government’s initiatives to tap renewable energy sources, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers, New and Renewable Energy Bhagawanth Khuba said that the country will meet its target of achieving 175 GW of energy from solar, wind and other renewable sources by 2022. “We are already generating 101 GW energy from renewable sources. A project with a combined installed capacity of 50 GW is in progress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/175-gw-renewable-energy-by-next-year/article35989788.ece
19 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Still studying OBC quota division report: Minister||Almost three years after a report recommending subcategorisation of OBC quota was submitted to the U.P. government, a State Minister said the government was still examining the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/still-studying-obc-quota-division-report-minister/article35989991.ece
19 August 2021||kolkata,||Trinamool Congress will win Tripura, says Mamata||Coming down heavily on the BJP government in Tripura, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that the Trinamool Congress will win the next State Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-congress-will-win-tripura-says-mamata/article35989993.ece
19 August 2021||MYSURU,||No takers for Central scheme in Mysuru||A Central scheme offering 50% subsidy in freight charges for transportation of perishable agricultural produce by train has no takers from Mysuru region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-takers-for-central-scheme-in-mysuru/article35989979.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Collegium recommends eight judges for Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, has recommended to the government nine names for appointment as judges in the court, and in the process, scripted history by naming Karnataka High Court judge B.V. Nagarathna, who may become India’s first woman CJI a few years from now. The Collegium, including Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao, met until the late hours of August 17 to zero in on the names. It, however, formalised and published its resolution on Wednesday. 3 women judges Eight judges and one lawyer from the Supreme Court Bar have been recommended. They are Karnataka High Court Chief Justice A.S. Oka, who is the most senior Chief Justice; Gujarat Chief Justice Vikram Nath; Sikkim Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari; Telangana Chief Justice Hima Kohli, who is also the only serving woman Chief Justice; Justice Nagarathna; Kerala High Court judge Justice C.T. Ravikumar; Madras High Court judge Justice M.M. Sundresh; Gujarat High Court judge Justice Bela M. Trivedi; and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, in that order. The Collegium has for the first time, in one single resolution, recommended three women judges. It has thus sent a strong signal in favour of representation of women in the highest judiciary. It has also continued the recent trend to recommend direct appointments from the Supreme Court Bar to the Bench of the court. The top court currently has 10 vacancies. Judicial appointments to it have remained frozen since September 2019. The last batch of appointments in September 2019 were of Justices Krishna Murari, S. Ravindra Bhat, V. Ramasubramanian and Hrishikesh Roy. The oldest vacancy is that of Justice Ranjan Gogoi, who retired in November 2019. The tenure of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde did not see a single judicial appointment to the court though frequent discussions were held by the Collegium. Justice Bobde’s tenure as CJI had to weather the breakout of COVID-19. The Supreme Court Collegium has also recommended six judicial officers and a judicial member of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal for appointment as judges of the Telangana High Court. The judicial officers recommended are P. Sree Sudha, C. Sumalatha, Dr. (Ms.) G. Radha Rani, M. Laxman, N. Tukaramji and A. Venkateshwara Reddy. The ITAT judicial member is P. Madhavi Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/collegium-recommends-nine-judges-for-supreme-court/article35989404.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid Afghan crisis, Jaishankar cuts short U.S. visit||In view of the developments in Afghanistan, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is cutting short his visit to the Americas this week, and will return from the United Nations after chairing over two meetings at the UN Security Council (UNSC). Mr. Jaishankar was due to travel to Mexico, Panama and Guyana after his visit to New York, but sources said these visits would now be “rescheduled” at a later date, evidently due to the fast-moving crisis in Afghanistan, which has triggered an exodus to neighbouring countries and beyond. Mr. Jaishankar is due to return to Delhi on Friday to oversee logistical and diplomatic meetings over the rapid turn of events in Afghanistan and India’s stand on the new Taliban regime in power in Kabul and, in particular, the government’s decision after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a Cabinet Committee on Security to accept visa requests from all Afghan nationals, including Hindus and Sikhs who want to leave Afghanistan. However, a human rights organisation in Delhi has said providing visas to Afghan nationals seeking shelter in India would not serve a humanitarian purpose and they should be granted the status of refugees. The Rights and Risk Analysis Group (RRAG) has urged the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to defend the human rights of the Afghans who are fleeing to India by granting them the status of refugees. ‘Highly inadequate’ Suhas Chakma, Director of RRAG, said the grant of ‘e-Emergency X-Misc Visa’ was “highly inadequate” to deal with the immediate concerns of the fleeing Afghans. “Visa comes with an expiry date that can be denied at any time. Visa by definition also excludes extension of any humanitarian assistance by the government and any possibility to work or engage in activities necessary for survival. The grant of emergency visa, therefore, does not take into account the needs of the Afghans who fled to India,” said Mr. Chakma. Over the last few days, a large number of Afghans had arrived in India through commercial and special flights operated by India as the regime change got under way in Kabul. Among those who arrived were Wahidullah Kaleemzai, MP from Wardak; Abdul Aziz Hakimi, MP from Parwan; Abdul Qadir Zazai, MP; Senator Malem Lala Gul; Jamil Karzai, former MP and second cousin to former Afghan President Hamid Karzai; Shukria Esakhail, MP from Baghlan; and several other notables, including government officials and security personnel. The RRAG said under the Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, the Afghan guests had the protection of their right to life and liberty, which would require basic support such as medical and health facilities, education for family members and opportunity to work in activities for survival. The RRAG urged the NHRC to set up a division within the Commission to process the refugee claims of the Afghan guests who had to flee to India following the takeover of political power by the Taliban. Mr. Chakma said the Government of India had already extended similar humanitarian assistance to Tibetan and Sri Lankan refugees, adding, “Therefore, there is no reason as to why India must not formulate a policy on the Afghan refugees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-afghan-crisis-jaishankar-cuts-short-us-visit/article35989413.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India can do more, hints climate official||Alok Sharma, President-designate, United Nations Conference of Parties (COP), said he hoped India would consider more ambitious emissions targets. Mr. Sharma is visiting India as part of a larger international tour building consensus among nations for concrete outcomes ahead of the 26th round of climate talks. “I have been encouraged by the discussions I have had. India is on track to overachieve its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC). I would request if India would consider any NDC that takes into account this overachieving,” Mr. Sharma told reporters on Wednesday. Among those he met in this three-day India tour were Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. A major theme building ahead of the climate talks to be held in Glasgow, Scotland, in November is the question of how many nations can commit to a net zero target and by when. Net zero or carbon neutrality is when more carbon is sucked out from the atmosphere or prevented from being emitted than what a country emits and is critical to ensuring that the planet does not heat up an additional half a degree by 2100. Carbon neutrality A little over 120 countries have committed, with varying degrees of firmness, to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. Five countries have net zero pledges set for after 2050, including Australia and Singapore, which have not set a firm target yet. China, the world’s biggest emitter, has committed to peaking its emissions before 2030 and achieving net zero by 2060. The United States has said it would achieve net zero by 2050 and nearly halve emissions by 2030. India is among the major countries that have not committed to a 2050 plan but has said it is one of the countries that has delivered on one of the 2015 Paris Agreements main goals that is taking steps to ensure that its emissions do not put the globe on a road to heating one degree more than present by the turn of the century. Further, India’s position is that it has among the lowest per capita emissions, is not responsible for the climate crisis, which the science establishes is due to historical emissions by developed countries, and cannot compromise on ensuring economic growth of its vast citizenry. Renewable energy India’s NDC includes reducing the emissions intensity of GDP by 33%–35% by 2030 below 2005 levels; increase the share of non-fossil-based energy resources to 40% of installed electric power capacity by 2030, with help of transfer of technology and low-cost international finance including from Green Climate Fund and to create an additional (cumulative) carbon sink of 2.5–3 GtCO2e through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. It has committed to installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 of which 100 GW is reportedly installed. A thorn of contention is the over-$100 billion that was to have come to developing countries from developed ones for clean energy investments and mitigation that continues to be outstanding. Mr. Sharma said Canada and Germany were working with his team to set out a “delivery plan”. “Delivering the $100 billion a year is a matter of trust. Germany and Canada will be setting out a delivery plan until 2025 and have it in place before COP 26. For the years beyond 2025, that will certainly require trillions of dollars, much is expected to come from the private sector,” he said. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol that envisages phasing out of hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) by 80-85% of present levels by 2040 in a phased manner by all signatory countries. The HFC are used in refrigeration and contribute to global warming. India in 2016 committed to phasing down HFC in four steps from 2032 with a 10% reduction in 2032, 20% in 2037, 30% in 2042 and 80% in 2047.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-can-do-more-hints-climate-official/article35989424.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. adopts differing stance on snooping||An August 5 reply by the Union government in Parliament stated that the Home Secretary is the competent authority to deal with legal interceptions. However, the affidavit by the government in the Supreme Court, denying “all or any” allegations in the Pegasus snooping case, was filed by the Information Technology Ministry. On August 5, replying in the Rajya Sabha member John Brittas’s question about “telephone interceptions”, Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan specified that the “Union Home Secretary is the competent authority in case of Central government and Secretary in charge of Home Department in case of States/Union Territories”. The Home Secretary’s power to approve legal interceptions was mandated under Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act,1885 read with Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph (1st Amendment of 2014) Rules, 2014 and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 read with the Information Technology) Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009, the Minister said. Aware of the law, the Supreme Court repeatedly urged the government, on two consecutive days of hearing, to have the “competent authority”, that is the Home Secretary, address the Pegasus issue in a detailed affidavit. National security But the government has so far objected to the suggestion. It has refused to be a part of any “public debate” on the Pegasus issue or any interception, whatsoever, by having the Home Secretary file a “detailed affidavit”. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has maintained that a public discussion in court on the software used for interception would alert terrorists and compromise national security. The court has not bought the government’s argument. Though it assured the Centre that nothing would be done to compromise national security, the Bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said it still had to address the concerns of citizens, including persons of eminence, who had complained to the court that their mobile phones had been hacked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-adopts-differing-stance-on-snooping/article35989400.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Days of 50% cap are numbered’||The demand for a caste-based census or lifting the cap on 50% reservation heralds the onset of ‘Mandal III’, says political scientist Ashwani Kumar on the approach of a new Mandal politics and its implications.  There is a rising clamour for a caste-based census or even a second Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC). How do you look at it?  Given the unprecedented political consensus on the recently passed Constitution 127th Amendment Bill in the otherwise fractious Parliament, it seems that India is fast becoming what political scientist Arend Lijphart called ‘consociational’ or a power-sharing democracy within the majoritarian polity. Though upper castes continue to account for 28-29% against 37% of the combined strength of OBC MPs and intermediate-caste MPs in the last three parliamentary elections as per a data analysis by the Trivedi Center at Ashoka University, the passage of the OBC Bill symbolises the consolidation of the electoral dominance of OBCs and their consequent rise to the pyramid of political power. Arguably, if Mandal was about a battle for job reservation in the 1990s and the reservation in college admission in 2008 was dubbed Mandal II, then this demand for a caste-based census or lifting the cap on 50% reservation heralds the onset of Mandal III — a complex and transformatory phase of consociational settlements in Indian democracy. The demand for a caste-based census arises from the continuing deficits of democracy in India. Without the benefit of reliable caste-census data, the Mandal Commission estimated the share of the OBCs in India’s population to be 52%. But for some strange reasons of constitutional engineering or political expediency, only 27% reservation was given to the OBCs. This led to perpetuation of a deceptive dichotomy between demography and demos. For many years, the 50% cap on reservations in jobs and educational institutions have been a redline not to be crossed. But demands from non-Mandal communities for reservations are rising. Do you see a concerted move in the future for this cap to be raised?  The 50% cap on reservation is like the doctrine of basic structure in the Kesavananda Bharati case — a smart judicial innovation to ensure that the power of Parliament is not misused for subverting the constitutional principles of governance. The Constitution does not lay down any specific bar on the quantum of reservation or quota in jobs and educational institutions. Tamil Nadu’s historic 69% quota law — under judicial scrutiny for more than three decades — seems to have become the legal lodestar for States like Maharashtra, Haryana, Telangana, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh vigorously breaching the cap beyond 50% to include agitating non-Mandal communities like Marathas, Jats, Gujjars in the reservation net... The days of 50% cap or ‘creamy layers’ are numbered. What will be the political and electoral implications of this?  There will be two scenarios simultaneously playing out — one national and one regional. The first is the challenge of incorporating resurgent Mandal castes into a BJP dominant national polity and the second is the gradual politicisation of non-Mandal OBCs along with “lower backwards” in various regions. The intersection of these two trends will reshape the political and electoral landscape of parliamentary and Assembly elections in the near future. How do you see Mandal parties dealing with an influx of non-Mandal castes within the ambit of reservations?  Other Backward Castes, including Mandal and non-Mandal castes, are a complex mixture of traditional inheritance, colonial invention and contemporary realignment of politics of social justice. If they are united by the democratic impulses of social justice politics, they are also internally fragmented in their pursuit of power. So, the influx of non-Mandal castes into reservation is bound to exacerbate competitive tensions and frictions over sharing of their common pool resources.  For full interview, visit: https://bit.ly/37We7js   The demand for caste-based census arises from the continuing deficits of democracy in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/days-of-50-cap-are-numbered/article35989409.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to boost oil palm farming||The Centre will offer price assurances, viability gap funding and planting material assistance to oil palm farmers to boost domestic production and reduce dependence on imports via a new mission approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday. Over a five-year period, the financial outlay for the National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) will amount to Rs. 11,040 crore of which Rs. 8,844 crore is the share of the Central government, according to an official statement. The Mission hopes to increase oil palm acreage by an additional 6.5 lakh hectares by 2025-26 and grow production of crude palm oil to 11.2 lakh tonnes by 2025-26 and up to 28 lakh tonnes by 2029-30. At a media briefing after the Cabinet meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government aimed to reduce the risk for farmers facing price fluctuation of the fresh fruit bunches from which oil is extracted, due to volatility in the international market. Price mechanism “The government will develop a mechanism to fix and regulate palm oil prices. So if the market is volatile, then the Centre will pay the difference in price to the farmers through direct benefit transfer,” he said. This is the first time the Centre will give oil palm farmers a price assurance, with industry mandated to pay the viability gap funding of 14.3% of crude palm oil prices. In a bid to encourage oil palm cultivation in northeastern India and in the Andaman and Nicobar islands, the Centre will bear an additional cost of 2% of the crude palm oil prices in these States. The scheme has a sunset clause, ending November 1, 2037. The Mission will also more than double the support provided for the cost of planting materials. Asked about biodiversity concerns involved in monoculture plantations, Mr. Tomar said an assessment by the Indian institute of Oil Palm Research had found 28 lakh hectares across the country which could be safely used for oil palm cultivation. Less than four lakh hectares are currently planted with oil palm. Praise from industry The Oil Palm Developers & Processors Association hailed the Cabinet decisions and said it has been relentlessly urging the government to usher reforms in the sector. The decisions would benefit farmers and make it viable for the industry to continue contributing towards making the country self-sufficient in edible oil requirements and consequently save foreign exchange, association president Sanjay Goenka said.  (With inputs from      Special Correspondent      in Hyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-boost-oil-palm-farming/article35989422.ece
19 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Student dies after falling off hillock chasing Internet signal||A school student, who was trying to access online learning material and chasing an Internet signal, died after falling from a hillock in Odisha’s Rayagada district on Tuesday. The deceased student identified as Adria Jagaranga was studying in Class 7 in a Bhubaneswar-based school. As schools were close on account of COVID-19 restrictions, he was stranded in his remote Kandhapanduraguda village under Padmapur block of southern Rayagada district. Hiren Bhati, a sub-inspector who investigated the incident, said, “ During the probe, I too could not catch a signal in the village. One could get mobile signal at about 400 metres from the village where the accident happened.” “The deceased had climbed on a unstable rock, which was dangerously positioned on another big boulder. Four children who had accompanied him to the hill said he was having a smartphone with him. He fell from a height in the afternoon,” said Mr. Bhati. The boy was rushed to Padmapur block hospital where he succumbed to injuries. His family members said that Adria used to go to the hill to study on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-dies-after-falling-off-hillock-chasing-internet-signal/article35989389.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC flags delay in criminal justice reform process||A group of experts under the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday expressed “serious concerns over the slow pace of reforms in the criminal justice system to ensure speedy justice”, an NHRC statement said. The NHRC core group on the criminal justice system held its first meeting on Wednesday where experts said the delay in disposal of cases was leading to human rights violations of the under-trials and convicts. Supplanting IPC NHRC member Justice (retired) M.M. Kumar, who chaired the meeting, said that despite the Supreme Court’s directions on police reforms, there had been hardly any changes on the ground. He said special laws and fast-track courts could replace certain offences under the Indian Penal Code in order to reduce the piling up of cases at every police station. NHRC chairperson Justice A.K. Mishra (retd.) said that not only were trials getting delayed, but court orders convicting a person also took years to implement. He said digitisation of documents would help in speeding up investigations and trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-flags-delay-in-criminal-justice-reform-process/article35989390.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Nod for Indo-Swiss medical research agreements||The Cabinet has approved agreements between the Indian Council of Medical Research and Swiss research agencies to promote collaboration on diagnostics and antimicrobial resistance, according to an official statement on Wednesday. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed with Switzerland’s Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics in February, according to which ICMR is committed to make available funding up to $100,000 while the Swiss foundation will make available funds up to $400,000 to local partners. The other MoU was signed with the GARDP Foundation on Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Innovation in March. The Swiss foundation aims to develop and deliver new or improved antibiotic treatments, and also ensure their sustainable access. The collaboration will involve joint strategy and financial and in-kind contributions by both parties, said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-indo-swiss-medical-research-agreements/article35989420.ece
19 August 2021||Guwahati,||Rush for essentials as Shillong relaxes curfew||COVID-19 protocols went for a toss as people in Meghalaya capital Shillong scrambled to buy essentials on Wednesday after curfew, imposed on Sunday due to a breakdown in law and order, was relaxed for 11 hours. Shillong descended into chaos on Independence Day as masked miscreants ran amok damaging vehicles and indulging in looting and arson. The trigger for the violence was the killing of former extremist leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew by the police in an alleged fake encounter on August 13. His funeral on August 15 coincided with the official I-Day programme in Shillong. “There have been no reports of any incident over the past 48 hours,” East Khasi Hills district’s Superintendent of Police Sylvester Nongtnger told The Hindu. Shillong is the headquarters of the district. He also said the police were still trying to locate the firearms snatched by the miscreants during the day of violence. Three policemen had been suspended for failing to prevent the miscreants from taking the INSAS rifles away. According to the district administration, the curfew will remain in place from 4 p.m. on Wednesday to 5 a.m. on Thursday. “The 11-hour relaxation may continue for a couple of days before extending the duration depending on the situation,” an official said, declining to be quoted. Essential and non-essential shops have been ordered to remain open till 3 p.m. Educational institutions, banks and government and private offices, which had obtained permission to function with 30% people, have been asked to close by 3 p.m. as well. “The backbones of commoners have already been broken from a prolonged COVID-19 curfew. This curfew induced by the breakdown in law-and-order has added to their misery,” Congress MLA and former Minister Ampareen Lyngdoh told reporters. She also criticised the absence of a Home Minister during a crisis in Meghalaya, specifically Shillong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rush-for-essentials-as-shillong-relaxes-curfew/article35989432.ece
19 August 2021||Srinagar,||J&K BJP wants security cover for party leaders||There is a growing demand from the Bharatiya Janata Party in Kashmir to extend security to more leaders and workers as a spree of attacks on the party leaders left five dead in the past three months. “In the past two years, 23 BJP leaders or workers were targetted by the militants and killed. We lost nine BJP leaders only in Kulgam district. It is high time police provided security and ensured workers’ safety. I appeal to the Director General of Police to provide both security and accommodations to our workers,” said Altaf Thakur, BJP spokesperson in Jammu and Kashmir. The fresh demand comes just a day after a BJP leader, Javeed Ahmad Dar, was killed in his house in Kulgam. Earlier, a grenade attack on a BJP leader’s house in Rajouri and indiscriminate firing inside the residence of BJP leader in Anantnag left three dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-bjp-wants-security-cover-for-party-leaders/article35989391.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI slams speculative reports on collegium||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Wednesday voiced in open court his extreme displeasure over “speculative” reports in certain sections of the media about the Supreme Court Collegium having recommended nine names for appointments to the court. He said the reports were “irresponsible” and “counter-productive”. “Today’s reflections in some sections of the media, pending the process, even before formalising the resolution is counter-productive. There were instances of deserving career progression of bright talents getting marred because of such irresponsible reporting and speculation. This is very unfortunate and I am extremely upset about it,” he stated. The CJI, who was heading a Ceremonial Bench convened on the occasion of Justice Navin Sinha’s retirement, observed that Collegium meetings were going on. The process of judicial appointment was a sacrosanct function of the Collegium. The media should not harm the integrity and dignity of the process by indulging in speculation. ‘Process is ongoing’ “You are all aware we need to appoint judges to this court. The process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has certain dignity attached to it. My media friends must understand and recognise the sanctity of this process. As an institution, we hold the freedom of media and the rights of individuals in high esteem,” he noted, urging the media to report with a certain sense of responsibility and maturity. The Chief Justice commended journalists who had shown restraint. The CJI said Justice Sinha would surely “forgive him from deviating a bit on this solemn occasion”. “He [Justice Sinha] will understand my anguish.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-slams-speculative-reports-on-collegium/article35989398.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||SC allows women to take NDA exam||The court snubbed the Union of India’s affidavit “broadly” suggesting that Sainik schools have “started the process of admitting schools and it will be further expanded”. “As far as Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) is concerned, it is stated that it is a 99-year-old institution, which will complete 100 years next year. The question is whether it completes its 100 years with gender neutrality or not!” the Bench said in its order. The Bench orally observed that it was “absurd” that women were not allowed to appear for the NDA even after the Supreme Court, in a judgment, had directed permanent commission for women in the Army. “Why are you continuing in this direction? Even after the Supreme Court judgment expanding the horizons and extending Permanent Commission in the Army to women? This is unfounded now! We are finding it absurd! Will the Army only act when a judicial order is passed? Not otherwise?” Justice Kaul asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati. Ms. Bhati argued that the court ought not to interfere in a policy decision by passing an interim order. “NDA and IMA are modes of direct entry through the UPSC. Whereas through OTA, women are commissioned along with men, both through UPSC and non-UPSC mode of entry. They are granted Short Service Commission, both men and women, and subsequently are considered for grant of Permanent Commission,” Ms. Bhati said. The Union of India submitted that “women are not denied opportunity of entry or career progression on the same terms as their male counterparts in the Army”. The court listed the case for September 8. ( Inputs from Dinakar Peri )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-women-to-take-nda-exam/article35989401.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Only Sharia law in Afghanistan: Taliban||The power structure that Mr. Hashimi outlined would bear similarities to how Afghanistan was run the last time the Taliban were in power from 1996 to 2001. Then, supreme leader Mullah Omar remained in the shadows and left the day-to-day running of the country to a council. The Taliban’s supreme leader has three deputies: Mawlavi Yaqoob, son of Mullah Omar, Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the powerful militant Haqqani network, and Abdul Ghani Baradar, who heads the political office in Doha and is one of the founding members of the group. Mr. Hashimi said he would be joining a meeting of the Taliban leadership that would discuss issues of governance later this week. On recruiting soldiers and pilots who fought for the ousted Afghan government, Mr. Hashimi said the Taliban planned to set up a new national force that would include its own members and the government soldiers willing to join. “Most of them have got training in Turkey and Germany and England. So we will talk to them to get back to their positions,” Mr. Hashimi said. Former President Hamid Karzai met a Taliban commander and senior leader of the Haqqani network militant group, Anas Haqqani, for talks on transition, a Taliban official said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/council-may-rule-afghan-senior-member/article35989405.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||MP booked for sedition for remarks on Taliban||“Taliban is a force there... They want to run the country themselves in their ways,” said Mr. Barq, who also described it as an internal matter of Afghanistan. The Superintendent of Police, Sambhal, Chakresh Mishra, said Mr. Barq’s comments were inflammatory. Mr. Mishra said two others, Faizan Chaudhary and Mohammad Muqeem, who allegedly posted comments in support of the Taliban, were also booked. “They made inflammatory statements,” he said. Later in a clarification, Mr. Barq said his statement was misinterpreted and stressed that he stood with his country and not the Taliban or its policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-booked-for-sedition-for-remarks-on-taliban/article35989406.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tharoor discharged from Sunanda death case||The police’s chargesheet had named Mr. Tharoor as an accused for alleged offences under Sections 498A (husband or his relative subjecting a woman to cruelty) and 306 of the Indian Penal Code (abetment to suicide). Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Mr. Tharoor, had argued that the investigation conducted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) completely exonerated his client of all the charges. Mr. Pahwa had asked to discharge Mr. Tharoor in the case as there was no evidence against him to prove the offences of cruelty or abetment to suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-discharged-from-sunanda-death-case/article35989407.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tech to help protect UN peacekeepers: Jaishankar||Presiding over a United Nations Security Council (UNSC) open debate on technology and peacekeeping, his first as External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar announced the rollout of a technological platform in partnership with the UN — ‘UNITE Aware’ — to help enhance the safety of UN peacekeepers. India, as a major contributing nation to UN peacekeeping activities, has been keen on using its month-long UNSC Presidency to prioritise peacekeeping. The platform has been used in four UN missions, an Indian official told The Hindu . On Wednesday, the Security Council adopted a resolution that paid tribute to peacekeepers and asked member-states that had hosted them to bring to justice those who had killed or committed acts of violence against them. “The international community must come together better to govern the digital space for good, while addressing its many challenges,” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at the debate. Mr. Jaishankar outlined a four-point framework for securing the peacekeepers at the debate. First, he called for the deployment of proven, cost-effective and field-serviceable technologies that were environmentally friendly in their construction. Second, peacekeepers needed sound information and intelligence, he said, and this would require precise positioning and overhead visualisation. “It, therefore, gives me great pleasure to announce that India is supporting the UN in the rollout of the ‘UNITE Aware’ platform across select peacekeeping missions. This initiative is based on the expectation that an entire peacekeeping operation can be visualised, coordinated and monitored on a real time basis,” Mr. Jaishankar said. Finally, he called for investment in capacity building and training of peacekeepers with regard to technology, while announcing to the Security Council a Memorandum of Understanding between India and the UN in support of the “Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping” initiative and the UN C4ISR Academy for Peace Operations (UNCAP). The Security Council adopted a “Presidential Statement” underscoring the importance of peacekeeping, the complexities and challenges of the environment in which it occurs and the importance of existing and new technologies to protect peacekeepers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tech-to-help-protect-un-peacekeepers-jaishankar/article35989411.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NE States pushed into total chaos: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that the north-eastern States have been pushed into ‘total chaos’ and there is a complete breakdown of law and order and the constitutional machinery in the region under the watch of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Addressing a press conference, party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala asked what the Centre was doing when there were war-like hostilities in parts of the north-eastern region. He was referring to recent firing on the Assam-Mizoram border and Tuesday’s incident of Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik’s motorcade being attacked in capital Shillong. Gun-toting militants have been running amok through Shillong and the residence of the Chief Minister too was attacked with petrol bombs, Mr. Surjewala claimed. “Uncertainty, conflict, violent clashes and unchecked lawlessness have marred a large part of India’s north-east. The situation is beyond alarming,” he said. “Shockingly and sadly, the Modi government and Home Minister Amit Shah remain oblivious to the goings-on,” Mr. Surjewala alleged. Meanwhile, the Congress appointed former Lok Sabha member Ajoy Kumar as the party’s new in-charge for the north-eastern States of Tripura, Nagaland and Sikkim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ne-states-pushed-into-total-chaos-congress/article35989419.ece
19 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat govt. defends anti-conversion law in HC||The State government has contended before the Gujarat High Court that there was no “ban on interfaith marriages” in the State, but defended its new anti-conversion law saying marriages cannot be tool for “forceful conversion”. The HC is hearing two petitions that have challenged the newly enacted amendment in the law, which deals with forcible religious conversion through marriages. The court has posted the matter for an interim order on August 19, in response to the petitions that have challenged amendments to the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021. During the hearing, a Bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav observed that the amended law keeps a sword hanging over interfaith couples because it has created an impression that interfaith marriages are not permissible in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-govt-defends-anti-conversion-law-in-hc/article35989673.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Faultless Tiruvachagam||The Tiruvachagam stands as a towering work of devotion in the annals of Tamil spiritual literature. There is no better way to imbibe the tenets and spirit of Saivism than by getting initiated into the hymns of Manikkavachagar. In a discourse, Sri Ka Vinayakam drew attention to one such devotee, Turaimangalam Sivaprakasar, who lived around the end of the 17th century, and whose life and works have inspired many more to follow the path shown by Manikkavachagar. Sivaprakasar was drawn to the spiritual tradition early in life and has authored many devotional works. Renowned for his scholarship, poetic talents, and his innate devotion to God, he came to be known as Karpanai Kalanjiyam Sivaprakasar, Jnana Kalanjiyam Sivaprakasar and so on. It is easy to sense the strong influence of Manikkavachagar in his many works. For instance, his poem ‘Sona Saila Maalai’ on Tiruvannamalai is inspired by Manikkavachagar’s ‘Neethal Vinnappam’ that is hailed for its ability to melt one’s heart in devotion. ‘Sona Saila Maalai’ too shares this quality to overwhelm the readers with devotion. Also, the similarity in the theme and the handling of it, the choice of words and phrases, etc, are quite striking. In one of his other woks, ‘Naalvar Naanmani Maalai’, a poem in praise of the foremost Saiva saints, Gnanasambandar, Tirunavukkarasar, Sundarar and Manikkavachagar, Sivaprakasar’s hymns on Manikkavachagar contain many exceptional insights on the saint and his hymns. ‘If anything can be called a song it is only Manikkavachagar’s songs. The Tiruvachagam is a faultless song and its sweetness is owing to its ‘madhura vachagam.’ It is couched in ancient Sanga Tamizh and hence it is rightly known as ‘Sen Tamizh Maalai.’ Manikkavachagar is compared to ‘maa mazhai.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faultless-tiruvachagam/article35989417.ece
19 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat cracks down on land grabbers||In a crackdown on alleged land grabbers, the Gujarat government has lodged 345 FIRs in cases of land grabbing and encroachment. The Revenue Department had received 6,884 applications of land grabbing in a year after a special law was brought in to deal with such cases. “Authorities have completed investigations in 4,489 applications and 345 FIRs have been filed against 1,178 people,” said Revenue Minister Kaushik Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-cracks-down-on-land-grabbers/article35989903.ece
19 August 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. farmer to move court against IMD’s predictions||A farmers’ union leader in Madhya Pradesh’s Malwa region has threatened to move court against what he claimed as the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) “wrong” predictions leading to crop losses for cultivators in recent times. However, a senior IMD scientist said farmers might have been “misled” as a private weather service predicted early monsoon this year, in contrast to the IMD forecast. He also said that cultivators should check whether the information coming to them was from genuine sources. “In most cases, the predictions released by the IMD have failed. This has led to huge losses for farmers,” Bharatiya Kisan Sangh’s Malwa prant spokesman Bharat Singh Bais said. He said they were planning to move court against the IMD’s “wrong predictions” and a final decision will be taken soon. Mr. Bais said farmers prepare for sowing as per the IMD’s forecast. “About 300-400 hectare of land was lying unused in Ujjain district alone due to the IMD’s wrong rain predictions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-farmer-to-move-court-against-imds-predictions/article35989674.ece
19 August 2021||Mumbai,||Raj Kundra gets interim protection||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted interim protection from arrest to businessman Raj Kundra till August 25 in connection with a pornography films racket case registered by the city police in 2020. A single-judge Bench of Justice S.K. Shinde was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Kundra, actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband, seeking protection from arrest after the sessions court refused to grant him relief. The Bench directed the Mumbai police to file their reply and posted the matter to be heard on August 25. The First Information Report (FIR), registered by the cyber crime cell in October 2020, said Mr. Kundra allegedly broadcast erotic content on an online platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kundra-gets-interim-protection/article35989392.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre, Bengal asked to respond||The Supreme Court asked the Centre and the West Bengal government to respond to a petition challenging the formation of a Commission of Inquiry into illegal hackingand monitoring of mobile phones in the wake of the Pegasus snooping controversy. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana posted the case for August 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-bengal-asked-to-respond/article35989393.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||For a bountiful harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/festive-occasion/article35989396.ece
19 August 2021||Patna,||Bihar local polls to start on Sept. 24||The long-awaited elections to the three-tier Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) in Bihar will be held in 11 phases from September 24 to December 12. Elections will be held for the posts of mukhiyas, sarpanchs, zilla parishad members, panchayat samiti members and ward members. The notification for the polls will be issued by the State Election Commission on August 24. Cabinet nod The Cabinet approved the government’s proposal of the elections on August 17. Polling is scheduled to be held on September 24 and 29, October 8, 20 and 24, November 3, 15, 24 and 29 and December 8 and 12. The elections could not be held earlier due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The PRIs, comprising panchayats, panchayat samitis and zilla parishads, had to be constituted by June 15. The office of the State Chief Electoral officer had said the local body polls would be held through both ballot papers and electronic voting machines. Additional Chief Secretary, Sanjay Kumar, said polling would be held first in those areas that were not affected by floods or were less affected. In an apparent bid to woo voters, the government recently invited tenders for different welfare schemes in rural areas such as putting up solar lights in over 8,300 panchayats and 143 urban bodies. Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal has protested against the government’s welfare schemes when panchayat polls are round the corner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-local-polls-to-start-on-sept-24/article35989397.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Congress slams hike in LPG prices||Former Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram on Wednesday hit out at the Centre for the Rs. 25 hike in the price of an LPG cylinder and claimed that the government will also increase the prices of petrol and diesel since Parliament has adjourned now. “LPG cylinder price increased by Rs. 25. (It has been increased by Rs. 265 in 9 months).Wait for the increase in petrol and diesel prices. They will increase every other day or every third day. Now that Parliament has been adjourned sine die, government will make merry,” Mr. Chidamabaram said on Twitter. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged on Twitter that the government’s “collection scheme” was flourishing with a regular monthly increase of LPG prices. “By showing the dream of Ujjwala, the ‘collection scheme’ of the BJP government is flourishing by increasing the prices of LPG every month,” she said. In a Facebook post, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi modified Mr. Modi’s earlier slogan on corruption “ Na Khaunga Na Khane Doonga [Will neither eat nor let anyone eat]”. “The truth of empty rhetoric is now before the people,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-slams-hike-in-lpg-prices/article35989414.ece
19 August 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Over 200 from Bengal in Afghanistan’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that more than 200 people from the State are stranded in Afghanistan. She said the Centre should take immediate steps to enable these people to return home. “My Chief Secretary is writing to the Ministry of External Affairs... The government should immediately arrange to get the people back to West Bengal,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists at the State Secretariat. She said most of these people were from Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Terai regions of the State. Describing the crisis in Afghanistan as a big problem, she said, “We must first take care of the safety of Indians.” On revisiting the immigration policy and giving citizenship to those seeking asylum, Ms. Banerjee said it was a sensitive issue and a major policy decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-200-from-bengal-in-afghanistan/article35989415.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||HC adjourns plea against IPS officer||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday adjourned to next week the hearing of a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner. A Bench of Justices D.N. Patel and Jyoti Singh asked the counsel for the government to find out by the next hearing if any other court was seized of a similar petition against Mr. Asthana. The petition, filed by one Sadre Alam, contended that the IPS officer, serving as the Director-General of Border Security Force, was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27, just four days before his superannuation on July 31. Mr. Alam, in his plea, argued that the decision of the Union Home Ministry and the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) in appointing Mr. Asthana for the post was “completely illegal on multiple grounds”. It said the appointment was “in clear and blatant breach” of the directions of the Supreme Court, as Mr. Asthana “did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-adjourns-plea-against-ips-officer/article35989416.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Vietnam navies hold joint exercise||The navies of India and Vietnam undertook a bilateral exercise in the South China Sea, the Navy said on Wednesday. Four frontline ships of the Indian Navy are on an overseas deployment of over two months to South East Asia, the South China Sea and Western Pacific, during which they are undertaking a series of port calls and exercises. “This visit also holds special importance as Indian Naval ships celebrated the country’s 75th Independence Day in Vietnam,” the Navy said. Guided missile destroyer INS Ranvijay and missile corvette INS Kora undertook the exercise with Vietnam People’s Navy frigate VPNS Ly Thai To. COVID protocols The ships arrived at Cam Ranh, Vietnam, on August 15 for the harbour phase, which included professional interactions while maintaining extant COVID-19 protocols. “The sea phase included surface warfare exercises, weapon firing drills and helicopter operations. Regular interactions between the two navies over the years have enhanced their interoperability and adaptability. This has ensured a quantum jump in the complexity and scale of professional exchanges,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-vietnam-navies-hold-joint-exercise/article35989429.ece
19 August 2021||Kolkata,||Local train services to resume after 50 pc of rural population in Bengal gets inoculated: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that local train services will resume as and when 50% of the rural population gets vaccinated. Ms. Banerjee also said that the State has received 3.75 crore doses of vaccines thus far, including the ones it bought directly from the manufacturers, as against its requirement of 14 crore jabs. She noted that 75% of the population in Kolkata, and at least 80% in Howrah have received the first dose, with the State initially focusing on the congested urban areas.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/local-train-services-to-resume-after-50-pc-of-rural-population-in-bengal-gets-inoculated-mamata/article35989904.ece
19 August 2021||Bhubaneswar,||NGT directs Odisha govt. to notify 14 elephant corridors in 2 months||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Odisha government to notify 14 elephant corridors and the action plan for elephant conservation in two months. The NGT, Eastern Zone, delivered the order after hearing a petition from the Wildlife Society of Orissa (WSO), an environmental pressure group that had moved the tribunal against the delay in notifying the corridor plan. In 2010, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests had made a presentation of the elephant corridors with an area of 870.61 sq. km, identifying the 14 corridors with a total area of 870.61 sq. km, having a length of 420.8 km and a width of 0.08 km to 4.6 km The PCCF (Wildlife) submitted a proposal to the Forest and Environment Department to notify the corridors under the provisions of Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. “Most traditional elephant corridors have been degraded, restricting migrations. Though the State spent Rs. 20 crore in improving the corridors, they did not issue a formal notification to secure them under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986,” said Biswajit Mohanty, WSO secretary. During the course of the legal fight, the government submitted an affidavit stating that the Asian Nature Conservation Foundation (ANCF) was assigned to identify the corridors and assess their viability. It said necessary steps for notification would be taken only after the receipt of an ANCF report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngt-directs-odisha-govt-to-notify-14-elephant-corridors-in-2-months/article35989428.ece
19 August 2021||Guwahati,||Floods hit 5 districts in Assam||Belated floods have affected five districts in Assam, temporarily displacing 22,022 people and forcing 770 of them to take shelter in relief camps, officials said. The districts are Bongaigaon and Chirang in western Assam and Dhemaji, Dibrugarh and Lakhimpur in eastern Assam. Dhemaji is the worst affected. An update by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday said 10 relief camps had been set up across affected districts. There was no loss of life, it said. The report said the Brahmaputra and some of its tributaries were flowing above the danger mark along certain stretches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/floods-hit-5-districts-in-assam/article35989430.ece
19 August 2021||Srinagar,||J&K police officer caught on camera beating scribes transferred||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday transferred the police officer who was caught on camera beating photojournalists when they were covering a Muharram procession in Srinagar on Tuesday. An official said nine policemen, including a Station House Officer (SHO), who was seen beating up the scribes, were transferred. Among them, three policemen, including the accused officer, Aftab Ahmad Bhat, were attached with the District Police Lines. The Kashmir Press Photographers Association said the police action was unjustified and uncalled for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-police-officer-caught-on-camera-beating-scribes-transferred/article35989433.ece
19 August 2021||Srinagar,||ED questions Mehbooba’s mother for 3 hours||Gulshan Nazir, mother of former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in Srinagar on Wednesday in a money laundering case. Ms. Nazir appeared before the ED around 11.30 a.m. and was accompanied by Ms. Mufti. She was questioned for about three hours, officials said. After the questioning ended, Ms. Mufti said, “The agencies, which were meant to do serious work, have been used against politicians.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-questions-mehboobas-mother-for-3-hours/article35989435.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An old city and resilient industry||While nearly all sectors have taken a hit due to restrictions imposed on account of the pandemic, when businesses are impacted the minuses last a long time. The ability of industry in Madras to bounce back has been tested frequently in the past and as is inevitable, some business houses have given way to others but several have been resilient enough to survive the crises. From Madras to Chennai, business houses have seen two pandemics along with several natural disasters, including floods and cyclones, all of which led to a dent in the balance sheets. While the century-old deadly Spanish Flu is too far back for recall as part of oral history, the floods that occurred in 1985 and 2015 have had a major impact on several business. Heads of various business houses and historians in the city said, “Many companies did not even exist then (referring to the flu). No one has any data or evidence to prove what businesses went through then.” But a news report that appeared in The Hindu in 1919 has a line which mentioned that the economic effect through the disorganisation of trade cannot be estimated but must have been high. Since the 1940s, Madras saw three major floods — 1943, 1976 and 1985 — but for businesses, the 1985 flood was the biggest dampener. During this period, industrial estates across Madras were flooded and roads leading to many estates were eroded. Association heads at the Ambattur Industrial Estate recalled that the northern and southern parts of the estate were flooded as the Ambattur lake started overflowing. Small scale units in the industrial estates suffered losses to the tune of over Rs. 16 crore. Data show that the Guindy Industrial Estate faced a loss of Rs. 5 crore, Ambattur lost around Rs. 8 crore, Instronic Campus lost Rs. 3 crore and Arumbakkam Industrial Area around Rs. 25 lakh. According to a report in The Hindu, dated December 12, 1985, M.S. Parthasarathy, president, Small Industries and Business Entrepreneurs Association, said entrepreneurs had lost machinery and raw materials, besides the loss of mandays and production. At that time, V.S. Narasimhan, vice-president, Indian Council of Small Industries, urged the government to postpone the collection of sales tax and power dues from small scale units in the industrial areas. “On the first day, I did not go to the factory but then I got a call saying water had seeped into the shop floor. The first thing we did was to shut down the electricity. Our people got buckets to get the water out,” recalled A. Sankaranarayanan, former MD of Hindustan Motors Ltd. Textile machinery, electrical equipment, raw materials and finished goods at the Buckingham and Carnatic Mills (B&C Mills) were completely damaged. Power supply tripped and flood water entered the mill premises, which was spread over 300 acres. The Hindu in its edition dated November 20, 1985, recorded that between November 10 and 13, all attempts to enter the mill were thwarted by the fast flow of water. Industrialists said the then M.G. Ramachandran government took a slew of initiatives to help businesses following the 1985 flood. He asked the Industrial Development Bank Of India to come to the rescue of the affected tiny and small-scale industrial units. The bank readily accepted his suggestions and came out with a special scheme. The State Bank of India also announced a package of relief measures, including postponement of the principal and interest payable by the affected small scale units till June 1986. “Tamil Nadu always had a good administrative team that helped the city come back to normal relatively quickly. Our civic sense is quite high,” Venu Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Motor Company, said. Many other industrialists said the flood in 2015 was among the costliest ones in terms of businesses. The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) in 2015, after the floods, said that the financial loss due to the record breaking rainfall in the city and several parts of Tamil Nadu may even exceed Rs. 15,000 crores. The crisis and pandemics have taught industries here how to adopt changes and move on with life. For instance, many organisations in Chennai now have a kitchen that can churn out several hundreds of food packets immediately if there is a crisis. They have even put in place systems to ensure that there is no flooding. During the current pandemic, industries procured oxygen cylinders and safety kits to ensure that the employees are taken care of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-old-city-and-resilient-industry/article35989574.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre gives nod for Metro phase II||The Union government has accorded approval for the phase II project of the Metro, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin informed the Assembly on Wednesday. “We received the information yesterday [August 17] that the Union government has given its approval for the phase II project,” he said in the House. The Chief Minister recalled his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, where he insisted on the project. “Based on the pressure we mounted, we have received the permission yesterday,” he said. As for the Metro project for Coimbatore city, which was raised by BJP legislator Vanathi Srinivasan (Coimbatore-South), Mr. Stalin said his government would mount pressure on the Union government in connection with the project. “There is no need to worry. Not just Coimbatore but for Madurai too, where we have announced a project. Wherever the projects are announced, they will be implemented definitely,” the Chief Minister said. During her speech, Ms. Srinivasan pointed out the Budget speech of the Finance Minister and asked why the State government said it would consult the Union government about implementing the Metro project for Coimbatore. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan rose to clarify that rules mandated that the State government had to consult the Centre to implement such projects. Only during consultations, the details of how the project would be implemented would be finalised — whether it would be 50:50 or 60:40, he said. The Chief Minister said such projects would have to be implemented with funds from the Union government, and that had been the case so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-gives-nod-for-metro-phase-ii/article35989584.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill opposing NEET this session||The DMK government will scrutinise the report on the impact of NEET-based medical admissions, submitted by Justice A.K. Rajan, complete the legal consultations and table a Bill [seeking exemption for Tamil Nadu from NEET] in the ongoing Assembly session itself, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Wednesday. He was responding to concerns raised in the Assembly against the conduct of NEET by DMK legislator Udhayanidhi Stalin, who said people were wondering what had happened to the DMK’s electoral promise against the national entrance exam. “Our position is that all of us should unite against NEET, overlooking our respective political lines. There is no change in that. We gave the assurance to the people based on that. We assured them of an exemption from NEET, which is our motive. We had promised to take action over it,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Udhayanidhi listed out the names of 14 medical aspirants from Tamil Nadu who died by suicide in the recent years, and recalled the DMK’s promise in the poll manifesto to abolish the NEET. The first-time legislator also urged the State government to name the government medical college being constructed in Ariyalur district after Anitha, a student who ended her life dejected over not being able to enter a medical college due to the NEET mandate. He also wanted the government to withdraw cases against those who had staged protests against NEET. Recalling his campaign during the Assembly poll when he questioned why the BJP government at the Centre had not established an AIIMS near Madurai, years after announcing it, he said a campaign in Bihar had taken a leaf from it. “In Bihar, they are now showing a brick to ask where the Bihar AIIMS is,” he said. NEET is a qualifying exam for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical programmes in the country, but there has been opposition to conducting it in Tamil Nadu since its introduction. This June, the DMK government announced the formation of a committee headed by Mr. Rajan, retired judge of the Madras High Court, to study whether NEET had affected students on the fringes of society, and to suggest corrective measures. An attempt by the erstwhile AIADMK government to get Presidential assent for legislation seeking exemption from NEET in Tamil Nadu had failed.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-opposing-neet-this-session/article35989597.ece
19 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Court reserves orders on OBC reservation in AIQ medical seats||The Madras High Court on Wednesday reserved its orders on a contempt of court petition filed by DMK demanding 50% reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical seats offered by State government run medical colleges to the All India Quota every year. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu decided to pronounce their orders on the issue on August 25. The decision was taken after senior counsel P. Wilson representing the DMK and Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj representing the Centre concluded their arguments. On July 27, 2020 the High Court had ruled that OB’s were entitled to reservations in AIQ seats. It also ordered implementation of its orders from the academic year 2021-22. However, when there were no signs of strict compliance of the court orders, the DMK moved the present contempt plea this year. On July 19, the first Division Bench led by Chief Justice Banerjee observed that it would be contumacious to not provide reservation for OBCs from 2021-22. Thereafter, the Centre decided to provide 27% reservation to OBCs as per the Central policy and also to implement 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) of society. Taking exception to such a decision by the Centre, Mr. Wilson insisted that the State reservation policy of 50% for OBCs, 18% for Scheduled Castes and 1% for Scheduled Tribes must be implemented in AIQ since the seats belong to State-run colleges. He also questioned the propriety of implementing EWS reservation without any court order. On the other hand, Mr. Nataraj contended that reservation for EWS had Constitutional backing and that he need not justify that reservation in the present case which was confined only to OBCs. He argued that the question of contempt does not arise since Centre had provided 27% reservation for OBCs as per the Central policy. He further pointed out that the total communal reservation could not exceed 50% in AIQ and hence the Centre had decided to provide 27% reservation to OBCs, 15% to SCs and 7.5% to STs as per the Central policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-reserves-orders-on-obc-quota-in-aiq-medical-seats/article35989625.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DPH issues norms for reopening schools||With the State government planning to reopen schools for students from Classes IX to XII on September 1, the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has directed its Deputy Directors of Health Services to ensure 100% vaccination of teachers, staff working in schools and parents, and has suggested allowing only 50% of students on campus or an odd-even formula for classes. The DPH issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for reopening of schools, and instructed its Deputy Directors to coordinate with school authorities to ensure that the SOPs are followed. Screening of schoolchildren and teachers should be done in a week by engaging the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram team, and if needed, other primary health centre teams could be mobilised. While 100% vaccination of teachers and other staff working in schools should be ensured, all students in the eligible age group for vaccination should be inoculated. Suggesting alternatives as part of the SOP, the directorate said one way of ensuring physical distancing was to have flexible, staggered and reduced timings for different classes, in a way that physical distancing was maintained along with other guidelines. Asking only 50% of students to attend school depending on enrollment, rotationally on alternate days, or every two days in a week, and combining with home assignments could be another mechanism. Alternatively, there could be a weekly class-wise timetable for attendance, and an odd-even formula for classes could also be considered. As part of the SOPs, the directorate said the timings of entry and exit for students of different classes should be staggered, and different lanes could be earmarked to ensure physical distancing. Teachers and students living in containment zones should not attend schools until the zones were denotified. Proper cleaning and sanitation should be ensured. Sanitisers and soap with water should be made available by the respective authorities, while mobile medical units should be available in the blocks and their contact details shared with the schools for contacting them in case of emergency. Symptomatic students, teachers or staff should not be allowed on the campus. While PHCs should be alerted to handle symptomatic children as per SOPs, health inspectors/block health supervisors/non-medical supervisors should be assigned to each school, including private institutions, to monitor adherence to SOPs. Schools have been directed to open the campuses in phases, with such activities where they can easily adhere to distancing, wearing of masks and other protective measures. Wearing of masks is a must at all times and at all places on campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dph-issues-norms-for-reopening-schools/article35989594.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Union government did not reduce fuel prices even once, says Finance Minister||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan informed the Assembly on Wednesday that the Union government had raised the prices of petrol and diesel multiple times, but had not reduced them even once. Responding to a point raised by BJP legislator Vanathi Srinivasan (Coimbatore-South), Mr. Rajan said that when the State reduced the tax on petrol by Rs. 3 a litre, the Union Finance Minister termed it “trickery”, saying the State government increased the price by Rs. 7 and later reduced it by Rs. 3. “It was not us [the DMK government] that raised the price by Rs. 3. The Union government raised petrol price seven times and diesel price 10 times, but has not reduced them even once,” he stated emphatically. When Ms. Srinivasan said the 14th Finance Commission had recommended that the Centre share 42% of the net tax revenue with the States, up from 32% initially, Mr. Rajan pointed out that in 2014, the Union government doubled the cess and surcharges from about 10% to over 23%. Citing a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report, he said the cess levied by the Union government had not been completely utilised for the intended purpose. By cutting the share of the States, the Union government was deciding how the States should spend their funds. ‘Modi was a role model’ Mr. Rajan contended that it wasn’t the DMK government that was the first to speak out against the GST mechanism, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. “As the Gujarat Chief Minister, Mr. Modi was the champion of this cause. He was a role model in opposing the mechanism. It was he who said the GST was an attempt to snatch the rights of the States. It was he who said temple properties should be handled by the State government,” the Minister said. The DMK’s stand on the issue had been the same while in power and in Opposition, he added. When Ms. Srinivasan listed out the funds “being granted to Tamil Nadu”, Mr. Rajan wondered if she was a representative of the Union government to Tamil Nadu to defend it. “Please do not say it has given but say it would be given because that is the case,” he said, pointing to the pending GST dues from the Centre. Earlier, Ms. Srinivasan referred to the DMK government’s use of the term ‘Union government’ to denote the Centre, and quoted an American poet saying, “A rose is a rose is a rose.” To Ms. Srinivasan’s observations objecting to a legislator’s speech in the House praising the absence of the slogan “Jai Hind” in the Governor’s address, Public Works Minister E.V. Velu said the House rules did not permit a member to speak against another. Speaker M. Appavu said a member was entitled to his/her opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-government-did-not-reduce-fuel-prices-even-once-says-finance-minister/article35989606.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to boycott proceedings||The AIADMK on Wednesday decided to boycott Assembly proceedings for the day and on Thursday. Referring to how its co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s attempt in the Assembly to raise an issue concerning the Kodanad dacoity-cum-murder case was foiled, Deputy Leader of Opposition and AIADMK’s coordinator O. Panneerselvam accused the DMK regime of trying to foist “false cases” on the Opposition. Instead of fulfilling its electoral assurances and resolving problems of the people, the ruling party was adopting an approach of “unruliness”, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said trial into the case was almost at the stage of conclusion. It was against this backdrop that one of the accused had been summoned by the police and there were reports in sections of the media that a statement had been obtained from the accused against him and other functionaries of the party.  “We strongly condemn this,” he said, wondering why “DMK lawyers” had been appearing for those who had been cited as accused in the case. Mr. Palaniswami, Mr. Panneerselvam and other leaders are expected to meet Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday and represent to him that the government is trying to foist “false cases” against party functionaries. In a statement, the two AIADMK leaders expressed sadness over Chief Minister M.K. Stalin leaving out the name of freedom fighter Alagumuthu Kone from his Independence Day address, while listing out the names of those who had contributed to the country’s freedom struggle.  Mr. Palaniswami, Mr. Panneerselvam and other leaders are likely to meet the Governor on Thursday and represent to him that the government is trying to foist ‘false cases’ against party cadre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-boycott-proceedings/article35989591.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs Lyca Productions to pay Rs. 5 lakh to actor Vishal towards costs in a civil suit||The Madras High Court on Wednesday imposed costs of Rs. 5 lakh on film production company Lyca Productions Private Limited, and directed it to pay the money to actor-producer Vishal Krishna Reddy. Justice G. Jayachandran passed the order while dismissing an application by Lyca Productions seeking a direction to Mr. Reddy to pay it Rs. 30.05 crore along with interest at the rate of 30% per annum till the date of realisation. The judge criticised the firm for having taken out the application by picking stray sentences from a counter-affidavit filed by the actor, making a misleading claim that the actor had admitted his entire liability. The court was told that Mr. Reddy had initially availed a loan of Rs. 15 crore from Anbuchezhian of Gopuram Films to make Marudhu in 2016. He could not repay the amount and the liability along with interest increased to Rs. 21.29 crore. On September 21, 2019, Lyca entered into an agreement with Mr. Reddy, agreeing to discharge his liability on condition that he repay the amount to Lyca with 30% interest. Justice Jayachandran was shocked to find that Lyca had not only created a lien on all his future professional activities, but had also stated that the actor should not oppose any legal action taken to recover the dues. The judge observed that the validity of the terms of the agreement would be decided when the suit gets taken up for final disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-lyca-productions-to-pay-rs-5-lakh-to-actor-vishal-towards-costs-in-a-civil-suit/article35989578.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Occupation of forest areas the primary reason for human-animal conflicts, says Minister||Attempts to occupy hitherto uninhabited areas in forests and the wild, either for construction or agricultural purposes, is the primary reason behind human-animal conflicts reported in various parts of Tamil Nadu, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan informed the Assembly on Wednesday. Replying to concerns raised by BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan, Mr. Rajan said though there were many cases of human-animal conflicts, there was a major violator in Coimbatore area. “If I mention the name, it will become political,” he said. Forests Minister T. Ramachandran joined the debate to say that officials were aware of the human-animal conflicts, and action was being taken in this regard. During her speech, Ms. Srinivasan had said that conflicts were being reported in areas adjoining the Western Ghats.  During her speech, Ms. Srinivasan had said that conflicts were being reported in areas adjoining the Western Ghats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/occupation-of-forest-areas-the-primary-reason-for-human-animal-conflicts-says-minister/article35989595.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers clash at police station in Kotturpuram||Two groups of lawyers, who came to resolve a dispute over a public path, clashed at the Kotturpuram Police station. Police sources said Thomas Jayaseelan, 63, a resident of the locality, had a dispute with other residents, including an advocate, over sharing of a public path. On Tuesday, one group, accompanied by two lawyers from Saidapet, started to lay a concrete road on the disputed area, which led to a clash. Police personnel advised them to come to the police station to resolve the dispute but when they reached the station, they began fighting with each other. Police personnel, who were on duty, intervened and prevented further escalation. The video of the altercation went viral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyers-clash-at-police-station-in-kotturpuram/article35989580.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tunnelling for phase II likely to start next year||While work on Metro phase II’s elevated stretch has started in some parts of the city, tunnelling work for underground sections is likely to start only early next year. In the 118.9 km phase II project, the priority has been given to the stretch between Poonamallee and Power House and hence, the construction began a few weeks back. It is likely to be complete in four years, if the contractor meets the deadlines. Simultaneously, two contracts for the underground stretch from Madhavaram to Taramani have been awarded to Tata Projects and Larsen and Toubro for building stations and tunnels. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), barricades have been put up in many parts of the city and topography studies are under way to assess the nature of the soil before excavation and tunnelling begin. “The diaphragm wall construction for the underground station will start by November. The machinery will arrive at the sites by the end of next month. After assembling, we plan to start construction in full swing in November. But we will be able to do the tunnelling work only by early next year,” a source said. Details regarding the boring machines that will be used have been sent by the contractors to CMRL and may be approved shortly. The casting yard for building precast rings for tunnels would also be finalised soon, sources said. The process is on to finalise other contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tunnelling-for-phase-ii-likely-to-start-next-year/article35989585.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lab for genomic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 samples on anvil||A laboratory for genomic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 samples is being set up at a cost of Rs. 3 crore on the campus of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services. The facility will be inaugurated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in 10 to 15 days, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. “We have floated tenders for setting up the laboratory. A piece of equipment worth Rs. 1.2 crore and supporting equipment costing Rs. 80 lakh will be purchased for the laboratory. Five medical technicians, who will work at the laboratory, have already undergone training at InStem, Bengaluru,” he told reporters when asked about the proposed laboratory for detection of coronavirus variants in the State. As of now, the State has a stock of 8,89,877 vaccine doses. This includes 2,45,000 vaccine doses received on Tuesday. The Minister said that so far, 2,52,43,530 doses of Covishield and Covaxin had been supplied to the State, of which 2,51,66,319 doses had been administered. Vaccine supply Private hospitals had covered 18,64,018 people so far, taking the total coverage to 2,70,30,337. A total of 2,03,07,691 people have received their first dose of the vaccine. The number of people who have received their second dose stands at 48,58,628. The Minister said the State had received 39,08,250 doses of Covaxin, of which 36,31,545 doses had been administered. “We have informed the Union government that we require nearly four lakh doses of Covaxin to administer the second dose of the vaccine. The second dose will be administered after we get the supply,” he said, according to a press release.  A piece of equipment worth Rs. 1.2 crore and supporting equipment costing Rs. 80 lakh will be purchased for the laboratory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lab-for-genomic-sequencing-of-sars-cov-2-samples-on-anvil/article35989612.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-day-old baby undergoes surgery||When M. Thooyavan and S. Sangeetha came to know that their yet-to-be-born child had Vein of Galen Malformation (VOGM), a rare and potentially fatal complication in the brain, they were shattered. Mr. Thooyavan said it appeared as if the happiest moment they were expecting in their lives might turn out to be devastating. Soon after the condition was diagnosed in the 30th week of pregnancy, the family began its pursuit to find a hospital in the country that offered treatment for the condiditon. Facing a deadend after four weeks, he dropped an e-mail to a surgeon in New York, who had done procedures for VOGM. To the family’s surprise, the surgeon said a solution was available closer home. He asked them to contact Srinivasan Paramasivam, head of Neuro-Endovascular Surgery at Apollo Hospitals, who previously practised and taught at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. VOGM refers to a congenital condition, where blood from the arteries of the brain directly flows to the veins due to the absence of some capillaries in between, which help in slowing down the blood flow. Dr. Paramasivam said the condition led to extra pressure in the vein, which in turn led to heavy flow of blood to the heart and lungs. “This forces the heart to work overtime to get blood to the rest of the body, and will eventually lead to congestive heart failure,” he said. He said while the condition was rare with an occurrence of one in three million births, around 80% to 90% of the cases resulted in fatality either due to failure to diagnose the condition or due to lack of treatment. Dr. Paramasivam said as the diagnosis happened relatively early, it provided room for planning the treatment post child-birth. In the 38th week of pregnancy, C-Section was performed. Dr. Paramsivam said the complex non-invasive procedure should preferably be done at least six months after birth to minimise risks. However, in this case, the procedure had to be performed 48 hours after birth as the baby’s condition began to deteriorate rapidly. Two catheters were inserted, one through the umbilical artery and the other through the jugular vein. While the former was used to perform the endovascular embolisation in the brain, the other was used to control the heart beat through a pacing monitor. He said that extreme precision and care was required as any error could could completely damage the the delicate blood vessels of the two-day-old baby. Dr. Paramasivam said through the pacing monitor, the heart rate was increased to 300 beats a minute. “Because the heart is beating so fast, the pumping becomes inefficient and results in blood flow to organs getting stopped for about 20 to 30 seconds,” he said. This window was used to perform the embolisation by injecting a medical superglue at that part of the vessel in the brain with malformation to artificially slow down the blood flow. Dr. Paramasivam said that such an embolisation procedure, along with cardiac pacing for VOGM, had been performed only a few times in the world, and it was most likely the first such instance in India. Suneeta Reddy, managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group, appreciated the entire team of doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-day-old-baby-undergoes-surgery/article35989619.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh infections fall under 1,800 in State||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu fell below 1,800 on Wednesday. The State recorded 1,797 fresh cases and 31 deaths, taking the tally to 25,94,233 and the toll to 34,610. Chennai recorded 198 fresh cases. Coimbatore recorded 210 cases, while there were 156 cases in Erode and 109 in Thanjavur. Chengalpattu saw 108 cases and Salem 103. While 89 people tested positive for the infection in Tiruppur, there were 67 cases in Tiruvallur. There were no fatalities due to COVID-19 in 23 districts. While Coimbatore recorded five deaths, there were four fatalities each in Salem and Tiruppur. Chennai reported two deaths. Among the deceased were two persons in their 40s. A woman from Tiruvannamalai, who had diabetes, died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on August 16 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A man from Villupuram, who also had diabetes, died at the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital on August 15 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 1,908 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of people discharged to 25,39,540. The number of active cases fell marginally to 20,083. These include 2,355 people in Coimbatore, 2,061 in Chennai and 1,841 in Erode. As many as 1,57,339 samples were tested in 24 hours, taking the total figure to 4,02,66,227. One more private laboratory — Theragen Lifesciences Private Limited in Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. As of now, there are 286 testing facilities in the State — 69 in the government sector and 217 private ones. Over 2 lakh vaccinated A total of 2,26,290 people were vaccinated in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. This included 1,39,139 people aged 18 to 44 and 63,968 people aged 45 to 59. This took the total coverage so far in government vaccination centres to 2,53,92,609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-infections-fall-below-1800-in-tamil-nadu/article35989614.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No more ‘maiden speech’: Vanathi||BJP legislator Vanathi Srinivasan urged the Assembly on Wednesday to do away with the practice of referring to the first speech of a newly elected member as “maiden speech”. She said if an MLA was speaking for the first time in the House, it could be termed as “first [debut] speech” or “introductory speech”. The usage of “maiden speech” ( kanni pechu in Tamil) can be avoided in the future, she said. The word kanni means a spinster, and so a better word can be used for such speeches, she said. Speaker M. Appavu responded, “These days, it is not being used. I accept it [to avoid the term maiden].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-more-maiden-speech-vanathi/article35989602.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. scraps Amma Two-Wheeler Scheme||The DMK government has scrapped the Amma Two-Wheeler Scheme, a flagship programme of the previous AIADMK regime aimed at enabling working women to purchase two-wheelers. Launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2018 on the occasion of the 70th birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the scheme provided every beneficiary a grant equivalent to 50% of the cost of a two- wheeler, or Rs. 25,000, which ever was less. An additional assistance of Rs. 6,250 was set apart for those who were disabled. Around Rs. 250 crore was allocated every year. Till March 2020, about 2.07 lakh vehicles were distributed under the scheme at an expenditure of Rs. 468.75 crore. Confirming the decision, an official, however, pointed out that keeping in mind the requirements of women in general, a scheme for free travel on white board buses was being implemented since the DMK regime assumed charge in May. Around Rs. 703 crore had been earmarked for the purpose. Besides, transport corporations would get a subsidy of Rs. 750 crore for insulating themselves in the event of diesel price hikes. Lauding the government’s measure, N. Dhanapal, a resident of Thirumanur village of Ariyalur district, said that prior to the launch of the free bus ride scheme, there were cases of women from his village and surrounding places who borrowed money from their friends or relatives to go to Thiruvaiyaru, about 6 km away, for working as labourers in agricultural fields. Among the other schemes of the previous regime which have been axed or pruned are the free distribution of sheep, goat and milch cows to people living below the poverty line (BPL); solar-powered green houses; and the ‘Kudimaramathu’ scheme, envisaging the adoption of a participatory approach to restoring waterbodies. In the water sector, the government has proposed a few projects for the revival and rejuvenation of waterbodies. As regards the Comprehensive Accident-cum-Life Insurance Scheme, the official said it was being recast. “Schemes for the benefit of students are being continued and improved upon. For example, the government is working on a scheme to provide tablets to students at an estimated cost of Rs. 670 crore, instead of the earlier scheme of providing laptops,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-scraps-amma-two-wheeler-scheme/article35989608.ece
19 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Naval installations in T.N. designated as ‘No Fly Zones’||The Defence wing of the Government of India on Wednesday announced that the area falling under a 3 km radius from the perimeter of Indian Navy installations in Tamil Nadu have been designated as ‘No Fly Zones’. All individuals and civil agencies are prohibited from flying non-conventional aerial objects within these zones without any prior permission, a press release said. “The Indian Navy will destroy or confiscate any non-conventional aerial object including Drones or Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) found flying without proper approval. Further, the operator found violating these orders will be charged under the provisions of Indian Penal Code,” the release said. Drone operation Approval for utilisation of drones by any operator or civil or government agency is governed by guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and further approval from the Director General of Civil Aviation has to be obtained through Digi Sky website, the release said. A copy of the approval letter has to be submitted to the Headquarter Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Naval Area or Staff Officer (security) and the Naval station concerned at least a week before the scheduled flying operation, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naval-installations-in-tn-designated-as-no-fly-zones/article35989617.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Government schools will emerge symbols of pride’||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Wednesday said in the Legislative Assembly that the quality of education in government schools in Tamil Nadu would be enhanced to make them “symbols of pride and not poverty.” Responding to DMK member A. Krishnasamy and PMK floor leader G.K. Mani, who wanted to improve the quality of government schools, Mr. Poyyamozhi said the DMK government led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would transform the quality of education. Mr. Krishnasamy complained that there was an inferior feeling among government school students. As regards Mr. Mani’s concern that allocation for school education had come down from what was allotted in the interim budget, the School Education Minister recalled the promise made by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan that the department’s allocation would improve substantially in two years. Dearness allowance Mr. Poyyamozhi also pointed out that the government had already postponed the dearness allowance for employees to next year and it alone would be 30% of the salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-govt-schools-minister/article35989725.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dhoni is brand ambassador for Kauvery Hospitals||Kauvery Group of Hospitals has roped in former India captain and Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni as its brand ambassador. According to a press release, Kauvery Hospitals Group is a new age family hospital with multi-speciality clinical expertise. It is currently a 1,500-bed hospital group with presence in Chennai, Tiruchi, Hosur, Salem and Bengaluru, in addition to planned entry in new markets. Similar journeys Manivannan Selvaraj, managing director, Kauvery Group of Hospitals, said, “Mr. Dhoni, who rose from a small town and achieved great heights, is similar to Kauvery’s journey. We started with a 30-bed hospital in Tiruchi and now, we are a 1,500-bed strong group with branches across Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru, working towards the mission of delivering quality healthcare at affordable cost.” “We feel he is a great fit for the brand because he strikes the right chord with our value systems of trust, dependability, reliability and focused leadership. A person who is fit and strong makes the ideal representative of our healthcare brand, helping us promote overall health and wellness,” said Dr. Selvaraj, as per the release. Speaking about his association with the brand, Mr. Dhoni said, “Kauvery Group of Hospitals has been offering exemplary medical services for over two decades with paramount focus on patient care and satisfaction. I am glad to be associated with one of the most trusted and reputed healthcare brands.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kauvery-group-of-hospitals-ropes-in-dhoni-as-brand-ambassador/article35989587.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for attempted murder in Puzhal||The police on Wednesday arrested eight persons for allegedly attempting to murder a youth in Puzhal. The gang also looted a petrol bunk and robbed a lorry driver the same night. The gang members were in an autorickshaw and waylaid Kumanan, 27, in Lakshmi Nagar due to previous enmity. They fled the scene after attacking him with knives. Passersby came to his rescue and rushed him to the Government Stanley Hospital, where he was admitted in a critical condition. The police began investigations following a complaint from his relative, and arrested eight accused, including Karthik alias YouTube Karthik, 28, of Redhills, K. Nagaraj, 21, of Vyasarpadi, Delli alias Dellibabu, of Puzhal, and five others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-held-for-attempted-murder-in-puzhal/article35989582.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM promises to convert Coimbatore prison ground into park||The DMK government would definitely convert the Central prison ground at Gandhipuram in Coimbatore city into a park as announced by former CM M. Karunanidhi, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin informed the State Legislative Assembly on Wednesday. Responding to BJP legislator Vanathi Srinivasan (Coimbatore-South) in the House, Mr. Stalin said the request would be fulfilled by his government. He also recalled that former CM Karunanidhi had announced setting up of a garden at the Central prison ground during the World Classical Tamil Conference. “But, when there was a change in the rule, they did not think about it for over 10 years. So, your [Ms. Srinivasan’s] request would be definitely fulfilled during this government’s tenure,” Mr. Stalin said. During her speech, Ms. Srinivasan pointed out that the T.K. Market area in Coimbatore was congested and requested the State government for setting up a multi-level car parking facility there for traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-promises-to-convert-coimbatore-prison-ground-into-park/article35989664.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for burglary in Kodungaiyur||Personnel from the Kodungaiyur police station cracked a case relating to the burglary of a house within 24 hours and arrested three accused. The police said K. Gopi, 36, a resident of Kodungaiyur, left his house on Tuesday; on his return, he found that it had been broken into. Around 12 sovereigns of gold jewellery had been stolen. The police traced three accused, including two juveniles, who were involved in the offence, and recovered the jewellery from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-burglary-in-kodungaiyur/article35989570.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Snake Park starts a fundraiser||The Chennai Snake Park, which has been hit financially by the prolonged lockdowns due to the pandemic, has started a fundraising inititative now. Managed by the Chennai Snake Park Trust, which is a non-governmental and non-profit initiative, the park currently houses around 300 animals across 35 species. “The prolonged closure has resulted in a slow draining of revenue for the last 12 months, which has resulted in a severe financial crisis. The annual income for the park is around Rs. 80 lakh and a majority of this comes from the entry fees paid by visitors. The average annual expenditure, which includes maintenance and staff salaries, is around Rs. 75 lakh,” said S. Paulraj, executive chairman, Chennai Snake Park Trust. While the park did receive some CSR funds from companies and philanthropic donations during the pandemic, they had been mostly exhausted by May 2021. Over the years, the park has also been creating awareness about snakes and other reptiles, and has worked on research and outreach programmes with educational institutions in the city. While the park was reopened after the first wave of the pandemic between October and April, visitor footfall had greatly reduced. “We usually have an annual footfall of around 5 lakh which includes residents, children on school trips, students and tourists,” said S.R. Ganesh, deputy director and scientist. Persons who wish to contribute can visit https://www.ketto.org/fundraiser/save-chennai-snake-park?payment=options||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snake-park-starts-a-fundraiser/article35989588.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A promise to bring down revenue deficit||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday promised the Assembly that he would bring down the State’s revenue deficit. “The State’s revenue deficit increased in the last six years. I promise to bring it down in the seventh year, despite the second wave of COVID-19,” he said, responding to PMK floor leader G.K. Mani. Referring to the projection in the interim Budget presented by the then AIADMK government that the revenue deficit would be brought down to 23% or 24%, he said it was wrong because “the previous government did not take into account the second wave”. “We have [now] become realistic,” the Finance Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-promise-to-bring-down-revenue-deficit/article35989598.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai varsity barred from offering BL courses||The Madras High Court has prohibited Annamalai University in Chidambaram, now taken over by the State, from offering any bachelor’s degree in law without adhering to legal education standards set by the Bar Council of India (BCI). Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ordered that no new students should be admitted to such courses and those admitted should be instructed to seek alternative admission in recognised courses. As far as the Masters and diploma courses in law offered by the university are concerned, the court said the varsity could not be prevented from conducting those courses since the BCI was yet to set standards with respect to them.  A rider The first Division Bench added a rider that all universities should conform to the standards set by the BCI in the future for courses that had been left out. The BCI too supported the stand of the petitioner. Authoring the verdict, Justice Ramamoorthy pointed out that Section 7(1)(i) of the Advocates Act of 1961 empowers the BCI to recognise universities whose degrees in law would be a qualification for enrolment as an advocate. That provision might not be applicable to Annamalai University since it was conducting only academic courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalai-varsity-barred-from-offering-bl-courses/article35989935.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to desilt Veeranam tank||Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan informed the Assembly on Wednesday that the Veeranam tank in Kattumannarkoil in Cuddalore district would be desilted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-desilt-veeranam-tank/article35990032.ece
19 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Focus on Govt. schools||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Wednesday said in the Legislative Assembly that the quality of education in government schools in Tamil Nadu would be enhanced to make them as “symbols of pride and not poverty.” Responding to DMK member A. Krishnasamy and PMK floor leader G.K. Mani, who wanted to improve the quality of government schools, Mr Poyyamozhi said the DMK government would transform the quality of education. As regards Mr Mani’s concern that allocation for school education had come down, he recalled the promise of Finance Minister that the allocation would improve substantially in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-govt-schools/article35990081.ece
19 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Suggest names of daily wage archakas for permanent jobs’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) P.K. Sekarbabu on Wednesday directed temple Joint Commissioners to send in recommendations for archakas and bhattacharyas , who had been working for over five years on daily wages for permanent appointment as temple staff. Addressing a meeting of archakas, bhattacharyas and Joint Commissioners of 47 major temples in the State, he said they need not even consider their age. “Do not show partiality or favouritism. Remember that they need jobs and have been serving the deities for over five years,” he said. Reiterating Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s statement that the government had no plans to send out any archakas from temples, the Minister said even those who had retired and were continuing were not being disturbed. Encouraging youngsters He cited the example of a 69-year-old priest in a temple in Sathur, who was working even after retirement. “A young priest has been appointed to assist him,” he said. “We want young blood to be infused so that proper sevas are done,” he said. The archakas welcomed his statements. He pulled up an Assistant Commissioner for issuing a strict letter to archakas, threatening them to be present at the meeting and for saying that legal action would be taken if they did not make it. The Minister said the letter had been making the rounds on social media and was spreading the wrong message. “There was no compulsion for the archakas to  attend the meeting. They might have other work or people might have fallen sick,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recommend-names-of-archakas-for-permanent-jobs/article35989627.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. schools will emerge ‘symbols of pride’: Minister||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Wednesday said in the Assembly that the quality of education in government schools in Tamil Nadu would be enhanced to make them “symbols of pride and not poverty”. Responding to DMK member A. Krishnasamy and PMK floor leader G.K. Mani, who wanted the quality of government schools improved, Mr. Poyyamozhi said the DMK government, led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, would transform the quality of education. Mr. Krishnasamy complained that there was an inferior feeling among government school students. As regards Mr. Mani’s concern that allocation for school education had come down from what was allotted in the interim Budget, the Minister recalled the promise of Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan that the department’s allocation would improve substantially in two years. Mr. Poyyamozhi also pointed out that the government had already postponed the dearness allowance for employees to next year and that alone would be 30% of the salary.  The Minister recalled the Finance Minister’s promise that the School Education Department’s allocation would improve substantially in two years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-schools-will-be-symbols-of-pride/article35989604.ece
19 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rename towns with caste names: VCK||VCK legislative party leader M. Sinthanai Selvan on Wednesday urged the State government to rename various ‘colonies’ in villages and towns as caste names were still being used to describe a village or a town. In the Assembly, Mr. Selvan drew attention to a village named Sakkilipatti in Dharmapuri district, and urged the government to change such names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rename-towns-with-caste-names-vck/article35989628.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to explore ways to increase water spread area in Muthannankulam||Coimbatore Corporation has started exploring ways to increase the water spread in Muthannankulam. Following representation from the members of the public and activists, the Corporation was looking at increasing the water spread area by removing debris, Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara told The Hindu . It was particularly looking at Muthannakulam where the Corporation continued to work to develop the water body under the Smart Cities Mission. After demolishing the houses built encroaching the water body, the debris spread revealed the extent to which the residents had invaded the water spread area. After demolishing the houses, as the Corporation started the beautification work, activists had urged the Corporation to remove the debris to increase the water spread area. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon, who had written to the Corporation in this regard, said the Corporation should not reduce the water spread area. The Corporation that had removed only tile and thatched roofed houses in tanks taken up for development under the Smart Cities Mission should also look at demolishing those permanent structures built encroaching water spread area, particularly in Valangulam tank, he said and suggested that the Corporation look at the Public Works Department records to ascertain the original water spread area and remove encroachments. He also referred to the Madras High Court direction ordering the Corporation and other agencies concerned to remove encroachments in River Noyyal basin. Activists said they wanted the Corporation to act at once because delay in increasing the water spread area would pave way for more encroachments and removing illegal encroachments could provide the perception that they were legal and not encroached structures. Mr. Sunkara, who recently held a meeting to review the Smart Cities Mission projects, said the civic body was keen on removing all encroachments in all tanks. But before doing so, the Corporation would have a look at the Revenue Department records so as to be sure about the nature and extent of encroachment. As for increasing the water spread area in Muthannankulam, Mr. Sunkara said the Corporation was looking into the issue and ready to remove the debris to increase water spread area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-explore-ways-to-increase-water-spread-area-in-muthannankulam/article35989645.ece
19 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Order fresh probe into Kodanad heist-cum-murder case: CPI (M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Wednesday called for a fresh probe into the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case. Addressing reporters at the end of the party’s two-day State executive committee meeting here, he said that soon after the crime that took place during the AIADMK regime, several theories did the rounds. It was to prevent the truth from coming out that the AIADMK government did not let out the accused, he claimed. Now, the State Government should take steps to hear whatever the witnesses had to say and order a fresh probe. It should also ensure that the probe was fair. The party regretted the situation the AIADMK found itself in, he said in response to a question on the AIADMK leadership meeting the BJP top brass. “Even after knowing well that it would not win the Assembly election, the AIADMK chose to align with the BJP because it wanted political protection. And this is what had happened now, as an Enforcement Directorate raid on a DMK Minister had followed the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption raid in places connected to former AIADMK Minister S.P. Velumani,” Mr. Balakrishnan alleged. On the DVAC probe against Mr. Velumani, he said there should be a thorough investigation and those responsible for irregularities should be punished. Mr. Balakrishnan said it was unfortunate that Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan often chose to project his caste identity. It only led to the conclusion that he was into caste and identity politics. State-wide campaign Earlier, explaining the resolutions adopted at the State executive committee meeting, Mr. Balakrishnan said the CPI (M) would reach out to people in 10,000 villages and in major urban centres across the State in September to explain the anti-people policies of the BJP government at the Centre. In response to a call given by its central leadership, the party would also conduct a door-to-door campaign by distributing handbills. The party, in another resolution, appealed to the DMK government to amend the law to change the way people elected the leaders of urban local bodies. The election to the posts of town panchayat and municipal chairpersons and municipal corporation mayors should be direct. It also wanted the government to regularise the employment of thousands of workers engaged on contract by local bodies. As contract employees, they earned Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 12,000 in wage or honorarium. The government should take steps to regularise their employment by bringing them under the time scale pay structure and providing all employment benefits. Condemns BJP Another resolution condemned the BJP for opposing the State Government’s order enabling people of all castes to be employed as temple priests. The resolution also condemned the BJP for engaging in false propaganda over freeing temple lands from encroachers. In the incident involving a Dalit village assistant and caste Hindu in Ottarpalayam Panchayat, near Annur in Coimbatore, the party said the police should also initiate action against the person who recorded the entire incident and chose to release those in parts. The individual’s action had led to social tension in the area and also the State, the party added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-fresh-probe-into-kodanad-heist-cum-murder-case-cpi-m/article35989639.ece
19 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Consumer organisation seeks revision of OSR norms||Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer organisation, has urged the State government to review the Tamil Nadu Combined Building Rules 2019 regarding open space reservation (OSR). In a memorandum to the government, the Coimbatore Consumer Cause secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said that nearly 48 % of Tamil Nadu’s population lives in urban areas. According to earlier norms, a layout with more than 2,500 sq m area should have 10 % of land handed over to the local body as OSR. But, according to the new Tamil Nadu Combined Building Rules 2019, the 10 % OSR is not mandatory for layouts that are less than 3,000 sq metres. Apart from a relaxation in the area that comes under exemption, in respect of layout area between 3,000 sq m and 10,000 sq m, the promoter can either gift 10 % OSR to local bodies or pay the guideline value of equivalent land to the government. The guideline value is less than the market value in almost all areas. Further, the guideline value of equivalent land, excluding 3,000 sq m, is sufficient to bypass the 10 % OSR norms. It means the promoters can sell more land at market rate by paying guideline value for a smaller portion of land. The present norms of OSR for layouts will result in cities becoming dense concrete jungles in a few years. The OSR land is reserved for developing parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities for public use while developing a property. The government has taken a retrograde step in 2019 that is totally against the public as well as local bodies. The OSR land is meant for better living of the residents of the layout and used by the local bodies in public interest. Hence, the government should reconsider the new norm for compulsory OSR land and make suitable amendment in the TNCDBR 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumer-organisation-seeks-revision-of-osr-norms/article35989659.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for cheating cable TV operator||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Coimbatore City Police on Wednesday arrested two persons on the charges of cheating a private cable TV operator of Rs. 22.5 lakh on the pretext of arranging loan for him to the tune of Rs. 50 crore. The arrested have been identified as A. Paneerselvam of Alangudi in Pudukottai district and Selvakumar of Tiruchi. They were arrested based on a complaint lodged by K. Raja, managing director of Multicity Digital Consortium Private Limited. Paneerselvam, a village panchayat president from Pudukkottai, and Selvakumar were arrested by the CCB on July 14 this year for cheating the chairman of a private hospital here of Rs. 2.85 crore. Central Crime Branch officials said that the duo had cheated the hospital chairman by promising to arrange loans to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. According to officials, the two accused are currently in judicial remand and their formal arrest was recorded in connection with the cheating of the cable TV operator. Two detained under Goondas Act Two persons arrested for smuggling ration rice have been detained under the provisions of the Goondas Act. They have been identified as Mohammed Thoufeek from Pollachi and Gnanaprakash from Anamalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-cheating-cable-tv-operator/article35989654.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for loans||Coimbatore Corporation has invited applications from street vendors to avail loan under a Central Government scheme. In a release, the civic body said vendors would be eligible for Rs. 10,000 with the condition that they should pay Rs. 946 a month for 12 months. Thus far, 7,910 persons had benefited from the scheme. It had asked the vendors to get in touch with the scheme coordinator Balasundaram on 99449-48878.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-loans/article35989660.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 210 cases, five deaths||A total of 210 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The district had 2,355 active cases of the disease on Wednesday and 234 persons recovered. The Health Department said that five more persons died of the disease in the last few days in the district and the death toll increased to 2,227. Tiruppur district reported 89 new cases on Wednesday. A total of 86 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday and the district had 896 active cases. The district’s death toll increased to 900 after four more persons died of COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, 34 people tested positive on Wednesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,342. The number of deaths in the district increased from 189 to 190 on Wednesday while 463 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-210-cases-five-deaths/article35989653.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Forest Division, ATR get new officers||Coimbatore Forest Division and the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) have got new officers at the helm as the Environment, Climate Change and Forests Department on Tuesday issued orders on the promotions and transfers of senior level officers. T.K. Ashok Kumar is the new District Forest Officer (DFO) of Coimbatore Forest Division. He replaces D. Venkatesh who has been promoted and posted as Conservator of Forests and Field Director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (APCCF), Coimbatore circle, been transferred and posted as APCCF Working Plan at the office of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Department), Chennai. T.V. Manjunatha, APCCF and Director of the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy (TNFA), will hold full additional charge of the post of Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore circle. The existing post of APCCF, Coimbatore circle, has been downgraded to Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore circle. S. Ramasubramanian, Conservator of Forests, Thanjavur, has been transferred and posted as the Field Director (FD) of ATR in the existing vacancy. The post of the Chief Conservator of Forests and FD of ATR has been downgraded to the level of a Conservator of Forests. M.G. Ganeshan, who was serving as the Eco-Development Officer of the Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, has replaced S. Arockiaraj Xavier as the Deputy Director of ATR (Core). S.N. Thejasvi, who was serving as the DFO in Tiruvallur, is the Deputy Director of ATR, Udumalpet division. The Department also appointed V. Subbaiah as the Deputy Director of the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy, Coimbatore, in the existing vacancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-forest-division-atr-get-new-officers/article35989648.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for transporting bricks||The Thadagam police arrested drivers of two lorries that were found transporting bricks from two brick kilns late on Tuesday. The arrested were P. Sundarapandian (30) from Veerapandipudur and K. Rangaraj (43) from Chinna Thadagam. The police said that they stopped two brick-laden lorries at Kanuvai during a vehicle check on Tuesday night. The drivers told the police that the bricks were loaded from two brick kilns at Veerapandipudur. They were among the 180-odd brick kilns that were served closure orders by the district administration based on the direction of the Madras High Court. Following the court's direction, the district administration had said that that sale of bricks manufactured in brick kilns/chambers that operated illegally was also an offence. According to the police, owners of the two brick kilns Sathyamoorthy and Sivasakthivel have been booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-transporting-bricks/article35989649.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Effitrac looks at raising funds||Effitrac, a Coimbatore-based SaaS company that provides technology solutions for SMEs, is looking at onboarding one million customers in the next three years. Logesh Velusamy, founder and CEO of Effitrac, told The Hindu it is seeing 20 % to 25 % growth in customers every month. “We have clients in India and five countries. We are in the process of onboarding more customers,” he said. The company offers 30 different models of solutions for almost 15 industrial verticals. Since liquidity crunch is a challenge for MSMEs during the pandemic, Effitrac has rolled out solutions for that requirement and has partnered with another company to offer resource pool. “We will train resources and provide them to our customers,” he added. It also offers API services that helps reduce the technical difficulties of startups. “We want to go for 5,000 customers in eight months. We plan to raise Rs. 20 crore. We will look at strategic investors who are allied to our business,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/effitrac-looks-at-raising-funds/article35989640.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Educational aids distributed||The Rotary Club of Coimbatore Elite distributed educational aids to 14 students, who were earlier child workers, and rescued by the National Child Labour Project and enrolled in special schools. They have now moved over to college education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educational-aids-distributed/article35989656.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Laughter therapy for police personnel||A laughter therapy sessions for the police personnel will be held every Friday to reduce their workplace stress. Inspector and station house officer M. Nithya, Annur police station, told reporters that around 30 personnel participated in the session on Friday where they were made to laugh for a few minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/laughter-therapy-for-police-personnel/article35989655.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has appealed to the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways to import one lakh empty containers and lease large ships to meet the demand. He pointed out the issue that exporters face because of container shortage and lack of vessels coming to India and the high freight charges.   Government Museum here will conduct a drawing competition for students studying in classes V to X to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations. A press release said that they shall submit their works on one of the two topics - Freedom Fighters and Incidents from the Freedom Struggle. The artworks shall be submitted either through WhatsApp at 93446 43422 or via e-mail atkovaimuseum@gmail.com. Last date for submissions is August 24 by 5 p.m.    KGiSL has won a contract from the Stock Exchange of Thailand and will roll out Dolphin, a cutting edge back office platform for brokers in Thailand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35989646.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas on August 19 ( 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.) coming under the Ramnagar Fedder: Ramar Koil street, Desabandhu street, Kalingarayan street, Dr. Nanjappa Road, Grey Town, Sivasamy Road, ATT Colony, SS Mill Road, Sengupta Street, Ansari Street, Park Road and Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35989658.ece
19 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records 55 new cases||Cuddalore district reported one more COVID-19 death and 55 new cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 61,669.  Villupuram district reported one death and 35 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 44,413.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-55-new-cases/article35990025.ece
19 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Study lists out measures to prevent migration of tribal people||A study in the hill areas of Kadambur and Bargur revealed that creation of jobs locally, distribution of patta for their holdings and effective implementation of the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, will prevent migration of tribal people to other places in search of livelihood. Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR), a national body overseeing research in the area social sciences in India, had made a special call for studies focusing on social science dimension of COVID-19 pandemic. As part of it, N. Mani, Professor and Head, Department of Economics, Erode Arts and Science College, was awarded a project titled, “A Study on Rainfed Agriculture: An Instrument for Creation of Gainful Employment and Cornerstone for Counter Migration”. The nine-month project was allotted a budget of Rs. 4.30 lakh and the team led by its project director Mr. Mani and research associate P.G. Balasubramanian visited the habitations in the two hills. The team met 286 families in Kadambur and 156 families in Bargur who migrated for work to the plains, but had to return to their natives due to the pandemic. The study revealed that tribal people have the right to use revenue poramboke land, but have no patta. “In the absence of title deed, they cannot avail subsidy or loans and their crops were not covered under insurance scheme”, said Mr. Mani. Since the lands are rain-fed, tribal people are unable to meet the loss arising out of poor rainfall leading to crop failure. “They were forced to borrow money at exorbitant interest rates and hence, families stress on the need for having patta for their small holdings”, he added. The professor said that recognising them as farmers would be a major step in preventing them from migration. During migration, parents take their children with them who become child workers. The study also revealed that most of their children never attended schools or were school dropouts. Many families were involved in harvesting broom grass from the forest areas in Bargur and Gundri, but were selling it to intermediaries for a meagre price. Hence, value addition would improve their livelihood, including making furniture from Lantana camara, the study revealed. V.P. Gunasekaran, State committee member, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, who accompanied the team, said that tribal people face many hurdles in collecting minor forest produce and the only permanent solution is effective implementation of FRA. “Local jobs ensuring regular employment, ownership of land, improved education system in hill areas and value addition for products will ensure tribal people stay in their habitations”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-lists-out-measures-to-prevent-migration-of-tribal-people/article35989772.ece
19 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water pumped out from railway underpass||With water stagnation at the railway underpass in Vendipalayam continuing to pose hardship for motorists, corporation workers pumped out the water. The underpass is located in a low-lying area and hence, rain water and sewage enters the underpass easily leading to stagnation. The underpass serves as the main road to connect Old Railway Station road and also the barrage. Water stagnation at the underpass is a perennial problem for the residents and motorists who are demanding swift action to ensure water does not stagnate. During the rainy season, the underpass is filled with water making it difficult for even four-wheelers to pass through. Recently, rain water and sewage stagnated in the underpass for many days even as motorists urged the corporation to pump out the water. Though water was pumped out, motorists wanted a permanent solution for the issue that remains a problem for over 40 years now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-pumped-out-from-railway-underpass/article35989770.ece
19 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode teacher chosen for national award||D. Lalitha, Headmistress of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Modakkurichi, has been selected from the State for the national award for best teachers for 2021. Ms. Lalitha, a post-graduate who has been teaching Physics for 19 years, told The Hindu that her experimental-based teaching by using communication technologies had helped students learn the concepts easily. She worked as a teacher at the government school at Sivagiri for 15 years and was promoted as headmistress in 2019 to the school at Doddampalayam in Sathyamangalam block. For the last six months, Ms. Lalitha has been serving in the school at Modakkurichi and has created 160 video-based activities for the students. International journal She has also published an international journal on leadership qualities and is focusing on conducting environmental awareness programmes for students and the public. A communication she received from the Ministry of Human Resource Development (Department of School Education and Literacy), states the award will be presented to her, through a webinar, at a function to be held at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on September 5. It carries a certificate of merit, Rs. 50,000 cash, and a silver medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-teacher-chosen-for-national-award/article35989642.ece
19 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over one lakh tonnes of sludge removed from Sipcot premises||Following complaints that industrial sludge in large quantities was dumped at Sipcot Industrial Growth Centre in Perundurai, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has said that 1.06 lakh tonnes of sludge was removed and supplied to cement units while over 18,000 tonnes of waste was sent to the Integrated Common Hazardous Waste Treatment plant at Gummidipoondi. S. Chinnasamy, coordinator, Perundurai Sipcot Affected People Welfare Association, had submitted a petition to Collector H. Krishnanunni demanding action against polluting industries on Sipcot premises. In his reply, K. Uthayakumar, District Environmental Engineer, TNPCB, Sipcot, Perundurai, said that 41 dyeing industries are functioning at Sipcot with facilities to ensure zero liquid discharge (ZLD) while 14 units, of which only eight are functioning, have an integrated common effluent treatment plant (CEPT). Likewise, 14 tannery units have a separate CEPT and are functioning on the premises. As per the Madras High Court orders, all the units have ensured ZLD. The engineer said that 34.5 million litre per day (MLD) of water is required for textile processing units and water is drawn from the River Cauvery and supplied by the Sipcot management. However, currently only 4.5 MLD to 5 MLD river water is supplied to the units as they use 90% of the recycled water from the treatment plants. There are 25 to 30 borewells and open wells around the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-one-lakh-tonnes-of-sludge-removed-from-sipcot-premises/article35989769.ece
19 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Services of contract nurses extended by three more months||Twenty-four hours after receiving termination letters citing the end of the contract period, 20 nurses, who had staffed the COVID-19 wards during the second wave in the various taluk hospitals, were promised reinstatement by the district administration. However, the promise of reinstatement came after a protest by the nurses, a majority of them women. Earlier, on Wednesday, a group of nurses, who were attached to the various taluk hospitals that included the taluk hospitals in Denkanikottai, Uthangarai, Bargur, Pochampali, Hosur and Mathur arrived at the Collectorate alleging unfair termination by the administration in violation of the Health Minister’s assurance of extension of tenure up to December. The nurses were part of the contract recruitments made under the Collector’s order in May, during the COVID-19 second wave. Speaking to The Hindu , Sowmya (name changed), said, the nurses were told that their services were terminated on Tuesday, without any prior notice. Though the contract period was only for three months, the nurses had made a representation to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, and were assured that their services will be extended till December, she said. All the aggrieved nurses said that their services during COVID-19 had not been accounted for, and most of them, who are young mothers, had risked their lives being on the forefront unlike the permanent doctors and nurses. However, on Tuesday, the nurses were told that their services were terminated at the lapse of the 90-day contract of employment. The nurses were also paid stipend for one-and-a-half months. Earlier when contacted, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said no extension was possible since there was no requirement for them with the fall in COVID-19 cases. “However, they will be given priority if there are recruitments in the future.” Asked about the stipend arrears, the Collector said the funds were awaited and will be cleared within four days. However, an hour later, Dr. Reddy, citing talks with the government, reversed the termination notice and ordered for reinstatement through a fresh contract for another three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/services-of-contract-nurses-extended/article35989746.ece
19 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Screening camp held||A special screening camp to gauge disability of persons less than 18 years of age was organised here on Wednesday. The camp was part of petitions received under the Chief Minister in your constituency programme. Similar screening camps for Bargur, Pochampalli and Uthangarai blocks will be held on August 25; for Anchetty and Denkanikottai blocks on August 19; and Hosur and Shoolagiri blocks on September 8. 263 petitions have been received for assistance. Earlier, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy distributed assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/screening-camp-held/article35989765.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||POCSO cases on the rise during pandemic period||COVID-19 pandemic outbreak and the subsequent lockdowns have resulted in an increase in the number of child abuse cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Data obtained from the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) show a 36.5% increase in the number of POCSO cases registered in the first seven months of 2021 when compared with the cases recorded in the whole of last year. CWC member-cum-bench magistrate L. Shanmugam said the increase might be due to two reasons: firstly, children were spending a lot of time in their homes and were exposed to sexual abuse by friends, neighbours or relatives; and secondly, their increased usage of mobile phones leading to harassment through or using social media. “In the last six months, there have been several POCSO cases in which children aged under 18 were exposed to sexual abuse or harassment via the social media. Children, particularly girls, are targeted in such crimes,” said Mr. Shanmugam. Another member, B. Pandiaraja, said girls who felt alone started interacting with strangers without knowing their bad intentions, met them and got abused. At a time when crimes against children were increasing, it had also been difficult to keep children glued to online classes throughout the day. Child Rights activist C. Jim Jesudoss is of the opinion that the pandemic has exposed children to the adult world and its complexities. “The vulnerability of children to such crimes has definitely increased in this period. If both parents are employed, children are left alone to take care of themselves. Deeper studies can be done to see if the pandemic has resulted in more sexual abuse cases against children,” he added. Better awareness among the people and consequent reporting of more cases might be another reason for the increase in POCSO cases, he added. Apart from POCSO Act crimes, child victims of abandonment, trafficking, prostitution, child labour, child marriage and drug abuse are brought to the CWC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pocso-cases-on-the-rise-during-pandemic-period/article35989754.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Seventh phase of excavation at Keeladi site to wrap up soon||With six weeks left to wind up the seventh phase of excavations at Keeladi archaeological site, the place is abuzz with activity. There have been new finds almost every week this month. The new items unearthed include a big storage jar with unique features and a double-ringed well. “The site is an absolute treasure trove of history. Everybody has worked hard at the site and the Keeladi findings have established the existence of a civilisation older than the Sangam era,” said B. Chandramohan, Secretary (Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments). “Unearthing an ancient Tamil civilisation dating between the 6th century BCE and the 1st century CE is interesting and intriguing,” he added. The huge storage jar was found at a depth of 360 cm. Made of red slipped clay and grooved with a coir-like band, it has an in-turned two-cm-thick rim, not seen in the other storage jars that have been recovered till now, with outward rims and a coarse texture. The red slipped wares are of fine quality as the sun-dried pottery is dipped in purified liquid clay. The red slipped pottery is commonly used all over India but mostly as small earthen table wares. “Residue analysis has to be done to find the use of this jar in early civilisation,” said R. Sivanandam, Commissioner (FAC), Department of Archaeology. So far, half of the jar had been exposed at 30 cm. Its smooth texture and the banded rope designs were unusual for this size, said Ajay Kumar, the archaeology officer on site. The 45-cm-high ring well was covered with compact clay. Its second ring was found crumbled. Broken pieces of pottery were also found embedded in the soil inside the well. It indicated that groundwater might have dried up and the inhabitants used the ringwell for dumping items, he said. Only one quadrant remains to be excavated at Keeladi. In the other eight quadrants of 15x18 feet size and 4.5 metres depth, the archaeologists have reached the ground level of natural soil, with no further trace of antiquities. The seventh phase started on February 13. The excavation has so far yielded 1,100-odd artefacts that project Keeladi as a flourishing trading hub. The documentation of recovered items will begin after September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seventh-phase-of-excavation-at-keeladi-site-to-wrap-up-soon/article35989945.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI should be made more independent, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should be made more independent like the Election Commission of India and Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Taking into account the enormous faith and trust people had in the premier investigative agency, the Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi passed a series of directions and said the order was an attempt to release the ‘caged parrot’. The court directed the Centre to take a decision on enactment of a law to that effect at the earliest. Separate budgetary allocation should be made for the agency, the judges said. They further said the CBI Director should be given powers as those of the Secretary to the government and should report to the Prime Minister/Minister. The Centre should make it independent with functional autonomy without administrative control of the government. The Central Forensic Science Laboratory should have more modern facilities and should be augmented with the facilities available to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (US) and Scotland Yard (UK), the court said. The judges observed that the CBI should file a well thought-out policy within a period of six weeks for permanently recruiting Cyber Forensic experts and Financial Audit experts, so that all its branches/wings would have the experts available with them. The Department of Personnel and Training should clear all pending proposals pertaining to the CBI infrastructure development within six weeks. Taking note of the submission made by the CBI that it had to work within the constraints of manpower shortage, the court directed the CBI Director to send a detailed proposal seeking an increase in the divisions/wings as well as strength of officers to the Centre within six weeks and the Centre to pass orders within three months. The Centre was directed to take a decision on the comprehensive proposal for cadre review and restructuring of the CBI within one month. It should take steps to enhance the infrastructural facilities available with the CFSL and establish at least one CFSL in each zone within one year, the court said. The court was hearing a petition filed by Ramanathapuram District Pathikkapattor Sangam seeking a CBI probe into a chit fund scam. The court, however, declined to refer the case to the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-should-be-made-more-independent-hc/article35989748.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure multi-level narcotic checks in prisons: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to ensure multi-level checking to prevent narcotic substances getting inside prisons by providing modern facilities and using trained sniffer dogs. The court passed the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed in 2019 by Aseervatham of People’s Watch, Madurai. He sought a probe into the agitation staged by 25 remand prisoners at Madurai Central Prison on April 23, 2019. The Madurai District Legal Services Authority conducted a preliminary inquiry and submitted a report to the High Court stating that the agitation was staged due to inadequate supply of water for bathing, cleaning and toilet use. The report said the ill-treatment meted out to prisoners by authorities during searches for narcotic substances and mobile phones was another reason for the agitation. No prisoner sustained any serious injury in the agitation. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar passed a series of directions to prevent such incidents. The court took note of the fact that the situation was now under control. Apart from the multi-level checking, the court directed that the inmates could be checked/searched for possession of drugs by trained staff. The inmates could be called to a cell installed with CCTV camera and the search operation could be videographed. Water for drinking and other purposes should be provided adequately. Judicial officers, who visited prisons, should record the adequacy of water supply and management. There should be no human rights violation, the judges said. The judges observed that the judicial officers should conduct random enquiry on every visit to the prison to make a remark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-multi-level-narcotic-checks-in-prisons-hc/article35989942.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers want fuel prices slashed||The District Auto Drivers Union, affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), staged a protest in front of the RTO office on Bypass Road, urging the government to bring down prices of petrol, diesel and auto LPG cylinders. Union president R. Deivaraj said fuel prices skyrocketed like never before and it affected the livelihood of about 25,000 autorickshaw drivers in the city. “Petrol price has been reduced by a mere Rs. 3. It has to be reduced further, along with the prices of diesel and auto LPG. An increase in auto LPG price by six rupees in a single day is just unacceptable,” he said. They requested the government to provide monetary relief for auto drivers who had lost their lives due to COVID-19 attack. They also demanded that the fine amount levied for non-possession of Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates should be reduced to Rs. 500. Union secretary N. Kanagavel said it was unfair to expect auto drivers to obtain a calibration certificate for fare meters from private technicians, before the fitness certificates were issued. The dealers from whom they buy autos must provide fare meters that were qualified for use as per government norms, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-want-fuel-prices-slashed/article35989937.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Interim advance bail to passport official||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday granted an interim anticipatory bail to Senior Superintendent of Regional Passport Office, Madurai, V. Veeraputhiran. The CBI has registered a case against him on a charge of issuing Indian passports to Sri Lankan nationals after allegedly taking bribes from travel agents. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted an interim anticipatory bail to the petitioner for two weeks and directed him to cooperate with the authorities in the inquiry. The court said the allegation was serious in nature. The case was posted to September 2. In his plea, Veeraputhiran said he was innocent and he did not demand any bribe from anyone. He said he was deputed to the Passport Office in Tirunelveli in 2019. It was alleged that he issued passports to ineligible applicants in consideration for a bribe of Rs. 45,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-advance-bail-to-passport-official/article35989941.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC spares advocate of costs, dismisses plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday spared an advocate, who had filed a petition alleging that authorities were imposing fines for traffic violations using improper methods, of costs after taking into account the fact that he has been into practice only for two years. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar took into account the fact that the petitioner, K. Chinraj of Thoothukudi district, was fined by authorities for riding his two-wheeler without wearing a helmet during the COVID-19 lockdown. The court was also informed that he had challenged the imposition of fine before the court. However, the petitioner failed to disclose the information in his affidavit filed before the court. He instead sought a direction to the State to stop the alleged wrong and improper method of imposing fines for traffic violations under the Motor Vehicles Act. The court dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-spares-advocate/article35989751.ece
19 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give legal recognition to child protection panels’||Member of the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights V. Ramaraj has appealed to the State government to legalise the formation of rural-level child protection committees for their effective functioning. Presiding over a training programme for Village Administrative Officers on the formation of rural-level panels here on Wednesday, Mr. Ramaraj said, “Though the committees are existent at different levels, they are not very functional. We are now planning to form and strengthen child protection committees at village, block, district, town panchayat, municipal and zonal levels.” The training programme was a follow-up to a consultative meeting conducted with officials last month after the child trafficking incident involving Idhayam Trust of Madurai came to light. The two-day training programme to be held in Melur, Usilampatti and Tirumangalam, apart from Madurai, aims at educating the rural officials about children’s rights and protection. This was the first phase of the training. The second phase would focus on urban local body officials and the third phase would be for schoolteachers and students. Overall, the programme was planned to train 10,000 individuals in the district. The rural officials were requested to form the committees in the next 10 days. At the village and block levels, a 14-member committee, having representation of students and other officials, would be formed. Though similar training had been initiated in Dindigul and Krishnagiri districts, Madurai would be the model district if the initiative succeeded here, Mr. Ramaraj added. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, who inaugurated the programme, said the rural officials were the people who knew what was happening in the field and they played a significant role in bringing down crimes against children, which were on the rise. He said such committees were being formed as a preventive measure and asked the officials to be more vigilant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-legal-recognition-to-child-protection-committees/article35989940.ece
19 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Deadline for IGNOU applications extended||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) Regional Centre, Madurai has extended the last date for submission of online admission applications for the July 2021 session. The extended date of application for its certificate, diploma, PG diploma, degree and PG degree programmes offered through distance learning mode is August 31, 2021., according to a statement. To apply online, interested applicants may visit the website:www.ignou.ac.in. SC/ST students who are unemployed can claim fee exemptions in many programmes and for further information about it, they may visit the above mentioned website, it said. For details, contact IGNOU Regional Centre, Madurai atrcmadurai@ignou.ac.inor 0452-2380775, 0452-2380733.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deadline-for-ignou-applications-extended/article35990087.ece
19 August 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman given two doses of vaccine same day||A 70-year-old woman is under observation at Nagapattinam Government Hospital after she was administered two doses of COVID-19 vaccines on a single day. According to senior health officials, the woman, identified as Alamelu of Vanduvancheri went to a vaccination camp organised by the Health Department on Monday. She queued up for the first dose of the vaccine and was administered Covishield. Later, she joined another queue and got a shot of Covaxin. A Village Health Nurse, who was manning the waiting room, alerted officials. Upon further investigation, it was found that the woman had tokens for both vaccines. Two tokens issued “The Health Department distributes tokens for the vaccination camps door-to-door. In this case, the woman held two tokens, one each for Covishield and Covaxin,” a senior health official said. Rushed to hospital The woman was rushed to Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital where she was under observation. “Various tests, including an electrocardiogram, Computed tomography scan were conducted and the results have all shown that she is alright. The patient’s blood pressure was slightly high and medication has been given,” the official said. The Department took action against the doctor on duty and the staff nurse in charge of the vaccination camp for negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-given-two-doses-of-vaccine-same-day/article35989741.ece
19 August 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman given two vaccine doses on the same day||A 70-year-old woman is under observation at the Nagapattinam Government Hospital after she was administered two doses of COVID-19 vaccines on a single day. Alamelu had gone to the vaccination camp organised by the Health Department on Monday. She queued up for the first dose and was given Covishield. Later, she joined another queue and got a shot of Covaxin. It was found that the woman had tokens for both vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-given-two-vaccine-doses-on-the-same-day/article35989622.ece
19 August 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects development works||Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind on Wednesday inspected development works being executed in a few village panchayats under Thiruvattar panchayat union and asked the officials to complete the work before the deadline. As the channel bringing water to Thattanathukulam in Kattathurai village panchayat and the outlet channels are being desilted and renovated at a cost of Rs. 21.40 lakh, Mr. Aravind inspected the work and checked the quality of the work. In Mulavilai, he inspected the construction of multi-purpose building at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh under the MLA Constituency Development Fund. At Etracode village panchayat, he inspected the construction of a panchayat office being built on an outlay of Rs. 19.72 lakh under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme. The Collector also reviewed the domestic drinking water connections being given to houses in Etracode village panchayat under the Jal Jeevan Mission on an outlay of Rs. 12.45 lakh. After inspecting the concrete road laid in Aruvikkarai village panchayat under the MLA Constituency Development Fund at a cost of Rs. 6 lakh, Mr. Aravind visited the vermicomposting yard near Maathur Thottipalam and a house built at Kadukkanur village under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna. Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, S. Dhanapathi accompanied the Collector during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-development-works/article35990083.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Proceed with IPS officer case ‘purely on its own merits’, Supreme Court tells trial court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a trial court to proceed with a case of sexual harassment against suspended IPS officer Rajesh Das “purely on its own merits”, without being influenced by any of a series of orders passed by the Madras High Court. Mr. Das had raised apprehensions before the Supreme Court that the High Court orders would prejudice his chances of a fair trial. “The matter shall be considered by the court concerned purely on its own merits without being influenced in any manner by any of the orders passed by the High Court,” a Bench, led by Justice U.U. Lalit, said. The Bench expunged portions of an August 2 order of the High Court, which directed the magistrate to frame charges, conduct trial on a day-to-day basis, complete the proceedings on or before December 20, 2021 and submit a compliance report. “It is made clear that charges may be framed by the court concerned in accordance with the law, and not purely as a result of the directions issued by the High Court,” the Supreme Court said. In the light of the Supreme Court order, Mr. Das, who was a Special DGP in Tamil Nadu, agreed to withdraw his petition seeking the transfer of his case to a special magistrate’s court at Nellore in Andhra Pradesh or any other competent court outside Tamil Nadu. He was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and advocates Balaji Srinivasan, S. Elambharthi and Abdul Saleem. The Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, Additional Advocate General V. Krishnamurthy and advocate Joseph Aristotle, argued that the attempt on the part of the High Court was only to monitor the investigation and not to guide the investigation in a particular manner. Mr. Das is accused of sexually harassing a Superintendent of Police in February. The incident allegedly happened when he and the woman officer were part of the security detail for then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during his election campaign. The High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the case on March 1 to ensure a fair probe. However, Mr. Das submitted in the Supreme Court that the High Court's intervention was biased and a source of prejudice, which destroyed the presumption that a person was innocent until proven guilty.  Mr. Das is accused of sexually harassing a SP in February. The incident allegedly happened when he and the woman officer were part of the security detail for then Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proceed-with-case-purely-on-its-own-merits-sc-tells-trial-court/article35989630.ece
19 August 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition inaugurated||Women Self-Help Groups (SHGs), trainees from the Rural Self-Employment Training Institute and other artisans have set up a special exhibition at MRF Factory in Naranamangalam here. The four-day exhibition is being conducted ahead of Onam. Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya inaugurated the exhibition on Wednesday and appreciated the work of the participants. She said such an event would enable them to earn profits ahead of the festival season. “Setting up such exhibitions at workplaces would help increase the sales of their products and the employees of the organisations would purchase the products. Time taken for them to go to a shop and purchase products would reduce and therefore, benefit them too. The artisans would also get an opportunity to showcase their products to a large audience,” the Collector said. The exhibition will be open till August 21. Project Director of Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihoods Mission (Mahalir Thittam) M. Rajamohan and officials of MRF were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handicrafts-exhibition-inaugurated/article35989721.ece
19 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Medicity planned in Karaikal||A Singapore-based firm has evinced interest in setting up a medicity at T.R. Pattinam in Karaikal. Founder-chairman of Velli Ventures Inc. USA, S.J.K. Sharmila, on Tuesday met Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Home Minister A. Namassivayam, who also holds the Industries portfolio, and held discussions on the way forward to establish a medicity. Secretary (Industries) E. Vallavan told The Hindu that the team made the visit on the invitation of the Minister to explore the possibility of making investments in the Union Territory. The firm had already purchased 25 acres of land in T.R. Pattinam for establishing the facility, he said, adding that the Chief Minister had assured them of processing the applications fast. The idea was to establish a multi-specialty hospital and training centres in the medical field, the Secretary said. An investors’ meet will be jointly held by the Industries Department, Confederation of Indian Industry and Velli Ventures Inc. on September 16 in Puducherry. The meet would focus on attracting investments in sectors such as Information Technology, automobile industries, pharmaceuticals and organic farming, he added. Preliminary clearance “The meet will be purely outcome based, where the government will be putting in place a system to provide preliminary clearance for establishing firms in Union Territory. The firm has promised to get investors for Puducherry,” the Secretary said. The Minister had also directed the department to revisit the industrial policy to make it more attractive for investors, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medicity-planned-at-tr-pattinam-in-karaikal/article35990037.ece
19 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Manapet school teacher gets national award||Jayasundhar. V, a teacher in the Government Middle School in Manapet, is among the recipients of the National Awards to Teachers, 2021. The list of 44 awardees was released by the Ministry of Education on Wednesday. According to the Ministry, the national awards have been instituted to celebrate the contributions of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour teachers whose dedicated service has not only improved quality of school education but also enriched lives of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manapet-govt-middle-school-teacher-gets-national-award/article35990027.ece
19 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 150 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded 150 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day numbers since the 155 cases reported on July 8, as the Test Positivity Rate climbed to 2.78% on Wednesday. No death With no death reported in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll remained at 1,805 — Puducherry (1,429), Karaikal (231), Yanam (105) and Mahe (40). Puducherry accounted for 83 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,424 tests, followed by Karaikal (32) and Mahe (36). No new cases were reported in Yanam. The case fatality rate was 1.47% and recovery rate 97.77 per cent. With 74 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 933. Of this, 169 patients were in hospitals and 764 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,22,542 cases against 1,19,804 patients recovered. Of an estimated 15.90 lakh tests administered so far, over 13.49 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,767 persons took the jab against COVID-19 taking the vaccinated population in the Union Territory to 7,70,322.  3,767 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the Union Territory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-150-new-covid-19-cases/article35990031.ece
19 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||College sets an example in greening initiatives||Tagore Government Arts and Science College, alma mater of distinguished academicians and political personalities, is setting an example in campus greening initiatives. Located in an elevated part of the city in Lawspet, the TAC has converted about 13 acres of once barren land into lush green reserve. In fact, the bio-diverse surroundings that house over 3,000 varieties of flowering plants and fruit-bearing trees, has even reported peacock sightings in recent times. CM’s award Though the greening of the campus has been acknowledged by NGOs and featured in the U.S.-based Good News Network, the highest accolade yet for the efforts came during the Independence Day celebrations when Chief Minister N. Rangasamy presented the ‘Chief Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration’ to college principal Sasi Kanta Dash, who has championed the environmental cause. Until 2017 when Mr. Dash took over, the campus was largely barren but for a few trees. Since assuming charge as principal, he undertook sustained greening initiatives that in a short span of a few years turned a sparsely-wooded campus into a lush green mini-forest which has more than 3,000 varieties of plants, fruit-bearing trees, a variety of butterfly species and birds. The flora features hibiscus, bougainvillea and jasmine, peepal, neem, banyan, mango, fig, casuarinas and even cannonball trees. The campus has also grown into a natural habitat for birds including owls, sparrows, kingfishers, cuckoos and woodpeckers. A vegetable garden is also maintained on the campus with the produce ranging from brinjal and bottle gourd to tomatoes and snake gourd. The vegetables from the kitchen garden are used to feed the birds or donated to the needy. Apart from maintaining a regular supply to the college canteen, the produce is also made available for visitors. In fact, the garden supplies helped serve more than 600 families, 72 elderly people and five villages during pandemic. Taking the eco-friendly measures one step further, the college has created a water recharging pond with potential to save nearly 1.2 million litres of water inside the campus. Mr. Dash said his interest in environmentalism had begun to grow long before he came to the city, during his posting in various places such as Arunachal Pradesh and Hyderabad where he experienced how quickly green landscapes were turning brown. The turning point, though, was the posting at TAC where he was particularly struck by the contrast of the vastness of the land and its absolute lack of greenery, which “gave off negative vibes all around”. “Even though the campus abounds with flowers, not a single one is plucked by any student,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-in-lawspet-sets-an-example-in-greening-initiatives/article35990034.ece
19 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||12-B status for SBV||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has granted the 12-B status to Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth (SBV). The status was granted under the UGC Act, 1956, to the deemed to be university on the recommendation of the UGC inspection committee. S.C. Parija, SBV Vice-Chancellor, said the l2-B status was mandatory for receiving funds from the Centre and grants for research in fundamental and translational health sciences. A press note said the SBV had submitted a proposal seeking 12-B status, following which the UGC expert committee visited the deemed varsity for inspection. The report of the committee, along with the compliance, submitted by the university was placed before the UGC. The UGC reviewed the report and recommended the grant of 12-B status to the university, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-b-status-for-sbv/article35990035.ece
19 August 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||All acquitted in murder case||Additional District Judge, Pudukkottai, on Wednesday acquitted all eight persons named as accused in the murder of Naam Tamilar Katchi State organiser Subha Muthukumar in 2011. Muthukumar was murdered in Pudukottai Town. The case was initially investigated by Pudukottai Town Police and subsequently transferred to e CB- CID. A total of 64 prosecution witnesses were examined during the trial, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-acquitted-in-murder-case/article35989722.ece
19 August 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident in Parthibanur||Two passengers of a car were killed and a woman sustained injuries, when a speeding TNSTC bus hit the car at Parthibanur by-pass road in the district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as S. Raja Mohammed (52) and his father-in-law, K. Mohammed Arif (80) of Ilayangudi in Sivaganga district. Raja Mohammed’s wife, Sabeeran Jameel (45) has been admitted to the Government hospital in Paramakudi. “The family was returning to Ilayangudi after visiting Kamudhi. When the car was cutting through the junction, a bus proceeding to Tiruppur from Rameswaram hit the car,” said Inspector of Police (Parthibanur), N. Sudha. The police have already placed two pairs of barricades as a precautionary measure on this tri-junction to force vehicles on the highway to slow-down. The police have picked up bus driver V. Dharmaraj (50) of Thangachimadam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-road-accident-in-parthibanur/article35989756.ece
19 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||India first country to vaccinate 55 crore people: L. Murugan||Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan said India was the first country to vaccinate 55 crore people and credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi with efforts to vaccinate people free of cost. As part of his Makkal Aasi Yatra, Mr. Murugan visited Salem and Namakkal districts on Wednesday. He started the day by offering prayers at his ancestral temple at Pudupalayam in Paramathi Union in Namakkal. Later, he visited his parents at Konur village and interacted with his friends at the government school where he studied. Addressing the public near Namakkal bus stand, he said the BJP-led Central government had made people realise their dream of constructing houses by providing a subsidy of Rs. 2 lakh to each family, starting 2014. At Mallur in Salem, he said the Central government had sanctioned 11 medical colleges and an All India Institute of Medical Sciences for the State in a year. He later addressed a gathering at Bose Maidan in Salem city and concluded his three-day Yatra. Addresssing presspersons, Mr. Murugan accused the DMK of making a false promise that it would provide a monthly cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 to housewives after coming to power. “But, so far it has not fulfilled its promise,” he said. The State Budget also skipped the DMK’s election promise of waiver of education and crop loans. The Minister said his three-day yatra, which began in Coimbatore on August 16, covered 326 km in six Lok Sabha constituencies during which he met the direct beneficiaries of the Central government schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-first-country-to-vaccinate-55-crore-people-l-murugan/article35989643.ece
19 August 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Uthamapalayam GH offers chemotherapy||Giving hope to cancer patients, Government hospital (GH) in Uthamapalayam in the district has started chemotherapy treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. With this, GH Uthamapalayam is the only Government hospital offering treatment for cancer patients in the entire district, as it is not available even in Theni Government Medical College Hospital. “We recently got permission to offer chemotherapy treatment under the health insurance scheme and the first patient has got the treatment at our hospital,” said Chief Civil Surgeon Dr. Bharathi. Stating that earlier people from Theni district would have to travel all the way to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, the nearest GH to get treatment for cancer, Dr. Bharathi said that most of the patients give up treatment due to their financial condition. “While treatment per se is costly, the cost and difficulties involved in frequent travel for long distance discourages them to continue with the treatment,” she said. The 50-year-old male patient, who had already undergone surgery in a private hospital in Madurai could not continue the treatment as he could not further afford the cost. “We are giving him chemotherapy. Most important aspect of the treatment here, is we give them hope of life as many think that they are at the fag end of their life as they have no access and cannot afford the treatment,” Dr. Bharathi said. She added that radiation oncology was not possible due to lack of infrastructure but said that those who need radiation or surgery could be referred to the GRH. Besides, such patients can come to GH Uthamapalayam for follow-up treatment and need not travel to Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uthamapalayam-gh-offers-chemotherapy/article35989757.ece
19 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Police quarters await inauguration since April||Police quarters, which has been constructed with 35 units in Bryant Nagar here, is yet to be inaugurated even as good number of policemen and officers are waiting indefinitely after registering their applications online. The Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation constructed a residential apartment on the 10th Street of Bryant Nagar here with 35 units – three for Inspectors, nine for Sub-Inspectors and 23 for Head-Constables. Though the construction was completed and the building handed over to the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation in last April itself, the facility is yet to be opened. “Since the building has remained closed since April, drunkards use this premises for consuming liquor in the night. Hence, it should be put into use at the earliest,” say residents living nearby. Sources in the police said though the apartment was ready for inauguration in April itself, the election model code of conduct in force then prevented the officials from inaugurating it. “After the new government assumed office, we’ve informed our higher-ups in Chennai about the police quarters waiting for inauguration. Once the Chief Minister gives appointment for the formal inauguration through videoconference, the houses will be allotted to the applicants,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-quarters-await-inauguration-since-april/article35990085.ece
19 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Village panchayat president murdered||The president of Agaram village panchayat near Eral was murdered by an armed gang on Wednesday due to suspected prior enmity. Police have arrested four persons in this connection. Police said I. Ponseelan, 45, of Agaram, who is the president of Agaram village panchayat, had gone to the house of panchayat vice-president Thavasikani in Agaram for the banquet hosted by the latter on Wednesday in connection with the temple festival. When Ponseelan was enjoying the feast, an armed gang entered the house of Thavasikani and hacked him to death on the spot. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Srivaikundam, Venkatesan rushed to the spot and sent the body to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. During investigation, police found that Ponseelan had been cited as an accused in the murder of one Lenin of Agaram in 2017. The enmity between Ponseelan and the family of Lenin worsened when he defeated Lenin’s wife in the village panchayat election. The enmity intensified further when Ponseelan defeated Lenin’s relative Sebastian in the Thoothukudi – Nazareth CSI Diocesan election held last Monday and this apparently led to his murder. After the Eral police registered a case in connection with the murder of Ponseelan, a father of four children, special teams were formed to nab the culprits involved in the murder and the neighbouring district police were also alerted. When a vehicle check was conducted near Seevalaperi in Tirunelveli district, the police picked-up four persons travelling in a car with bloodstains. They were identified as J. Jebasingh Samuel, 30, P. Sebastian, 25, V. Marimuthu, 26, R. Benit, 23, all hailing from Agaram. The special teams are on the lookout for P. Jegan, S. Ruben and J. Arulraj, also from Agaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-panchayat-president-murdered/article35989758.ece
19 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal Park coming up in Thoothukudi||With a view to explaining the lifestyle of tribal people living in the forests, a Tribal Park is being created here on an outlay of Rs. 73.32 lakh under the Smart Cities Mission programme. It forms part of the Science Park coming up near VOC College on the Thoothukudi – Palayamkottai highway at a total cost of Rs. 6.28 crore. The Science Park will also have a Traffic Park; planetarium; and Lands of Tamil Nadu, as described in Tamil literature as ‘kurinji,’ ‘mullai,’ ‘marudham,’ ‘neithal’ and ‘paalai.’ “Since the public, especially the students, should know and follow road safety rules and how automatic traffic signals work, we’ve planned to create the Traffic Park. The children will also be curious to understand the lifestyle of tribal people living deep inside the forests. So we’re creating the Tribal Park,” said a Corporation official. The Thoothukudi Corporation has selected Poompuhar Corporation for establishing the Tribal Park as it has the expertise in recreating the tribal people’s lifestyle. The Tribal Park will throw light on the lifestyle of 12 tribal communities living across the country. “Since the people living in other parts of the country do not have any chance of interacting with the tribals to understand their living conditions, their livelihood, culture, food etc., we’re creating it here. We’ve planned to complete this work before October-end,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-park-coming-up-in-thoothukudi/article35989749.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Neglect of parks rankles residents||Public parks lying in disuse in different parts of the city have raised concern among residents. Until 2017, the city had only a few parks. Ibrahim Park on West Boulevard Road, Gandhi Park in Srirangam and Parangiri Velupillai Park in Cantonment were among those that attracted elders and children in particular. Most of them were established before the merger of Srirangam and Golden Rock municipalities with Tiruchi municipality in 1994 for creation of Tiruchi Corporation. The civic body shifted its focus to establishing public parks and open gyms in 2017. Besides utilising its own fund, it sourced funds from Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUIT) and Smart City Mission for creating public parks. The availability of many of its own lands and those recorded as playgrounds by layout promoters made the task easier for officials to set up public parks. The Corporation, which foresaw all sites vulnerable to encroachments, paid attention to converting them into public parks and roadside gyms. At a point in time, at least two parks were thrown open to the public once a month. According to sources, there are about 125 parks in all four zones of the city. Right from playing equipment for children, the parks had many facilities for people of all walks of life. Some of them had open air amphitheaters to screen entertainment shows and promotional and recreational short movies to engage the visiting public. The illuminated and decorated parks, indeed, received a good response from the public in the initial stages. Almost all of them were regularly opened to the public in the morning and evening There were arrangements in place to maintain the parks. But, the parks had to be closed for about five months in 2020 due to imposition of lockdown in March and more than two months in 2021 after a surge in COVID-19 cases in May. Though the restrictions were lifted partially, it is alleged that except for parks in main thoroughfares, several of those in interior places are not being regularly opened to the public. In the absence of caretakers, it is said there has been wild growth of bushes. “It is disheartening to know the underutilisation of parks for several months. The benefits of parks must be passed on fully to the public. They should not be kept without a proper maintenance mechanism for long. Ways and means should be found out to carry out periodic maintenance,” says M.A. Aleem, member, Tiruchi Welfare Committee. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, who assumed office recently, told The Hindu that he would study the issue in detail. All parks would be brought to use and a system put in place to carry out periodic maintenance..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neglect-of-parks-rankles-residents/article35989727.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pirattiyur school headmistress bags national award||K. Asha Devi, headmistress at Panchayat Union Middle School, Pirattiyur, in the city has bagged the National Award for Teachers given by the Union Ministry of Education. Ms.Asha Devi, who began her career as a teacher in 1988, was appointed as headmistress of a primary school in 2003 and, subsequently, promoted to a middle school in 2009. She was deputed to the Panchayat Union Middle School (PUMS), Pirattiyur, in 2010 when the school had only 71 students. In 2013, she won the State Award for Best Teachers. “Prattiyur is a semi-urban locality where most students are from low-income families. Ms. Devi knows each student by name, their family history and provides a personal touch to her teaching,” K. Marudhanayagam, Manikandam Block Education Officer, toldThe Hindu. From a school with a student strength of 71 and a staff strength of five, Ms. Devi has transformed it into a model school with over 800 students and eight teachers. In the last two years alone, 526 students have enrolled in the school. In 2020, school teachers of PUMS pooled funds to paint the walls of their school with colourful objects, portraits of inspirational people and proverbs to attract the attention of students. With the lockdown as a precautionary measure against COVID-19 interrupting children's learning patterns, Ms. Devi devised innovative ways to help them learn. She manages 15 WhatsApp groups and also conducts home visits for students who are unable to access online classes. “We conduct special online classes on Sunday too, for students whose household has only one smartphone — with their parents,” Ms. Devi said. Ecstatic on learning about the award, she says she would like to use the recognition to further improve the infrastructure and quality of education at her school. “An additional 16 teachers will soon be appointed. We are also working to set up a high school within the campus. Students who finish class 8 wish to learn more. However, they must travel elsewhere. For their benefit, we have requested the District Education Officer and the District Collector,” she said. The award will be presented to Ms. Devi on the occasion of Teachers Day on September 5.  I would like to use the recognition to further improve the infrastructure and quality of education at our school K. Asha Devi Headmistress Panchayat Union Middle School, Pirattiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pirattiyur-school-headmistress-bags-national-award/article35989724.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tension in special camp for Sri Lankan refugees||Tension gripped the special camp situated in Tiruchi Central Prison complex on Wednesday as 16 Sri Lankan Tamils attempted to end their lives demanding their immediate release. According to sources, two Sri Lankan Tamils, Mukundan and Niruban, who were lodged in the special camp, were on indefinite relay fast since August 11, demanding their release. Their health reportedly deteriorated on Wednesday. On information, the authorities held negotiations to persuade them to give up the protest. They urged the protesters to get themselves admitted in hospital for treatment. When the negotiation was on, a group of about 30 Sri Lankans, who emerged at the spot, threatened to commit suicide for failure to listen to their grievances. Among them, Uma Ramanan, 39, and Amalraj, 31, allegedly slit their necks with sharp objects in front of the officials. Fourteen others allegedly swallowed pills. At least 10 other inmates climbed onto to the trees. Efforts by the officials to pacify the protesters went in vain. As chaos prevailed, Collector S. Sivarasu and senior police personnel rushed to the spot. Police reinforcements were also mobilised. Mr. Sivarasu told the protesters that their demand had already been discussed at various levels. The State government was keen on ensuring the welfare of the Sri Lankan Tamils. Sincere efforts were being taken to expedite the cases. After a long discussion, the protesters gave up the agitation. They were subsequently taken to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital for treatment. However, Mukundan and Niruban refused to give up the fast. Mr. Sivarasu toldThe Hinduthat out of 93 inmates belonging to Sri Lanka, 43 were held for Passports Act violation. The remaining faced criminal charges. Out of 43 persons facing passport violation cases, 22 had been categorised as refugees. Action had already been taken for their early release. Trials were on at various courts against those facing criminal cases. There was some delay in trials due to the pandemic. Steps would be taken to expedite the cases at all levels, he added. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)cide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-in-special-camp-for-sri-lankan-refugees/article35989624.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Emergency care unit to come up at Thuraiyur GH||An Integrated Emergency Care Unit under the Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative (TAEI) is under construction at Thuraiyur Government Hospital. The unit by extending emergency care is expected to help reduce fatalities caused especially by road accidents. Colour code According to senior officials of the Health Department, patients will be rushed into a zero-delay triage ward where their condition will be assessed following which they will be directed to colour-coded wards. Those given green colour codes are treated as outpatients and sent home after investigation. Patients coming under yellow are admitted and treated as inpatients. People brought with severe trauma requiring care at intensive medical care unit are accorded red colour code. A four-storeyed building is under construction and is expected to be completed within a year. "The building will have a capacity of 50 beds and will have the facility to conduct computed tomography (CT) scans, X-Ray and other important screening methods to diagnose patients. Doctors from departments of orthopaedic surgery, neurology, general surgery will be available to monitor the patients,” the officials said. The block will benefit the people of Thuraiyur and other nearby blocks, as accident and emergency trauma care victims are usually rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. “This will save time and will provide the patients with immediate care according to TAEI standards,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emergency-care-unit-to-come-up-at-thuraiyur-gh/article35989733.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 337 fresh positive cases, six more fatalities||The central region reported 337 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Six more deaths due to the infection were also reported in the region. Three patients succumbed to the illness in Nagapattinam, two in Tiruchi and one in Tiruvarur. On Wednesday, 109 fresh cases were reported in Thanjavur and 59 in Tiruchi. Tiruvarur reported 39 fresh cases and Nagapattinam, 36. In Pudukottai district, 32 patients reported COVID-19 positive and in Mayiladuthurai, 23. Meanwhile, 18 fresh cases were reported in Karur and 15 in Ariyalur districts. Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases in the central region with six cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-337-fresh-positive-cases-six-more-fatalities/article35989735.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Heritage activists for resumption of Manambadi temple renovation||Heritage enthusiasts are pushing for early resumption of renovation of the over 1,000-year-old Naganathaswamy Temple at Manambadi village, which was halted in 2016. The temple, built by Chola Emperor Rajendra I, is situated about 15 km from Kumbakonam. In 2013, local residents and activists successfully thwarted the demolition of the temple for road expansion under the Thanjavur-Vikkiravandi four-lane project. Later, the shrine was declared a State monument, points out Thiruvadikudil Swamigal, founder, Jothimalai Iraipani Thirukoottam, a forum of devotees. Subsequently, the State government accorded administrative sanction for renovation of the temple at a cost of about Rs. 32 lakh and the HR & CE Department took up the work. “Balalalayam was performed in 2014 and the deities were shifted to a temporary shed and renovation commenced. But the contractor did not have the required expertise and the shrine was virtually demolished. The dismantled stones were not properly numbered. They lie scattered and strewn around,” the Swamigal says. “A UNESCO team which inspected the temple expressed its dissatisfaction over the work. Later, the work was halted after the Madras High Court banned renovation of temples in the State in 2016. The HC has since ordered that temple renovations be carried out with the guidance of an expert committee and. hence. the government should take immediate steps to resume the renovation,” he said. The temple has ancient stone inscriptions including an unique one on Tamil Koothu, he adds. In a recent reply to a query from Thiruvadikudil Swamigal, the HR&CE Department in Kumbakonam said that it had written to the Commissioner suggesting that the renovation be taken up through the Department of Archaeology as recommended in the UNESCO report. “We recently put up posters in the town seeking proper renovation of the temple and even planned a demonstration but had to put it on hold due to the pandemic. We hope the Department of Archaeology, which has got a substantial allotment in the Sate budget of the new government, takes up the renovation at the earliest to preserve this ancient temple,” the Swamigal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heritage-activists-for-resumption-of-manambadi-temple-renovation/article35989739.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps to be held in Tiruchi city today||COVID-19 vaccines will be administered at the following camps in the city on Thursday: Covishield Three hundred doses of Covishield vaccines will be administered at each of the camps to be held Anganwadi centre, Poosari Street; Little Flower School, Crawford; Renganathan Park, Mela Kasipalayam; and Maduram Higher Secondary School, East Boulevard Road. Covaxin Three hundred doses of Covaxin will be administered at the camp to be held at Syed Murtuza Higher Secondary School, Marakkadai. The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m., a Corporation press release said here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-to-be-held-in-tiruchi-city-today/article35989740.ece
19 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||12,573 petitions received under ‘CM in your constituency’||The district administration has disposed of 3,787 of the 12,573 petitions received under ‘Chief Minister in Your Constituency’ programme in the 100 days after Chief Minister M. K. Stalin assumed office on May 7. As many as 1,058 persons, who had sought monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000 under various categories, have received orders while 738 others have got free house sites. According to Collector V. Vishnu, the petitions received from the public seeking drinking water, road, street lights, etc., were handed over to the Department of Rural Development for action following verification through field visits and these demands had been fulfilled on an outlay of Rs. 17 crore for the benefit of nearly 40,000 families. Eighteen rural entrepreneurs had received Rs. 58.88 lakh assistance through the District Industries Centre for starting business ventures that include agro-based and service sector industries. Sewing machines had been given to 180 women beneficiaries as part of the livelihood programme and 90 persons, all from below poverty line families, had been given houses through Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, the Collector said. The most interesting feature is disbursal of free housing plots to beneficiaries who received plots measuring about 3 cents. Instead of giving unmarked plots to beneficiaries in a land situated in an inaccessible area, the district administration had taken efforts to clean the land earmarked for the purpose and have sliced it into plots. Now, the State government has asked all Collectors to follow this method of giving free house sites so that the beneficiaries could start construction of houses immediately. The Collector said 225 persons who were undergoing treatment at private hospitals for COVID-19 had received insurance benefit of Rs. 3.30 crore under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. While more than 4.25 lakh persons had been vaccinated, 854 oxygen-supported beds had been created at government hospitals in the past 100 days apart from oxygen-supported beds at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The COVID-19 relief of Rs. 185.23 crore had been given to 4,63,070 cardholders and over 28 lakh women had travelled in town buses after the State government had introduced free travel for them. When ‘Vanakkam Nellai’ grievance redressal system was introduced in the district with WhatsApp number 97865 66111 for submitting petitions, 1,458 petitions were received from the public and action had been taken on 792 petitions, the Collector said. Tirunelveli had become the first district in the State to introduce GIS-based mapping of waterbodies under the control of Public Works Department, rural development and local bodies. After mapping 1,200 waterbodies, steps have been taken to desilt and maintain them, Mr. Vishnu added.  Numbers talk 1,058 persons get monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000 Free house sites for 738 18 rural entrepreneurs receive Rs. 58.88 lakh Sewing machines to 180 women beneficiaries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12573-petitions-received-under-cm-in-your-constituency/article35989759.ece
19 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Raids on ration shops; Rs. 53,225 fine collected||Surprise raids conducted by officials in various ration shops across the district on Tuesday unearthed discrepancies and the erring personnel were fined. According to District Collector V. Vishnu, surprise check was conducted in ration shops across the district on Tuesday by 106 officials including Sub-Collector, 12 Deputy Collectors, Tahsildars, Deputy Tahsildars, Revenue Inspectors, Sub-Registrars of Cooperative Societies and the officials drawn from Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. As discrepancies were found in various ration shops, Rs. 53,225 were slapped as fine on the erring personnel. “Similar checks will be conducted periodically to weed out the problems in the public distribution system and ensure hassle-free sale of essential commodities to the consumers,” said Mr. Vishnu. The Collector also said addition or deletion of names in ration cards can be done by visiting the websitewww.tnpds.gov.ineither directly by the applicant or with the help of personnel manning e-seva centres. Applications for new ration cards can be submitted directly to the Taluk Supplies Officer concerned or the Special Tahsildar (Civil Supplies) and was no need for approaching the brokers. Any complaints pertaining to ration cards or public distribution system can be registered through 93424 71314, said Mr. Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raids-in-ration-shops-rs-53225-fine-collected/article35989760.ece
19 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 97.75 feet (maximum level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 511.69 cusecs and a discharge of 1,304.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 67.45 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 4 cusecs and a discharge of 150 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35990086.ece
19 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur City Police launch ‘E-Beat App’ system||Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday introduced ‘E-Beat App’, a mobile application aimed at digitalising and improving beat patrolling. The app offers a QR code-based scanning facility which replaces the old system of police personnel making entry in ‘patta’ books kept at the beats or areas they cover during patrols. Police Commissioner V. Vanitha launched the initiative in the presence Deputy Commissioners S. Aravind (law and order) and P. Ravi (crime and traffic). According to the Commissioner, there are 23 patrol beats in the jurisdictions of the eight law and order police stations in Tiruppur city. Each beat will have two police personnel on patrol in shifts round-the-clock. Earlier, the police personnel had to make entry in the ‘patta’ books while visiting the beats. Now, QR codes have been fixed at 629 important locations in the 23 beats. These locations include banks, ATMs, commercial complexes, places of worship, residences of important persons and residences of senior citizens, said Ms. Vanitha. As the application uses the GPS location of the mobile phone of the user, the location of the police personnel on patrol duty can be tracked easily. The live location of the devices enables the police control room to depute the police personnel who are nearest to a place of occurrence in case of an emergency. The E-Beat App also has provision to upload photos on incidents like law and order tension or accidents to alert the control room. According to Ms. Vanitha, the existing surveillance cameras in Tiruppur city have been integrated with the app. The government has issued an order for the installation of 1,200 surveillance cameras in the city, she said. For the use of the public, banners mentioning the numbers of the police personnel on patrols have been erected at all the patrol beats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-city-police-launch-e-beat-app-system/article35989651.ece
19 August 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Rivaldo walks over 20 km overnight, returns home in Sigur forest range||On the day he was released, Rivaldo, a wild elephant, walked over 28 km overnight to return to his home in the Sigur forest range in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). Local residents claimed that his return was a “failure” of the Forest Department’s efforts to rehabilitate him. However, recent images captured by the Department and conservationists show Rivaldo feeding and bonding with other elephants in the area. These bonds with other elephants could explain his insistence on returning to the Sigur range. Conservation biologist Priya Davidar, who has conducted genotyping studies on Rivaldo and 84 elephants in the Mudumalai, Singara and Sigur forest ranges said Rivaldo has eight close elephant relatives (siblings and half-siblings) and one offspring in the Sigur range. “Not only does he associate with his close relatives, but he has also formed bonds with non-related elephants, such as Benito and Messi , two other elephants in the region,” said Dr. Davidar, who added that around 10 adult elephants associate with Rivaldo regularly. N. Mohanraj is a Nilgiris-based conservationist and part of the team monitoring Rivaldo. He said that since Rivaldo’s release, the elephant was seen associating with a herd comprising three female elephants and a tusker, and more recently, with four males. “His rehabilitation is progressing really well with him feeding regularly,” confirmed Mr. Mohanraj. “His association with other wild elephants shows that he is not scared of them, and he has not returned to the Vazhaithottam village in search of food due to continuous monitoring by the Forest Department.” There may potentially be numerous reasons that drive translocated wild elephants back to their home ranges. Dr. Shermin de Silva, Director of the Uda Walawe Elephant Research Project in Sri Lanka, said, “Like humans, elephants are already familiar with their regular ranges and might prefer that familiarity over having to learn a new landscape.” She explained, “They have a network of companions and acquaintances. They may therefore be more comfortable among their old networks as re-establishing themselves is stressful and energetically costly. For bulls, who must range widely in search of reproductive females, it is possible that they have already wandered a large area and have a certain pattern corresponding to their own reproductive cycles, availability of females, seasonal variations, etc. ” “People tend to assume that non-human animals can simply make do wherever they are put by pure instinct.We do them a disservice by randomly dropping them somewhere far from everything they know,” added Dr. de Silva. According to Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary (Environment and Forests), Tamil Nadu, the Forest Department had taken into account the possibility that Rivaldo may try to make his way back to Sigur from Kargudi, where he was released. “Rewilding Rivaldo is going to be a long process, and it was planned meticulously for around 25 days. At the moment he is healthy, and feeds on forest produce and does not rely on the community. Added to this, he interacts with wild elephants. These are all extremely good signs that he is acclimatising to his new found freedom.” said Ms. Sahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rivaldo-walks-over-20-km-overnight-returns-home-in-sigur-forest-range/article35989637.ece
19 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Preserving rare Nilgiris orchids, the Forest Dept. way||The Forest Department is helping to conserve rare species of orchids and ferns native to the Western Ghats, by collecting them from wind-fallen trees and “rehabilitating” them in the Gene Pool area in Gudalur. The Gene Pool area was established by the Department to conserve native biodiversity unique to the Gudalur forest division in the Nilgiris. Forest Department officials said that teams of staff from Nadugani and Pandalur ranges noticed that recent spells of rain had led to many varieties of orchids falling off the trees. “The orchids are epiphytic and rely on the native trees for their survival. Over the last few years, heavy rains had led to many trees that host the orchids becoming uprooted. The only way to protect these rare species was to bring them back to Gene Pool and assist in their survival,” said a Forest Department official from Gudalur forest division. Over 125 species of orchids have been recorded in the Nilgiris by the Department, of which 70 varieties have been collected and allowed to be established in the Gene Pool area. Orchids such as Bubophyllum neilgherrense as well as ferns such Asplenium indicum , Vittaria flexuosa and Dynaria quercifolia have been rehabilitated over the last few months, with over 100 plants being painstakingly introduced to host trees. Lccal expertise The rare, and in many cases endangered ferns and orchids, are rehabilitated onto native host trees using coir pith, charcoal and dried banana peels wrapped in cotton, with local expertise being utilized to ensure their survival. The Forest Department is also recording the number of plants and the location in which the species is being rehabilitated to keep tabs on the survival rates of the plants. Officials said that they hoped to collect specimens from all 125 recorded orchid species in the Nilgiris so that the the Gene Pool would become a repository for rare and endangered species of flora. District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, Kommu Omkaram, said that ferns and orchids are extremely sensitive to even slight variations in climate. “With climate change a clear and existential threat to these ancient species of plants, we felt that it was important to ensure that as many of these plants get a chance at survival. We hope that visitors to the Gene Pool in the future will also get to see these rare types of flora and understand the importance of conserving them,” said Mr. Omkaram when contacted by The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preserving-rare-nilgiris-orchids-the-forest-dept-way/article35989663.ece
19 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Baby feeding centre opened in Vellore Fort||A baby feeding centre inside the Vellore Fort was opened by Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian on Wednesday. Following the easing of the COVID-19 lockdown in the town, the flow of visitors has been rising, especially during weekends and holidays. The baby feeding centre is aimed at helping tourists, including long-distance travellers, provide nourishment to babies in a safe place. “The Vellore Fort is a big, free recreational facility not just for locals but also for tourists from faraway places like Bengaluru and Chennai. In that context, the new baby feeding centre will be of much help to visitors,” said M. Varadaraj Suresh, Archaeological Officer, ASI (Vellore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baby-feeding-centre-opened-in-vellore-fort/article35990090.ece
19 August 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district plans sustainable greenery projects||Virudhunagar district administration has embarked on an ambitious project named, “Green Dawn” aimed at sustainable greenery programme by convergence of resources from various departments. The innovative concept of Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, is to ensure success of existing mass tree plantation programmes, increase green cover, convert barren land into green spaces and make them sustainable by creating supporting infrastructure. “Often, mass tree plantation drives do not produce the desired result due to lack of care and infrastructure,” Mr. Meghanath said. To overcome this, the district administration has planned to create farm ponds and sink borewells to irrigate the saplings. The administration has initially identified five places in the district with five acres to 20 acres of barren land, which would be transformed into a green one. “We have planned massive tree plantation – including fruit-bearing, trees for timber, herbal plants, fodder crops along with setting up of vermicompost yard to make it sustainable,” he said. Workers and funds of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), general fund of the village panchayats and that of Animal Husbandry Department would be mobilised for the programme. “We have dug up a farm pond under MGNREGS to harvest rain water and sunk a borewell with panchayat funds to take care of the trees in the event of monsoon failure,” the Collector said. Initially, the work will be implemented in Kariyapatti, Sivakasi, Sattur, Watrap and Aruppukottai blocks. In later stage, at least one such work will be taken up in each block even if it is on a smaller extent of land. “We now found that several pockets of land have been left barren in various places and we are trying to remove the shrubs and go for tree plantation,” he added. The project involved no additional cost but only meticulous planning to make optimum usage of the available resources. As part of “Green Dawn” mass tree plantation was taken up on six acres of grazing land in Cunnoor under Watrap block. The area would be provided earthen bund, farm ponds, 500 fodder giving trees, 300 fruit-bearing trees, 200 timber-giving trees, 1,200 casuarina trees, 1,500 herbal plants. The entire land would be fenced and two water tanks for cattle would be constructed. The project would be implemented at a cost of Rs. 46.28 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-district-plans-sustainable-greenery-projects/article35989762.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No political motive in Kodanad case probe, says Chief Minister||Subsequently, an accused and the wife and child of a co-accused died in road accidents in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Recently, the Kotagiri police summoned Sayan, the prime accused, and questioned him in the wake of the emergence of some “fresh” material. On Wednesday, soon after the Assembly session commenced, Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami attempted to raise an issue [related to Kodanad], which was later expunged by Speaker M. Appavu. Opposing this, AIADMK legislators, who displayed black ribbons on their shirts, displayed placards against the government and raised slogans. After failing to raise the issue, Mr. Palaniswami led a walkout by party MLAs. The Speaker said the cases pertaining to the incidents were originally registered when the AIADMK was in power. The Chief Minister said the heist that was reported in the middle of the night, the deaths and the accidents involving some of the accused had raised suspicion among the public. “That was why, before the [Assembly] election, we promised to probe the robbery and murder case and bring the culprits to book,” he said. When PMK legislative party leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram) supported his party’s ally, the AIADMK, on the issue, Mr. Stalin reiterated that there was no political motive involved. “You have been asking us what happened to our electoral promises. This was one of the promises we made. There are many more,” he said. However, the PMK members, too, staged a walkout. Responding to BJP legislative party leader Nainar Nagendran (Tirunelveli), who said the probe had led to fear, Mr. Stalin quoted a Tamil proverb, saying only those who carried weight around their waist should be worried on their way. “There is no need for any fear or worry,” he said. Unconvinced by his response, the BJP members, too, staged a walkout. As AIADMK legislators were heard raising slogans outside the hall but within the Assembly premises, the Speaker ordered the House marshals to evict them. He also issued a warning to those who showed placards without permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-political-motive-in-kodanad-case-probe-says-chief-minister/article35989592.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 156 positive cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 156 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 96,726. While 157 persons were discharged, 1,841 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 103 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 95,171. While 84 persons were discharged, 1,048 continue to be under treatment. Four persons died, raising the toll to 1,617. Namakkal district reported 54 cases taking the tally to 48,168. While 54 persons were discharged, 522 continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 30 new cases on a single day, and 24 cases discharged. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 260 cases as of Wednesday. Dharmapuri recorded 23 positive cases, and 26 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 264.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-156-positive-cases-in-erode-district/article35989767.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All accused acquitted in NTK cadre murder case||PUDUKOTTAI The additional district judge, Pudukkottai, on Wednesday acquitted all eight persons named as accused in the murder of NTK State organiser Subha Muthukumar in February 2011. The case was initially investigated by the Pudukottai Town police and subsequently transferred to the CB-CID. Sixty-four prosecution witnesses were examined during the trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-accused-acquitted-in-ntk-cadre-murder-case/article35989623.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 1||Before commencing her speech, BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan appealed to Speaker M. Appavu that he should give her ample time to speak and overlook the times when she had interrupted him during TV debates. The Chair said she would granted as much time as any other legislator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-1/article35989599.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 2||Soon after DMK MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin concluded his first speech, several party colleagues, including Ministers, made a beeline to his seat to extend greetings. Even when the MLA stepped out of the House, many followed him on his way out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-2/article35989600.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 3||On Wednesday, PMK legislators managed to bring their green shawls to the House. While welcoming the first agriculture Budget on Saturday, PMK president G.K. Mani had said that though his party members had planned to sport green shawls, they had forgotten to take them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-3/article35989601.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||COIMBATORE   VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: World Photography Day – Webinar session on “Wildlife Wonders”, 2.30 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts & Science for Women: World Photography Day - programme on “Think About the Medium of Film”, 11 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Onam celebration, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Industry readiness course, 10 a.m.  Pollachi   Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Onam celebration, 10 a.m.  Tiruppur   Young World Club.com: Orientation webinar for school heads and teachers of government schools in Tiruppur district, R. Ramesh, Chief Educational Officer, inaugurates, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article35989647.ece
19 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MLA says he will recommend only long-time volunteers for BJP ticket||Belagavi City Corporation polls have attracted a lot of attention among aspirants and leaders. The city corporation polls that were hitherto fought on linguistic lines now are likely to be fought on party ticket this time. The BJP is holding a series of meetings and a workers convention, while Congress leaders have been huddling in conclaves to discuss the issue. Member of Legislative Assembly Abhay Patil has announced that he will recommend only traditional supporters and long-time volunteers for party ticket and not new entrants. He argues that he has convinced his senior leaders of the need to field candidates under the party banner. “Belagavi was the only city corporation where supporters of major parties fought without symbols. We will change that this time,’’ he said. Janata Dal(S) district unit president Shankar Madalagi, who is a former member of the zilla panchayat, said on Wednesday that his party leader H.D. Kumaraswamy is expected to campaign for the polls in the city. The BJP and the Janata Dal(S) have announced that it will field candidates on party ticket, but the Congress is yet to do so. Aspirants, however, have been making a beeline to the residences of KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi and Member of Legislative Assembly Lakshmi Hebbalkar and other party leaders. MES, which has been dominating the polls since the 1960s, is active. There is talk of the MES seeking the support of the Shiv Sena, as it did in the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls. Shubham Shelke, MES candidate supported by Shiv Sena, polled over one lakh votes against Mangala Angadi, BJP nominee who eventually won, and Mr. Satish Jarkiholi, Congress candidate, who was the runner-up in the bypolls. Maloji Ashtekar, senior MES leader, maintains that the party has always considered that the city corporation polls were fought on party lines. He dismisses the allegation that the MES forced other parties to drop symbols. “Language is not just our poll agenda. It is the reason of our existence. Merging Marathi-speaking areas with Maharashtra is the sole agenda. We have never compromised on that,” he said. It seems two relatively new entrants, the AIMIM and the AAP, are threatening to upset the game. AAP leaders held a meeting with party workers and sympathisers in Belagavi on Wednesday. Senior leaders Atishi Marlena, Sanjay Singh, Romi Bhati and others will visit Belagavi for campaigning, they told their supporters. State level leaders Lakshmikant Rao, B.T. Naganna, district unit leaders Abdul Tavvab Sheikh, Vijay Patil and others were present. Mr. Naganna said that some Congress leaders had made threatening calls to party candidates. “We will not perceive them as threats. We will accept them as challenges,” he said. AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi plans to hold a rally in Belagavi on August 30. AIMIM supporters widely shared the images of the Lok Sabha member on social media. The party is yet to make a formal announcement for the rally. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner and District Electoral Officer M.G. Hiremath announced a list of dos and donts for the urban body polls on Wednesday. As per the order, only door-to-door campaign is allowed. Rallies are not allowed. Every candidate has to seek votes, along with only four supporters. Vehicles should not be used and all COVID-19 protocols should be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-says-he-will-recommend-only-long-time-volunteers-for-bjp-ticket/article35989794.ece
19 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. criticised for ban on public celebrations of Hindu festivals||Sri Ram Sena leader Pramod Mutalik has criticised the State government for prohibiting celebrations of Hindu festivals during the epidemic, while it allowed elections and political events to happen. He told journalists that he will stage a dharna in Belagavi on Friday, if the government did not allow public celebrations of Hindu festivals such as Ganesh Chaturthi. He said that the State government had singled out Hindu festivals and banned them. The epidemic is a false excuse, as the government is actively engaged in holding elections to local bodies. Politicians are also organising rallies across the State, without following any COVID-19 protocol. “What is the meaning of all this?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-criticised-for-ban-on-public-celebrations-of-hindu-festivals/article35989795.ece
19 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tea shop demolished, tension in Kerur village||Tension prevailed in Kerur village near Chikkodi after some miscreants demolished a tea shop as they wanted to install a statue of Sangolli Rayanna at that spot. A businessman complained to the police that a mob of around 10-15 persons demolished his tea shop on the roadside, on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, a group of people gathered at the spot and started complaining that the tea shop had been brought down illegally, by a private group, in violation of rules. However, another group came to the spot, claiming responsibility for the incident. That group argued that the tea shop was illegally built on public land, without permission from the civic authorities. A police team was rushed to the village. The policemen stood guard at the disputed place. The situation was brought under control, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tea-shop-demolished-tension-in-kerur-village/article35989796.ece
19 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||GMIT students excel||Students of GMIT Engineering College in Davangere have excelled in campus interviews in the college. As many as 11 students have received offers during the campus interview conducted by SLK Software Services, an IT company. They include three students from computer sciences and four each from information science and electronics and communication. They are all studying in the sixth semester and will all be passing out in 2022. Chairman G.M. Lingaraju, administrative officer Y.U. Subhas Chandra, principal V. Vijaykumar and other faculty members have congratulated the students. The candidates were trained to face campus interviews and were imparted soft skills, said placement and training officer Tejaswi Kattimani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gmit-students-excel/article35989803.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Follow calendar of events, colleges told||The government has warned private unaided colleges that action will be taken against them if they do not adhere to the calendar of events. Though colleges are officially scheduled to start the admission process for the 2021-22 academic year on August 23, many have already completed it. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday asked managements of private colleges to follow the government’s calendar of events which states that they can reopen in October as a new syllabus has to be framed under the National Education Policy (NEP). Many college managements, however, have raised objections to the implementation of the NEP this year citing that they have already commenced classes. Addressing the principals of 300 colleges in Bengaluru during the national seminar, ‘Implementation of NEP-2020-A Road Map’, organised by Bengaluru North University in association with Kristu Jayanti College (Autonomous) on Wednesday, the Minister said, “Many college managements say it is not possible to implement NEP this academic year as they have already completed admissions. But we want to know on what basis they did this even before the admissions calendar was issued by the government.” He added that this year, every institution must conduct admissions using the Unified University College Management System from August 23. While principals of many autonomous colleges said that they were not bound to follow the government’s calendar of events, K.R. Venugopal, vice-chancellor, BU, told The Hindu that the autonomous college managements however still have to wait for the State government to come up with the new syllabus in line with the NEP. “So colleges cannot start classes now,” he said. P. Pradeep, Commissioner, Department of Collegiate and Technical Education, said that NEP focuses on development of skills among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-told-to-follow-calendar-of-events-await-nep-syllabus/article35989531.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s summer temperature will rise in coming years: Scientists||Districts across Karnataka will see rise in summer temperature in the range of 0.5°C to 1.5°C in the coming years and will impact farm productivity, livestock, and cause submergence of islands, according to climate change experts. In the next one decade or so, the warming of summer temperature will be in the range of 0.5°C to 1.0°C, largely in the Western Ghat districts. Warming will be in the range of 1.0°C to 1.5°C in the northern districts of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bagalkot, Koppal, and some of central and eastern districts such as Chitradurga, Tumakuru, and Davangere, according to N.H. Ravindranath and G. Bala, authors of multiple UN IPCC (intergovernmental panel on climate change) and professors of IISc., Bengaluru.  In the long term, beyond the 2050s, they said the summer maximum temperature will be in the range of 1.0°C to 2.5°C in Karnataka. Warming will be between 1.0°C and 1.5°C in Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, and Shivamogga and in the range of 1.5°C to 2°C in Tumakuru, Mandya, Chitradurga, Davangere, Ballari, Gadag, and Koppal. Warming will be in the range of 2°C to 2.5°C for the northern districts of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, and Raichur, according to Prof. Ravindranath, who was involved in preparation of climate change reports of Karnataka. During the short term, winter minimum temperature will be in the range of 0.5°C to 1.0°C for the southern and central districts and in the range of 1°C to to 1.5°C for the northern districts of Karnataka. Rise in temperature, Prof. Ravindranath said, would cause crop loss due to temperature and precipitation, and non-climatic factors such as changes in the soil moisture. For livestock, the impacts of climate change are primarily attributed to heat stress and this would cause reduction in fodder resources, water availability as well as sudden disease outbreaks. “About 10% to 25% reduction in milk production will be noticed owing to climate change,” he said. Beside reduction in marine fish production, scientists said rise in sea level would lead to submergence of many foreshore facilities such as jetties, wharfs, harbours, and other fish landing facilities, islands along the coastline. The State has 94 islands and of these, 23 islands are inhabited mostly by fishing communities and farmers. Experts underlined the need for immediate requirement to assess the vulnerability of these infrastructure and make necessary constructions at the earliest to provide sufficient number of foreshore facilities for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-summer-temperature-will-rise-in-coming-years-scientists/article35989550.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A long way to the global podium||It was perhaps for the first time that many were tuning into a javelin throw event with keen interest. At the end of it, as the national anthem played at the just-concluded Olympics, there were few who did not feel pride. The Indian contingent’s feat in Tokyo Olympics 2020 has been widely credited with earning a new generation of sporting enthusiasts in a country that has been invested in little other than cricket. While many deemed the medal tally and the stellar performances that fell just short as an early Independence Day gift to India, in its 75th year, it has also given fodder to introspect on its sporting journey since. The performances proved that there is talent, but also exposed the loopholes in honing that talent. And sportspersons say Karnataka’s dwindling representation on the international stage is noticeable. It has been 21 years since Olympian and Arjuna Award winner Nisha Millet’s tryst at the world’s biggest sporting event. And India’s performance has seen “huge improvement,” she says. “We can make out that the government is putting in money. We need to look at the players who came in fourth and sixth also, not just the medal tally. Even in swimming, we were close to making the semi-final. The women’s hockey team’s fourth place is as good as a medal. There are others - Aditi Ashok, the young self-taught golfer, and fencing, weightlifting - sports you wouldn’t have pictured earlier. Talent is very much there. The challenge is finding international exposure, and support from a young age,” she said. Offering the stupendous success of Neeraj Chopra as an example, she stressed on the importance of extending support to sportspersons at an early age, something common abroad. “The younger age group needs nutrition, strength and conditioning coaching. Even if the government doesn’t do it, companies can through CSR. But corporate India is OK with supporting education, but not sports,” she rued. Funding from the State government is not enough, she said, giving the example of the Odisha government and its now celebrated role in supporting sports, especially hockey. “South India has to pick up in terms of funding. Many athletes drop out because of lack of funding and jobs, especially women,” she said. Basketball player Dilip Gurumurthy, the only player from Karnataka on the Indian team that went to the 1980 Moscow Olympics, had similar observations. “Sports is not a priority. The entire system has to evolve. It has to become a part of life and the education system. Right from the grassroots level, a scientific approach is needed. Now Khelo India has come in. We have to involve each and every student and ensure they take part in some sport. This is also good for them from the health aspect,” he said. He too raised the issue of employment, saying there was a need to incentivise sports. “When we were playing, a lot of companies used to recruit sporting talent. Now that too is dying,” he said. Sports Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda has announced that the State government wants to send at least 100 sportspersons to the Paris 2024 Olympics and 35 have already been identified. He had also said that Rs. 5 lakh will be given to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-long-way-to-the-global-podium/article35989543.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cerebration quiz regional round to be held on August 21||BusinessLine’s Cerebration 2021, one of India’s premier corporate quiz championships, is back with its 18th edition. This time, it’s in a virtual format. The quiz is designed for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students, and MBA aspirants. The preliminary round was held from August 4 to 11 to shortlist the top six from each of the six cities of Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi, and it witnessed more than 6,000 participants. Now for the regional Bengaluru round, six participants will battle it out and one will qualify for the grand finale on August 28. The participants selected for the Bengaluru regional round on August 21 at 11 a.m. are: Abhijit Bhalachandra, ZS; Sethu Madhavan, Capgemini; Sanish Samuel, Adobe; Rabi Sankar Saha, Capegmini; Ronisha Das, Accenture; and Yogesa Melta, Netcore. The first prize is Rs. 75,000, the second, Rs. 50,000, and the third, Rs. 25,000. Enthusiasts can log in to witness them battle it out, by registering at https://bit.ly/BLQUIZ21 or by scanning the QR code. Title sponsor is Union Bank of India, powered by CFA Institute, in association with ManageEngine, and BSE IPE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cerebration-quiz-regional-round-to-be-held-on-august-21/article35989525.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Department alleges Bengaluru gated community is illegal||Hundreds of people who bought sites in a gated community, ABD Legacy, near Mandur are worried as the district administration has lodged a complaint with the police alleging that the project is illegal and even encroaches upon a government ‘kunte’. “We bought the site in April this year, after taking a loan. The developer registered it in our name and the legal papers were also cleared by a lawyer. It is now a nightmare with the government saying it is illegal,” said Madhuri (name changed). Pashupati Prasad, Revenue Officer, K.R. Puram, who lodged the complaint on Tuesday told The Hindu he was flooded with calls from duped property buyers. “All I can do is advise them also to file complaints against the developer for cheating them,” he said. ‘Encroachment’ The copy of the FIR available with The Hindu stated that the gated community had come up on lands owned by 11 people. Spread over 10.87 acres it has encroached upon a ‘kunte’ of one acre and two guntas. The rest of the lands have not been converted from agricultural purposes and neither is the ‘phodi’ of the land done, and hence is illegal. A case has been registered against the developer Rajeev Gowda and other landowners under the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964. An official from Mandur Gram Panchayat also lodged a complaint alleging the developer had forged documents to show the GP had approved the plan of the community. “The panchayat doesn’t even have powers to give plan approval,” the PDO alleged in the complaint. Several property buyers were cheated with this forged document, sources said. However, developer Rajeev Gowda claimed there was no fraud and he had submitted all relevant documents and the project would be cleared soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/department-alleges-bengaluru-gated-community-is-illegal/article35989539.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parliament a place for debates, not disruptions: Venkaiah||Debates and discussions are allowed in Parliament and assemblies, but not disruptions, cautioned Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. He urged elected political representatives in the country to behave responsibly and improve the quality of debate in both Houses of Parliament and assemblies. His remarks came in the context of disruptions by the Opposition during the monsoon session of Parliament. He said elected public representatives should focus more on improving the standard of life of the people in general. “Debates and discussions are allowed, and even dissent is fine, but not disruptions. I am not afraid of taking action. The point is, when people of the country see disruptive scenes on television, they become sad. Our elected representatives should keep this in mind,” said Mr. Naidu, who is also chairman of Rajya Sabha.  Mr. Naidu was speaking at a function organised by the FKCCI to confer Bharat Ratna Sir M.V. Memorial Award on M.R. Jayaram, chairman, Ramaiah Group of Institutions, for his contributions towards education and healthcare.  Meanwhile, the Vice-President’s visit to his sister’s residence in Malleswaram on Wednesday irked the residents of the area as the police blocked several crossroads in the area for many hours through the day and towed away several vehicles parked on the streets. “The police did not allow parking on the entire stretch of 4th Main Road throughout the day. The area was teeming with police personnel. They towed away several vehicles, even those parked in the parking zone, inconveniencing residents,” said Prithwi K., a resident of the area. “Several crossroads of the area were barricaded and blocked, leading to traffic snarls in an area that rarely sees any jams,” said Chaitra R., another resident. B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner (Traffic), who oversaw the Vice-President’s visit, said: “We announced that vehicles should be removed from the streets early in the morning. We tried to minimise inconvenience to the public, but certain measures had to be taken for security reasons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parliament-a-place-for-debates-not-disruptions-venkaiah/article35989546.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No new restrictions on markets||Contrary to expectations, the BBMP has imposed no new restrictions on markets and commercial hubs ahead of the festive season starting with Varamahalakshmi this Friday. It plans to deploy more marshals to enforce mask and social distancing norms, penalise violators and make public announcements urging people to follow COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour (CAB). Marshals will be given daily targets to fine violators, sources said. The onus will fall on shops, restaurants and mall owners to ensure that staff and public wear masks and there is no crowding. They will be penalised for crowding and can be shut down if they fail to adhere to the rules. All staff should have received at least one dose of the vaccine, the BBMP said. There were proposals within the BBMP to impose more restrictions including reducing the duration markets and commercial hubs stay open, increasing distance between street vendors, drawing boxes in front of shops for people to maintain strict queues and regulating crowd movement. However, the government was not keen on imposing more restrictions on economic activity, sources said. “Continuous announcements through public addressal systems at markets on CAB, coupled with marshals regulating crowds will effectively manage the system. Nothing can substitute for people following CAB,” said D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-new-restrictions-on-markets/article35989527.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Begur lake incident: Criminal cases registered, police tells High Court||The city police on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that criminal cases were registered in connection with the recent incident of removal of the cover of a statue of Shiva, installed on an artificial island constructed inside Begur lake by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), in violation of the court’s 2019 orders. In a report submitted to the court, the City Police Commissioner has also stated that personnel have been deployed around the lake to ensure that miscreants do not indulge in violating court orders again. Meanwhile, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna directed the police to examine the allegations that the cover was removed for the second time on the evening of August 11 after the BBMP had covered the statue in the morning. Social media Environment Support Group (ESG), an NGO, had alleged that the miscreants had, on social media platforms, posted videos of their actions of uncovering the statue and placing several saffron-coloured flags on the under construction artificial island, the further construction of which was stayed by the court in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/begur-lake-incident-criminal-cases-registered-police-tells-high-court/article35989529.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Take appropriate decision on plea questioning zero traffic to Shashikala Jolle’||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to treat as a representation a PIL petition which has questioned the zero traffic facility provided to Shashikala A. Jolle on August 4 to reach Raj Bhavan on time from the airport for the oath-taking ceremony of council of Ministers. The court also asked the government to take appropriate decision on the complaints made in the petition and submit the decision taken by the government by September 22. A Division Bench issued the directions on a petition filed by G. Balaji Naidu, a city-based advocate. The police had misused their discretionary power to grant zero-traffic clearance for Ms. Jolle’s vehicle even though she was not entitled for the facility as it is available for the Chief Minister, Home Minister of the State, apart from the President, Vice-President, Governors, Union Ministers, the petitioner had said. Quoting media reports, the petitioner said zero traffic was provided to her to reach Raj Bhavan in time for oath taking as her flight from Delhi was delayed, and this had caused huge hardship to general public. Though the Bench orally asked the government whether such a facility could be given to an MLA, the Bench ordered the petition to be treated as a representation as government advocate pointed out that the petitioner had directly approached the court sans submitting representation to the authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-appropriate-decision-on-plea-questioning-zero-traffic-to-shashikala-jolle/article35989544.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC directs surprise visits of random PHCs||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed secretaries of all the district legal services authorities to visit three primary health centres (PHCs) randomly in their districts to ascertain whether proper facilities are provided in PHCs and sub-centres. However, the visits must be made without prior notice to the PHCs or any other authorities of the State, said a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Gurunath Vadde, a resident of Aurad in Bidar district, during which the government submit its health policy indicating how the health facilities were provided by establishing primary health centres, etc Following this, the Bench directed the DLSA to inspect at least three PHCs and submit report to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, member-secretary of which has been directed to compile the reports from the DLSAs and submit to the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-directs-surprise-visits-of-random-phcs/article35989805.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,365 new cases, 22 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,365 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,33,192. Of these, 327 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 22 deaths, the toll rose to 37,061. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,558 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 28,74,839. The State now has 21,266 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.76%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.61%. As many as 1,79,016 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,42,461 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,13,32,380.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1365-new-cases-22-deaths/article35989532.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vietnam’s first consul office in India opens in Bengaluru||Vietnam opened its first-ever consul office in India in Bengaluru and appointed N.S Srinivasa Murthy as its consul. India is the 26th investment partner of Vietnam and the latter is looking at expanding this collaboration further, said Phan Sanh Chau, Ambassador of Vietnam in India, on Wednesday. Mr. Chau said the consul was opened to improve investment ties between the two countries. Pharmaceuticals, manufacturing of automobile parts and information technology were some of the sectors where Bengaluru and Vietnam could collaborate, the ambassador said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vietnams-first-consul-office-in-india-opens-in-bengaluru/article35989547.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PAC not convinced with dept. reply on oxygen crisis||Although Karnataka’s oxygen crisis and shortage of ICU beds with ventilators during the peak of second wave had made national news, Health Department officials in their response to the Public Accounts Committee denied any such crisis. The committee, which discussed this issue at its meeting on Tuesday, has unanimously dismissed the department’s claims. According to the proceedings of the committee’s meeting, the officials’ claim that oxygen and ICU ventilator beds were “available as per need” in all government hospitals was not acceptable. “The committee members cutting across party lines were not convinced with this as they have seen people suffer in their constituencies during the second wave. We have rejected all these replies of the officials and have asked the department to submit correct and detailed explanation,” said Ramalinga Reddy, PAC Chairman, speaking to The Hindu . Members, who participated in the meeting, discussed what they had witnessed in their own constituencies during the second wave, with many running from pillar to post to acquire oxygenated and ventilator beds for their near and dear ones who were infected, said Mr. Reddy. One of the worst tragedies during the second wave was the death of 24 people, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen in Chamarajnagar district on May 2 and 3. A report submitted by a committee consisting of two retired judges of the High Court had blamed the administration, hospital authorities for oxygen shortage that led to the crisis. It had also said that a detailed probe is essential to unearth omissions and commissions that had led to the human tragedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-not-convinced-with-dept-reply-on-oxygen-crisis/article35989536.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister: No more arbitrary transfers in Health Dept.||Transfers of medical officers and other staff in the State Health and Family Welfare Department will henceforth be only through counselling, said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. According to a note issued by the Minister on Tuesday, the move is to put a break to arbitrary transfers that were happening all through the year through recommendations and other corrupt practices. “The Karnataka State Civil Services (Regulation of Transfer of Medical Officers and other Staff) Act, 2011, provides that all transfers of medical officers and other staff in the Health and Family Welfare Department must happen through counselling. The Act exempts administrative positions from counselling and transfer of such cases has to be brought to the notice of the Minister,” stated the note. Warning of strict disciplinary action against those who violate this decision, the Minister said: “Employees who are battling serious illness, who are on the verge of retirement, those who have less than two years of service, those who are 40% or more physically handicapped, widows, husband and wife mutual transfer and other such special cases based on humanitarian grounds will be considered for transfer only once in two months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-no-more-arbitrary-transfers-in-health-dept/article35989806.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City doctor who was blackmailed found dead||A 25-year-old doctor working at a hospital in the city allegedly ended his life after he was befriended on social media and later blackmailed. The doctor who lived with his father in Kengeri, left for work as usual on August 13. He allegedly threw himself in front of a moving train between Kengeri and Hejjala, said the police, who recovered his phone and a note. “He said one Kranti Singh was blackmailing him. He had extorted Rs. 87,000 from him and was demanding more money. He also requested the police to take legal action,” said the police. The police found that Singh had recorded private chats and videos and was using them to blackmail the victim. Initially, the doctor paid him. But he continued to demand more money and threatened to upload the videos on social media. Based on the complaint filed by the father of the deceased on Monday, the railway police have taken up a case charging Kranti Singh under IPC Sections 506, 384, 420, 294 and 306 and are investigating. In April, a 26-year-old MBA graduate preparing for civil services allegedly ended his life after he was blackmailed in a similar manner. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-doctor-who-was-blackmailed-found-dead/article35989534.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman dies after son’s death||A woman was mowed down by a speeding car in front of a hospital soon after she learned that her son was dead. He had allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Leelavathi, 39, and Mohan Gowda, a B.Com student. His father, Lokesh, runs a ration shop. The family lived in MC Layout in Vijayanagar. Mohan had gone to college for an exam. On returning home he got into a fight with his friends over a bike he had reportedly taken from them. He was arguing with them when Lokesh intervened. The family told the police that he locked himself in a room and refused to open the door. The parents, with the help of two policemen, on COVID-19 duty nearby, broke it open to find that Mohan had died by suicide. He was taken to a hospital on Chord Road, where he was declared brought dead at 12.30 p.m. On hearing the news, Leelavathi tried to cross the road to get to the hospital, but was stopped and brought back by her family. She ran back towards the hospital, and was hit by a speeding car. She was taken to the same hospital where the doctors declared her dead at 1 p.m.,” the police said. The Vijayanagar police registered an unnatural death case for Mohan Gowda. The Vijayanagar traffic police registered a case and arrested the car driver over Leelavathi’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-after-sons-death/article35989538.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||18,415 register to write II PU exam from today||As many as 18,415 candidates have registered to appear for the second year pre-university examinations that will begin from Thursday and end on September 3. According to the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), as many as 17,469 are private candidates. A total of 946 candidates, including 593 freshers and 353 repeaters, have rejected the scores allocated by the department, preferring to write the examination again. They cannot revert to their earlier marks. RT-PCR tests R. Snehal, director of the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), said that the examination will be held for 30 subjects in 187 centres across the State. Students coming from Maharashtra and Kerala will be permitted to write the examination after they submit an RT-PCR test report showing that they are COVID-19 negative. COVID-19 protocol Students will have to appear for the examination with masks and undergo thermal screening as well as maintain social distancing. The department had not conducted the examination this year due to the second wave of COVID-19. Students were allotted marks based on their SSLC and I PU examination results. All freshers and repeaters were deemed as pass and given scores. The SSLC marks and first year PU marks were given 45% weightage each, while the remaining 10% internal assessment marks were awarded to II PU students. In addition to this, students have been given 5% grace marks on their first PU scores. SSLC supplementary exam timetable The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB), on Wednesday, announced that the SSLC supplementary examinations will be held for two days on September 27 and 29. Mathematics, Science and Social Science examinations will be held on September 27 while the three language papers have been slotted for the second day. Students will have to attempt a multiple choice question paper.  Details Exam dates: August 19 to September 3 No. of centres: 187 Private candidates: 17,469  Freshers: 593 Repeaters: 353||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18415-register-for-ii-pu-exam-from-today/article35989521.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested||The Central Division police on Wednesday arrested three people who were allegedly involved in a baby-selling racket. The police said one of the accused, Tarannum Babu, had ‘purchased’ a 38-day-baby boy born to her domestic help. “Inquiries revealed that the baby was born out of wedlock, and sold by the father for Rs. 1.3 lakh to Tarannum who in turn sold the newborn to her relative K. Sawood from HBR Layout. She took Rs. 50,000 from her relative as an advance,” said the police. The racket came to light when PSI Priyadarshini Bandivaddar from Wilson Garden, after receiving a tip-off on August 16, went to the spot near Agadi hospital and found a couple fighting on the road. The man escaped and the police caught the woman later identified as Tarannum Babu, a resident of Adugodi. “The man she was fighting with was the father, Mubarak, who was upset he had not received the promised amount.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested/article35989528.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sept. 9 last date to get development in Shivaram Karanth Layout ratified||September 9 will be the last date to file applications before the A.V. Chandrashekhar Committee, to get developments that have come up on lands notified for Shivaram Karanth Layout ratified. Property owners can submit relevant documents either online or at the help centres in Somashettyhalli and Medi Agrahara. The help centres and the website will shut after September 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sept-9-last-date-to-get-development-in-shivaram-karanth-layout-ratified/article35989522.ece
19 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||13 arrested in honey-trap case in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru police have arrested 13 people including six women on charges of involvement in a honey-trap case. They had extorted money from a person after threatening to tarnish his image by making objectionable videos viral. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M. Hakay said one of the accused had contacted the complainant seeking financial help for medical treatment of her relative on August 10. He was asked to deliver cash at a house. When he went to give money with a friend, a gang of five people locked them up. The accused took photos and videos of the complainant after forcing him to pose for the camera with women, who were also part of the racket. Later they took them out and forced them to give money after drawing money from their accounts. The accused had demanded Rs. 20 lakh from the complainant not to make the video clips viral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-arrested-in-honey-trap-case-in-chikkamagaluru/article35989980.ece
19 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Meeting sought on elephant menace||Sakleshpur MLA and State JD(S) president H.K. Kumaraswamy has appealed to Forest Minister Umesh Katti to hold a meeting on the elephant menace in Hassan district. Mr. Kumaraswamy met the Minister in Bengaluru on Wednesday and requested him to invite representatives of coffee planters and other stakeholders to discuss the issue. More than 60 wild elephants had been roaming in parts of Sakleshpur, Alur and Belur taluks, raiding agricultural crops and attacking people. The residents had been affected badly by such incidents. Many planters had abandoned work in their estates, while workers had been at loss without work, the legislator said in his memorandum. Further, he said more than 70 people had been killed in elephant attacks in the last 10 years and in the last nine months alone nine people were killed. Understanding the seriousness of the situation, the government should hold the meeting to find out a permanent solution to the elephant menace, he said. He also appealed to the Minister to revise the compensation paid to farmers who lost their crops in elephant raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-sought-on-elephant-menace/article35989984.ece
19 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MLA’s barb at C.T. Ravi||Mudigere MLA M.P. Kumaraswamy has said BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi had the habit of criticising everyone. Interacting with mediapersons in Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday, the MLA said “He has commented on all he met. Finally, he commented on me. Both of us are from the same party and the same district. We need to resolve issues through talks.” Recently Mr. Kumaraswamy staged a dharna in front of Vidhana Soudha as his taluk was not included in the list of taluks hit by floods. “Considering my appeal Revenue Minister R. Ashok has included Mudigere in the list. He has resolved the issue”, he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy and Mr. C.T.Ravi had exchanged comments criticising each other. Mr. Kumaraswamy had said his constituency did not get due funds. Mr. Ravi, who was Minister in charge of Chikkamagaluru district earlier, reacted that he got more funds sanctioned for Mudigere than his constituency – Chikkamagaluru. He had also said that he would resign if his statement was proved wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-barb-at-ct-ravi/article35989989.ece
19 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||103 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 103 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Wednesday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,08,438 and the death toll rose to 1,313. Among the fresh cases four are from Alur, 18 in Arkalgud, 15 in Arsikere, 12 in Belur, nine in Channarayapatna, 30 in Hassan, five in Holenarsipur, nine in Sakleshpur and one more from outside the district. As many as 1,020 people are under treatment. Shivamogga reported 48 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Wednesday. So far 1,054 people have died due to the infection in the district. Among the fresh cases, 21 are in Shivamogga taluk, one in Bhadravati, seven in Tirthahalli, four in Shikaripur, and eight in Sagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/103-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article35989985.ece
19 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi Division records 26% growth in freight loading||The Hubballi Division of the South Western Railway has carried 10.98 million tonnes of freight registering an increase of 26% in freight loading and earnings of Rs. 1,050 crore which is 44.43% more when compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Delivering the Independence Day speech on his office premises in Hubballi, Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede said that various steps helped in getting additional revenue in freight. Mr. Malkhede said that apart from the regular freight movement, consignments of bajra from Bagalkot, iron ore from Ranjitpura and Yesvantnagar, pellets from MBIV siding, cotton seed husk and automobile (ambulance) from Navlur, manganese ore from Sandur siding, cement from Khajjidoni and Bagalkot are now being transported via rail. Parcel revenue He said that the monthly parcel revenue of Hubballi Division had crossed the Rs. 1-crore mark in October 2020. And, the division crossed the Rs. 2-crore mark in parcel revenue for the first time in May 2021. In July 2021, parcel revenue of Rs. 2.61 crore, which was the highest ever parcel earning in a month registered by the division, was earned, he said. “The Diesel Loco Shed, Hubballi, is the first railway unit to implement User Depot Module (UDM) in South Western Railway. This module is created by CRIS for carrying out material transaction through digitisation,” he said. He said that special thrust is being given to infrastructure and passenger amenities. New foot overbridges have been provided at Dharwad, Ballari Cantonment and Ballari railway stations and a high level platform with improved platform surface have been provided at Alnavar and Ballari Cantonment railway stations, he said. This apart, a Video Surveillance System has been commissioned at Vijayapura with 25 cameras. And, to attract new traffic and to provide rail services, goods handling facility has been developed at Khajjidoni station, he said. Mr. Malkhede said that to treat COVID-19 infected patients, 125 beds have been earmarked at the Railway Hospital in Hubballi and till date, 2,100 such patients have been treated at the hospital. By July-end, 11,556 persons were administered the first dose of vaccine and 2,446 had received both the doses, he said. Honoured On the occasion, Mr. Malkhede honoured 46 employees with various awards for their exemplary service. SWRWWO Hubballi Division president Meenal Gandhe, Additional Divisional Railway Managers Jogendra Yadvendu and Vishwas Kumar, Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Valleswar B. Thokala, Senior Divisional Personnel Officer K. Asif Hafiz and others were present. Subsequently, SWRWWO Hubballi Division donated two micro ovens and eight electric kettles to the Hubballi Railway Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-division-records-26-growth-in-freight-loading/article35989792.ece
19 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Khuba says 175 GW renewable energy generation by next year||Highlighting the Union government’s initiatives to tap renewable energy sources, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers, New and Renewable Energy Bhagawanth Khuba said that the country will meet its target of achieving 175 GW of energy from solar, wind and other renewable sources by 2022. “We are already generating 101 GW energy from renewable sources. A project with a combined installed capacity of 50 GW is in progress. Work on other projects with a combined installed capacity of 25 GW will begin shortly. Keeping the growing energy requirement of the country, we have set a target of 450 GW energy generation from renewable sources by 2030,” Mr. Khuba told a media conference at a private hotel in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. The Minister was here to take part in his party’s Janashirvad Yatra. Mr. Khuba said that three more solar parks, apart from the one in Kalaburagi with an installed capacity of 500 MW, will come up in the State with a combined installed capacity of 1,200 MW. “We have planned for solar parks in Bidar, Bagalkot and Koppal. We have received good response from investors in Koppal and Bagalkot. The plan to increase our renewable energy generation will be realised shortly,” the Minister said. Mr. Khuba said that India will be self-sufficient in fertilizer by 2022 by enhancing its technology-driven production capacities. “Before the BJP-led government came to power at the Centre, five coal-based fertilizer production plants were closed for various reasons. Now, we are reopening them by introducing gas-based production. Two of them have already resumed operations. Once all the five plants start commercial production, they will together produce 12.70 lakh tonnes of fertilizer per annum,” he said. “We are among the first to use nanotechnology in fertilizer production. IFFCO has already introduced nanotechnology-based urea. The use of nanotechnology in DAP is in experimental stage and commercial production will start after trials are completed,” Mr. Khuba said and added that nanotechnology-based fertilizers have greater efficacies and lower production costs. This meant that farmers will get better quality fertilizers at reduced costs. On the mega pharmaceutical park coming up at Kadechur in Yadgir district, Mr. Khuba said that the Union government has given Rs. 1,000 crore to the State government for developing infrastructure for the purpose, excluding land purchase. “With the money, the State government is developing roads, drains, electricity supply lines and water supply facilities. Big drug-producing companies are showing interest in establishing their plants in the Kadechur pharma park. India is one of the top exporters of pharmaceutical products and one in five drugs consumed worldwide is from India. We are planning to further augment our drug production capacities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khuba-says-175-gw-renewable-energy-generation-by-next-year/article35989797.ece
19 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress demands action against Union Minister||Taking serious exceptions to the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra held in Kalaburagi late on Tuesday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and former Minister Sharan Prakash Patil demanded the district administration book the organisers as well as the Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers and New and Renewable Energy Bhagwanth Khuba, who addressed the rally, for violating the COVID-19 norms in force in the district. “The administration has imposed weekend and night curfew to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the district. No mass meetings or rallies should be conducted between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. Yet, BJP organised the Jan Ashirwad Yatra mobilising a huge crowd. Mr. Khuba participated in the rally and addressed the gathering. This is a clear violation of the restrictions in force and no action is taken against the organisers and participants. I demand the district administration to immediately book a case against Mr. Khuba and other organisers of the rally,” Mr. Patil said in a press conference at the local Congress office in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. Recalling the withdrawal of permission to a Congress meeting in Sedam town in view of the fresh COVID-19 restrictions, Mr. Patil questioned how the officials could allow the BJP to organise such a huge rally in the district headquarter. “I had obtained permission for a public meeting in Sedam. But, officials withdrew it citing the fresh COVID-19 restrictions. I honoured the law of the land and cancelled the programme. But, BJP leaders, who had no respect for the law, went ahead to hold the rally without any permission. The officials allowed them to violate the night curfew just because their party is in power. The administration should work independently as per the law instead of acting as a puppet at the hands of the ruling party. Laws are for everybody and nobody is above them. There are no separate laws for ruling party leaders and commoners,” Mr. Patil said.  “What ashirwad [blessings] these BJP leaders are seeking from people? People had blessed them twice – in 2014 and in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP leaders should have held rallies and public meetings to show what they had done for the people in the last seven years. Since they had no notable achievement to show,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-demands-action-against-union-minister-bhagawanth-khuba/article35989808.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Tier-2 cities should focus on building eco-system for remote working’||Tier-2 cities such as Mangaluru and Hubballi-Dharwad have good potential to promote remote working and these cities should focus on setting up better infrastructure for cloud computing and internet connectivity, Union Minister of State for Skill Development, Electronics and Information Technology Rajeev Chandrashekar said here on Tuesday. Speaking at a vision group meeting organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Mangaluru Chapter, Mr. Chandrashekar said that the stakeholders in tier-2 cities should come out of their single-minded focus on IT parks in their region, which, at present, are facing infrastructure problems. Instead, the focus should be on strengthening infrastructure that promotes remote working which has gained significance in the post-COVID-19 situation. Remote working will continue to be in vogue for the next five years, he said. Districts outside Bengaluru should work towards building an eco-system by which their potential in the fields of education, health and other sectors can be showcased to the world. There is a good demand for electronic goods, research and development and the use of internet for software as a service. Large companies are unable to meet the demand and orders are going to small companies. The Union government is ready to support the districts in training youth in the new skill sets that will make these regions as human resource providers in skilled areas, he said. Earlier, head of Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s IT Sub-Committee Ashith Hegde expressed the need for opportunities to retain talent in Dakshina Kannada and stop brain drain. Though there is start-up eco-system in Mangaluru, entrepreneurs are facing problems in scaling up as there is an absence of infrastructure. The potential of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts should be harnessed for development as fintech hub. While KCCI president Isaac Vaz expressed the need for harnessing the tourism potential of the coastal region, educationalist Manjunath Bhandary said that space in educational institutions can be used for skill development and other development programmes of the Union government. Past president of CII Mangaluru Prakash Kalbhavi expressed the need for a state-of-the-art skill upgradation facility to harness talent in the region. The vision group meeting was the first programme of Mr. Chandrashekar who arrived in the city on Tuesday as part of his Janshirvada Yatra. Mangaluru City MLAs D. Vedavyas Kamath and Y. Bharath Shetty, MLC Pratapsimha Nayak, Mayor Premanand Shetty and district BJP president Sudarshan Moodbidri participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tier-2-cities-should-focus-on-building-eco-system-for-remote-working/article35989957.ece
19 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman, friend sentenced to life for murder||The III Additional District and Sessions Judge B.B. Jakati on Tuesday sentenced to life Ananda, 30, and Ashwini, 25, to life on finding them guilty of murdering of Jayaraj in Moodukonaje village, near Moodbidri, in 2016. According to the chargesheet, Jayaraj married Ashwini alias Mamatha in December 2014. The two lived in a rented accommodation in Pranthya Village of Moodbidri. Ashwini was in a relationship with Ananda, her neighbour in her native Moodukonaje village, and their relationship had continued even after her marriage. Jayaraj was into consumption of drugs and was also alcoholic. He had fights with his wife over her relationship with Ananda. Ashwini got pregnant and she moved to her parents house in Moodukonaje where she gave birth to a girl child. Ashwini told Ananda about harassment she was facing and the two hatched the plan to murder Jayaraj. On September 13, 2016, Ashwini called Jayaraj to her house. Ananda, who was in the house, assaulted Jayaraj with a blunt object that resulted in latter’s death. The two, with the help of two other accused persons Shreepathi and Dhanapathi, disposed the body in a well nearby. Ashwini filed a missing complaint about Jayaraj, while Ananda impersonated as a kidnapper and called Jayaraj’s mother and brother to say that Jayaraj was in his custody and he will released only after getting ransom of Rs. 62,000. Moodbidri Police Inspector Ramachandra Nayak traced the body of Jayaraj and then arrested Ananda, Ashwini, and two other persons. Chargesheet was filed for offences under Sections 302 (murder) and 201( destruction on evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Prosecutor Narayan Sherigar examined 35 witnesses, including Jayaraj’s mother Saraswati and brother Girisha, and placed 102 documents before the court. In defence, counsel for the accused produced 12 documents. The Judge on Tuesday sentenced Ananda and Ashwini to life and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 each for the offence under Section 302 of IPC. The two were also sentenced to two years imprisonment and fined Rs. 2,000 each for the offence punishable under Section 201 of IPC. Both the sentences will run concurrently, the judge said. Shreepathi and Dhanapathi were acquitted. The Judge ordered payment of Rs. 10,000 out of the total fine of Rs. 14,000 as compensation to Saraswati. The Judge recommended to District Legal Services Authority to pay compensation to daughter of Ashwini, who is staying with her mother, under the Karnataka Victim Compensation Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-friend-sentenced-to-life-for-murder/article35989968.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Saplings planted to arrest sea erosion||Nearly a hundred volunteers gathered at the famous Kodi Beach off Kundapur on Sunday to commemorate the 75th Independence Day in a unique way — by planting saplings of trees and shrubs and taking up beach cleaning. Several organisations and NGOs, including FSL India, Lions Club, Clean Kundapura Campaign, Reef Watch, Kundapur Municipal Council, Swatch Bharat Karkala, Rail Prayanikara Hitarakshana Samithi, Forest Department, Coastal Regulation Zone Management Authority, and others joined hands in this initiative that was aimed at protecting the beachfront from sea erosion. Divisional Conservator of Forests, Kundapur Division, Ashish Reddy led the sapling plantation drive near the Light House that had witnessed sea erosion recently. Dinesh Sarang from FSL India told The Hindu that a Miyawaki forest is being planned on nearly an acre of beachfront at the particular location to arrest further sea erosion. While cactus plants were planted in the forefront, others, including Honne, Thare, Lemon Grass, Finifox, Kedage, Noni, Palm, Almond and creepers, have been planted offering cover to sea turtle nesting location. The organisations have plans to extend similar cover along the 2 km stretch of Kodi beach in the coming days, he added. The initiative was planned by FSL India president Rajesh S. Soans after watching the success at the nearby Beejadi beach where Karavali Friends has raised a similar but small forest. The occasion also saw the 100th beach cleaning programme by Clean Kundapura Campaign. Volunteers collected about 50 bags of trash, including about 15 from the proposed mini forest location itself, Mr. Sarang said. While government agencies were preparing to build a stone wall along the affected beach stretch, the NGOs prevailed upon them to desist from such a move and instead, allow raising of a natural forest cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saplings-planted-to-arrest-sea-erosion/article35989955.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New survey to identify and segregate street vendors in city||The Mangaluru City Corporation on Wednesday decided to constitute 10 survey teams to conduct a new round of surveys to identify and segregate street vendors on the basis of their trading activities. This was decided at a Town Vending Committee meeting of the corporation here chaired by Commissioner Akshy Sridhar. The surveys will be conducted based on the guidelines specified in the Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme 2020, said an official communique. The corporation said that the Town Vending Committee will issue identification cards and trade licence to deserving street vendors based on the outcome of the survey. Vendors with valid identification cards and licence will be assigned zones for their trading activities. The corporation has already recognised trading zones across the city. The proposal for declaring them as trading zones is in the final stages, it said. Meanwhile, street vendors who have approval by the Town Vending Committee and are holding valid identification cards and certification are permitted to continue their business under the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act 2021. The corporation will initiate stringent action against those violating the guidelines of the scheme and indulging in vending activities unauthorisedly, the release cautioned and sought cooperation from the Street Vendors Development Association, Dakshina Kannada.  The corporation has said that the Town Vending Committee will issue identification cards and trade licence to deserving street vendors based on the outcome of the survey||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-survey-to-identify-and-segregate-street-vendors-in-city/article35989965.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Call helpline to prevent violence against animals||Mysuru Divisional level Animal Welfare Board Chairman and member of Karnataka Animal Welfare Board S.K. Mittal on Wednesday urged people to call Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department helpline 8277100200 if they find instances of violence against animals. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-helpline-to-prevent-violence-against-animals/article35989964.ece
19 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MAHE certified district’s Green Champion||The Mahatma Gandhi National Council for Rural Education (MGNCRE) has recognised Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, as this year’s District Green Champion recognising its contribution in the field of cleanliness. Col. Prakash Chandra, Director – General Services, MAHE, and Derrick Ian Joshua, Assistant Director, Environment sustainability - MAHE, received the certificate on behalf of MAHE from the Deputy Commissioner, Udupi, on Tuesday. Various initiatives undertaken on the campus towards sustainable development, policies related to environment, efficient campus management concerning waste, water and energy helped achieve this title, a release said. A workshop was organised by MGNCRE on Tuesday online where exchange of ideas between institutions of the district was conducted culminating in the certificate presentation and MAHE was honoured with the title of “ District Green Champion.” MGNCRE had conducted online workshops where the areas of knowledge sharing in aspects of Swachhta in Campus, Campus Jal Shakti (Water Conservation in the Campus), and Campus-Post Covid 19 Sanitation Plan. Subsequently, a Swachhta Action Plan (SAP) Committee was constituted at MAHE and Swachhta Activities were conducted thus becoming a Swachh Institution. Further, as per the directives of the Ministry of Education, MGNCRE wanted to recognize Institutions for contribution to Swachhta Education and Practice and conceptualised 'One District One Green Champion' Awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-certified-districts-green-champion/article35989966.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Graduation day of Fr. Muller College of Allied Health Sciences||The first graduation day of Fr. Muller College of Allied Health Sciences, the new constituent college under the Fr. Muller Charitable Institutions (FMCI), and the 11th Fr. Muller College of Speech and Hearing was held on Wednesday. Chief guest Rajesh Shenoy, Director, Padmashree Group of Institutions, Bengaluru, emphasised the need for a uniform curriculum and strong forum for the Allied Health Sciences, currently which is being worked on by the State government. He essayed three important points that the graduates should remember; Alma mater, updation of knowledge and development of research acumen. Presiding the event, FMCI president and Mangaluru Bishop Most Rev. Peter Paul Saldanha said that the allied health workers are part of the frontline workers in the fight against COVID-19 and that no physician can carry out his work without the parallel help of lab reports, radiology reports and so forth. Blessing the graduates and their parents, he wished them a new and happy journey in their lives. The graduation though pompous was kept with bare minimal crowd of only the graduates in the centre with no family or well-wishers at the venue in the light of the heightened COVID-19 protocol. Live streaming of the event was arranged on various channels. The graduates comprised students from M.Sc Medical Laboratory Technology, Master of Physiotherapy, Masters in Hospital Administration, Bachelor of Physiotherapy, B.Sc Medical Laboratory Technology, B.Sc Medical Imaging Technology, B.Sc Radiotherapy of FMCOAHS and Bachelor in Audiology Speech and Language Pathology of FMCOSH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/graduation-day-of-fr-muller-college-of-allied-health-sciences/article35989962.ece
19 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Adani UPCL donates for paediatric ICU in Udupi||Udupi Power Corporation Ltd., a subsidiary of Adani Power Ltd., operating a thermal power plant at Yellur village of Udupi taluk, on Wednesday donated Rs. 40 lakh to the Udupi district administration for establishing paediatric ICU ventilators in the district. Adani UPCL president and executive director Kishore Alva handed over a letter to Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha mentioning the transfer of the amount to the corporate social responsibility account of the Deputy Commissioner. The donation was made along with Adani Foundation, a CSR wing of the Adani Group, said a release. Such an ICU for children can help the administration in preparing for a possible third wave of the pandemic. The release quoted Mr. Alva as saying that the Udupi district administration and the Health Department represented to Adani seeking support in setting up paediatric ICU ventilators at the Udupi District Hospital. Accordingly, Adani Foundation has extended support to the district administration by contributing Rs. 40 lakh, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adani-upcl-donates-rs-40-lakh-for-paediatric-icu-in-udupi-hospital/article35989959.ece
19 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for wife’s murder||The Moodbidri police arrested Dinraj, husband of Sunita, 29, for allegedly murdering his wife in their house in Daregudde in Moobidri police station limits on Tuesday. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that Dinraj allegedly had a quarrel with his wife on Tuesday night and he hit her with a blunt object. Dinraj took Sunita to a nearby government hospital and reported that she was injured after a fall from the steps in the house. The doctors gave preliminary treatment and referred the case to the private hospital in Kuntikana in Mangaluru. They also informed the police. Mr. Kumar said Sunita died around midnight before she was brought to the private hospital. Her body was then brought to the mortuary of the Government Wenlock Hospital. As the death of Sunita was after 18 months of her marriage, the inquest was done in presence of Executive Magistrate. Mr. Kumar said Sunita had serious head injury and injury on other parts of the body. Following questioning of family members, police arrested Dinraj, who was found to have assaulted his wife that resulted in her death.+ Dinraj has also accused of misrepresenting about his wife’s injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-wifes-murder/article35989967.ece
19 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru-Madikeri highway work to begin from June 2022||Work on the Mysuru-Madikeri highway is expected to commence from June 2022 and is expected to cost around Rs. 3,883 crore. Under this segment, the stretch between Mysuru and Kushalnagar is being developed by the National Highways Authority of India under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said here on Wednesday that the proposed highway will commence from the deviation near Paschimavahini near Srirangapatna and the alignment has been approved in principal by the competent authority. The civil works will cost Rs. 2,733 crore while the cost of land acquisition has been pegged at Rs. 1,151 crore. On completion of the project, the travelling time between Bengaluru and Madikeri will be reduced to about 3.5 hours from around 6 hours at present. Objective He said the objective of the new highway is to skirt cities and towns and reduce congestion and air/noise pollution, enabling segregation of habitation and high speed traffic. The new highway will have three bypasses measuring 84 km. They include a bypass of 12.34 km at Kushalnagar, a length of 20.22 km at Periyapatna and a combined length of 51.43 km for Mysuru-Bilikere and Hunsur. He said the passenger car unit (PCU) on some of the existing highways mandated their upgradation to a six-lane road and this included NH 766 (previously NH 212) stretch between Mysuru and Nanjangud. This is part of the NH connecting Kerala border on the Karnataka side to Kollegal. Out of the 129.95 km stretch, 99.42 km was two-lane with paved shoulders and 30.53 km (between Mysuru and Nanjangud) has a four-lane configuration. This stretch has to be expanded to six lane considering the traffic density which is expected to further increase once the Multi Modal Logistic Park of the Container Corporation of India comes up near Tandavpura close to Nanjangud. Also, the Mysuru airport was located along the stretch and its expansion was imperative which would increase the traffic density, said Mr. Simha. The work is expected to cost Rs. 400 crore and the project was on the priority list of the Central government for the next financial year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-madikeri-highway-work-to-begin-from-june-2022/article35989987.ece
19 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No takers for Central scheme in Mysuru||A Central scheme offering 50% subsidy in freight charges for transportation of perishable agriculture produce by train has no takers from Mysuru region. Though a total of 13 trains carrying mangoes, mostly from Kolar region, were booked from Bengaluru Railway Division ever since the scheme was launched in October 2020, there has been no response from Mysuru division. The scheme launched by Union Ministry of Food Processing Industries, particularly in the wake of supply chain disruptions caused by COVID-19, covers more than 19 fruits and 13 vegetables among the notified crops that are eligible for 50% freight subsidy. The scheme named ‘Operation Greens – TOP to Total’ has listed mango, banana, guava, kiwi, litchi, papaya, mousambi, orange, kinnow, lime, lemon, pineapple, pomegranate, jackfruit, apple, almond, aonla, passion fruit and pears among fruits and french beans, bitter gourd, brinjal, capsicum, carrot, cauliflower, chillies (green), okra, cucumber, peas, garlic, potato, and tomato among vegetables. Though Mysuru and its hinterland in Chamarajanagar is known to grow a wide variety of vegetables, farmers’ leaders and sources in Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) said the chief market is Kerala. One of the reasons for the poor response to the Central scheme according to Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalapura Nagendra is the route of the train and the destination. The trains do not go to the markets for our produce, he said. Another reason is the condition imposed on the minimum quantity, which is 50 tonnes for an individual farmer. The scheme will be of little benefit to small and marginal farmers. A few crops of Mysuru region likely to have a good market elsewhere are ginger and coconut. But, they are not included among the notified crops for subsidised freight charges. Even the notified crops will become eligible for subsidy only if its price has collapsed and fallen into one the three categories viz. price is less than the average market price of the last three years at the time of harvest, prices have fallen more than 15% compared to last year’s market price at the time of harvest, and the price has fallen below the benchmark price for procurement fixed by the government. Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar said the scheme would benefit only large companies. Most of the farmers, who grow vegetables in the region, have small land-holdings, which is about 2 to 5 acres. “These small farmers will not transport their produce by rail to some other city and market it there. Most farmers sell their produce to the middlemen, who come to their farmland,” he said. The government has launched the scheme only to benefit the large companies, which run malls in different cities, he said. The scheme, however, permits even farmers’ co-operatives, groups of farmers, retailers and co-operative federations also apart from exporters and licensed commission agents to enjoy the subsidy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-takers-for-central-scheme-in-mysuru/article35989802.ece
19 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Transfer of anti-poaching personnel condemned||The reshuffling of more than 200 Anti-Poaching Camp (APC) staff in Bandipur Tiger Reserve has drawn a strong rebuke from a member of the State Wildlife Board who says the move was ‘imprudent’. Bandipur is home to nearly 130 tigers. The APC personnel, spread across the national park, prevent the entry of unauthorised persons into the protected area. Their presence acts as a deterrent to poachers Excellent park management coupled with timely action through anti-poaching camp personnel have ensured a robust population of tigers over the years. Hence, State Wildlife Board member Joseph Hoover has taken exception to reshuffling of APC personnel. He said the move was ill-conceived as some of the personnel have been shifted about 30 km away from their homes or earlier postings. This, he said, was fraught with danger as most of the APC personnel are people from adjoining villages who are absorbed as forest watchers, and this also helps maintain a harmonious relationship with local communities. “It helps to cool frayed tempers in man-animal conflict situations,” said Mr. Hoover. S.R.Natesh, Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, justified the reshuffling as an administrative move taken in the larger interest of ensuing that APC personnel do not feel jaded or stagnant having worked in the same area for years. Mr. Hoover said relocation of staff is the prerogative of the field director of the tiger reserve and nobody is questioning the administrative powers of the senior officers concerned. “We are questioning the ill-timed move to relocate frontline staff, who are literally the eyes, nose and ears of our wildlife landscapes. They are more critical to forests than officers. Of late, there have been frequent violations of wildlife regulations,” said Mr. Hoover. The officials concerned could have relocated these personnel either within the same range or to an adjacent range. Instead, forest watchers have been transferred to distant anti-poaching camps, some of which are 30 km away, according to Mr. Hoover. Officers who have had a long tenure should be relocated, not temporary forest watchers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transfer-of-anti-poaching-personnel-condemned/article35989982.ece
19 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tribal rights activists meet DC||Adivasis from Hunsur met the Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Goutham on Tuesday and sought the implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act 2006. A delegation comprising NGOs and representatives of the adivasis also expressed their dismay over rejection of applications of beneficiaries covered under the Act. They said 1,122 applications were rejected on a single day on flimsy grounds by the Forest Rights Committee and urged the Deputy Commissioner to rescind the move and direct the committee to grant the rights to the applicants. The activists spearheading the tribals cause said more than, 2700 appeals against the decision to deny them the benefits under the FRA, were filed by adivasis from H.D. Kote but it was not being reconsidered. S. Sreekanth of DEED said the Deputy Commissioner has promised to convene a meeting to resolve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-rights-activists-meet-dc/article35989983.ece
19 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pratap Simha’s remarks draw flak||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha’s remarks that people sympathetic to Taliban and supportive of their mindset were in India as well and that the developments in Afghanistan underlines the necessity for Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) have triggered a backlash from the Congress. Mr. Simha said at a press meet in Mysuru on Wednesday that CAA will help people suffering under Taliban to come to India. But when pointed out that CAA excludes Muslims, Mr. Simha said there are any number of Muslim countries such as Pakistan, Iran, and Uzbekistan and they can grant them asylum. Mr. Simha said Sharia Law and the Taliban mindset went against the tenets of human rights and the developments in Afghanistan and the way people are fleeing that country is a testimony to this. There are sympathizers of such beliefs in India as well and if left unchecked it could be problematic in the long run. Taliban could create problems elsewhere and India should remain cautious, Mr. Simha added. Responding to it the KPCC Working President and former MP R. Dhruvanarayan said RSS displays the mindset of Taliban and those supportive of the organisation should introspect. He said RSS was as rigid in its beliefs as the Taliban and Mr. Simha’s linking CAA to Afghanistan developments was erroneous. The CAA was introduced by the BJP in pursuance of its policy to check Muslim migration and hence its communal agenda was equally dangerous, said Mr. Dhruvanarayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratap-simhas-remarks-draw-flak/article35989988.ece
19 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘There is no dissatisfaction among Ministers or MLAs’||MLA and Chairman of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board Narasimha Nayak (Rajugowda) has said that there is no special meaning in what Minister for Forest B.S. Anand Singh had said: “Abhi picture baaki hai” (the film is yet to end). He was talking to reporters in Yargol village in Yadgir district on Wednesday. “There is no dissatisfaction among Ministers about the posts allotted to them and the MLAs for not having been inducted into the Cabinet,” he said. When asked about his stand, Mr. Nayak said that he was fully satisfied with the present position and that he will extend support to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in ensuring the development of the State. Mr. Nayak refrained from saying anything on the discussions that were held between Mr. Bommai and Mr. Singh as he was the one who took Mr. Singh to the Chief Minister by helicopter a couple of days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-dissatisfaction-among-ministers-or-mlas/article35989798.ece
19 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Opposition parties will take in part in meeting by Sonia Gandhi’||Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary and Karnataka in-charge, has said that all opposition parties will take part in the meeting which will be held by AICC chief Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on August 20, to discuss about strategies to defeat BJP in the next Parliament elections. He was talking with presspersons in Raichur as he was here to attend the Kalyana Karnataka regional-level representatives’ meeting on Tuesday. Mr. Surjewala accused Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman of making false statement on oil bonds and said that the Union government has not been informing the country on gaining thousands of crore rupees by imposing heavy taxes on oil prices. “She should come on a open stage to discuss this. I will take retirement from politics if she can prove all the allegation against the Congress,” he said. He said that around 62 crore farmers were thrown out to the streets because of the anti-farm policies of the Union government. “The government should immediately attend the grievance of the agrarian sectors,” he stressed. Attacking the State government, Mr. Surjewala said that the BJP government adopted a stepmotherly treatment towards Kalyana Karnataka in all sectors. “It made a promise to release Rs. 1,500 crore to the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) every year but had released only Rs. 630 crore and also discriminated in giving opportunities to the MLAs from the region to become a Minister,” he added. Mr. Surjewala said that government has failed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. “People died on the streets without bed, oxygen, and other medical facilities.” Terming the State government illegal, Mr. Surjewala said: “The BJP has not come to power by the votes of the people. The former Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa, who was allegedly facing corruption charges, was asked to step down but Central leaders have not revealed the proper reasons behind such changes.” D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, alleged that the State government has suppressed the death rates due to COVID-19. When asked about the meeting, he said that they discussed about strengthening the party from the ground level to fight against the State government. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-parties-will-take-in-part-in-meeting-by-sonia-gandhi/article35989800.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PAC finds several lapses||“What is more intriguing is the fact that the same lowest bidder (L1), who delivered Karnataka’s order at Rs. 81.64 per kit, has supplied the same kits at Rs. 69 per kit to the Uttar Pradesh government. Why the differential rates? Why did the department allow?” Mr. Reddy asked. With regard to procurement of haematology cell counters, the PAC has found that Karnataka has spent an excess of Rs. 25 crore in the procurement of 1,195 three-part haematology cell counters. “While Karnataka paid Rs. 2,96,180 per unit, Himachal Pradesh government has purchased the same equipment at Rs. 1,30,000 per unit,” the PAC chairman said. Also, the State spent an excess of Rs. 6.18 crore in the procurement of 165 5-part haematology cell counters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-finds-several-lapses/article35989537.ece
19 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tourism still in a slumber in Munnar||Though tourism centres have been opened after the second COVID-induced lockdown, related activities have remained at a low ebb in Munnar, the main tourism destination in the district. Stakeholders say the income they get a day from their establishments at the tourism centres does not meet even their basic expenses. The main tourism centres in Munnar include Rajamala, the natural habitat of Nilgiri tahr; Mattupetty; Top Station; Kundala dam; and Lakkam waterfalls. At Eravikulam The Eravikulam National Park (ENP) now gets fewer than 500 visitors a day. The ENP used to witness a daily tourist inflow of over 1,000 in the main tourist seasons of Onam and Christmas/New Year. Boat ride At Mattupetty, fewer than 100 persons opt for a boat ride. In the other tourist destinations such as the hydel park, and Anayirangal and Chenkulam dams, the average number of tourists a day is below 50. An official of the ENP said they were expecting more tourists in the coming days. An official of Kanan Devan Hills Plantations Ltd. (KDHP) said the company had set aside seven estate bungalows for tourists in Munnar. There were only two bookings after the lockdown, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-still-in-a-slumber-in-munnar/article35989912.ece
19 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Swadesi supermarket at Thodupuzha||The Kerala Agriculture Development Society (KADS) started a Swadesi supermarket at the village square on the Vengallur-Mangattukavala road at Thodupuzha in Idukki on Tuesday. The initiative aims at procuring and selling organic farm produce. There is a separate unit for the sale of value-added products procured from across the State. It will market products of small-scale entrepreneurs and fruits procured from farmers. Vegetables produced in Mankulam, Vattavada, Kanthallur and Marayur will be made available at the village square.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swadesi-supermarket-at-thodupuzha/article35989914.ece
19 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Shram Devi award for KDHP workers||Two women workers of the Kannan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) company in Munnar have been awarded the Prime Minister’s Shram Devi award. According to KDHP officials Y. Maheshwari, 48, an employee of the Chenduvarai tea estate division and Rajakumari, 37, an employee of the Kannimala top division, were given the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shram-devi-award-for-kdhp-workers/article35989915.ece
19 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Training for people’s representatives||The Responsible Tourism Mission is organising a training programme for people’s representatives of civic bodies in the State to execute responsible tourism projects under each civic body with the support of the public. Those representatives who have been elected during the 2020 to 2025 period may apply for the programme. The representatives will execute and supervise the responsible tourism projects of tourism destinations to be set up in civic bodies after the training programme. Those who would wish to participate in the training programme should register their names before August 31. For registration, either visithttps://www. keralatourism. org/responsible-tourismor contact phone number: 9544313351.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-peoples-representatives/article35989861.ece
19 August 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Health dept invites applications for contract posts||The Health department has invited applications from eligible candidates for the posts of medical officers, paediatricians, dental surgeons, VBD consultants, staff nurses, junior public health nurses, special educators, laboratory technicians, and attenders on a contract basis. For details contact: 04936-202771.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-dept-invites-applications-for-contract-posts/article35989874.ece
19 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Century-old palace to be demolished||The century-old Pazhassi Padinjare Kovilakom, also called Kottayam Padinjare Kovilakom, near Mattannur in Kannur district, where the descendants of the legendary freedom fighter Veera Kerala Pazhassi Raja have been living, is set to be demolished, ending the long-drawn efforts to preserve the building. The local representative, municipality, and public representatives had formed a committee in an attempt to conserve the century-old palace, which was built around 118 years ago by the royal family. One of the owners of the Kolvilakom, Ravi Verma Raja, told The Hindu that they had initiated the move to demolish the building on a contract of Rs. 6 lakh. The decision to demolish the building was taken by the family members as they could not maintain it. However, they put on hold the decision after people raised the issue with the government. However, since the original palace of Pazhassi Raja was demolished by the East India Company and the road from Thalassery to Mysore laid over it, the government refused to support its conservation, citing that the present building was one where his descendants lived and did not have a direct link to the Raja. ‘Only solution’ “The building is weak, and many portions of the building are in a dilapidated condition and falling apart. If it cannot be maintained, the only solution is to demolish it,” Mr. Ravi Verma Raja said. However, P. Jayarajan, convener of the regional chapter of the Indian National Trust for Arts and Cultural Heritage, said the building had a lot of historical relevance. He said then Malabar Collector, William Logan, had allotted the land for the construction of the Padinjare Kovilakom to compensate for the demolition of Pazhassi Raja’s Kovilakam. Eminent musicians such as Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar and many others had visited the palace and performed here. Similarly, there were ponds believed to have been used by Pazhassi Raja, several temples, and other structures that had historical relevance surrounding the Kovilakam, said Mr. Jayaraj. If the structure was maintained, it would help preserve history and bring tourists to these places, he said. Pazhassi Raja began his revolt following the unfriendly revenue policies of the East India Company. He launched a guerilla war against the British in the jungles of Wayanad. Pazhassi Raja was killed in 1805 in a gunfight with the soldiers of the East India Company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/century-old-palace-to-be-demolished/article35989865.ece
19 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Court adjourns police plea in vloggers’ case||The Thalassery District Sessions Court on Wednesday adjourned till August 24 a police petition seeking cancellation of the bail granted to the vlogger brothers, Libin and Ebin, who are owners of the EBull Jet Youtube channel. During the hearing, the police requested the court to allow them to question them in custody to investigate their involvement in drug trafficking. The Kannur Town Police also filed a petition in the court seeking cancellation of their bail. Meanwhile, the brothers alleged that they were being persecuted, and that there was a conspiracy behind it. They alleged that there were some mafias trying to trap them with the support of some officials. The police were propagating that they were part of a gang involved in drugs when they were actually campaigning against it. The investigating team is trying to fabricate evidence, they said. They would not back down, the brothers said in another video they released on Youtube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-adjourns-police-plea-in-vloggers-case/article35989873.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||London-Kochi flight resumes after a gap||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) received its first direct flight from London in around 18 months, as Air India Dream Liner AI-150 touched down at the airport in the early hours of Wednesday. The flight, with 221 passengers aboard, landed at 3.18 a.m., and the CIAL authorities welcomed the crew and passengers. The return flight, AI-149, took off for Heathrow at 5.57 a.m. with 232 passengers on board. A communication from CIAL said Air India and the airport authority had slated three direct London services from August 22. The flights operate on Sundays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Fully booked CIAL sources said the flights to London had evoked great response, and that all the flights for the coming weeks had been fully booked. They added that the Kochi-London sector had been a much favoured one. ‘Stimulating tourism’ CIAL managing director S. Suhas said the updated schedule would stimulate aviation and tourism sectors in the time of distress.  “CIAL is delighted to host three flights from London a week. This is the highest number of flight services that have been scheduled in this sector in the history of CIAL. It gives a shot in the arm for efforts by the government of Kerala and CIAL to establish frequent connectivity to Europe,” he said in a statement. CIAL has waived parking and landing fee to airlines operating in the European sector as part of its persistent efforts to improve global connectivity. COVID tests India currently belongs to the U.K. government’s Amber list. Entering the U.K. from places on the Amber list requires three COVID-19 tests — the first, at least three days prior to departure; the second, on the day of arrival or before day two; and the third, on or after day eight. Home quarantine for 10 days is also mandatory. For U.K. nationals who are fully vaccinated, neither quarantine nor the day eight test is required. People who have been fully vaccinated in the United States or some European countries will not need to quarantine themselves when they arrive in England or take the day eight test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-receives-first-flight-from-uk-in-18-months/article35989889.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||25% of population in Ernakulam fully vaccinated||Around 25.41% of the target population in Ernakulam district received both the doses of COVID-19 vaccine, according to latest estimates by the Health Department. Also, 76.73% of the target population received the first dose. A total of 18,083 of the partially vaccinated and 6,988 of the fully vaccinated contracted COVID-19. Of these, 3,619 cases come under the category of breakthrough infections. A total of 19.33% cases reported in July were among the vaccinated. From August 1 to August 13, 25.22% of the cases were among the vaccinated. The total number of cases reported during this period were 29,387. The elderly constituted 15.28% and children 18.19% of the infected from August 1 to 14. The number of patients in intensive care unit was 287 as on August 14. Of them, only two are in the paediatric age group. Mobile teams The number of primary contacts identified per case continues to remain low. The Health Department has recommended strengthening contact tracing to check the spread of the pandemic, as missing contacts will continue to spread infection. Testing should be increased in local bodies with a high number of active cases per million population or where test positivity rate (TPR) is above 15%. Sentinel testing should be increased in areas with less than 5% TPR and in places that reported very low number of new cases in the past two weeks. Mobile teams should be deployed to the maximum extent possible, and testing of persons with high social contacts should be the key focus. Test-isolate-treat and vaccination should go hand in hand, the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25-of-population-in-ernakulam-fully-vaccinated/article35989892.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Drive against illicit liquor, drug trade sees results||The Excise Department has embarked on a sustained special drive to rein in the movement and distribution of spurious liquor and drugs in Ernakulam district during this festive season. The drive, which was launched on July 24 and will last till August 25, has already showing results. “Among others, we seized 197.87 grams of MDMA in two separate cases in which we seized 23.45 grams and 174.11 grams. Anything in excess of 10 grams is considered commercial quantity when it comes to MDMA,” said N. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. Since the launch of the drive, the department has registered 102 Abkari cases—36 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Drugs (NDPS) Act and 434 under the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products Act. Over 6 kg of ganja and one gram of brown sugar have also been seized during the ongoing special drive. “We have deployed two five-member striking units along the western and eastern areas of the district for real-time operations. We are also operating a round-the-clock control room at our district headquarters at Kacherippady. Alerts received at the control room are passed on to the striking units immediately and acted upon without any delay,” said Mr. Kumar. The department is also conducting combined patrol with multiple agencies. So far, 61 combined raids have been held in association with the police, 12 with the Forest Department, nine with the Railway Protection Force, and two each with the Marine Enforcement, Coastal Police, Revenue Department, and the dog squad. Patrol has been intensified in the sea and along coastal areas. Sniffer dogs have been roped in for detecting potential drug smuggling through trains. So far, five vehicles have been seized under the Abkari Act and six under the NDPS Act. “Since colleges and other educational institutions have been closed, many of them have now turned into hubs of anti-social elements. We are conducting special drives focusing on them,” said Mr. Kumar. Besides, surprise checks are held at migrant labour camps. The entire Excise force has been mobilised in view of sustained operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-against-illicit-liquor-drug-trade-sees-results/article35989882.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hard times again for Onathappan makers||Along with flowers, Onathappan, the conical little towers made of clay, is an essential part of Onam rituals. The clay models are placed right in the middle of floral patterns (pookkalams) that are made throughout the Onam week. Around 20 families at Kolathuruthu, near Muvattupuzha, make a living out of selling clay pots and pans. One of the richest seasons used to be Onam when the traditional Onathappans are sold in relatively large numbers to make up for the less lucrative seasons. The Velar community at Kolathuruthu is in dire straits now. While the cost of natural clay has gone up exponentially, members of the community are unable to sell products owing to the pandemic. Sindhu Mohanan, an Onathappan maker, said she was finding it difficult to sell products because of heavy restrictions. Moreover, the authorities have clamped down on wayside sale points. Thankappan Kunduvelil from Kolathuruthy appealed to the authorities to help clay workers do business in keeping with COVID-19 restrictions, so that they can overcome the crisis to a certain extent. He also said that the sellers did not want to inconvenience law enforcement agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-times-again-for-onathappan-makers/article35989877.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Decentralised approach of Marady panchayat bears fruit||A well-oiled decentralised approach helped Marady panchayat in Ernakulam district to ensure 100% vaccination coverage by giving the first dose to the target population. Marady was the first among the civic bodies, including Keerampara and Mookkannoor panchayats, to achieve the target. According to official estimates, around 13,000 of the target population above 18 years in Marady received the first dose. Nearly 40% of them have received both the doses. “There was not a single day lost in administering the doses after the vaccination drive was launched in the civic body. A concerted approach proved beneficial in achieving the target,” said Dr. K. Amarlal, medical officer. The panchayat joined hands with the Health Department to deploy teachers, students, and volunteers to book online slots. “These groups were ready with details of those above 60 years of age in the initial phase whenever the slots were open for booking. Technical issues faced by people aged above 60 years in booking online slots were addressed through this approach,” said Dr. Amarlal. Marady panchayat president O.P. Baby said public announcements were made to ensure vaccination for all beneficiaries. “There have been occasions when we pursued people relentlessly to receive the vaccine,” he added. Mr. Baby said there was no jumping the queue or recommendations by representatives of political parties in allotment of tokens for spot registration. “This turned beneficial, as the eligible received the vaccine judiciously,” he informed. Dr. Amarlal said the panchayat had also been successful in managing the COVID-19 situation. “The strategy has been to immediately shift a positive case in a family to the panchayat’s domiciliary care centre. The person was discharged from the centre only after testing negative. This helped in containing spread within the family,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decentralised-approach-of-marady-panchayat-bears-fruit/article35989893.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Culling to curb peafowl threat?||Growing peafowl population should be controlled by culling and other scientific measures, suggests a draft master plan for addressing human-wildlife conflict. The plan, being prepared by the Kerala Forest Department, will be released within the public domain for discussion shortly. After wild boar and monkeys, peafowls are ranked as the wild species causing maximum damage to crops in the feedback received from the general public, say senior forest officials involved in the preparation of the document. Legal protection Peacocks enjoy the highest legal protection among the avian species in the country as they have been accorded the status of the national bird and included in the Schedule One of the Wildlife Protection Act. Incidentally, a couple on a motorcycle met with an accident at Thrissur on Monday after a flying peacock hit the rider on his chest. While the man died in the accident, his wife had sustained injuries.  Culling is one of the options to keep its population under check and it would require the permission of the Chief Wildlife Warden to gun them down, indicate Forest officials. The number of birds that need to be culled has to be fixed in each location. The permission to gun them down can be given to licensed gunners or uniformed staff, suggests the plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/culling-to-curb-peafowl-threat/article35989921.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LPG consumption on the revival path||Commercial cooking gas consumption in the State is on a revival path, with the sector registering 44% growth between April and July this year compared to the slump of around 30% in sales during the same period in 2020. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation, and Hindustan Petroleum account for over 95% of commercial LPG sales in the State. They account for the sale of around 20,000 (19 kg) cylinders per day. The growth in LPG business has been backed by a range of new products from the Indane brand of IOC, which includes Indane Chhotu (5-kg cylinders), Indane Xtra TeJ, and Indane Nanocut. They were launched to encouraging response from consumers, said IOC sources. They added that there were around one crore LPG consumers in the State, with IOC accounting for 51 lakh consumers and the other oil companies serving the rest. Around 2.20 lakh cylinders for domestic use are supplied in the State daily, of which, IOC accounts for approximately 1.10 lakh cylinders. Domestic cylinders weigh 14.2 kg each. COVID-19 curbs and work-from-home system have triggered a rise in demand for cooking gas in households in 2020. The growth continued into the initial months of the current financial year. Indane Xtra TeJ and Indane Nanocut are normal LPG dozed with nano additives, which serve as catalysts. Xtra TeJ is developed by the research and development division of IOC and ensures a higher flame temperature of up to 80 degrees Celsius compared to normal LPG. It also reduces LPG consumption by 5% to 7% and cooking time by round 14%, IOC claimed. The products come in 19-kg, 47.5-kg and 425-kg cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-consumption-on-the-revival-path/article35990023.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Held for assaulting cop||The Maradu police on Wednesday arrested a man on the charge of assaulting an Assistant Sub Inspector for questioning him for not wearing mask. The arrested is Suhail, 39, of Mannarkkad near Palakkad. The incident occurred at the Vyttila Mobility Hub on Wednesday evening around 7.30 p.m. The officer reportedly sustained serious injuries to his face.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-for-assaulting-cop/article35989878.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Photographer found hanging in studio||A photographer was found hanging at his studio in Ezhikkara near North Paravur in the early hours of Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Vijin kumar, 37, of Ezhikkara. The North Paravur police said that the death was prima facie a case of suicide. According to the police, he had stayed back in the studio reportedly to do some pending work. Although a relative had gone to the studio late in the night he returned on seeing the light under the impression that he was working. Later, he was found dead around 3 a.m. He was reportedly facing financial difficulties and that is suspected to have led him to the extreme step. The exact cause of death, however, can be confirmed only after the autopsy, said the police. Suicide prevention helpline: 04842540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/photographer-found-hanging-in-studio/article35989886.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘131 encroachments along Chilavannoor lake’||A survey by Revenue officials has brought to light as many as 131 encroachments along Chilavannoor lake, according to V4 People Party activists. Those who have encroached upon the lake include prominent industrialists, relatives of politicians, and civil servants. Clubs and apartment complexes too have encroached upon the public property, said Nipun Cherian, president of the party. The survey was conducted during 2017-19 by officials led by the Fort Kochi Sub Collector. The survey, it appeared, had omitted major encroachments. Officials failed to make an assessment of the Chilavannoor canal, and attempts were made to protect a few encroachers, party leaders alleged. Details of the survey were deliberately not released to protect encroachers. The survey failed to mention the names of a few violators, they said. The party demanded steps to restore the lake to its original extent and book encroachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/131-encroachments-along-chilavannoor-lake/article35989879.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 10.5 crore sanctioned for new Pizhala bridge||The Rs. 10.5-crore project to rebuild the Cheriya Kadamakudy - Pizhala bridge has received administrative sanction. K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA, said the approval for the project would enable smooth transport in Kadamakudy. A communication from the Public Relations Department said the reconstruction of the bridge was a long-standing demand of the islanders. Residents now manage with a two-metre-wide footpath, which is in a shambles. The Navy had built a Bailey bridge in 2019. The new bridge will be 60 metres long and 6.45 metres wide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-105-crore-sanctioned-for-new-pizhala-bridge/article35989881.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,636 new cases in Ernakulam||As many as 2,636 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. The number of those who got infected through local contact in the district stood at 2,591. The source of infection in 34 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 12.8% in the district. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (123), Nellikuzhi (74), Kumbalanghi (61), Kalamassery (55), Karumaloor (52), Vengola (52), Thuravoor (51), Ashamanoor (49), Edathala (47), Karukutty (46), Kizhakkambalam (45), Keezhmad (45), Payipra (45), Thripunithura (44), and Palluruthy (43).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2636-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article35989884.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Depositors’ money used to amass property: ED||Thomas Daniel, managing partner of the Popular Finance Group, purchased properties in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh worth several crores of rupees using the money of depositors, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) told the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases here on Wednesday. The other accused in the case is his daughter and company chief executive officer Rinu Mariam Thomas. Public deposits The payments for the purchase of holdings were made through cheque, bank transfer, demand draft and cash. All the money came from the public deposits in the Popular Finance bank accounts. The exact trail of utilisation of funds was not divulged by the accused during the interrogation and hence their custodial interrogation was essential, the agency argued. The accused cheated the depositors and utilised their money for amassing wealth. It became evident that the affairs of the group were entirely controlled by Mr. Daniel. The Konni police had reported that the accused cheated around 3,000 depositors to the tune of Rs. 1,000 crore, the Enforcement Directorate submitted. The accused, according to the agency, also indulged in money laundering activities. It appeared that the accused had a tendency to commit economic fraud with immaculate planning and use of deception and cheating, the agency submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/depositors-money-used-to-amass-property-ed/article35989924.ece
19 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Elected Mayors’ Council president||Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar was elected president of All Kerala Mayors’ Council. Prasanna Earnest, Kollam Mayor, is the secretary of the organisation, according to a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected-mayors-council-chief/article35989880.ece
19 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kudumbashree’s ABC units find the going tough||The Shraddha Kudumbashree unit in Ernakulam has been carrying out the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme since 2018, providing livelihood to 15 people. The unit had bought a multispecialty mobile unit in 2019 investing nearly Rs. 1 crore. However, today, Shraddha is one of the 30 units across Kerala whose members have been hit by a court order suspending the transfer of funds to Kudumbashree since it is not registered with the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). The Animal Husbandry Department had trained hundreds of women for the programme and the units have so far sterilised around 80,000 strays. The court order came at a time when Kudumbashree was providing ABC services to 279 local bodies in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, and Wayanad districts. “All our workers are now jobless and they don’t have other options due to the COVID-19 outbreak. We have no means to repay the loan or meet the other expenses, including rent. I am a veterinary nurse and I have also done a course in ABC management from Ootty. All our handlers are trained and we follow all the norms. Despite all this, animal welfare groups approached the court saying we are not qualified enough. We suspect some conspiracy in the move,” says Priya Prakashan of Shraddha. Deemed unfit While the local bodies seem happy about the work and find it more efficient compared to other NGOs, animal welfare organisations feel Kudumbashree is unfit to implement the programme. “Kudumbashree units engaged in ABC are not properly trained and they handle dogs without any love or compassion. They are focussing on quantity, not quality and there is no effort to sensitise people to what is being done,” says Sally Varma, Honorary Animal Welfare Officer, AWBI. She adds that it will be better if the local bodies engage experienced NGOs who are equipped to do the work. Empanelled doctors According to Kudumbashree officials, all units have trained dog handlers and empanelled doctors with Veterinary Council of India registration. “All our units have been working competently and our failure percentage is negligible. We are continuing the work in local bodies that had already transferred the funds. We have initiated all procedures in order to obtain recognition of the Animal Welfare Board of India,” says A. Sanjeev Kumar, Programme Officer (Animal Husbandry), Kudumbashree State Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashrees-abc-units-find-the-going-tough/article35989926.ece
19 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Financial aid given to kidney patients||Food safety campaign should be extended to ensure toxin-free food, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said here on Wednesday. Distributing financial assistance to kidney patients as part of district panchayat’s Jeevanam project, he said safe food and water can prevent many diseases. “Renal disorders have become very common these days and the treatment is very expensive. The Kollam district panchayat’s project that offers support to patients thus becomes very relevant,” said the Minister, handing over Rs. 1 lakh to 20 persons who underwent kidney transplant. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel said very soon dialysis would be provided to all patients irrespective of income level through taluk hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/financial-aid-given-to-kidney-patients/article35989918.ece
19 August 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Milma outlets to be open till 9 p.m. for two days||Milma has made all arrangements to ensure the supply of milk, curd, and other dairy products through its sales network to meet the festival demand. As part of this, around 60 sales outlets in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha districts will remain open from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. on August 19 and 20 while on August 21, they will function from 5 a.m. to 1 p.m. Apart from these, all Milma stalls under Kollam Dairy will remain open during these hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-outlets-to-be-open-till-9-pm-for-two-days/article35989916.ece
19 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||EPFO grievances redressal programme||Nidhi Apke Nikat, the monthly grievances redressal programme of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), will be held through Google Meet on September 10 from 12 noon and as offline from 3 p.m. Applications along with mobile number and mail ID should reach the Public Relations Officer, Regional Office (EPFO), Chinnakada, Kollam - 691001 by August 31. For details, contact 0472767645, 04742764980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/epfo-grievances-redressal-programme/article35989917.ece
19 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kerala Congress plans rejig to quell infighting||In what is being seen as a bid to contain the resentment within and revitalise the party after a below-par performance in this year’s Assembly elections, the Kerala Congress (KC) faction led by P.J. Joseph is initiating a thorough revamp of the outfit. The exercise, according to party leaders, will begin with emergency meetings of the party district committees, starting August 22. It will be followed by a membership campaign and organisational elections next year. The reorganisation comes at a time when the regional party seemed drifting towards yet another phase of infighting along factional lines. Confirming the move, party working chairman P.C. Thomas said the party high-power committee, which had met at Kottayam a few days ago, decided to revamp the party committees right from the ward to the district levels. The process will take place simultaneously during the scheduled meeting of the district committees, to be also attended by representatives of the KC State leadership. “The whole process will be completed within three months, and we hope to conduct the organisational elections about six months after the membership campaign,” he said. Naming of posts As to the resentment within the party leaders over a reorganisation of its central leadership, Mr. Thomas clarified that the differences pertained only to the naming of certain organisational positions. Official sources, however, said the issues within the party were unlikely to end anytime soon. “While framing the new party constitution, the leadership has already given an undertaking to the Election Commission of India to hold the organisational elections within a year. But, in view of the widening differences, the party chairman has now proposed it as a cure for all ills. With this, the disgruntled leaders will have to stop raising complaints over ill-treatment,” observed a senior party leader. In April this year, Mr. Joseph formalised its merger with the Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas and appointed him as the working chairman. Mons Joseph, a Joseph group strongman from Kaduthuruthy, was elected executive chairman while Joy Abraham was made secretary general. Reservations aired A group of leaders under senior leader Francis George and Johnny Nellore later came out in the open, expressing reservations about some of these appointments. The two leaders joined Mr. Joseph as part of the veteran leader's efforts at expansion by bringing in new members and shifting old alliances so as to gain an upper hand over the KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani. The process, according to dissident leaders, has disrupted the hierarchical order of the party, while the jumbo committees have rendered it unwieldy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-congress-plans-rejig-to-quell-infighting/article35989913.ece
19 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More wards in Kozhikode district to be under lockdown||All the wards in Thurayoor and Koorachund grama panchayats will be under lockdown as the weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) is over 8 in these places. Fifty-five wards in other local bodies too will have strict restrictions in place now. This is a significant rise as last week, only three grama panchayats and 37 wards in other local bodies had restrictions. The new guidelines were announced by the district administration on Wednesday. Ten wards in Koduvally Municipality (1,7,10,11,22,23,29,31,33,34), nine wards each in Koyilandy Municipality (5,13,22,24, 26,35, 36,38,39), Mukkom Municipality (1,3,7,11,17,18, 20,31,32), and Feroke Municipality (3,5,11,13,14, 16,17,20,24), seven in Ramanattukara (3,5,13,15,17,21, 25), five wards in Vadakara Municipality (5,6,8,20,28), four in Payyoli (24,30,31,34), and two wards in Kozhikode Corporation (2,3) too would face curbs on social life. All these wards would barricaded and entry restricted. Those who are infected with the virus and their contacts should be in quarantine. All the residents of the above-mentioned wards and grama panchayats would be tested in a week. Only those shops selling essential stuff and drugs would remain open between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. Hotels and restaurants can have home delivery. Travelling between 7 p.m. and 5 a.m. are banned in these places. Meanwhile, the daily test positivity ratio (TPR) for COVID-19 surged to 22.22% when 2,821 fresh cases of the infection were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 12,937 samples were tested. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that 2,794 people acquired the infection through local transmission and the source of 24 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 471 cases of locally acquired infections, Koorachund 85, Olavanna 78, Feroke 71, Koyilandy 66, Vadakara 64, Puthuppady 63, Kayakkodi 62, Omassery 51, and Chelannur 50. As many as 2,207 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 26,515.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-wards-in-kozhikode-district-to-be-under-lockdown/article35989869.ece
19 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML firm, Haritha appears to be isolated||The leadership of the Haritha, the women’s wing of the Indian Union Muslim League’s (IUML) student organisation Muslim Students Federation (MSF) now facing disciplinary action by the party leadership, appears to be isolated as no party leaders have come to its defence despite its claim that a section of the IUML leaders have offered moral support to it. The IUML leadership on Tuesday decided to freeze the State committee of the organisation. The action followed its leaders’ reported refusal to abide by the party’s request to withdraw a complaint they had lodged with the State Women’s Commission against MSF State president P.K. Navas, its Malappuram district president Kabeer Kuthparamba and district general secretary V.A. Wahab. Fathima Thahiliya, vice president of the MSF, said here on Wednesday that 11 district committees of the MSF had expressed support for the women leaders. At a press conference, Ms. Thahiliya said that the Haritha leaders were saddened by the IUML leadership’s decision. ‘Decision binding’ IUML MLA M.K. Muneer and Noorbina Rasheed, general secretary of the Women’s League, the women’s wing of the IUML, defended the disciplinary action against the Haritha. “The Women’s League is not aware of the reported complaint lodged by the Haritha with the party leadership,” said Ms. Rasheed while talking to reporters. The party’s decision was binding on all workers, she said, adding that she did not know the basis on which the party took its disciplinary action. Ms. Rasheed asked why there was delay on the part of the Haritha leaders in complaining against alleged sexually derogatory remarks. Dr. Muneer said the Haritha leaders should not have taken the steps that would be used by the party’s enemies. Ms. Thahiliya alleged that the Haritha leaders had been victims of a vicious attack on the social media as well, which had disturbed their personal as well as family life. They had approached the State women’s panel as it was part of the legal system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-firm-haritha-appears-to-be-isolated/article35989923.ece
19 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CU declares UG sixth semester results||The University of Calicut has declared the results of a section of sixth semester undergraduate courses, just 40 days after the exams were held. According to sources, 12,470 of the 15,811 students cleared the B.A. exams in the regular stream, registering a pass percentage of 79%. The pass percentage for B.Com. was 86% when 13,823 of the 16,070 students cleared the exams. The pass percentage for BBA and BCA were 83% and 79%, respectively. The results of B.Sc. exams in the regular stream are yet to be announced. As many as 437 of the 1,291 B.Sc. students who wrote the exams in the distance education mode cleared them (34%). The pass percentage for B.Com. and BBA, respectively, were 56% and 57%. The results of distance education B.A. exams are yet to be declared. The results of B.A. (Afzal-Ul-Ulama) preliminary exams were declared on August 16. Officials claimed that the pending results would be declared by the month-end itself. Final semester exams for undergraduate courses concluded only on July 8 this year. Notification for posts The University of Calicut will issue notification for the posts of Controller of Examinations and Finance Officer soon. C.C. Babu, the present Controller of Examinations, is on deputation. The university is planning to have a permanent official appointed to the post, like what was done in the case of the Registrar. This was decided at a meeting of the Syndicate held on Wednesday. The Lakshadweep Administration had urged the university to relocate its B.Ed. centre located on the islands. A Syndicate sub-committee would visit the place to examine the issue. The newly launched postgraduate integrated courses in Bioscience, Chemistry, Physics, and Development Studies would begin this year itself. The Centres for Computer Science and Information Technology under the university in Thrissur, Wayanad, Perambra, and Palakkad would soon start the B.Sc. (IT) course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-declares-ug-sixth-semester-results-in-40-days/article35989868.ece
19 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kerala revives project for setting up AIIMS||After losing an opportunity to set up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Kerala seven years ago, the State government has once again set the ball rolling for establishing the premier medical institute on the unused 150 acres of land on the Kinalur Industrial Estate, near Balussery, in Kozhikode district. The proposed AIIMS, which would benefit the people of six northern districts, has been on the back burner for long. The first Narendra Modi Ministry announced to establish AIIMS-like institutes in 10 States in 2014. New Union Health Minister Mansukh L. Mandaviya has agreed to the proposal if suitable land is made available. Team visits site A team led by Principal Health Secretary Rajan N. Khobragade visited Kinalur, about 25 km from here, recently. A report would be submitted to the Ministry shortly for assessment, officials said. The government had in its possession over 300 acres of land at Kinalur acquired from the Cochin Malabar Estates. Of this, 30 acres had been allotted to the Usha School of Athletics, another five acres for a government college, two acres for a substation and 100 acres to the Industries Department for promotion of small and medium scale enterprises. Kinalur would be an ideal location for AIIMS, sources said.   In 2014, M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, took up the issue of setting up an AIIMS on 200 acres of land at Kinalur with the then Union Health Minister Harsh Vardan. Subsequently, the State government identified four locations across the State. The open jail compound at Nettukaltheri in Thiruvananthapuram, the land with the Industries Department at Kinalur in Kozhikode, land belonging to the Government Medical College at Kottayam, and the HMT land at Kalamassery in Ernakulam were the locations identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-revives-project-for-setting-up-aiims/article35989894.ece
19 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh rift brewing in NCP||The entry of former Congress leader P.C. Chacko into the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on the eve of the Kerala Assembly polls and his subsequent elevation as its State president appears to have led to a rift between his supporters and old timers in the party. Sources said that Mr. Chacko, who replaced senior leader T.P. Peethambaran, had taken the reins of the party in Kerala by revamping both the State unit and districts. Besides, a faction — owing allegiance to Minister for Forests A.K. Saseendran — is also feeling infuriated by the replacement of office-bearers and even the appointment of the personal staff for the Minister. Already, several district units have been revamped. Only Kozhikode and Alappuzha have been left untouched as they have a legislator each. Besides, K.R. Rajan, who was recently appointed as the State general secretary (organisational), issued a circular saying that all government-related recommendations would be channelised and vetted by the State committee, sources said. The so-called socialist political entity, which earlier had two groups led by Mr. Saseendran and Mr. Peethambaran, worked within the ambit of the party though their love-hate relationship often spilled out into the public domain. The factionalism also culminated in Mani C. Kappan, Pala MLA, abandoning the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, and pulling off a victory from the constituency again with the support of the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Sources said that Mr. Chacko had the blessings of NCP Central committee given his 'lobbyist- style' functioning in the corridors of power in Delhi. This was reflected at the time of formation of the Pinarayi Vijayan 2.0 Cabinet when he strongly rooted for Mr. Saseendran over newly elected legislator, Thomas K Thomas, from Kuttanad. With Mr. Chacko at the helm, the situation was rapidly changing in the NCP, the sources said. The seasoned politician, who has had a run for several decades in the Congress, also enjoys a strong rapport with the NCP National president, Sharad Pawar, since the days of the formation of the Indian National Congress (U) and its later avatar, the Indian Congress (Socialist). The return of Mr. Pawar to his parent party also saw Mr. Chacko returning to the Congress in 1987. But Mr. Chacko remained in the Congress when Mr. Pawar along with P.A. Sangma, and Tariq Anwar founded the NCP in 1999, questioning the proposal of the party to name Italy-born Sonia Gandhi, who had entered party politics as the prime ministerial candidate. Now the NCP has provided him a political platform, after the Congress refused to give him ticket to contest the Lok Sabha or Assembly polls, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-rift-brewing-in-ncp/article35989867.ece
19 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Minorities Corpn. invites applications for loans||The Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation (KSMDFC) has invited applications from eligible candidates belonging to Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddha, Jain, and Parsi communities for various loan schemes. A press release said that a new multi-purpose loan scheme “Sumithram” for requirements such as marriage, medical treatment, and COVID-19 related crisis was being offered to the beneficiaries. This apart, the KSMDFC had also modified the terms and conditions of certain existing schemes for making them more attractive. The limit of Rs. 20 lakh for education loans for studies abroad was increased to Rs. 30 lakh. The existing income limit for visa loan was increased to Rs. 6 lakh for both urban and rural applicants, it said. Similarly, beneficiaries can apply for housing loan at any time of the year and the interest rate was brought down to 6% per annum from the earlier rate of 8%. The income limit was fixed at Rs. 6 lakh per year for the loan schemes for lower income earning government employees. Also, the existing loan limit of Rs. 10 lakh for education loan was enhanced to Rs. 15 lakh now. The beneficiaries can download the application forms from the website www.ksmdfc.org. The filled-in application can be submitted directly to the respective regional offices or can be sent by post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minorities-corpn-invites-applications-for-loans/article35989875.ece
19 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Swimming test suspended||The Kozhikode District Sports Council has suspended the swimming test for granting swimming certificate for admissions to Plus One courses till August 22. The Hindu had on Wednesday reported on the concerns raised by teachers about the possibility of students overcrowding at the swimming pool at East Nadakkavu in Kozhikode city, in violation of the pandemic protocol. Around 500 had thronged the venue on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swimming-test-suspended/article35989870.ece
19 August 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||For this dermatologist, a moment in history||As a 12-year-old boy, K.T. Ashique had never realised the importance of that photograph signed and sent to him by former Prime Minister Rajeev Gandhi. He had never imagined that he would be witness to history by getting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sign on that photograph of his parents after 34 years. Excitement was palpable as Dr. Ashique approached Rahul Gandhi with the photograph when the latter came to celebrate Onam with the residents of Gandhi Bhavan Snehasramam old age home at Wandoor in the district on Tuesday. “Wow… it’s amazing. You have preserved this photograph. Congratulations,” Rahul Gandhi said in excitement even as he signed below the photograph next to his father’s signature. “This is a moment of history. I never thought I would witness this even in my dreams,” said Dr. Ashique, apparently on cloud nine. It was in 1987, when Dr. Ashique was a seventh standard student at St. Peter’s School, Ooty, that he wrote a letter in an inland card to then Prime Minister Rajeev Gandhi asking for a photograph. “That was a time when we never had the modern communication facilities, and we used to write letters to our parents and folks every week. Out of curiosity, I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister too along with one to my father,” said Dr. Ashique. He had nearly forgotten about the letter when, after two months, the school’s rector summoned him to the office. “We dreaded the summons by the rector as they invariably used to be for some punishment. As soon as I entered his room, the rector gravely asked me what I had done to get a letter from the Prime Minister’s office.” The photograph of Rajiv Gandhi standing in a traditional posture behind his wife Sonia Gandhi did not excite the 12-year-old Ashique so much then. But his father K.T. Mohammed, a teacher at Government Girls High School, Wandoor, was aflutter as he proudly flashed the photo among his colleagues. Dr. Ashique, however, preserved the photo first by framing it, and then by keeping it in a folder as it began to fade. “It was on August 24, 1987, when I got the photo from the Prime Minister’s office. Exactly 34 years later, I got Rahul Gandhi to sign on it. This is God’s will,” said Dr. Ashique, a dermatologist based at Perinthalmanna. There was a small crowd at Gandhi Bhavan old age home as people excitedly waited for Rahul Gandhi to meet inmates. But Dr. Ashique stole the show as Rahul Gandhi and he shared the excitement over the photograph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-this-dermatologist-a-moment-in-history/article35989860.ece
19 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||8-year jail for murder||The special court for SC/ST at Mannarkkad sentenced a man to eight years’ imprisonment on Wednesday in connection with the killing of another man. Special court judge Madhu K.S. sentenced Hamza Cholayil, 51, for eight years in prison and slapped a fine of Rs. 1 lakh in connection with the killing of Khalid at Irumbakachola, near Mannarkkad, about 10 years ago. Hamza was given eight years of jail and a fine of Rs. 50,000 under IPC Section 304 (ii). Under IPC Section 308, he was sentenced to five years in prison and a fine of Rs. 50,000. The jail terms will run concurrently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8-year-jail-for-murder/article35990075.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Renovation of jumbo rehab unit to be completed soon||The first phase of the project to develop the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at Kottoor near here as a world-class facility will be completed and commissioned by December this year, Forest Minister A.K.Saseendran has said. Addressing reporters after a visit to the facility to assess the progress of the project, he said the work on the six enclosures for elephants, special care facilities for elephant calves, veterinary hospital, entrance plaza, administrative block, research and training centre, cafeteria and elephant kitchen was expected to be completed by September 16 and the remaining works by the end of the year. Mr.Saseendran said the Rs. 105 crore KIIFB- funded project would transform the Kottoor Elephant Rehabilitation centre into the first one of its kind in the country. The project is being implemented by the Forest Department on 176 hectares. Other highlights include an elephant museum, theatre with virtual and interactive facility, audio visual arrangements, display of sculptures, waiting centre, interpretation rooms, 20 cottages for visitors and a 40- bed hostel. The Minister presided over a review meeting and later went round the campus to assess the progress of the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovation-of-jumbo-rehab-unit-to-be-completed-soon/article35990065.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hospitalisations remain stable||The State reported 21,427 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 1,38,225 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) registered on the day remained at 15.5%, as was the case on Tuesday. ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State remained stable at 2,066 on Wednesday, while the number of those requiring ventilator support appeared to go up from 780 to 817. The State’s active case pool on Wednesday stood at 1,77,683, with 18,731 patients reported to have recovered on the day. 179 deaths The official cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 19,049, with Kerala adding 179 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Wednesday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with the disease was 2,225. However, total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID-19 have more or less stabilised at 27,859 despite the increase in the active cases. The State’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began now stands at 37,45,457 cases. Highest in Malappuram Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases on Wednesday at 3,089, followed by Kozhikode 2,821, Ernakulam 2,636, Thrissur 2,307, Palakkad 1,924, Kannur 1,326, Kollam 1,311, Thiruvananthapuram 1,163, Kottayam 1,133, Alappuzha 1,005, Idukki 773, Pathanamthitta 773, Kasaragod 607 and Wayanad 559 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitalisations-remain-stable/article35989928.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital resurvey in villages to be completed in 4 years||A Rs. 807.98-crore project for extending digital resurvey to 1,550 villages in the State, which received Cabinet nod on Tuesday, will be completed over four years in four phases, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said on Wednesday. The project signals the State’s departure from the conventional methods of land surveying and aims at unifying land-related documentation under the departments of Revenue, Survey and Registration. Administrative sanction has been given for the first phase, which will cover 400 villages at a cost of Rs. 339.43 crore under the Rebuild Kerala development programme, the Minister said. The Department of Survey and Land Records will implement the project with technical support from the Regional Director (Kerala), Survey of India. For the digital resurvey, the department will primarily bank on Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS) networks using Real-Time Kinematic (RTK) machines. Twenty-eight base stations will be set up in the State. The resurvey using conventional methods was launched in Kerala in 1966. Amount for phases CORS will be used in 60% of the villages, while drone-plus-LIDAR mapping and Electronic Total Station (ETS) systems will be used in 20% locations each. “Four hundred villages will be taken up in the first phase for which Rs. 339.43 crore has been earmarked. For the second, third and fourth phases, Rs. 156.17 crore, Rs. 156.18 crore, and Rs. 156.18 crore respectively have been provided,” Mr. Rajan said. The project covers all villages, excluding 87 villages where the exercise was completed using total station surveying solutions and 29 villages where it is in progress. In every village, government lands will be surveyed first, followed by privately owned lands. Using CORS or LIDAR, one surveyor and a helper can survey four hectares at a time. The four-year project will enable the issue of Record of Rights (RoR), online services in the department, settlement of land-related disputes and preparation of accurate documentation and sketches pertaining to land, Mr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-resurvey-in-villages-to-be-completed-in-4-years/article35989932.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vegetables harvested at Secretariat||Vegetables were harvested from the garden of the Secretariat here on Wednesday ahead of Onam. Amaranthus, brinjal, chillies, tomato and ladies finger were harvested as part of the 2021 edition of the ‘Onathinu Oru Muram Pachchakari’ campaign. Vegetables were cultivated on 10 cents in the Secretariat garden under the supervision of garden supervisor Suresh. They were ready for harvest in 68 days. Across the State, 50 lakh seed packets and 1.5 crore vegetable seedlings were distributed as part of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetables-harvested-at-secretariat/article35990067.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||The Hindu Pookkalam contest starts today||The 11th edition of Preethi Power Duo The Hindu Pookkalam Contest, powered by Mangaldeep, will get under way from Thursday in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Thrissur and Kozhikode. One hundred teams will compete in the two- day contest. Pookkalams are encouraged to be prepared by the participants/family members from the comfort of their home. All participants are urged to keep safety measures like mask and sanitisers stipulated by the State government. Prizes The teams adjudged first, second and third will receive Rs. 25,000, Rs. 15,000, and Rs. 10,000 respectively. Ten teams will be given Rs. 1,500 as consolation prizes. All teams will be given Rs. 1,000 as reimbursement towards the cost of flowers. There will be special gifts for all participating teams. Results will be announced on August 24 in The Hindu and winners will be intimated individually. Best Onam Smile contest The participants will also receive special gift hampers from Smile partner K.P. Namboodiri's Ayurvedics for best Onam smile contest. Participants need to click a picture by posing before the pookkalam. RKG Ghee is the associate sponsor and Mar Sleeva Medicity, Palai is the health-care partner. Gift sponsors include Parisons. Registrations are closed. For any queries, get in touch with Aneesh (Kozhikode Centre) 98472 00442, Girish (Thiruvananthapuram) 94474 50454, Vinod Krishnan (Kochi) 90614 52825 or Athul Krishnan (Thrissur) 94469 92927 . Terms and conditions Natural flowers and leaves alone should be used. Flowers will have to be arranged by the contestants. Harmony of colours and shapes and neatness of the pookkalam will be considered by the jury. The decision of the jury will be final. Family members of the staff of The Hindu and the sponsors are not allowed to participate.  All participants are urged to keep safety measures such as mask and sanitisers while preparing pookkalams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pookkalam-contest-starts-today/article35989864.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lecturer succumbs to burns||S.Sunil Kumar, 43, a faculty member of the Kerala Law Academy, who was found with severe burns at the college ground on Wednesday, succumbed to his injuries. He was a native of Kottayam. The police suspect a case of suicide. The police a group of construction workers had found him in flames when they ran to the ground on hearing a scream around 2.15 p.m. They doused the fire. Though he was alive then, he succumbed to the injuries on the way to the hospital. The police recovered a fuel container from the spot. Sunil Kumar has been teaching at the college for more than eight years. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/law-academy-faculty-succumbs-to-burn-injuries/article35989920.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Conduct live classes, panel tells CBSE schools||Schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) should conduct live digital classes, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. It has also directed schools to end the practice of sending pre-recorded classes to children. The commission member K. Nazeer recently directed that recorded portions of the online live classes should be maintained by the schools and used whenever required by students. Acting on a petition from parents of students from Alappuzha, the commission asked the CBSE Regional Officer to issue orders to ensure that its directions were strictly followed. The petitioners had said that in some CBSE schools in Alappuzha, classes for younger students, particularly for those in primary school, were conducted through recorded videos. Such recorded videos prevented direct interactions between teachers and students, thereby adversely affecting their studies and recreation. The CBSE Regional Officer who was heard online said what was needed was live classes that allowed for teacher-student interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conduct-live-classes-child-panel-tells-cbse-schools/article35989862.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One arrested for fraud||The Vanchiyoor police on Wednesday arrested a 48-year-old man who had allegedly defrauded money from a Tamil Nadu native after promising help in filing an appeal in the Supreme Court. The accused, identified as Rohith from Pettah, had allegedly collected an amount of Rs. 9 lakh from the person for this purpose. According to the police, he had in August 2018 promised Rajasekhar, a native of Chennai, that he would get him the services of a prominent Supreme Court lawyer to file an appeal. He went missing after taking the money. The Vanchiyoor police conducted the investigation and nabbed the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-for-fraud/article35990064.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,163 new cases in capital||The district reported 1,163 new COVID-19 cases and 782 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stood at 9.8%. In all, 10,175 people are under treatment and 33,116 in quarantine in the district. Of the new cases, contact transmission accounted for 1,100 cases. The list also included one health worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1163-new-cases-in-capital/article35990068.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One allotment schedule||The Plus One higher secondary and vocational higher secondary first phase allotment date has been finalised. Students can submit applications for admission to both the streams from August 24. The last date for submitting applications is September 3. The trial allotment list will be published on September 7 and the first allotment on September 13. As many as 4.19 lakh students had passed the SSLC examinations this year. As many as 3.61 lakh Plus One seats are available in 2,078 schools. The government has also announced a 20% increase in seats in districts from Palakkad to Kasaragod and 10% in those from Thiruvananthapuram to Thrissur. It also sanctioned transfer of batches that were sanctioned in 2014, but did not meet the criteria in successive years to be shifted to government schools in the Malabar region where many districts face seat shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-allotment-schedule/article35989929.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Boost to women coop. societies||New ventures in women cooperative societies are the Cooperation Department’s Onam gift to women in the State on behalf of the State government, Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan has said. He was inaugurating the ventures as part of the 100-day action plan on Wednesday. Mr. Vasavan handed over Rs. 50 lakh for 10 cooperative societies to start new manufacturing units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boost-to-women-coop-societies/article35989930.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Some mains exams of PSC postponed||The State Public Serive Commission (PSC) has postponed the mains examinations for the lower division clerk post scheduled to be held on October 23 and the mains examinations for the posts of last-grade servant, boat lascar and seaman slated to be held on October 30. These examinations will be held on November 20 and 27 respectively. The examinations have been postponed due to a delay in the preparation of the short lists for the preliminary examinations held earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/some-mains-exams-of-psc-postponed/article35989931.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree online shopping fete begins||Quality products will be available to all households in the State through the Kudumbashree Onam Utsav online shopping festival, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. Inaugurating the festival here on Wednesday, the Minister said purchase of Kudumbashree products would help entrepreneurs and motivate them. Kudumbashree Executive Director P.I. Sreevidya presided. More than 800 products are available on the portalwww.kudumbashreebazaar.comtill August 31. Besides a 10% discount by the Kudumbashree, those given by the entrepreneurs take a discount up to 40%. Those who purchase items for more than Rs. 1,000 will get an extra 10% discount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-online-shopping-fete-begins/article35990063.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mobile-snatching: accused held||The Pettah Police on Wednesday arrested the main accused in a case involving a gang attack on a youth and theft of a mobile from him. The accused has been identified as Achu Shaan (24) from Pettah. The police had earlier arrested two other accused in the case. The three-member gang had allegedly attacked Pettah-native Jithin while he was coming out of an ATM counter near the Kanjiravilakom Temple in Pettah on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-snatching-accused-held/article35990066.ece
19 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU student awarded WSU fellowship||A PhD student of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has been awarded the Western Sydney University (WSU) research fellowship for dual PhD programme. Swathy A.H., first year PhD Agronomy student of the Department of Agronomy, College of Agriculture, Vellayani, has been selected as the first student from the KAU under the KAU-WSU dual programme. The KAU and the WSU had signed an MoU in November 2018. This MoU allows candidates to undertake dual award higher degrees in fields of research where the institutions have common strategic research goals. The WSU has partnered with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and 13 State agricultural universities as part of a new initiative designed to combat global food security issues presented by climate change. Research focus The collaborative research will focus on protected cropping and related aspects of horticulture and agriculture, as well as teaching and learning. The WSU will provide a scholarship stipend (to the value of AUD 30,000 per annum pro rata) for the duration the candidate is onshore at the WSU, for research undertaken in Sydney. The WSU will provide Candidature Support Funds up to AUD 7,000 per year. The WSU will support the student to participate in an international and domestic conference. The candidate after successful completion of the programme will be awarded with Doctor of Philosophy from both the universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-student-awarded-wsu-fellowship/article35990077.ece
19 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Green lessons’ win him national honour||‘Green education’ initiatives introduced in his school has brought the National Teachers’ Award for M.B. Prasad, Head Teacher of Government LP School, Varavoor, in Thrissur district. Under his leadership, the school, which has 900-odd students, has a biodiversity park, a small bird sanctuary, an animal park, a medicinal plant garden, a fish pond. One will be astonished to see a swimming pool too in a government lower primary school. A mini windmill, a solar clock and a solar radio have been installed on the campus to inculcate the importance of green energy and energy conservation. “Attracting children to school by creating interest in them was my primary task when I took charge in the school as head master in 2017,” says Mr. Prasad. When he took charge, the school, was a less chosen one even by people in the panchayat . It had only 385 students. Many accolades Within a year, the school emerged as one of the best schools in the district winning many district and State-level awards. The school won awards for best biodiversity park three consecutive years from 2017-18. Mr. Prasad was selected for the State award for best teacher the same year. Mr. Prasad introduced his students and their parents to many extracurricular activities. “We have been cultivating paddy, banana, and organic vegetables in our school compound and on adjacent paddy fields, taken for lease. Students themselves were actively involved in all these farm activities with the active support of teachers, parents and general public, he says. This helped create a habit of farming and an affection for the environment in children. He taught his wards in the lower primary classes to think and experience beyond syllabus. “As a teacher I think real experience in life will help students understand their lessons better. Such experiences will remain in their mind always and will mould a better life for them,” he says. The school has around 25-odd extracurricular clubs, including English Club, Cultural Club, Seed Club, Anti-Drug Club, Palliative Club, Reading Club, Forest Club, and Road Safety Club. “Our students are trained in various martial arts such as Kalaripayattu as well as traditional art forms like classical dance , music, tabla, violin, and chenda,” Mr. Prasad says. Teachers and students from various schools visit here to learn and understand the extracurricular activities in the school. In the wake of COVID pandemic, students are provided support to arrange their own library at home. The school was declared plastic-free in 2018-19. Mr. Prasad’s wife Rekha is also a schoolteacher .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-lessons-win-him-national-honour/article35990019.ece
19 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Writer, scribe Karur Sasi dies||Writer and veteran journalist Karur Sasi died here on Wednesday. He was 82. He had been ailing for some time. Karur Sasi worked as journalist for Mathrubhumi , Veekshanam , Kerala Pathrika , Thani Niram , Malayali and Pothujanam . His works include four novels, 10 poetry collections and translations. His noted novels include Thikachum Vyakthiparam and Methiyadi Kunnu , while his poetry collection Ariyamozhikal won Changampuzha Award and Puthezhan Award. His noted poems include Shyamapaksham , written in memory of his first wife and novelist late P.R. Shyamala. It won the Thoppil Ravi Award. He was known for his literary and art criticism and oratory skills. He was general council member at the Kerala Sahitya Akademi and the Kerala Kalamandalam. He was also in the jury of the Kerala State film awards twice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writer-scribe-karur-sasi-dies/article35989896.ece
19 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||ESAF bank honours farmers||The ESAF Small Finance Bank organised a virtual seminar as part of Farmers Day on Wednesday. The topic for the seminar was modern-day agricultural opportunities and financial assistance schemes for farmers. The bank honoured farmers across branches in Kerala on the occasion. K. Paul Thomas, MD and CEO, ESAF Bank, inaugurated the event. “Supporting and encouraging the farmers, who are the backbone of the rural economy, would create more job opportunities, thereby paving a way for the growth of small businesses. Facilities provided by ESAF are effective in supporting farmers in addition to financial assistance and in finding more market opportunities for them,” said Mr. Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esaf-bank-honours-farmers/article35990076.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hues of Onam||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hues-of-onam/article35989872.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Brisk sales||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brisk-sales/article35990070.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bumper harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bumper-harvest/article35990074.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In protest mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-protest-mode/article35990079.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Quality check||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quality-check/article35990021.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka panel finds lapses in COVID material purchase||The State Legislature’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has identified several lapses in the tendering process and procurement of COVID-19 material, including Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits, during the second wave by the Health and Family Welfare Department, resulting in additional expenditure worth many crores. Not satisfied with the reply by the department to queries, the committee, which met here on Tuesday, sought a detailed explanation by next week. The committee, which took up issues pertaining to procurement of 3-part and 5-part haematology cell counters (haematology analysers), RAT kits and shortage of ventilators and oxygen during the second wave, found that officials had not furnished complete and correct information. “The committee has found that the department is trying to cover up its lapses,” PAC chairman Ramalinga Reddy told The Hindu on Wednesday.  Mr. Reddy said THAT there was prima facie evidence that the department had spent Rs. 3.79 crore in excess to procure 30 lakh RAT kits in April. “The cost of each RAT kit, which ranged between Rs. 33.35 and Rs. 35.80 when quotations were invited for the first time on April 6, 2021, escalated by nearly two-and-a-half times in a fortnight ranging between Rs. 81.64 and Rs. 134.40 on April 25 when the quotations were invited for the second time,” he said. According to the proceedings of the PAC meeting, the company with whom the Health Department had initially placed an order for six lakh RAT kits was able to supply only three lakh within the stipulated time. Following this, the department invited quotations for the second time. “However, instead of blacklisting this company (for not delivering the order on time), the department allowed it to again participate in the tenders for the second time. Moreover, the committee found that all the participants of the first tender had again participated in the second tender too. The only difference was they quoted higher rates. How can this be allowed? Overall, the department has spent an excess of Rs. 3.79 crore in procuring the test kits,” according to the proceedings. Differential rates “What is more intriguing is the fact that the same lowest bidder (L1), who delivered Karnataka’s order at Rs. 81.64 per kit, has supplied the same kits at Rs. 69 per kit to the Uttar Pradesh government. Why the differential rates? Why did the department allow?” Mr. Reddy asked. With regard to procurement of haematology cell counters, the PAC has found that Karnataka has spent an excess of Rs. 25 crore in the procurement of 1,195 three-part haematology cell counters. “While Karnataka paid Rs. 2,96,180 per unit, Himachal Pradesh government has purchased the same equipment at Rs. 1,30,000 per unit,” the PAC chairman said. Also, the State spent an excess of Rs. 6.18 crore in the procurement of 165 5-part haematology cell counters. While Karnataka paid Rs. 8,35,000 per unit, the Kerala bought the same equipment at Rs. 4,60,200 per unit, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-panel-finds-lapses-in-covid-material-purchase/article35989446.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||New plant found in Tumakuru takes the district’s name||A new plant of the Brachystelma R.Br. species has been found in Tumakuru, and has been named after the district from where its type material was collected. ‘B. tumakurense’ comes from a tuber and belongs to the Apocynaceae family (a family of flowering plants). The findings were published recently in ‘RHEEDEA Journal of the Indian Association for Angiosperm Taxonomy’ by Gundappa B.V. from the Wildlife Aware Nature Club, Tumakuru; Sringeswara A.N. and Vishwanath S. from the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), GKVK Campus – Bengaluru; and P. Venu from the Environment Protection Training and Research Institute – Hyderabad. According to the paper, Brachystelma R.Br. is the second largest genus in the tribe Ceropegieae with over 116 species distributed in the old-world tropics. They are slender stemmed with a brilliant display of colours in their flowers, especially in their corolla and coronal structures. “They are mainly distributed in Peninsular India in dry hill ranges. There are seven species from Karnataka. All of them exhibit erect stems and are non-climbing in nature. During explorations in Devarayanadurga (Tumakuru district, Karnataka) material of Brachystelma was collected. It was found in flowering while bearing leaves and primarily comparable with B. bourneae Gamble, B. maculatum Hook.f. and B. rangacharii Gamble, but is distinctive in certain features and hence described here as a new species,” the paper said. Flowering, fruiting The flowering season is from June to July and fruiting from August to September, and about 16 to 18 individuals in one population were found growing among grasses in a southern moist mixed forest, the scientists said, adding that the plants were distinctly visible as the grasses had not attained their usual height owing to low rainfall in 2017. “In fact, a few plants were found lacking the upper portions most likely due to browsing by wild animals. Usually, the browsed plants branch out from the node below and flower,” the paper added. Dr. Sringeswara from the Mahatma Gandhi Botanical Garden, UAS, told The Hindu the species is a lesser known plant and has pollens similar to orchids. “We found the plant in 2017 and studied it and found that it is not similar to any known plant. It is a tuber from which a plant comes out around May-end. After one or two and a half months, by August-end, it dries up, but the tuber remains for a year. The tubers may be eaten by animals and men, as it has an edible property,” he explained. Having found insects feeding on the flowers, the experts plan to study the floral biology next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-plant-found-in-tumakuru-takes-the-districts-name/article35989443.ece
19 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Issue advisories on transgender quota: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to consider issuing directions or advisories to all boards, corporations, and other autonomous bodies for reserving 1% of posts for transgender persons on the lines of similar reservation provided in all types of government jobs. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition by Sangama, a society working for the welfare of the transgender community, and Nisha Gulur. The petitioners had sought reservation in government jobs for transgenders as per the apex court’s 2014 judgment. After the High Court took up the issue last year, the government in July this year amended Rule 9 of the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules, 1977, to enable 1% reservation for transgenders in all government jobs. When the notification of providing reservation for the transgender was produced before the court, the advocate for the petitioners said similar reservation should be provided in boards, corporations, and other autonomous agencies of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issue-advisories-on-transgender-quota-hc/article35989445.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No political motive in Kodanad case probe: Stalin||Amidst a walkout from the Assembly by the AIADMK and its allies, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said that there was “no political motive” behind the further investigation being carried out into the heist-cum-murder at former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad Estate bungalow. “The probe is being conducted only after getting permission from the [trial] court. There is no political motive. There is no political interference or motive to take revenge. Based on the information received during the inquiry, action would be taken. There is no need for others to panic,” Mr. Stalin said. In April 2017, a gang broke into the Kodanad Estate bungalow and killed a security guard.Subsequently, an accused and the wife and child of a co-accused died in road accidents in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Recently, the Kotagiri police summoned Sayan, the prime accused, and questioned him in the wake of the emergence of some ‘fresh’ material. On Wednesday, soon after the Assembly session commenced, Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami attempted to raise an issue [related to Kodanad], which was later expunged by Speaker M. Appavu. Opposing this, AIADMK legislators, who displayed black tags on their shirts, held placards against the government and raised slogans. After failing to raise the issue, Mr. Palaniswami led a walkout by party MLAs. The Speaker said the cases pertaining to the incidents were originally registered when the AIADMK was in power. The Chief Minister said the heist that was reported in the middle of the night, the deaths and the accidents involving some of the accused had raised suspicion among the public. “That was why, before the [Assembly] election, we promised to probe the robbery and murder case and bring the culprits to book,” he said. When PMK legislative party leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram) supported his party’s ally, the AIADMK, on the issue, Mr. Stalin reiterated that there was no political motive involved. “You have been asking us what happened to our electoral promises. This was one of the promises we made. There are many more,” he said. However, the PMK members, too, staged a walkout. Responding to BJP legislative party leader Nainar Nagendran (Tirunelveli), “There is no need for any fear or worry,” he said. Unconvinced by his response, the BJP members, too, staged a walkout. Amidst a walkout from the Assembly by the AIADMK and its allies, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said that there was “no political motive” behind the further investigation being carried out into the heist-cum-murder at former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad Estate bungalow. “The probe is being conducted only after getting permission from the [trial] court. There is no political motive. There is no political interference or motive to take revenge. Based on the information received during the inquiry, action would be taken. There is no need for others to panic,” Mr. Stalin said. In April 2017, a gang broke into the Kodanad Estate bungalow and killed a security guard.Subsequently, an accused and the wife and child of a co-accused died in road accidents in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Recently, the Kotagiri police summoned Sayan, the prime accused, and questioned him in the wake of the emergence of some ‘fresh’ material. On Wednesday, soon after the Assembly session commenced, Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami attempted to raise an issue [related to Kodanad], which was later expunged by Speaker M. Appavu. Opposing this, AIADMK legislators, who displayed black tags on their shirts, held placards against the government and raised slogans. After failing to raise the issue, Mr. Palaniswami led a walkout by party MLAs. The Speaker said the cases pertaining to the incidents were originally registered when the AIADMK was in power. The Chief Minister said the heist that was reported in the middle of the night, the deaths and the accidents involving some of the accused had raised suspicion among the public. “That was why, before the [Assembly] election, we promised to probe the robbery and murder case and bring the culprits to book,” he said. When PMK legislative party leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram) supported his party’s ally, the AIADMK, on the issue, Mr. Stalin reiterated that there was no political motive involved. “You have been asking us what happened to our electoral promises. This was one of the promises we made. There are many more,” he said. However, the PMK members, too, staged a walkout. Responding to BJP legislative party leader Nainar Nagendran (Tirunelveli), “There is no need for any fear or worry,” he said. Unconvinced by his response, the BJP members, too, staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stalin-no-political-motive-in-kodanad-case-probe/article35989540.ece
19 August 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Where bullock carts rule the road||Puli Rajaiah, now in his sixties, takes pride in his bullock cart. The Koya tribal farmer says the cart he is using now is the third one in his life. Made of teak wood, the bullock cart is the most expensive when compared to any animal-drawn vehicle in vogue now, he says. Mr. Rajaiah’s village of Ulumuru by the Sabari river in Chintoor Agency of East Godavari district has 10 bullock carts in use. Another dozen of them deserted by their owners now are parked in front of their houses. At a time when bullocks carts are gradually being replaced by tractors, the Koya tribes from Ulumuru still dependant on these animal-drawn vehicles for farming and transportation. An area spreading over 25 km beginning from the outskirts of Chintoor Agency, the entry point of the Sabari into Andhra Pradesh to its confluence into the Godavari at Kunavaram, the Koya tribal belt is still use bullock carts. This is probably the only zone in the State where one can see hundreds of bullock carts on roads. It is hard to find a village without bullock cart along the stretch of the Sabari riverbed in the Bison Hill Range, also known as Papikonda Hill Range. “The bullock cart has been a part and parcel of our life since generations. We cannot give it up for we cannot afford any other alternative means of transport,” says Mr. Rajaiah. The villagers say that the cost of making a bullock cart is around Rs. 10,000, excluding the wood and each can be used for almost two decades, adding that its longevity will be nearly a decade if it gets wet frequently. The animal-drawn vehicle is fast vanishing from rural areas of the State. But for these Koyas, it is still the prime mode for transport and a vital part of farming. Be it trasnsportation of pady seedling from a nursery, bringing the harvest to the home or carrying the produce to the market, the tribes are dependant on bullock cart. “We also use the cart to transport minor forest produce, toddy leaves, and other wood, even as using them to go the weekly shandies has declined over the years,” says Mr. Rajaiah. At least half a dozen carpenters who make the carts are available in the area. “We cannot think about our life without bullock carts. We may need to give them up once we shifted to the Resettlement and Rehabilitation colonies in the non-forest dwellings. Several villages along the 25-km stretch need to be rehabilitated to make way for the Polavaram Irrigation Project,” say the villagers. They say even the cattle which pull the carts are familiar with the routes. They reach the destination even without any rider, the villagers say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/where-bullock-carts-rule-the-road/article35990051.ece
19 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha campaign’s focus on rural areas, says SP||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said the concerted efforts of the police, women self-help groups and the staff of the village and ward secretariats have resulted in a record 4.5 lakh downloads of the Disha SoS app in Chittoor district, and that the campaign would be intensified further, with prime focus on the rural areas. Addressing an Disha app campaign at Kothapalle Mitta village near Chittoor on Wednesday, the SP said the app had already started giving results in tackling crimes against women. Over 1,000 mahila police personnel all over Chittoor were involved in the campaign. Mr. Senthil Kumar said steps were under way to make all police stations women-friendly, apart from an exclusive Disha police station administered by an official in the rank of a Deputy Superintendent of Police. “The paradigm shift is that now the women need not visit a police station to register a complaint. We are reaching out to their doorsteps for the redressal of the grievances. Digital surveillance has also been mounted at all public places, and this system is an additional strength to tackle crimes against women,” the SP said. Deputy SP N. Sudhakar Reddy said that with reopening of educational institutions, the Disha campaign would be intensified on the college campuses for the benefit of the women students. Earlier, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Collector M. Hari Narayanan took part in the inaugural session of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-campaigns-focus-on-rural-areas-says-sp/article35990045.ece
19 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate above normal in Chittoor||As the daily cases of COVID-19 continue to be above 200 during the last five months, and half of the mandals in Chittoor district registering more than normal positivity rate, Collector M. Hari Narayanan has instructed the Revenue, ICDS, Medical and Health Department officials to focus on curtailing the cases by intensifying field operations. Addressing the officials on COVID duties here, The Collector said majority of the daily infections were reported under 52 primary health centres in 32 mandals. He said priority should be given to vaccination of pregnant women, and completing the target among the 45-plus age group, of which 52,560 persons were yet to be vaccinated, while the second dose had to be given to 45,000 persons. Mr. Narayanan told COVID task force officials to chart out the vaccination requirement for the 18-plus age group, and process the action plan to cover 100% target of pregnant women. Referring to the third wave threat and its possible impact on children, the Collector said that task force teams should visit schools and monitor the children’s health condition. If they showed COVID-related symptoms, they should be taken care of, and the primary and second contacts should be traced forthwith. With increased public movement post the lockdown relaxation, the teams on COVID duties should also monitor the COVID-appropriate behavior at the public places and take corrective steps, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-above-normal-in-chittoor/article35990043.ece
19 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondaveedu Fort set to become a paradise for trekkers||For years, the rugged hills on which the lofty remnants of Kondaveedu Fort are located, had enticed adventure lovers. The absence of any trekking route or mountain trail had come in the way of adventure clubs to explore the rugged mountains. The laying of a ghat road a few years back, has made it possible for people to drive all the way to the fort, but none could beat a trek up the hill. That could change in the coming days, as a few adventure clubs have decided to explore the Kondaveedu Fort. On Tuesday morning, members of Outrival Adventures Pvt Ltd went on exploring the different routes and have identified some routes, including Sajja Mahal Buruju hill, Tara Buruzu and Chukkala Konda buruzu (fortified wall). Though the major portions of fort have been ravaged over the years, some portions of walls have remained making it possible for trekking along the stone ridge. The members of the adventure club, along with District Forest Officer N. Ramachandra Rao, trekked along the Nemalle Buruzu. “It is an awesome experience as this is the most beautiful part of the hill range. The ambience and the height is perfect for mountain trekking,” said Mr. Ramachandra Rao. The fort is now accessible from two major roads — the one connecting Phirangipuram and the other at Boyapalem on the NH-65. To ensure a direct connectivity from Phirangipuram, a seven-km road via Solasa at an estimated cost of Rs. 24 crore has been sanctioned and work is set to begin. The last leg of ghat road extending up to 0.75 km to guest house and temples was taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 11.80 crore, another stretch of road to Puttakota (Kotha Palam) bypass road to link the approach road has been planned at an estimated cost of Rs. 40 lakh. The Forest Department had sanctioned Rs. 13.35 crore for the development of “Nagara vanam”. “Our dream of tapping the immense tourist potential of Kondaveedu Fort is being realised and we thank Minister for Finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy for giving nod to major developmental works,” said Kondaveedu Fort Development Committee convener Kalli Siva Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondaveedu-fort-set-to-become-a-paradise-for-trekkers/article35990094.ece
19 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramya’s family yet to come to grips with the shock||The family members of Nallapu Ramya are yet to recover from the shock of losing the youngest daughter. They however, are determined to see that the accused is punished for the ghastly murder. “We pray to God that no other family should suffer the same fate. We are indebted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who has shown empathy with our family by granting Rs. 10 lakh immediately and later ensuring that all the relief measures are fast-tracked,” said Jyothi, Ramya’s mother. Out of the monetary relief of Rs. 8.25 lakh to be paid to the victim’s family from the District Treasury, the family was paid Rs. 4.12 lakh, after the post-mortem was conducted. The government also promised a job to N. Mounika, sister of Ramya, based on her educational qualification. A dry ration supply for three months and utensils were provided on Tuesday.A house site would also be sanctioned within the limits of Guntur Municipal Corporation. The Guntur RDO has been asked to identify a suitable agricultural and a basic pension of Rs. 5,000 would be provided to the victim’s family every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramyas-family-yet-to-come-to-grips-with-the-shock/article35989491.ece
19 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable rewarded for nabbing accused||Sk. Md. Rafi, a police constable, who nabbed Kunchala Sasikiran, accused in the murder case of Nallapu Ramya, in a canal at Agraharam fields near Narsaraopet rural mandal on Sunday evening, was congratulated by Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni here on Wednesday. Ramya was allegedly killed on Sunday near her home in Guntur and Sasikiran fled to Narsaraopet. Police were able to track him through inputs provided by his friends and family. “I along with my informer was following him to Isukupalem and later to Pamulupadu at about 5.30 p.m. The accused was driving a motorcycle and sensing that I was following him, got down from his bike and then ran into a canal. He then threatened me, showing a knife. I informed the police station and later we nabbed him. He tried to kill himself by slashing his wrist and throat. But we were able to save him. Had we missed him that evening, it would have been difficult to catch him,’’ said Mr. Rafi. Mr. Gunni said the constable had shown a lot of courage and grit while chasing the accused. Mr. Rafi overpowered the accused and though the latter had tried to kill himself, he saved him and informed the station. The SP presented a cash reward of Rs. 5,000 and said that such acts of courage should be emulated by the police. He also complimented Muppala SI Pattabhiramaiah for guiding the constable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-rewarded-for-nabbing-accused/article35989490.ece
19 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Justice Sirpurkar Commission completes collection of records||Justice Sirpurkar Commission — constituted by the Supreme Court in encounter killings by the Cyberabad police of four persons, accused of gang rape and murder of a young veterinary doctor in December 2019 — has completed the collection of records and is moving onto evidence recording phase. As many as 1,333 affidavits from the general public, 103 affidavits from the police officials, witnesses, doctors and other government officials were received. Voluminous records of the investigation by the SIT, Call Detail Records, medical reports, forensic and ballistic reports and other records were collected, an official release issued by District Judge and Secretary S. Sasidhar Reddy said. The Commission held 16 virtual hearings and passed orders in 24 applications filed by the police officials involved in the incident. Hearings were also held on questions of procedure. The three-member commission has considered the records collected and held that the oral evidence of witnesses has to be recorded. “Considering the gravity of the issue under inquiry and the sensitive nature of the evidence, the commission is of the opinion that witnesses have to be examined in physical presence,” he said. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has made it difficult to conduct physical hearings in Hyderabad. The High Court for the State of Telangana has functioned virtually till recently and the trial courts were directed to conduct hearings in a very restricted manner. “Having considered all these circumstances and reviewing the records has resolved to commence hearings in a hybrid form wherein, some witnesses will be examined in the physical presence of the commission and some witnesses will be examined in the virtual presence of the commission,” Mr. Reddy said. However, all the witnesses, the commission’s advocates, State government’s advocates and advocates for the persons served with the notices under Section 8B of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 and all other persons and advocates permitted to participate in the hearings shall appear before the Commission physically at the Commission’s premises in Hyderabad, he said. The Commission has directed the State government to present its evidence before the Commission at the Commission’s premises in the High Court building on August 21 at 11.30 a.m. The Chairman and the members will preside over the hearing virtually through video conferencing. Thereafter the Commission will examine 18 witnesses on 26, 27 and 28 August using the same procedure,” Mr. Reddy said. The hearings are open to the public. However, in view of social distancing norms and restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection, a limited number of people who hold passes issued by the Secretary, inquiry commission will only be allowed into the viewing area at a time. Those desirous of viewing the hearings will have to apply for a pass from the Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/justice-sirpurkar-commission-completes-collection-of-records/article35989831.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan’s mother passes away||Telangana Governor and in-charge Lt Governor of Puducherry Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan’s mother Krishna Kumari, 76, passed away at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday morning after brief illness. According to Raj Bhavan sources, Mrs. Krishna Kumari was admitted to Yashoda Hospital, Somajiguda, on Sunday for age-related ailment. The end came at 3.30 a.m., official sources said. Mrs. Krishna Kumari was wife of Kumari Anandan, former Member of Parliament of Nagercoil. Mr. Kumari Anandan and Mrs. Krishna Kumari were staying with the Governor at Raj Bhavan here. According to information, the mortal remains were brought to Raj Bhavan where a host of Ministers, including IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao, Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, and others paid their last respects. Later the body was shifted to the RGIA airport for onward journey to Chennai for last rites. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Dr. Tamilisai said: “With a very heavy heart I wish to inform that I lost my lovable mother early morning today. We are bringing her to Saligramam, Chennai residence by evening flight for final respects,” Dr Tamilisai, said. “I am deeply saddened that my mother who nurtured me is no more. It was her upbringing that instilled in us the virtues of serving the poor and needy, to be always true to your conscience and have faith in God at all times," the Governor said in another emotional tweet. "My mother's mortal remains will be brought to Saligramam residence as per her last wishes. The final rites will be performed in Chennai on Thursday," she said Meanwhile, condolences poured from different quarters. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in a message this morning condoled the death. Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Union Minister Kishan Reddy, Telangana Pradesh Congress president A. Revanth Reddy, a number of Ministers in the TRS Cabinet, BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay, former Minister E. Rajender and others also condoled the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-governor-tamilisai-soundararajans-mother-passes-away/article35989437.ece
19 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for transporting ganja worth Rs. 28 lakh||The East Godavari police on Wednesday arrested three persons hailing from Krishna district while they were allegedly transporting ganja weighing 1,423 kg in a lorry from deep inside the Visakhapatnam Agency area to Maharashtra. The estimated cost of the contraband is Rs. 28 lakh. In an official release, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said, “The accused have been identified as Motaparthi Nagaraju, Tillari Venkateswara Rao and Bhupathi Durga Prasad. Search is on to nab the kingpin, Gangadhar, and transporter Rajasekhar.” The accused were caught on National Highway-216 under the Gollaprolu police limits during vehicle inspection. They were found to be transporting 56 bags of ganja in a lorry loaded with more than 7,000 coconuts. They were produced in a local court later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-transporting-ganja-worth-rs-28-lakh/article35990038.ece
19 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks fever survey in Chintoor Agency||The CPI(M) on Wednesday appealed to District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu to commission a fever survey in the Chintoor Agency to identify viral fevers and provide timely medical treatment to the patients. “Those suffering from viral fevers are visiting Bhadrachalam and Rajamahendravram for treatment,” party East Godavari district secretary T. Arun and senior leader S.S. Murthy said in a representation to the DRO. The leaders alleged that at least three persons succumbed to viral fevers in the Yetapaka revenue division in the recent past. They sought special medical camps in the areas where many viral fever cases were being reported. Meanwhile, in a release, Integrated Tribal Development Agency - Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana promised to arrange facilities for the conduct of medical tests at the public health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-seeks-fever-survey-in-chintoor-agency/article35990049.ece
19 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two electrocuted, eight injured in religious event||Two persons were electrocuted and eight others sustained injuries when a decorated pole, which was part of Chintala Muniswamy Prabhotsavam, came in contact with an overhead power line, in Pesala Banda village of Adoni mandal of Kurnool district on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Parika Veeranjaneyulu, 18, and Settibalija Venkateswarlu, 35. The Adoni Taluk police claimed that despite restrictions imposed to check the coronavirus pandemic, the villagers did not take the mandatory permission, and had reportedly increased the height of the ‘Prabha’ by two feet. Case registered The recent repairs increased the height of the road at that point leading to the decorated pole touching the power lines. The single-phase power line is drawn from the 11KV line meant for three-phase agriculture connections. The condition of the eight injured is said to be stable and they are out of danger. The Adoni Taluk police have registered a complaint and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-electrocuted-during-religious-event-in-ap-village/article35989441.ece
19 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tries to immolate self at Tahsildar’s office||A resident of Kallur in the district allegedly tried to immolate himself on Wednesday on the premises of the Tahsildar’s Office alleging that revenue officials were not finalising the ownership of 14 cents of land he had inherited from his father. Dastagiri doused himself with kerosene and tried to immolate himself, when passersby stopped him. Asked about the reason, he reportedly told the police that the land in Survey No.524 opposite Sukhibhava Hospital was owned by his father adjoining the Wakf Board Land, but the Tahsildar was not transferring the papers to his name despite several requests and applications in the proper form. While Revenue officials say that land was Wakf Board land, Wakf Board officials clarified that they had nothing to do with it, Mr. Dastagiri told the police. He alleged that Revenue officials were not regularising documents despite him submitting all Encumbrance Certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-tries-to-immolate-self-at-tahsildars-office/article35990042.ece
19 August 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excavation in sand reaches in Krishna suspended||Officials have suspended sand excavations in all sand reaches located up and downstream of Krishna river, as the river is in spate. Police and revenue officials cautioned people against venturing into the river. Incessant rains Due to incessant rains in the upstream in Telangana and heavy discharge from Pulichintala project, water level was on the rise, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said. Vijayawada in-charge Police Commissioner G. Pala Raju said sand digging was temporarily suspended at Inampudi, Royyur, Vallurupalem, Chodavaram, Ibrahimpatnam and other sand reaches. Police officers had been directed to intensify patrolling along the river bund. Tom-tom arranged Activity at Sanagapadu, Chevitikallu, Ustepalli, Kadavatikallu, Munnaluru, Kasarabad, Allurupadu had been suspended. Sand excavations were suspended temporarily at Srikakulam village. A tom-tom has been arranged to caution the villagers on the rising water level. Probe ordered Meanwhile, Mr. Kaushal has ordered an inquiry into the Chevitikallu incident, in which 135 persons were stranded in the Krishna at Kanchikacherla. About 135 lorry drivers and cleaners were stranded in the river following flash floods in the river on August 14. “About 200 persons had a miraculous escape. We climbed the lorry cabins and shouted for help. All the drivers and cleaners were stranded for about four hours,” a lorry driver said. The Kanchikacherla police, AP State Disaster Response Force (AP SDRF), National Disaster Response Force 10th Battalion, AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services personnel arranged boats and rescued them, said a villager. Mr. Kaushal said floods occurred only at the Chevitikallu sand reach. “We are inquiring whether flood alert given by the officials, if so at what time, and how the company management, which was operating in the reaches allowed the workers into the river,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/excavation-in-sand-reaches-in-krishna-suspended/article35990092.ece
19 August 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man facing blasphemy charge in Saudi released||A 34-year-old man from Kundapur taluk in Udupi district of Karnataka, who was detained in Saudi Arabia following charges of blasphemy, landed at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru on August 18. Harish Bangera was an air-conditioning technician with a company in Dammam. He landed in trouble in 2019 following a post on his Facebook account, and was detained. In a complaint to the Kundapur police, his wife Sumana, who lives in Beejady near Kundapur, said some persons had created a fake Facebook account in her husband’s name and posted blasphemous content. Following an investigation, police arrested Abdul Huyez and Abdul Thuyez from Moodabidri, who allegedly created the fake account and posted the content. Human rights activist Ravindranath Shanbhag of Udupi worked closely with Mr. Bangera’s family for nearly two years to enable diplomatic help. The Udupi police, through Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood and the Indian embassy in Saudi Arabia, informed the Saudi Arabian government about the arrest. Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje followed up with embassy officials to ensure safe passage for Mr. Bangera to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-facing-blasphemy-charge-in-saudi-released/article35989447.ece
19 August 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake chain link fences, barbed wires seized||Police seized Rs. 6.54 lakh worth ‘fake’ chain link fences and barbed wires of sub-standard quality marketed by some dealers as that of Tata Wiron products. The seized products were being sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination, police sources said here on Wednesday. The estimated yearly impact of chain link fences is Rs. 5.76 crore and that of the barbed wires is Rs. 1.8 crore, the company said. On a tip off, personnel of Vedayapaem conducted raids and effected the seizure and booked cases under IPC section 420 and section 63 of the Copyright Act against three firms and began a detailed probe. The company in a release said: “such unauthorised use of the Tata name on wire products which do not meet the quality standards of Tata Steel products hampers the reputation of the company. Tata Steel condemns the misuse of the trademarks and logos without our prior permission. In furtherance to protecting our brand reputation and goodwill, Tata Steel’s team continuously monitors and acts against entities which are infringing on our intellectual property rights including counterfeiters”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-chain-link-fences-barbed-wires-seized/article35989999.ece
19 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 members of a gang held for diesel theft||Prakasam police on Wednesday nabbed six persons, including five members of a Madhya Pradesh-based gang, for stealing diesel from vehicles on the Chennai-Kolkata highway. Police said diesel worth more than Rs. 98,000 was stolen from two vehicle owners in Prakasam district. Taking advantage of the skyrocketing fuel prices in the recent times, the gang led by one Dileep Singh from Rajgarg district in Madhya Pradesh struck at vehicles on the expressway at odd hours and sold the stolen diesel to a fuel-filling outlet in Nellore for a lower price, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg told the media here. The arrests followed two thefts committed in the Gudluru police station limits on August 17. The others arrested in this connection were Suneel Varma(20), Chander Singh(23), Verendra Kumar(24), Ram Babu(23), all from Madhya Pradesh and Syed Naveeed(28) from Nellore. Following complaints lodged by one Kedari Malikarjuna Rao and Madhava Reddy from Gudluru that 1,000 litres of diesel stored in parked tractors were stolen at knife point by the gangsters near Thetu on August 17, the SP formed two teams to crack the case. The teams nabbed the gangsters near Chevuru in the wee hours. Probe revealed that Mr. Dileep Singh had migrated from Madhya Pradesh to Andhra Pradesh in June and had struck a deal with a petrol pump owner who agreed to purchase the fuel stolen from static vehicles at a lower price and also provided them shelter in Nellore. They made a fast buck selling the fuel to autorickshaw drivers. Investigation further revealed that they had struck at several vehicles on the expressway in the last three months. A lorry used to transport the stolen fuel was also seized by the police. Meanwhile, guided by the SP, Yerragondapalem police resolved a murder case in Thimmapuram village, near Dornala, by arresting late on Tuesday one Mandla Sekhar (24) who had allegedly killed his cousin, M. Srinivasu, by cutting his throat on January 16 this year with a knife suspecting that the latter had an illicit relationship with the former’s wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-members-of-a-gang-held-for-diesel-theft/article35989998.ece
19 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nominal increase in per barn quota disappoints tobacco growers||A nominal increase of 2.5 to 3.5 quintals in the per barn quota offered by the Tobacco Board has left the farmers disappointed in Prakasam and Nellore districts. The farmers coming under the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and the Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions have been pitching for a minimum of 40 quintals per barn for the 2021-22 cropping season. However, the crop regulator, on August 16, had decided to offer only 33.5 quintals per barn for SLS region and 32.5 quintals per barn for SBS regions. The quota in both the regions was only 30 quintals per barn during the last cropping season. While fixing the crop size at 130 million kg, the Tobacco Board authorised 43.68 million kg for growers in the SLS region and 37.44 million kg in the SBS region. “We will not be able to break even in the wake of only a marginal increase in the per barn quota ,” farmers in Kandukur said, and wanted the Tobacco Board to reconsider its decision. CTRI recommendation The decision went against the recommendation of the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI) of an optimum curing capacity of 55 quintals per barn to make good the economies of scale, contended a farmer, T. Ramanaiah. Farmers in rain-fed areas grow the crop in seven acres per barn, and end up paying penalty for excess crop, or take additional barn on lease incurring more expenses, said another farmer V.V. Prasad. Those in drought-prone areas cultivate the crop without other viable alternative. Without a choice, the farmers stick to tobacco cultivation in view of water scarcity, expecting decent returns, said a farmer from D.C. Palli G. Narasappa Naidu. “There has been a 10% increase in the cost of cultivation year after year. In the present condition, we will have to burn our fingers by growing the crop,” said another farmer, P. Bhadri Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nominal-increase-in-per-barn-quota-disappoints-tobacco-growers/article35990004.ece
19 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. logs four COVID deaths||Four more persons succumbed to coronavirus even as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by over 100 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. Two persons each died of COVID in SPSR Nellore district and Prakasam district in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. With this, the toll in the region increased to 2,013, including 1,029 in Prakasam district. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.70 lakh mark as 298 persons in the region, including 104 in Prakasam district, got infected in the last 24 hours. As many as 320 persons in the region, including 236 in SPSR Nellore district, recovered during the period. So far, over 1.34 lakh persons in SPSR Nellore district and over 1.29 lakh persons in Prakasam district recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-logs-four-covid-19-deaths/article35989997.ece
19 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 patients tested at YSR Kantivelugu eye camp||As many as 200 elderly persons suffering from eye problems attended the YSR Kanti Velugu eye camp held at Bhairi village in Srikakulam mandal on Wednesday. Ophthalmic Officer M.R.K. Das who conducted the tests said that the scheme was a great help for poor patients as the government was supplying spectacles free of cost and conducting surgeries for the patients who needed cataract operations. Former mandal president Ambati Srinivasa Rao thanked the medical team for arranging cataract operations for 25 patients. He said that many elderly persons were facing difficulty due to lack of proper vision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-patients-tested-at-ysr-kantivelugu-eye-camp/article35990040.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets 33 years in jail for raping minor||A fast-track court on Wednesday sentenced a man to 33 years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a minor girl. He has been punished on various counts and the sentences will run concurrently. The survivor is a close relative of the accused Arun, alias Gundu Arun, a resident of the Kunnukuzhi ward, Thiruvananthapuram, who was 28 years old when committing the crime. According to the order passed by Fast Track Special Judge, Thiruvananthapuram, R. Jayakrishnan, Arun was sentenced under Section 450 of the Indian Penal Code (house trespass), one year under Section 342 of the IPC (wrongful confinement), and the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, dealing with aggravated penetrative sexual assault. Arun has also been ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 88,000, failing which he would undergo a further two-and-a-half years of imprisonment. The amount paid as fine will be given to the survivor. Special Public Prosecutor R. S. Vijayamohan appeared for the Prosecution. According to the case registered by the Museum Police, Thiruvananthapuram, the girl was assaulted on May 1, 2019. Arun had entered the kitchen of the survivor’s residence and finding that her parents were out, had dragged her into a veranda at the back of the house and sexually assaulted her. After the incident, the girl, a minor at the time of the incident, had entered the bathroom and hid there. The younger brother of the survivor had raised the alarm. A subsequent medical examination had revealed injuries on her body. The defence had argued that the case was foisted upon Arun as a civil dispute existed between his family and that of the survivor. The court noted that the accused had committed the offence while a prohibition order was in effect against him under the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-33-years-in-jail-for-raping-minor/article35989449.ece
19 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild boar trapped under running car rescued||In a freak incident, a wild boar, which was crossing a road, got trapped under a running car at Kuttoor, near Vamanapuram, in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Later, Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued the animal with the help of local people. According to Fire and Rescue Services officials, the incident happened around 12.50 p.m. on Tuesday. The wild boar entered the M.C. Road from an outgrowth near a petrol pump at Kuttoor. While it was running across the road, it got trapped under the car, driven by one Farooq, towards Kilimanoor. Though the vehicle was immediately stopped, the animal was unable to cross over to the other side as its bulky body got stuck under the vehicle. The Fire and Rescue Services team from the Venjaramoodu station arrived on the spot, just as the wild boar was attempting to overturn the car in its efforts to get out. The passengers had disembarked by then. “It took us close to 10 minutes with, the help of some local people, to lift the car, so that the animal could escape. It had injuries on its body, but it managed to run back into the shrubs as soon as it wriggled free from under the car,” said Assistant Station Officer Ajith Kumar. According to local residents, there has been a steady increase in the number of wild boars in recent years, with several cases of destruction to crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-boar-that-got-trapped-under-running-car-rescued/article35989451.ece
19 August 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moderate earthquake felt in Thrissur||A moderate earthquake of 3.3 magnitude on the Richter scale was reported in the Peechi-Vazhani Wildlife Sanctuary areas of Thrissur district on Wednesday. The tremor, which lasted for around three seconds, was experienced with a loud sound, according to local residents. Many panicked residents ran out of their houses upon hearing the sound. Tremors were felt in the Peechi, Pattikkad, Vaniampara and Kizhakkumchery areas. Cracks in houses Several houses reportedly developed cracks in the Kizhakkanchery hill areas in Palakkad district bordering Thrissur following the tremor. Though the epicentre of the mild quake was traced to the forests of Peechi, several areas at Palakkuzhi and neighbouring villages in Palakkad district felt the tremor twice, at 1.10 p.m. and 2.40 p.m. Local residents said the cracks were triggered by the second tremor, adding they experienced the quake for five seconds along with a thunderous sound. Other places in Palakkad that felt the tremor include Valkulambu, Kannachi Parutha, Rankkandi, Pothuchadi, VRT, Odamthodu, and Kavilupara. The residents pointed out that a similar earthquake had taken place at the same place about 10 years ago. Alathur tahsildar K. Balakrishnan later visited the houses that developed cracks.  (with input from Palakkad bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moderate-earthquake-felt-in-thrissur/article35989448.ece
19 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day Pavitrotsavam begins in Tirumala||The three-day annual Pavitrotsavam began on Wednesday at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. In connection with the festival, the priests performed ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ to the processional deities of Lord Malayappa Swamy and His two consorts amid chanting of ‘Pancha Suktas’ followed by ‘Pavitra Samarpana’. Immense significance is attached to the festival, which is also known as ‘Dosha Nivarana puja’, wherein the priests seek forgiveness for all their acts of omissions and commissions done knowingly or unknowingly during the discharge of their rituals and duties inside the temple all through the year. The festival is observed on the day following ‘Sravana Suddha Dasami’ according to the Hindu almanac. Inscriptions on the temple walls reveal that the ritual was first initiated in 1463 AD by Saluva Mallaiah Deva. A grand procession of the deities around the mada streets marked the celebrations during the latter part of the day, which was followed by a series of special rituals at the ‘yagasala’ inside the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-pavitrotsavam-begins-in-tirumala/article35990005.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kishan Reddy flays family rule, seeks people’s blessings for BJP||Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishen Reddy has accused “family-based parties perpetuating hereditary rule” of wreaking havoc on the country. Addressing the public as part of ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ on Wednesday, he called the BJP as a cadre-based party working sincerely for the nation . The party was was keen on making India a developed nation. “We request the people to shower their ‘ashirwad’ (blessings) to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this endeavour,” he said. Referring to the “hereditary” parties making a ‘mockery of governance’, he said such parties always had the welfare of their family in mind . On the other hand, the BJP worked only for the nation and not for its leaders, he claimed. Party State unit president Somu Veerraju, secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy and spokespersons were among the participants. The temple city attained a saffron hue in the form of party flags and festoons decorated all over ahead of Mr. Kishen Reddy’s visit. Social activist P.C. Rayulu presented a miniature idol of Mahatma Gandhi to Mr. Reddy. Earlier , Mr.Kishen Reddy took out a rally . After an overnight stay at Tirumala and darshan of Lord Venkateswara on Thursday, he would visit the vaccination centre at SVIMS and pay tributes at the Amar Jawan memorial near Kapila Theertham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kishen-reddy-flays-family-rule-seeks-peoples-blessings-for-bjp/article35990008.ece
19 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambitious plan to ensure quality power in Rayalaseema region||The Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has drawn up ambitious plan to ensure quality power supply in the Rayalaseema region by taking up developmental works costing Rs. 15,000 crore in phases. The Central government has provided Rs. 3.04 crore for revamping the power distribution companies, and the sum will be used for introducing automation in the rural sub-stations, building new sub-stations, installing and modifying distribution transformers, replacing age-old lines with new ones and so on. “This apart, estimates are being prepared to introduce prepaid smart meters to government office buildings and to services in the district headquarter cities and also in towns selected under AMRUT scheme. Similarly, the agricultural and non-agricultural feeders will be separated to ensure quality power,” said SPDCL Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao. Addressing a review meeting of officials and power finance consultants on Wednesday, he announced that Rs. 15,000 crore would be spent in phases to provide quality power in the next five years. “This step will also bring down transmission losses to a great extent,” Mr. Rao opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambitious-plan-to-ensure-quality-power-in-rayalaseema-region/article35990006.ece
19 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andru Minerals, prima facie, mined bauxite, say officials||The Department of Mines and Geology, which is probing the alleged mining of bauxite by Andru Minerals, has, prima facie, found that the company flouted norms to excavate 2 lakh tonnes of mineral through the Mineral Dealer License (MDL) awarded to it. The company had closed down its operations at Vanthada village of Prathipadu mandal in East Godavari district in 2019. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Principal Secretary (Mines, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi and Director (Mines and Geology) V.G. Venkat Reddy said the department was gearing up to levy a penalty on the company for “flouting the rules and excavating unaccounted quantity of laterite.” Mr. Venkat Reddy said that during the inquiry initiated following complaints from various quarters, it was found that the company had supplied 34 lakh tonnes of mineral to Vedanta, which was into aluminium business. Similarly, it had exported 4.5 lakh tonnes of laterite to China, he said. “This gives rise to suspicion. Firstly, there is little of laterite exports and secondly, laterite is not used in aluminium companies. So, prima facie , the company had mined bauxite,” Mr. Venkat Reddy said. When the lease was given to the company, it was estimated that there was no bauxite as aluminium content was less than 38% at the pithead. So, it was concluded that the mineral available there was laterite. “But, with these developments, there arises a doubt that the company excavated bauxite from eight mining leases. Inquiry is going on,” he added. Mr. Dwivedi said it was yet to be ascertained whether the department officials had colluded with the company, or was there any dereliction of duty on their part. “Action will be taken against the officials who are responsible for the irregularities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andru-minerals-prima-facie-mined-bauxite-say-officials/article35990013.ece
19 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCW takes suo motu cognisance of Guntur student’s murder case||The youth, who allegedly murdered an engineering student in Guntur on August 15, killed her out of jealousy, claimed investigation officers. K. Sashi Krishna of Mutluru village stabbed the student to death in broad daylight, which created sensation in the State. The Guntur Urban district police claimed the accused befriended the victim through a social media group and was in contact with her for the last seven months. However, when the girl started avoiding Sashi Krishna since a few days, he started stalking the girl, an officer said. During investigation, police observed that more than 500 phone conversations and messages had taken place between the two in the last few months. The Old Guntur police, who registered the case are observing the CCTV footages to ascertain if the accused had conducted ‘recce’ before the offence and if any other person assisted him in the crime. DIG S. V. Rajashekhar Babu said the accused was booked under Section 302 IPC (Murder), Disha Act and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Guntur Urban Superintendent of Police Arif Hafeez said the charge sheet in the case woud be filed in the stipulated time in the spirit of Disha Act. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Women (NCW) took suo motu cognisance of the case. Commission Chairperson Rekha Sharma has asked Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang to conduct investigation of the case in a fair manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncw-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-guntur-girl-murder-case/article35989488.ece
19 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 more succumb to COVID in State||The State reported 15 deaths due to COVID and 1,433 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The toll and infection tally increased to 13,686 and 19,97,102 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 15,944 as 1,815 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 19,67,472 and 98.52% respectively. The daily positivity rate of 68,041 samples tested was 2.11% and the overall positivity rate of 2.58 crore samples was 7.73%. Chittoor and Krishna reported three new deaths each while Guntur, Nellore and Prakasam reported two each. East Godavari, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Five districts witnessed no death in the past day. West Godavari reported 216 infections. It was followed by Chittoor (204), Nellore (194), Krishna (138), Guntur (137), East Godavari (137), Prakasam (104), Kadapa (79), Visakhapatnam (70), Vizianagaram (70), Srikakulam (39), Anantapur (29) and Kurnool (16). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,83,139), Chittoor (2,35,610), West Godavari (1,72,541), Guntur (1,70,978), Anantapur (1,56,838), Visakhapatnam (1,53,965), Nellore (1,38,104), Prakasam (1,32,177), Kurnool (1,23,628), Srikakulam (1,21,532), Krishna (1,11,985), Kadapa (1,11,771) and Vizianagaram (81,939).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-more-succumb-to-covid-in-state/article35990015.ece
19 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Natural resources in State being looted, alleges Atchannaidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State president K. Atchannaidu on Wednesday alleged that the natural resources were being looted in violation of the rules, which had become the order of the day. The former Minister, while citing a survey done by the India Today, said,” the report had thrown light on the public unhappiness against the State government.” “In a bid to loot the wealth of the State, the YSRCP leaders are pushing the economy into a deep crisis. False cases are being foisted upon the people who are raising their voice against these illegal activities and corruption,” said Mr. Atchannaidu, adding that the officials were yielding to the whims and fancies of the ruling party leaders. The officials should not put their trust in the YSRCP leaders, but believe in the mandate of the people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/natural-resources-in-state-being-looted-alleges-atchannaidu/article35990011.ece
19 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1,100-crore NREGS bills will be cleared in a month, govt. tells HC||The State government on Wednesday told the High Court that it would clear the bills pertaining to the works undertaken under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) amounting to about Rs. 1,100 crore in a month and maintained that the State was yet to receive more than Rs. 400 crore from the Central government. Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi and Commissioner M. Girija Shankar and Principal Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat made the submission in person before a Division Bench of the High Court comprising Justice C. Praveen Kumar and Justice B. Krishna Mohan during hearing on a batch of petitions related to the alleged pending bills. The Bench directed that complete details of the action taken be furnished before it by August 24, to which date the matter has been posted. The top officials of the government claimed to have settled more than 30% of the bills and that steps were taken to clear the balance in a phased manner. Centre’s share Meanwhile, the Central government, in its affidavit, said that nearly Rs. 4,335 crore had been released towards the wage component of the MGNREGS during the current year up to July 29, 2021 and further release of funds was subject to the availability of relevant documents from the State. As per the Utilization Certificate (UC) provided by the State government as on April 1, 2021, the State had unspent funds under the material component to the tune of approximately Rs. 1,991 crore (including the Central release of Rs. 1,482 crore and State’s share Rs. 494 crore). The State was under the obligation to liquidate the previous year’s liability first. Earlier, the High Court had directed the State government to furnish the details of the payments made village-wise and sought clarity from the Centre on its contribution to the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1100-crore-nregs-bills-will-be-cleared-in-a-month-govt-tells-hc/article35990001.ece
19 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State skill contest on August 24, 25||To identify and harness talent among students, the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) is conducting the State Skill Competition-2022 on August 24 and 25. Students selected in the State-level event will qualify to participate in the regional, national and, finally, in the international-level event, WorldSkills Competition-2022, in Shanghai, China. Adviser to the Government on Skill Development Challa Madhusudan Reddy, APSSDC Chairman Konduru Ajay Reddy and Managing Director N. Bangaru Raju launched a poster of the State-level event at the APSSDC office on Wednesday. The competitions will be held at multiple venues such as K.L. University, Swarna Bharat Trust, Varun Motors Pvt. Ltd., UltraTech Cement, Naturals, and Andhra Loyola Institute of Management and Technology, among a few other places. Mr. Ajay Reddy said innovative use of technology was top on the government agenda. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy said to select participants for the State-level event, district-level competitions were conducted in 33 skill trades, including electronics, auto body repair, 3D digital game art, Mechatronics, robotics, CNC milling, welding, car painting, cyber security, additive manufacturing and visual merchandising. A total of 21,515 students registered themselves and 397 of them were shortlisted for the State event, he said. Corporation’s Executive Directors D.V. Ramakoti Reddy and K. Vijay Mohan Kumar, World Skill Competition convener Gujjala Ravi, K.L. University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor Venkatram, and Dean for Skill Development Srinath were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-skill-contest-on-august-24-25/article35989493.ece
19 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Development has come to a halt under YSRCP rule’||BJP former State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Wednesday said that development in the State had come to a standstill as the YSRCP government was implementing the welfare schemes by borrowing huge sums and selling away public properties. Referring to the shifting of capital, he told the media that the government about Rs. 10,000 crore was spent on Amaravati, but the YSRCP government came up with the concept of three capitals without pondering over its consequences. Law and order Mr. Lakshminarayana said the law and order situation had almost collapsed, which was evident from the attacks on Dalits and crimes against women. “The situation reached such a pass that a ruling party MP (K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju) was roughed up by the police, who were apparently more busy protecting the Ministers, MLCs and MLAs and implicating the opposition leaders in false cases, than discharging their constitutional duties,” he said. Liquor rates, electricity tariffs and RTC fares were increased even as the prices of essential commodities soared. The Polavaram project was in a limbo. The YSRC government could not complete the construction of the large number of houses which were left unfinished by its predecessor, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/development-has-come-to-a-standstill-under-ysrcp-rule/article35989970.ece
19 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SAAP invites suggestions to promote sports||The Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) has invited suggestions from all the stakeholders and the general public so as to incorporate them in the new policy it plans to formulate to promote sports in the State. In a release, SAAP Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Prabhakar Reddy said District Collectors, State / district Olympic associations, district / State sports associations, school games federations, PETs’ associations, retired coaches of SAAP / SAI, awardees, national and international players, philanthropists, sports journalists, Panchayat Raj and Urban Development, and School and Higher Education departments, and university sports boards could Email their suggestions on or before August 23 to: newsportspolicy   @gmail.com .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/saap-invites-suggestions-to-promote-sports/article35990009.ece
19 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selected candidates’ list on Coop Dept. website||The Commissioner of Cooperation and Registrar of Cooperative Societies, in a release on Wednesday, said that the list of candidates selected for Sub-Registrar and Assistant Registrar posts in the Cooperation Department has been uploaded on the website, apcooperation.nic.in. Contact details The candidates can check the list and appear before the Cooperation Commissioner’s office at Syamala Nagar in Guntur. They should visit the office on working days before August 26. For further details contact 8019743906 or 9849966252.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selected-candidates-list-on-coop-dept-website/article35989492.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemonium prevails at Aadhaar Seva Kendra in city||COVID-19 fears were set aside, and social distancing norms thrown to the wind, as hundreds of people thronged the Aadhaar Seva Kendra at Dwaraka Nagar in the city on Wednesday. The rush of people to the centre was to get the e-KYC (Know Your Customer) procedure done for their Aadhaar cards, as there were reports going around that benefits under government schemes would be halted if it was not done. People were seen standing cheek by jowl in serpentine queues for hours, many with toddlers in their arms, to get their e-KYC done. An air of resentment towards the government officials was palpable, with the applicants questioning why steps were not taken to ease the rush despite a sharp rise in footfalls at the Aadhaar centre over the past few days. People claimed that they were informed by the Sachivalayam volunteers that their ration cards would be cancelled and they would not receive any government welfare schemes including ration, if their e-KYC is not updated with Aadhaar before the end of this month. With the deadline round the corner, the Aadhaar centre began witnessing a heavy rush. Most of the people at the centre came for updating of e-KYC for their children or updating their details including biometrics. It may be recalled that the State government is providing Amma Vadi scheme to women who have schoolgoing children. “We came yesterday, but left after seeing the huge crowd. Today, we came again in the morning and our serial number was over 600. There are no toilets here either. The children have become exhausted waiting in the queues for so long,” said Vishnu, a resident of Gajuwaka, who had come for e-KYC of his son. People in the queue were critical of the government for instructing KYC updation amidst fears of an impending third wave of COVID-19, which many predict would mainly affect children. “There are Sachivalayams at every Ward. The government boasts of providing over 500 services through the sachivalayam. Why is the government not taking any measures to provide KYC enrolment through the secretariats? This will avoid rush,” said N. Raghava, a resident of Gajuwaka who came to get the e-KYC done for his daughter. People alleged that though the KYC can be done at post offices and banks, it is not being done as of now and they were asked to go to the main centre. Demanding an extension of the deadline, people asked the officials to increase the number of Aadhaar centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemonium-prevails-at-aadhaar-seva-kendra-in-city/article35990104.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fall in black fungus cases is no reason for complacency’||The decline in cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, is no reason for complacency, say doctors. “Neglect of initial symptoms can result in loss of vision and brain damage. I was anguished when the eyeball of a young patient had to be removed,” says Dr. S.K.E. Appa Rao, a noted ENT surgeon in the city. The 27-year-old male patient was on steroids when he took treatment in home isolation for COVID-19. He was cured of COVID and did not bother to see a doctor for follow-up treatment. “I was pained at being unable to save his sight, despite the advances in modern medical care. It would not have happened had he got his nose examined during the initial phase.” Dr. Appa Rao says. Fungal spores enter through the nose and go through the sinus to spread to the eyes and brain, causing obstruction in one side of the nose, facial pain, swelling, numbness and tenderness, dental pain, blurring of vision, double vision and watering of eyes. The standard investigations include: endoscopic examination of nose, an OP procedure to take nasal scrapings, biopsy to confirm the type of fungus, followed by contrast gadolinium enhanced MRI. “A routine check-up by an ENT specialist, after undergoing COVID treatment, is necessary to rule out the prospect of black fungus. This is all the more important for diabetics and patients, who have been on ventilator support or on steroids,” says Dr. Appa Rao, who is also past president of the Indian Society of Otology. “While 99 out of 100 post-COVID patients may develop only mild complications or may not get murcormycosis at all, the unlucky ones may have to forego their vision, suffer brain damage or even lose their life, if not treated early. This makes it imperative for all post-COVID patients to undergo a mandatory check up,” he says. “The incidence of mucormycosis has, no doubt, declined. But, patients coming with other complications like involvement of the brain and eye are increasing. On the positive side, now there is no shortage of drugs and injections for treatment of black fungus cases. Early identification of symptoms and treatment will ensure complete cure, while delays can cause serious complications,” says Dr. B. Ramachandra Rao, Associate Professor, Government ENT Hospital. The ENT Hospital, notified as a ‘Mucormycosis hospital’ in addition to the special ward functioning at the King George Hospital (KGH), reported around 240 cases and 100 surgeries were performed, and 30 patients have died, till last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fall-in-black-fungus-cases-no-reason-for-complacency/article35990052.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 19 lakh receive first dose of vaccine in district||The Health Department has intensified the vaccination drive for COVID-19 in the district, amidst fears of an impending third wave of the pandemic. As of August 17, over 26.11 lakh doses have been administered in Visakhapatnam district. Among them, around 19.63 lakh people received the first dose, while around 6.48 lakh have received both the doses and are fully vaccinated. According to statistics from the Health Department, there are 7,48,093 people in the age group of 45 to 59. Among them, 6,80,542 people were given the first jab, while 2,57,476 people received both the doses. There are 4,01,818 people above 60 years of age. Among them, around 3.11 lakh people received the first dose, while 1.73 lakh have been fully vaccinated. Meanwhile, 5,89,405 people in the age group of 18 to 44 years were administered the first dose of vaccine, while 29,786 people in the same age category have been administered both doses. The first dose was administered to 3,93,048 women with children below five years of age, 23,709 pregnant women, 18,933 teachers, 1,833 people who were to go abroad, and 1,51,882 private persons. Officials said that most of the registered healthcare workers were administered the vaccine. Out of 69,737 healthcare workers who had registered for the vaccine, 68,787 were administered the first dose, while 56,854 workers had completed both the doses. Similarly, 98.8 % of frontline workers were given the first dose. 70 new cases reported Meanwhile, the district recorded 70 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,54,475. The toll rose to 1,067 after one person succumbed to the infection. As many as 111 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus had recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. This takes the number of recoveries to 1,52,159. The number of active cases stands at 1,249.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-19-lakh-receive-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-vizag-district/article35990054.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tatas taking over VSP a ploy to divert privatisation issue’||Taking exception to the report in a section of the media that the Tata Steel is keen on taking over the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), the CPI(M) leaders and the members of the Visakha Uukku Parirakshana Porata Committee have described it as a ploy of by the Centre to divert the issue of privatisation of the steel plant. “The Tata Steel evincing interest in the VSP was a leak to the select media and this was aimed at diverting the mood of the agitation against the privatisation move. We believe that the Tatas have no interest in taking over the plant and the deal has already been sealed with South Korean major Posco,” Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee Chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao, who is also the CPI(M) State secretariat member, told the media here on Wednesday. He pointed out that as there were no bidders for the legal and transaction advisors, the name of the Tatas was floated to ‘misdirect’ the employees of the steel plant who have been agitating since over 180 days. “The VSP employees and the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee do not welcome the takeover by the Tatas, the Posco, the Mittals, the Jindals or any other private company. Our only demand is to see that the plant remains as public sector unit (PSU). Takeover by the private sector will do no good as all the companies have same philosophy and they behave in the same way,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. According to Mr. Narasinga Rao, all private sector companies believe in automation, trimming of manpower, 12 hour shift and de-unionisation. ‘No holy cow’ “The Tata group is no holy cow. In 1966, they retrenched over 700 employees from the Tata Steel and never recruited them back, despite a sustained agitation. They did not even allow Subhas Chandra Bose, who founded the union in the Tata Steel to hold a meeting. In any private sector, employees cannot voice their concerns. We vehemently oppose the privatisation of the VSP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tatas-taking-over-vsp-a-ploy-to-divert-privatisation-issue/article35990017.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illegal laterite mining in Agency has tacit support of govt. officials, alleges CPI(M)||The district committee of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) on Wednesday alleged that illegal mining of laterite has been taking place in Nathavaram mandal of the district for the past 21 years, in an extent of 121 hectares, and sought action against those responsible for it. CPI(M) District Committee secretary K. Lokanadham, member D. Sattibabu and Nathavaram mandal secretary A. Raju submitted a petition to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Committee, which visited the laterite mining area on Wednesday to study irregularities in laterite mining. The CPI(M) delegation alleged that the mining was being done with the connivance of government officials, ignoring protests by local tribals. The holding of a ‘Gram sabha’, which is mandatory for taking up any activity, was not done and a road was being widened for transport of laterite, without obtaining permission, in violation of the Scheduled Tribes and other Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest rights) Act, 2016, and without the required environmental clearances, the delegation alleged. The CPI(M) leaders noted in the petition that an estimated 11 metric tonnes of laterite was exported from Nathavaram. The illegal mining activity was depriving the traditional tribal people of their livelihood besides severely affecting wildlife. There is a threat of contamination of groundwater, which would affect the health of the local people. Though this land was shown as Un-Surveyed Hill Poramboke (USHP), the actual location of the mine is very adjacent to the reserve forest land in the 5th Schedule Area and there is a demand to include this tribal area, also in the Scheduled Area which comes under the purview of 1/70 Act of Andhra Pradesh, which prohibits any activity by non-tribal people, they said. They appealed to the NGT Committee members to declare the laterite mining activity as illegal and initiate stern action against on all those, including officials, who are responsible for this illegal mining. The CPI(M) leaders also sought recovery of the entire amount of the value of the exported laterite exported from the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illegal-laterite-mining-in-agency-has-officials-blessing-cpim/article35990053.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Offering newborn, sick calves to temple a sin, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday said it was a ‘sin on the part of devotees to donate sick, newborn and mixed breed calves in a bid to fulfil their vows’ to the Simhachalam temple. The Minister made the observation after a few incidents were brought to his attention in which some devotees had donated calves that were barely days old to the temple, resulting in their premature death. Mr. Srinivasa Rao visited the temporary ‘goshala’ (cattle shed), where the donated calves were kept, at Simhachalam, on Wednesday. He offered ‘harathi’ and fed them with bananas. “Some of these calves are dying due to premature separation from their mother. Some devotees are donating mixed breed calves in a bid to get rid of them, under the pretext of fulfilling their vows of offering the first-born calf of their cow to the deity,” the Minister said. The Minister said that such things would not be tolerated in the future and a police checkpost would be put up at the ‘toli pavancha’ to deter such persons. The devotees should realise that one does not offer stale food to the deity. Similarly, offering mixed breeds, newborn calves and sick animals to the deity was also reprehensible, he said. It was unfortunate that some vested interests were trying to politicise the death of cows at the ‘goshala’, the Minister said, calling upon devotees to offer only healthy male calves of ‘native breeds’ as offerings to the temple. He also called for greater coordination between Devasthanam officials, police, revenue and animal husbandry departments to prevent mixed breeds and sick calves being left at the foothills of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/offering-newborn-sick-calves-to-temple-a-sin-says-minister/article35990097.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre trying to mislead VSP staff, allege activists||Representatives of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee have called upon steel workers to ‘foil the plans of the Centre’ to go ahead with its decision on the strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The leaders of various trade unions alleged that the Centre was trying to deceive the employees by circulating rumours on social media that the Tata Group was keen on acquiring VSP. INTUC deputy general secretary Neerukonda Ramachandra Rao described the move as a ‘strategy to divert the attention of the employees’. “While the Tata Group commands the respect of most employees, it should not be construed that the employees are ready to welcome it. The struggle committee is firm on the continuation of VSP in the public sector,” Mr. Ramachandra Rao said. He recalled that 16,000 farmers of 64 villages had sacrificed 22,000 acres of agricultural land for the establishment of VSP in the hope that the local people would get employment in the public sector steel plant. Committee chairman J. Ayodhyaram alleged that the Centre was indulging in ‘cheap tactics’ after seeing the success of the protest held outside the VSP administrative building on Tuesday by the workers. He recalled that the process for appointment of ‘Transaction Adviser’ and ‘Legal Adviser’ was postponed by the Centre twice. He warned that any private investor trying to acquire VSP would have to face the wrath of the employees. Co-convener Gandham Venkata Rao said that the Centre would face severe consequences if it does not stop its efforts of creating chaos among employees. He sought that the Centre repeal its decision on the strategic sale of VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-trying-to-mislead-vsp-staff-allege-activists/article35990098.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interdisciplinary research centre at IIM-V||The Interdisciplinary Decision Science & Analytics Lab (IDeAL) was inaugurated by Professor V. Nagadevara, former Dean and Director (i/c) of IIM Bangalore and Chair of the Faculty Development & Evaluation Committee of IIM Visakhapatnam, virtually here on Wednesday. IDeAL is a centre of excellence dedicated to inter-disciplinary research. IIM-V Director Prof. M. Chandrasekhar said that IDeAL would play a vital role in bringing industry, government, and academia together to address socioeconomic issues, particularly being faced by aspirational districts like Visakhapatnam. “The aim of IDeAL is to act as a platform for conceptualizing, inventing, building, and valorising product and service innovations. IDeAL will focus, on healthcare and natural resource management solutions with a view to facilitating their availability, accessibility, and affordability,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interdisciplinary-research-centre-at-iim-v/article35990109.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals urge Collector to issue Aadhaar||Tribal villagers of Neredubandha village in Gaduthuru panchayat, G. Madugula mandal, have sought the intervention of the District Collector for the issue of Aadhaar cards and birth certificates for their children. The tribal people, led by K. Govinda Rao, district president of A.P. Girijana Sangham 5th Schedule Sadhana Committee, met Collector A. Mallikarjuna during his visit to Narsipatnam on Wednesday afternoon and submitted a memorandum seeking a solution to their woes. They said that there were 10 tribal families living in Neredubandha for the past 50 years. There are 20 children aged below 10 in the village. In the absence of Aadhaar cards and birth certificates, they were not being allowed admission to Anganwadi centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-urge-collector-to-issue-aadhaar/article35990099.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||220 kg ganja seized at Narsipatnam||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested a person while he was allegedly transporting around 220 kg of ganja in a car at Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district, here on Wednesday. SEB teams conducted a route watch at Gabbada bridge in Narsipatnam mandal, where they intercepted a car and seized the contraband and arrested the accused, identified as T. Prasad of Rolugunta mandal. Police recovered 110 packets of ganja, each weighing 2 kg, from the vehicle. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/220-kg-ganja-seized-at-narsipatnam/article35990105.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple killed in accident||A couple died in a road accident after their motorcycle was reportedly hit by a lorry on NH-16, near Kakani Nagar in the city, on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as N. Nageswara Rao and N. Ramadevi, residents of Gajuwaka. According to sources, the duo reportedly went to Marripalem to visit their relatives. The accident occurred when they were returning home. While Nageswara Rao died on the spot, Ramadevi died while being shifted to hospital. Airport police registered a case and shifted the bodies to KGH for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-killed-in-accident/article35990106.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP employee falls from crane, dies||A senior manager-rank officer identified as M. Srinivasa Rao of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant reportedly slipped from an Electrically Overhead Travelling (EOT) crane in the Steel Melt Shop (SMS-1) in the plant and fell to his death here on Wednesday afternoon. Srinivasa Rao was working in the maintenance wing of the SMS department. Police said they are treating the case as an accidental death. Srinivasa Rao’s body was retrieved and sent for post-mortem. Steel Plant police have booked a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-employee-falls-from-crane-dies/article35990107.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cutting of flag-shaped cake draws ire||A video showing council members of the Narsipatnam Municipal Corporation cutting a cake in the shape of the Indian national flag went viral on social media, drawing rebuke from citizens. The incident, which occurred during the Independence Day celebrations at a ward secretariat office in Narsipatnam earlier this week, came to light on Wednesday. Municipal chairperson G. Aadilakshmi and a few councillors had cut the cake. Several sachivalayam staff were also present at the ceremony. The municipal staff could not be reached for their comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cutting-of-flag-shaped-cake-draws-ire/article35990108.ece
19 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU inks pact for yoga course||Andhra University on Wednesday signed an MoU with Yoga Life Educational Society for a six-year diploma course in yoga. Prof. Krishna Mohan said that the syllabus and training programme would be taken up by the varsity, while conduct of examination, evaluation and issue of certificates will be done by Department of Yoga & Consciousness (Yoga Village). Rector Prof. K. Samatha was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-inks-pact-for-yoga-course/article35990102.ece
19 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation laid for Annadanam Trust||Vizianagaram Deputy Mayor Kolagatla Sravani laid the foundation stone for the construction of a new building for the Sri Panchamukha Anjaneya Nitya Annadana Trust on Wednesday. Ms. Sravani lauded the services of the trust which was supplying meals for 500 orphans and poor people regularly. She said the trust gained nationwide reputation by giving lunches to marriage parties which were unable to bear food expenses. Astalakshmi Petham head Raghunadha Acharyulu, and trust’s executive committee members Pentapati Vijayaramayya and Pentapati Kamaraju attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-laid-for-annadanam-trust/article35990039.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Afghan students in Anantapur stare at an uncertain future||Ameen’s father has reopened his construction materials shop after a brief closure and feels things are improving. Six of the postgraduate students pursuing MBA and M.Tech will be completing their academics by September 30 and the ICCR does not support their stay and they cease to get their scholarship amount, which is the most worrisome for all of them. A couple of them are married and their spouses are back in Afghanistan. They have pleaded with the Indian Government to allow them to stay for an additional three months by giving an extension for the validity of their visa. JNTU Anantapur Registrar C. Sasidhar said that had taken letters from the PG students and forwarded their request to the ICCR with a recommendation to allow extension of their stay on the campus.“We are with the Afghan students and assure them of all possible help from our side,” Mr. Sashidhar added. One of the 11 students had gone back to Afghanistan after the first wave of the COVID19 pandemic and could not return to the campus, but is currently attending online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/afghan-students-in-anantapur-stare-at-an-uncertain-future/article35990000.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-wait/article35990047.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a clean track record!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-a-clean-track-record/article35989497.ece
19 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Vector-borne diseases haunt remote Bhadrachalam areas||The vector-borne diseases returned to haunt the remote tribal pockets of Bhadrachalam Agency with the sanitation situation in several tribal habitations deteriorating in the aftermath of heavy spell of rains last month, providing a breeding ground for mosquitoes thereby exposing people inhabiting the flood prone areas to potential health hazards. Sources said that Chinna Nallaballi in Dummugudem mandal reported as many as nine dengue cases at the fag end of last month. Sporadic cases of vector-borne diseases including malaria were reported from various tribal habitations in the limits of Parnashala and few other Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in Bhadrachalam Agency in the last fortnight. The district has recorded around 40 dengue cases and 206 malaria cases so far this year, according to sources in the health department. Most of the cases of seasonal diseases in the Agency areas have gone unnoticed last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown and other factors, sources added. According to sources, Koyyuru village in Charla mandal is reportedly reeling under the grip of seasonal diseases, mainly viral fevers. Meanwhile, the district health authorities have ramped up efforts to conduct fever surveys and hold medical camps in the limits of 27 PHCs across the district from Tuesday. A total of 1.53 lakh long-lasting insecticide-treated nets (LLINs) have already been distributed among people living in around 501 “high-risk” villages under the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). When contacted, the District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) Dr. Sirisha told The Hindu that the dewatering drive will be stepped up by implementing the ‘Dry Day’ on a regular basis at least twice or thrice a week to redouble efforts to prevent stagnation of water and mosquito breeding with a focus on areas considered as hot spots for vector-borne diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vector-borne-diseases-haunt-tribal-pockets-of-bhadrachalam/article35989839.ece
19 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||CRPF jawan dies in road accident||A CRPF constable was killed and two others injured when the car they were travelling in hit a culvert and fell into a roadside ditch near 9th Mile Tanda, a tribal village, on the Yellandu-Kothagudem main road in Tekulapally mandal on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Maloth Jagadeesh Babu, 30, a native of Madras Tanda in Tekulapally mandal. Jagadeesh arrived in his native place a few days ago on leave from Chennai, where he was working as a constable with the CRPF, sources said. The accident took place shortly after midnight Tuesday while Jagadeesh was returning to his village in a car along with two others from his relative’s house in Dornakal. The car skidded off the road at an accident-prone spot near 9th Mile Tanda and hit a culvert before falling into a roadside ditch filled with rainwater, amid drizzle. Jagadeesh suffered grievous injuries and died while being shifted to a hospital in Yellandu. Two other occupants of the car escaped with multiple injuries. Jagadeesh is survived by his wife and two children. The tragic incident exposed the potential danger to the safety of motorists plying on the accident-prone and rain-battered stretch of the main road connecting two coal towns – Yellandu and Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crpf-jawan-dies-in-road-accident/article35989850.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second wave over, says DPH||The COVID second wave in Telangana has come to an end, said Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday. However, a large number of unvaccinated eligible people, lack of COVID appropriate behaviour, and a new variant, could trigger a third wave, he said. Currently, large gatherings for celebrations, and crowd at food outlets, were being witnessed. “If R factor (reproductive number of virus), new cases reported, daily positivity rate, and hospital admissions, are considered, we can say that the COVID situation is under control. The R Factor value is 0.7%. We should be worried if it is above 1%. The positivity rate is 0.5%,” said Dr. Srinivasa at a press conference at the Health campus on Wednesday. At the peak of the second wave, 1,01,22 cases were detected on April 26. Over a lakh samples were tested in a day during that time, and the number of COVID patients in ICUs crossed 4,100. Currently, around 80,000-90,000 samples are being examined in a day and 400-450 people are detected with coronavirus. The number of COVID patients in ICUs is around 1,200. Meanwhile, Health officials pointed out that only 30-40% people were maintaining precautions such as use of mask, and hand hygiene. “People stop taking precautions when cases come down. Delta variant is prevalent in only a few States now. But, you are seeing how 130 countries are still struggling with the variant. So, people should continue following COVID protocols,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-wave-over-says-dph/article35989822.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR reaches out to people only during polls: Revanth||Telangana Congress committee president A. Revanth Reddy has said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had fallen into a trap of his own misdeeds and raised a chorus from public at a rally at Raviryal on city outskirts whether he should be punished or let off. Mr. Reddy said it was obvious now that Mr. Rao would go to public only when elections were around. This time Mr. Rao is out to garner the votes of SCs and STs in Huzurabad by-election. It is in the hands of voters of Huzurabad to script a new history for Telangana. Mr. Rao is sure to bite the dust in polls, said Mr. Reddy. Addressing the rally of Congress as part of its Girijan - Dalit Dandora series, Mr. Reddy said his appointment to his present post by the Congress leadership a month ago is a wake-up call for Mr. Rao. Mr. Rao aggressively campaigned highlighting Rs. 10 lakh support scheme for SCs under the Dalit Bandhu scheme. “But, will that Rs. 10 lakh end with one by-election?”, Mr. Reddy asked. He called for power vested with Congress for SCs and STs to access real justice. Otherwise, these sections got a raw deal in the seven-year rule of TRS, Mr. Reddy said. Citing examples, Mr. Reddy recalled that an upright IAS officer belonging to SC community, K. Pradeep Chandra, retired from service within a month of serving as the Chief Secretary whereas other civil servants like Rajeev Sharma, S.K. Joshi and Anurag Sharma, who belonged to upper castes, were given extension after they superannuated. Another IAS officer of SC community, A. Murali, resigned his job after he was humiliated by the government. More recently, R.S. Praveen Kumar of the same section also quit despite having six years of service left, Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Reddy made light of the appointment of a SC officer Rahul Bojja in the Chief Minister’s Office saying it’s nothing but vote bank politics. Mr. Rao actually has contempt for weaker sections which is evident from the difference in the manner he paid respects to President Ramnath Kovind who is an SC and former President Pranab Mukherjee or former Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan who belonged to upper castes, Mr. Reddy alleged. The SCs and STs are distant from education during the TRS rule. Their livelihoods were also disrupted. For instance, 8,632 acres out of 20,000 acres allotted to Pharma City at Yacharam were assigned lands of SCs which they got during Congress government. They were acquired from assignees at Rs. 8 lakh an acre and sold to investors in the Pharma City at Rs. 2 crore an acre, he alleged. Mr. Reddy arrived at the venue of the public meeting to boisterous response from public. He came from airport in a procession standing on an open top jeep along with Congress in-charge of State Manickam Tagore and two other observers Bose Raju and Srinivasan. The crowd stood ground despite rain even before Mr. Reddy spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-reaches-out-to-people-only-during-polls-revanth/article35989847.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||My mahapadayatra is for the poor, says Bandi||The proposed ‘Praja Sankalpa Mahapadayatra’ later this month in Telangana is for the cause of the poor, the downtrodden and to break free from the current ruling dispensation which mirrors the erstwhile Razakars, said BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday. “My programme is against the dictatorial rule of this modern day Nizam and against an arrogant government which is totally oblivious to people’s problems. I urge everyone to join me in bringing an end to the corrupt family rule,” he said, addressing a gathering at the party office. Participating in the 371st Sardar Sarvai Papanna Goud birth anniversary celebrations, he paid rich tributes to the toddy tapper turned revolutionary who fought for the cause of the weaker sections and against the Mughals. H e regretted that Sardar Sarvarai’s exploits did not get the due recognition although he was born two decades before Maratha ruler Shivaji. Mr. Sanjay Kumar found fault with the TRS government for neglecting the birth anniversary and charged that the ruling TRS party is trying to rewrite history due to pressure from Majlis party leaders. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should know that self-respect is more important for Telangana people rather than doles. Sardar’s life should be part of the textbooks,” he demanded. Kishan Reddy’s tour Meanwhile, Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and Development of North Eastern States G. Kishan Reddy will undertake a “Jana Asheervada Yatra” from Aug.19 to 21 in Telangana starting from Kodada to Hyderabad via Suryapeta, Thorrur, Warangal, Janagoan, Aler and Yadadri, said general secretary and in-charge of the programme G. Premender Reddy. The Union Minister will be covering 17 Assembly constituencies and eight parliamentary constituencies across the 305 km tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/my-mahapadayatra-is-for-the-poor-says-bandi/article35989843.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LPG turns dearer, household cooking gas refills cost Rs. 912||Cooking gas refills or the cylinders with 14.2 kg liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) that households use now cost Rs. 912 in the city. The price moved past the Rs. 900 mark after national oil marketing companies Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum increased the cost of non-subsidised cylinders by Rs. 25 each effective August 17 across the country. Coming at a time when many low to middle income households are struggling to emerge from economic impact of the pandemic, the hike is bound to add to their worries, particularly for families whose LPG consumption is high, ahead of winter months. Sources among cooking gas distributors, however, said consumers seem to have got used to increase in LPG prices as there was hardly any opposition when deliveries at the new price (Rs. 912) were made on Tuesday. This is the non-subsidised price that households who either had opted out of subsidy or not eligible for the same, on account of income levels, pay for the refills. For those who continue to draw or are eligible, the subsidy is negligible. From Rs. 746.50 on January 1, the non-subsidised domestic refill price was increased six times, including thrice in February. The only instance of a reduction this year was on April 1, when the refill price dropped Rs. 10 to Rs. 861.50 each. Prior to Tuesday, the price was increased by Rs. 25.50 on July 1 taking the refill cost to Rs. 887. The demand for domestic LPG has been growing, sources said, attributing it work from home and the restrictions on movement during the lockdown. LPG prices are determined by the international price of propane and butane as also the foreign exchange rates. While domestic LPG by volume is a big market, commercial LPG or the cylinders meant for use in commercial establishments such as tea stalls and eateries is where intense competition is witnessed among the distributors. On Tuesday, the price of 19 kg commercial cylinders were reduced by Rs. 5 each to Rs. 1,798 by the oil companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lpg-turns-dearer-household-cooking-gas-refills-cost-rs-912/article35989828.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man on mission to make rural Telangana cuisine popular||Sukumar Das, a Telangana-based entrepreneur who introduced paragliding and paramotoring in Hyderabad, is now on a mission to add fresh flavours to adventure. Through his company Vertical World Aerosports and Adventure along with Telangana tourism, he is on a mission to popularise the rural cuisine of the State and give food lovers a taste of authentic homemade food. Sukumar is working to set up eateries that specialise in offering only rural foods. The first such eatery will be a part of the Telangana Aeroventure Aerosports And Adventure village that will be up and rolling from October this year, informs Sukumar. In contrast to a regular menu that features manchurian, aloo 65, kadhai chicken, dal tadka and naan, Sukumar’s menu will be all about annam, pappu, charu, kodi kura, chepa pulusu, boti fry, sakinalu and more, all cooked by villagers. Sukumar is doing away with employing trained chefs or culinary schools or graduates. He explains, “Trained professionals work with measurements, recipes and rules while cooking. This is not the case with home food. Real rural food is rustic and comes without the complex use of spices and standard formula gravies/curries.” The Telangana Aeroventure Aerosports And Adventure village that will house the eateries will be coming up at tourist hangout spots on the outskirts, especially near the new water barrages like Ranganayaka Sagar and Kondapochamma reservoir in Siddipet, Udandapur and Karivena reservoir in Mahabubnagar. As a food lover and traveller, Sukumar sees a huge potential in pure rural flavours. His idea is to popularise food from the villages of Telangana and open a dialogue on food and community culture. “A lot of youth in villages need a supplementary source of income. If a food community is set up to market their food and culture, it will not only be beneficial to them but to people of Telangana,” he reasons. Sukumar’s teams have done several food trials with the department of tourism and the feedback is positive, he adds. “The tourism department is being very supportive of the idea because there is a lot of scope for the project,” he said. With social media focusing on rural food, are cooking demonstrations for customers on the cards? He says, “There are a lot of plans. I want to start with giving people a taste of food cooked over firewood, paired with jonna rotte , and replace beer and carbonated drinks with majjiga (butter milk) from buffalo milk or toddy.” So, the next time you want to taste rural Telangana cuisine, head to one of these adventure villages where after a high-flying experience in the sky, you can treat your taste buds to something rusticly flavourful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-on-a-mission-to-make-states-rural-cuisine-popular/article35989825.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CBI Special Court issues summons to Jagan, 21 others||The CBI Special Court and Enforcement Directorate Courts have issued summons to the AP Chief Minister Y.S.Jaganmohan Reddy and 21 others to appear before it on September 22 in connection with the VANPIC case. According to information, the summons have been issued to YSRCP Rajya Sabha member Y.Vijaysai Reddy, former Congress Minister and present MP Mopidevi Venkatramana, industrialist Nimmagadda Prasad and over a dozen companies. Former Minister and YSRCP MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao, who was the Revenue and Roads and Buildings Minister in Congress government, has also been summoned. Other, who were summoned to appear before the court are: Jagati Publications Limited, Bharathi Cement Corporation Private Limited; Carmel Asia Holdings Private Limited; Silicon Builders Private Limited; Vanpic Projects Private Limited; Vanpic Ports Private Limited; Gilchrist Investments Private Limited; Alpha Villas Private Limited; Alpha Avenues Private Limited; Beta Avenues Private Limited; G2 Corporate Services Limited; Suguni Constructions Private Limited; Nimmagadda Prakash; former Special Chief Secretary in united AP Mylapalli Samuel, IRTS officer K.V Brahmananda Reddy and former special Chief Secretary Dr. Manmohan Singh. The case relates to irregularities in the Vadrarevu and Nizampatnam Ports and Industrial Corridor (VANPIC) project. The CBI had filed 177-page chargesheet which referred to the alleged irregularities in the implementation of the VANPIC project in Prakasam and Guntur districts in Andhra Pradesh. The Vanpic project is a result of a MoU signed among the Government of Andhra Pradesh, Ras Al Khaimah, an emirate in UAE and Matrix Enport in 2008. The project, designed to develop ports and infrastructure in Guntur and Prakasam districts ran into rough weather with allegations of forcible land acquisition and quid pro quo deals with firms owned by YSR Congress president and present AP CM Y.S Jaganmohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cbi-special-court-issues-summons-to-jagan-21-others/article35989841.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to extend services of people working in different depts.||The State government has decided to extend the services of people working in different departments under contract/outsourcing/ honorarium basis and awaiting issue of continuation orders for the current financial year till September 30, subject to fulfilment of conditions. The decision follows the government’s intentions of ensuring timely payment of remuneration for these categories of employees every month. The development follows instances that persons engaged on contract/outsourcing/honorarium basis are not getting their salaries in time for among other reasons want of continuation orders. There are few thousands of people employed on contract/outsourcing/honorarium basis in different departments, especially Medical & Health, Revenue and Panchayat Raj & Rural Development departments. All departments were directed to ensure that proposals for continuation of services of all these employees working under their administrative control should be circulated to the Finance Department immediately to ensure that continuation orders are issued on or before Sept 30. Senior officials said the exercise was part of efforts to fix the cadre strength in different departments, including the number of employees on regular service, contract/outsourcing/honorarium based staff and the number of vacancies. There was however no clarity about the exact strength of staff under this category as the departments, particularly those at district-level engaged their services. The Human Resources section of the Finance Department used to issue orders appointing people on contract/outsourcing/honorarium basis in the past, but the departments themselves started making appointments in the past few years, thereby leading to absence of clarity about the numbers. The present order seeks to streamline the issue and enable the government to ascertain the exact number of persons employed in this category so that recruitment notifications could be issued accordingly.  Exercise is part of efforts to fix the cadre strength in different departments. Senior officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/services-of-staff-working-in-different-depts-to-be-extended/article35989845.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC city zone hits purple patch||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s operations in the Greater Hyderabad Zone (GHZ) are inching towards normalcy, as vehicle utilisation, occupancy and earnings per kilometre are witnessing an uptick after COVID-19 restrictions were relaxed. Data obtained by the Right to Information (RTI) Act of 2005 by transport researcher G S R Chaitanya, the occupancy for July was 54. This is the highest since February. The occupancy had taken a beating on account of the night curfew and partial lockdown from April through May. Similarly, there has been an increase in earning per kilometre, despite the continuous increasing prices of diesel. While this was Rs. 31.81 in March, it gradually rose at the end of July to Rs. 32.43. The average vehicle utilisation too went up, as more buses were pressed into service. The number of average number of kilometres operated per day too increased. For instance, in March 6.31 lakh km were operated. This increased at the end of July to 6.38 lakh km. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Chaitanya said that data shows that the TSRTC’s GHZ restored most of the services were early this year. The trend after the second wave too appears the same. “It is interesting to note, earnings increased as the TSRTC operated more services. The TSRTC should take this as a cue and make a case for an increasing in the size of network and fleet.” However, in connection with fleet size, data shows that this has been gradually decreasing over the past few months, reflecting a need for an increase in new buses. In September 2020, the GHZ had a fleet size of 3,123 buses. The fleet held in July was 3,112. Meanwhile, while 16 new services were introduced in Hyderabad Region and 10 in Secunderabad Region since 2019, none were suspended due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-city-zone-hits-purple-patch/article35989837.ece
19 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pseudo police officer arrested on extortion charge||A pseudo police officer, who introduced himself as Circle Inspector of Khammam and demanded Rs. 75 lakh from a doctor, was arrested by the Banjara Hills police here on Tuesday. The accused, Rajeev Goutham (31), along with his friend Barthapuram Mahesh, was held near Puri Jaganath Temple on Road No.12. ACP M Sudarshan said that on August 16, they received a complaint from V Kishan Prasad (57), a doctor from Banjara Hills, stating that in 2017 he hired a driver, Mahesh, who absconded with Rs. 20 lakh he gave him for purchasing land. On August 14, one Damodar visited Mr. Krishna Prasad’s hospital, introducing himself as CI from Khammam. He told the doctor that Mahesh, who was involved in series of offences, was arrested recently and confessed to having some call recordings of the latter and his wife and to destroy them, he demanded Rs. 75 lakh,” the ACP said. Based on his complaint, apolice laid a trap and arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pseudo-police-officer-held/article35989829.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khadi stalls in 5 railway stations||South Central Railway (SCR) has set up temporary exhibition-cum-sale stalls at five railway stations — Secunderabad, Kacheguda, Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Tirupati — exclusively to showcase handloom or khadi products by government bodies. This initiative has been taken to commemorate 75 years of Independence Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to portray the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat. In total, 75 railway stations across the country have been identified to set up such handloom stalls by the Railway Board, out of which five stations come under SCR, said a press release on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khadi-stalls-in-five-railway-stations/article35989819.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wages to outsourcing contract, staff hiked by 30%||The State government has decided to enhance the monthly remuneration prescribed for contract/outsourced services by 30%. Accordingly, the revised monthly wages for Category I, II and III employees would be Rs. 15,600, Rs. 19,500 and Rs. 22,750 respectively for all types of services engaged on contract/outsourcing basis. The revised remuneration would be effective from June this year payable in July. The development follows the assurance of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that wages would be revised for all categories of staff, including those engaged on contract/outsourcing basis along with the implementation of revised pay scales for the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wages-to-outsourcing-contract-staff-hiked-by-30/article35989853.ece
19 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic diversion due to flyover construction||In connection with the construction of four-lane Amberpet flyover on NH-163 ( Old 202 ) from Shalom Church to Mukkaram Hotel, Amberpet, Hyderabad Traffic police issued a traffic advisory. The flyover works will commence on Thursday from Road No.6, Amberpet. “Traffic will be diverted on a need basis on the alternative routes. The commuters using the above routes are requested to take alternative routes to avoid inconvenience,” ACP (Traffic) Anil Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-diversion-due-to-flyover-construction/article35989832.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||424 more COVID cases in State||Telangana recorded 424 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,53,626. While 91,350 samples were examined, results of 1,118 were awaited. Two more COVID patients died. The fresh cases include 73 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 46 from Karimnagar, 24 each from Nalgonda and Warangal Urban, and 23 from Khammam. No case was recorded in Jogulamba Gadwal. From March 2, 2020, to August 18 this year, a total of 2.36 crore samples were examined and 6,53,626 people tested positive. Of the total cases, 6,912 were active cases, 6,42,865 recovered, and 3,849 died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/424-more-covid-cases-in-state/article35989823.ece
19 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel makes way for live organs||Hyderabad Traffic police in coordination with their counterparts in Cyberabad facilitated the transport of live organs (heart and lungs) on Wednesday by providing non-stop movement to the ambulance carrying them. The police arranged a green channel for transportation of the heart from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet, to RGI Airport, Shamshabad, and the lungs from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet, to Yashoda Hospital at Secunderabad. In the first case, the ambulance left from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet, to the RGI Airport at 12.08 p.m., which is 28 km, and the distance was covered in 28 minutes. The other ambulance left from Yashoda Hospital at Malakpet to Yashoda Hospital at Secunderabad at 12.28 p.m., which is 11.07 km, and was covered in 17 minutes. This year the police facilitated 20 such organ transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-makes-way-for-live-organs/article35989826.ece
19 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mufti Abdul Mughni Mazahiri dead||Noted Muslim cleric Mufti Mohammed Abdul Mughni Mazahiri passed away on Wednesday. He was was 66. Mufti Abdul Mughni was unwell for around four months. He breathed his last around 3 a.m. He is survived by two sons and four daughters. He was an office-bearer of the city wing of the Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind, a body of Muslim clerics, and the Director of Madrassa Sabeel-ul-Falah and taught thousands of students over the past many years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mufti-abdul-mughni-mazahiri-dead/article35989835.ece
19 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gandipet MRO in ACB net||Gandipet Tahisldar Balduri Chandar Rao was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau on Wednesday for demanding and accepting bribe from a complainant for showing official favours. He demanded and accepted Rs. 25,000 bribe from Mohammed Khaja to issue 'No Protected Tenant Certificate'. The officer was caught red-handed and the ACB officials also conducted searches at various places, including at his office and residence. He was produced before the First Additional Special Judge for SPE and ACB Cases, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandipet-mro-in-acb-net/article35989844.ece
19 August 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Sarvayi Papanna was a great revolutionary: Srinivas Goud||Excise Minister Srinivas Goud said that Sardar Sarvayi Papanna Goud was a great revolutionary and will be remembered forever. Addressing a gathering after unveiling the statue of Sarvayi Papanna at the district headquarters town on Wednesday, Mr Srinivas Goud alleged that the rulers in combined Andhra Pradesh buried the actual history of Telangana. “Papanna was a great leader and he had conquered Golkonda Fort. He was the man who attacked the kingdoms and distributed the wealth to the poor,” said Mr. Srinivas Goud. MLA M Padma Devender Reddy, MLS S. Subhash Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sarvayi-papanna-was-a-great-revolutionary-srinivas-goud/article35990058.ece
19 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||5.52L Bathukamma saris for Nalgonda||Additional Collector V. Chandra Shekar on Wednesday instructed officials to make arrangements for distribution of Bathukamma saris, the government’s Dasara gift to white ration card-holders, from the first week of September. At a review meeting, he said that 5.52 lakh women, white ration card-holders aged 18 and above, in Nalgonda would receive the gift. Agriculture market committee godowns in the six Assembly constituencies in the district will act as the main distribution centre, to mandals and then to villages. Centres at Kondamallepally, Damaracherla, Thipparthi, Munugode, Nidamanur, and the Rythu Vedika at Nakrekal, were identified for the purpose, the Additional Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/552l-bathukamma-saris-for-nalgonda/article35989817.ece
19 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||SHE team police station inaugurated||Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath on Wednesday inaugurated the newly organised SHE team police station in Miryalaguda. On Wednesday, at the inaugural, he released quick response code leaflets of the SHE team service, for easy reporting of grievances. Later, along with Addl. SP Narmada, he inspected records at the Miryalaguda Town-II police station. On long-pending unclaimed vehicles in the station premises, he instructed officials to send notices to registered owners and also approach the court for clearance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/she-team-police-station-inaugurated/article35989851.ece
19 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRAOU Dy. Director appointed nodal officer||Deputy Director of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University regional coordination centre, at the N.G. College here, Banothu Dharma has been appointed the nodal officer to co-ordinate implementation of nutritional needs of children in tribal districts of Telangana & Andhra PradeshThe officer will continue for a period of one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/braou-dy-director-appointed-nodal-officer/article35990056.ece
19 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Polytechnic diploma for orphan girls||Application process has been opened for polytechnic diploma course, for orphan girls, survivors of trafficking and those who completed their Class 10, who have been in the custody of Women and Child department or voluntary organisations’ shelter homes. Admissions to the course is direct and only based on applications accepted till August 21, Saturday.More information can be had from the department’s Bal Raksha Bhavan, near Nalgonda bus station, or from the welfare officer on 9493548014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/polytechnic-diploma-for-orphan-girls/article35990057.ece
19 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Infra boost for IIT-Hyderabad||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated state-of-the-art infrastructure at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), on Wednesday in the presence of delegates from Japan. “IIT-H is the first institute in the country to offer full-fledged BTech in AI in line with the recommendation of NEP 2020. I am glad to witness the unique collaboration IIT-H has with Japanese organisations and universities. It is an excellent example of international collaboration. I am confident that with the recommendation of NEP, such collaborations will become more common and further strengthen to achieve the goal of internalisation. I congratulate IIT-H on this occasion and hope you will dream big, get the strength to pursue these dreams and work towards realising them,” said Mr. Pradhan after inaugurating the facilities virtually. “IIT-H is the shining gemstone among innumerable projects Japan is having with India. From this cooperation, we want to see young engineers go to Japan, work there and learn from what we have in Japan and young Japanese talent to also visit Hyderabad and learn from you. I think the synergy the two countries have is humongous and we want to capitalise it,” said Minister, Head of the Economic Section, Embassy of Japan, Shingo Miyamoto. Director of IIT-H B.S. Murty said, “It is indeed a momentous occasion to witness this development that will definitely lead to myriad technological developments and opportunities to serve the nation and society at large. The creation of some basic infrastructure facilities with Japanese design is a mark of friendship between India and Japan. The young and vibrant minds at IIT-H are all geared up to make the institute feature among Top 500 global institutes soon.” Governing Board chairman B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan were present.  IIT-H is the first institute in the country to offer full-fledged BTech in AI in line with the recommendation of NEP 2020. Dharmendra Pradhan Union Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infra-boost-for-iit-hyderabad/article35989827.ece
19 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Teacher selected for national award||Rama Swamy, headmaster working at Indira Nagar Government High School in the district headquarters town, was one among the two best teachers selected by the Union Government from the State. The other being Ragaiah, from Savarkhed Zilla Parishad School from Asifabad district. “This award was in recognition to the work rendered by Mr. Rama Swamy in making his profession service-oriented, besides paying special attention towards poor children,” said Finance Minister T. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teacher-selected-for-national-award/article35989849.ece
19 August 2021||noida/lucknow,||‘U.P. CM wants Noida to be most-planned city’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wants to see Noida as the “most-planned city” in the State and is working towards this end, the State government said on Wednesday. Noida and nearby areas in Greater Noida and Jewar have major industrial projects, and investments worth thousands of crores are in the pipeline that have come during the current BJP-led regime, it said in an official statement. “A drive from Delhi to Noida in the evening, with Noida’s streets decked up with colourful lights makes one feel the difference clearly,” it read. Citing infrastructure projects like the metro, proposed airport in Jewar, film city, toy park, MSME parks and medical device park, the government said Mr. Adityanath focused on development of Noida. “The CM is taking steps towards making Jewar International Airport the largest airport in India,” it said. Big companies The government said companies like Microsoft, Samsung, Hiranandani, Kent RO, Adani and Aika are setting up units, while construction of Noida International Airport and Film City is likely to start soon. Apart from this, there are plans to establish a multi-modal logistics park in Dadri and a transport hub in Greater Noida.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/up-cm-wants-noida-to-be-most-planned-city/article35989697.ece
19 August 2021||Mumbai,||Now, low interest loans for flood-hit small businesses||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that loans would be made available at as low as 5% to 6% interest rates from the district central cooperative banks (DCCB) to small business owners and shopkeepers in the Konkan region and western Maharashtra, who suffered losses during the recent incessant rain and subsequent floods. Finance Minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting with senior officials of DCCBs from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. The meeting discussed the recent floods, which affected businesses and shops from these districts and the commercial losses they fared. “It was decided to sanction loans by these banks on a no-profit basis, observing social commitment. The loans will be at a marginally higher rate than the cost of fund. As a result, the available loan will be at 5% to 6% interest rates,” said a Finance Department official. This scheme will benefit individuals with commercial establishments that were damaged. The State government has already announced to provide Rs. 50,000 to every owner of affected commercial establishments. The low interest loans will be in addition to the already announced financial aid. Earlier, State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad held a meeting with officials from his department and the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) to discuss the rebuilding of Taliye village in Raigad district, which was buried in a landslide during the continuous rain. Mr. Awhad has already announced that MHADA will reconstruct the village without any cost to villagers. “A total of 261 houses will be rebuilt,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/now-low-interest-loans-for-flood-hit-small-businesses/article35989719.ece
19 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai policeman climbs one more step to target of 7 highest peaks||Assistant police inspector Sambhaji Gurav, attached to the Navi Mumbai police, who is on a mission to climb the highest mountain peaks of all the seven continents within a year, finished his third summit of Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa on August 15. ‘Reverence for freedom fighters and salute to the soldiers’ was the motto of this journey. “I consider myself lucky to have unfurled the Tricolor on Mount Kilimanjaro on the 75th Independence Day. With this, I became the first Indian policeman to scale the three highest peaks of three continents, including Mount Everest, in three consecutive months,” Mr. Gurav said. He started climbing the mountain on August 11. “I got to see various faces of nature at one single summit. Out of several routes to the mountain, we chose Marangu gate. Till the first halt, the journey was through dense rainforest. The first phase continued for around five hours. After the second halt, we passed through desert. The peak of the mountain was glacier clad,” Mr. Gurav added. After completing his expedition to Mount Everest on May 23, he had successfully scaled Mount Elbrus in Europe on July 26. He has planned his next summit of Mount Kosciuszko in Australia in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/navi-mumbai-policeman-climbs-one-more-step-to-target-of-7-highest-peaks/article35989716.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Action plan for elimination of single-use plastic gets nod||The Delhi government on Wednesday approved a comprehensive action plan (CAP) for eliminating selected single-use plastic (SUP) in the city, according to officials. The plan has different deadlines for different projects and has identified departments responsible for each project. The projects include identification of alternative products and its research and development, awareness, among others. As per the CAP, a district-wise assessment of plastic waste generation and infrastructure required for plastic waste management — collection, segregation, recycling — will be done by March 31, 2022. An analysis of existing infrastructure and a gap analysis will be done by the same time. Focus on alternatives The plan has also given a strong focus on alternatives. “Development of schemes for providing assistance in setting up manufacturing capacities of alternatives including for enterprises transitioning away from single-use plastics,” the CAP read. “Providing incentives for penetration of alternatives in the market, development of a database of producers of alternative products including compostable plastic manufacturing capacity, promotion scheme for alternatives to prohibited single-use plastic items,” reads some of the other projects. ‘Research and development on creating alternative packaging materials to plastic’ has been termed as a long-term project with a deadline of March 31, 2023, and it has been assigned to the Environment Department. Another project is the identification of littering hotspots of SUP items and development of strategy for their collection and further management. Funds for many of the projects under the CAP will be from the Swachh Bharat Mission. New rules On August 13, the Union Environment Ministry notified the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, which prohibits specific single-use plastic items which have “low utility and high littering potential” by 2022. Under these rules, by July next year, the manufacture of a range of plastic products will be banned. These include earbuds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice cream sticks, thermocol for decoration, plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straws, trays, wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners less than 100 microns, and stirrers. States had been “requested” to constitute a Special Task Force for elimination of single-use plastics and effective implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. The Delhi government formed the Special Task Force under the Chief Secretary in May and the CAP is a result of the meetings of the STF with different departments and other stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/action-plan-for-elimination-of-single-use-plastic-gets-nod/article35989707.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Applications pour in after faceless service launch||Since Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched faceless services initiative last Wednesday, the transport department has received around 6,000 — a daily average of almost 850 — applications for learner’s licences. While a majority of the applicants were successful, over 600 failed their tests. According to the transport department records, 5,948 applications for the issuance of learner’s licences were received by the department between August 11 and August 18 (9 a.m.). A senior government official said that as many as 5,341 applicants, who had applied for these licences from the comfort of their homes, had been issued learner’s licences during the period. As many as 607, however, did not make the cut. Gift to citizens Terming it a gift to the citizens of Delhi in the run up to the country’s 75th Independence Day celebrations, Mr. Kejriwal had on August 11 launched faceless services related to the transport department. According to the government, the programme would initially cover 33 major transport-related services covering almost 95% of the applications usually received by the department with more services to be added to the basket soon. According to the transport department, nearly 2,000 applications for driving licence and registration certificate-related documents were received by it on August 15 despite it being a national holiday. As many as 1,489 driving licence-related service requests and 462 registration certificate requests were received on August 15 in addition to 556 grievance messages received through the department’s WhatsApp chatbot and 1,387 through helpline number 1076. According to the government, a significant majority of services offered by the department can be accessed online with only two requiring one to come to the office: giving a driving test and getting the fitness of vehicles checked. Four RTOs were closed last Wednesday: IP Depot, Vasant Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Janakpuri. Institutional restructuring was also being undertaken at RTOs with the department having restructured its field functioning and three Deputy Commissioners having been deployed at Surajmal Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Dwarka covering all zones in Delhi, the government stated. According to the government, the department will now provide its public services in a faceless manner dispensing with the requirement of a physical visit to offices.  Nearly 2,000 applications for driving licence and registration certificate-related documents were received on August 15 despite it being a national holiday Transport Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/applications-pour-in-after-faceless-service-launch/article35989701.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||AAP cries foul after North body sells Novelty Cinema plot for Rs. 34 crore||The AAP on Wednesday protested outside the BJP headquarters after the North Delhi Municipal Corporation allegedly sold Novelty Cinema’s 1,100 sqm plot worth Rs. 200 crore for Rs. 34 crore, the party said. “BJP knows it will be defeated in the civic body elections, so it wants to fill its pocket by selling off public properties through municipal corporations. People of Delhi wants to bring an honest government like the Kejriwal government to the municipal corporation,” AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta said. Last week, the AAP had alleged that Novelty Cinema’s land worth Rs. 150 crore has been sold for Rs. 34 crore and added that there was ‘corruption’ in the deal. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj had claimed that if one wants to buy even a shop as small as 100 yards in these markets, it would cost Rs. 30-35 crore. The North body has refuted the allegations made by the AAP and said that due procedure was followed. Standing Committee Chairman of NDMC, Jogi Ram Jain, had said that the total land of Novelty Cinema is about 1,157 square meters and the circle rate is Rs. 70.080 per sqm. “Commercial rate and factor three is applied here. According to this, the cost of the land of Novelty Cinema comes to about Rs. 24 crore. Despite this, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has kept the basic price of the land at Rs. 34.59 crore. A total of Rs. 34.75 crore has been received for the tender process for this land. The process of e-tendering has been followed in the entire tendering process,” he had said. Mr. Jain said that the AAP is not aware of the complete facts, and it always make “false allegations”. BJP’s response Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor on Wednesday said that if AAP government feels that the plot is being sold at below market value then it should come forward and help cash starved North body by buying the plot at their own claimed market value of over Rs. 100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-cries-foul-after-north-body-sells-novelty-cinema-plot-for-rs-34-crore/article35989703.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. appeals against inclusion of NCR lawyers in welfare plan||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response from the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on Delhi government’s appeal against a single judge order extending insurance benefit under the Chief Minister’s Advocates’ Welfare Scheme to all lawyers registered here irrespective of whether they are registered as a voter in the national capital. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on Delhi government’s challenge to the order and also sought responses from the Bar Council of India (BCI) and lawyer Govind Swaroop Chaturvedi, the petitioner before the single judge. Seeking a stay on the directions issued by the single judge, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing the Delhi government clarified that it has no issues with implementing the policy for lawyers in the NCT of Delhi. “We will see on the returnable date,” the Chief Justice said. Mr. Nayar argued that the single judge misconstrued the government’s policy by extending it to lawyers outside the city. “Why not extend it to Tamil Nadu? Why should those lawyers not get it?,” the senior advocate said. Senior Counsel and Chairman of the BCD Ramesh Gupta said that even while extending the benefits under the scheme to NCR lawyers, the single judge did not interfere with the Rs. 50 crore budget allocated by the government. Mr. Chaturvedi pressed that the single judge’s directions should not be stayed. On July 12, Justice Prathiba M Singh, dealing with a batch of petitions including one by Mr. Chaturvedi, had ruled that the exclusion of lawyers registered with BCD but residing in NCR from the ambit of the scheme was discriminatory and arbitrary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-appeals-against-inclusion-of-ncr-lawyers-in-welfare-plan/article35989699.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 graph plunges as Capital reports only 36 cases, four deaths||The city reported 36 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,37,192, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government. There were four new deaths and the total number of deaths stood at 25,077. A total of 66,445 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.05%. Of the total cases, 14,11,688 people have recovered. According to the bulletin, there are 427 active COVID-19 cases in Delhi, a dip from 471 the previous day. Of these, 141 are under home isolation, down from 156 a day ago. Out of 12,057 beds in hospitals, 247 are occupied. The number of containment zones in the city stands at 242, a minor increase from 241 a day ago, it stated. The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city on Wednesday morning would last for four days, as per another bulletin. A total of 1,57,282 vaccinations were done on Tuesday and till now, 1,18,33,596 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city, the bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-graph-continues-plunge-city-reports-only-36-cases-4-deaths/article35989705.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Over 130 factory owners get DPCC closure notice||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) conducted inspections at Patparganj industrial area and teams have recommended to issue show cause notice for closure to over 130 owners for different violations. Apart from this, the teams have also recommended to issue show cause notice to 70 units in white category, that did not have consent to operate. Seven teams conducted the inspection in July and the DPCC will take action on the basis of the survey report. Fine imposed In another instance, the DPCC has imposed a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on a construction and demolition (C&D) waste processing plant in Bakkarwala village here for “various deficiencies” in dust pollution control measures. Officials of the DPCC said several deficiencies, including unavailability of “wheel washing facility, water sprinklers”, were found at the Rise Eleven Delhi Waste Management Company site during an inspection on July 2. The decision of imposing the “environmental compensation” comes after the company’s reply to DPPC’s show cause notice issued on July 9. It has also directed to submit “point-wise compliance” with respect to terms and conditions of “consent to operate” under the Air and Water Acts issued by the DPCC on February 27, 2020, and authorisation under C&D Waste Management Rules, 2016 issued by the DPCC on March 18, 2020, within 15 days from the date of order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-130-factory-owners-get-dpcc-closure-notice/article35989708.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Conditions favourable for monsoon revival: IMD||The Meteorological Department has said that atmospheric conditions are favourable for the revival of monsoon in northwest India which will bring relief to the Capital where temperatures have been 4-5 degrees above normal for the past few days. The IMD has said that increased rainfall activity over North West India will start with scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain very likely over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh on August 20 and 21. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature settled at 38°Celsius, four degrees above normal. The minimum recorded was 27.4° Celsius, one degree above normal. For August 19, the forecast shows generally cloudy sky with possibility of very light rain/thundershower towards evening/night. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 36 and 28 degrees Celsius respectively. Delhi has recorded 63.2 mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1 mm so far in August as the monsoon had entered a “break” phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/conditions-favourable-for-monsoon-revival-imd/article35989687.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||BJP stages stir against statue vandalisation in Lahore||Asserting that there was no place for a “fundamentalist mentality” in the country, scores of BJP cadres staged a demonstration against the vandalisation of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue in Lahore outside the Pakistan High Commission, here on Wednesday. The protest was led by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. They were detained by the police before being let off later in the day. The party also submitted a memorandum to the High Commission. “India will not tolerate the way Pakistan has supported Taliban and the way the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was vandalised in Lahore by people with a fundamentalist and narrow mentality,” Mr. Gupta said addressing the demonstrators. “The way Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue was vandalised is a violation of international norms and rules. People with such fundamentalist mentality should never be spared and punished,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-stages-stir-against-statue-vandalisation-in-lahore/article35989700.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi minister Imran Hussain holds talks with ration dealers' association||Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain on Wednesday chaired a meeting with representatives of the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh to address issues related to distribution of free rations to beneficiaries in the city. The Minister also listened to the grievances of distributors, an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-minister-imran-hussain-holds-talks-with-ration-dealers-association/article35989907.ece
19 August 2021||Osmanabad,||Land mafia kingpin held||The police on Wednesday arrested a land mafia kingpin, who had been on the run for the last eight days, in connection with a case of land grabbing in Osmanabad district. A special squad apprehended Devanand Rochkari in Mumbai, Deputy Superintendent of Police Raj Tilak Roushan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/land-mafia-kingpin-held/article35989715.ece
19 August 2021||Pune,||‘China wants global public opinion confused about India’||The Chinese hide behind diplomatic walls to deploy an array of tools not available to democracies, said former Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale on Wednesday, remarking that the flexibility displayed by Indian negotiators can accord them an edge over their Chinese counterparts reluctant to engage with informal diplomacy. A veteran diplomat and a China expert, Mr. Gokhale, who served as Ambassador to Germany and China besides several high-level appointments, was speaking on his recent book The Long Game: How the Chinese Negotiate with India in a talk organised by the Pune International Centre and chaired by diplomat Gautam Bambawale, who was also a former Ambassador to China. “The Chinese prepare for negotiations very carefully which includes the study of old records which are undeniably better than us as they have a history and tradition of record-keeping. They prepare with wide consultations not just with those within the government, but with ex-government officials and people in different professions. This allows the Chinese negotiators to take the advantage of ‘institutional memory’,” Mr. Gokhale said, stating that the objective behind writing the books was to present an account based on first-hand knowledge on how the Chinese approach negotiation with India, something that was missing in Western diplomatic narratives. Through six incidents covering a period from 1950-2020, Mr. Gokhale has attempted to discern trends and traits about Chinese negotiating tactics and how they achieved their goals. “The Chinese want global public opinion to be confused about us. They want public opinion along the Indo-Pacific region to think that because India is pursuing its objectives in the region, any alliance we make with other countries automatically means it is an anti-China alliance, though it is nothing of the sort…We need to be aware of the image that the Chinese want to have about us and must work towards dispelling that,” said the seasoned diplomat, who completed his tenure as India’s Foreign Secretary in January last year. Setting agenda Given that in a democracy, everything is open for discussion, Indian negotiators often deviate from the agenda to indulge in informal diplomacy in stark contrast to their Chinese counterparts, for whom agenda setting is extremely important, Mr. Gokhale said. “The Chinese often attempt to circumscribe the scope of talks which is akin to a method of control during negotiations. It has taken a while for us to figure this out and become wise to the fact that agenda setting is important,” he said. Mr. Gokhale further said that the Chinese process of negotiation is very “theatrical”, like acting in a play or drama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/china-wants-global-public-opinion-confused-about-india/article35989717.ece
19 August 2021||Pune,||Governor’s delay in nominating 12 MLCs unconstitutional: Shiv Sena||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari came under fire from the ruling Shiv Sena on Wednesday over the former’s delay in nominating 12 Members of the Legislative Council (MLCs) recommended by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Launching a broadside against Mr. Koshyari, the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana alleged that the Governor’s behaviour was “unconstitutional” and that he was acting like a “political agent” of the Central government. However, the editorial said that the tripartite MVA coalition would not “surrender” to such behaviour “like former Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani did to the Taliban”. “It appears that the MLCs will not be appointed until the Governor’s ‘favourite government’ [the BJP] comes to power in Maharashtra,” read the editorial. The MVA government had submitted a list of 12 members to be nominated to the Upper House of the State legislature to the Governor on November 6, 2020, but Mr. Koshyari’s decision has since been hanging fire. Alluding to the order passed by the Bombay High Court in the matter, the editorial said, “The High Court has said it is Mr. Koshyari’s duty to declare his decision on the nomination of 12 MLCs. But taking eight months to make a decision is an inordinate delay.” The Sena mouthpiece said that if the Governor thus breached the Constitutional framework, he stood in danger of losing his dignity. “His own people [the BJP at the Centre] are playing with his dignity… Mr. Koshyari’s behaviour as the Governor is unconstitutional and politically biased… There can be no change of guard [in Maharashtra] using the Raj Bhavan, and the MVA will not surrender like former Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani,” said the editorial. The editorial further said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar, who recently met Mr. Koshyari at a flag-hoisting event, had asked the Governor regarding the delay in the appointments. “During the meeting, when Mr. Pawar asked the Governor about the inordinate delay in the appointments, Mr. Koshyari said that he [Mr. Pawar] ought not to insist on it when the State government was not requesting it,” the editorial read. However, Mr. Pawar had reminded the Governor that the Chief Minister had already sent a letter urging him to take a decision soon on the long-pending appointments, said the editorial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/governors-delay-in-nominating-12-mlcs-unconstitutional-shiv-sena/article35989714.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||View obstructed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/view-obstructed/article35989712.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s next for Afghanistan?||Almost 20 years after they were ousted from power by a U.S.-led invasion, the Taliban, who rose from a group of madrassa students in the 1990s under the leadership of Mullah Omar, are back in Kabul. The city fell without a fight on August 15, as President Ashraf Ghani and most of his Ministers and elected lawmakers fled the country. The whole world is now looking at the unfolding situation in Afghanistan as the Taliban are now tightening their grip on the country. What’s happening? The Taliban are yet to form a transition government. Their leaders, including Amir Khan Muttaqi, a former Information Minister, are currently holding talks with former President Hamid Karzai, top government negotiator Abdullah Abdullah and Hezb-e-Islami leader and former warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar on transition. The Taliban call themselves the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. Currently, Afghanistan is an Islamic Republic, where President is the head of state. The Taliban are expected to change the name in the coming days, which would also mean that their supreme leader Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada would be the ‘Emir’ of Afghanistan. As the transition process is under way, the Taliban have moved to assure the foreign diplomatic missions as well as the public that they would not target anybody. On August 17, Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban’s spokesperson, held a press conference in Kabul where he said the new government would respect Afghan women’s rights “within the framework of the Islamic law”. Mujahid, who was a shadowy figure until recently, also said the Taliban would not target anyone who worked with the fallen government or foreigners, and asked government employees, including women, to continue to go to work. Media houses continued to allow women journalists to work, while the streets of Kabul were patrolled by Taliban militants in the military vehicles abandoned by government soldiers. The Taliban have also set up checkpoints across the city. Have Taliban changed? The press conference in Kabul suggests that the Taliban are concerned about the public perception, at least for now, as the transition is under way. They also want to assure the Afghan people, many of whom are desperately trying to flee the country, that things have changed from 1996. But the question is whether these statements are mere optics given the delicacy and complexity of the current situation or signals of a genuine transformation. While clarity is yet to emerge on what kind of a regime is going to be formed in Kabul, there is little evidence to suggest that the Taliban have gone through an ideological transformation. When the Taliban were in power during 1996-2001, even basic human rights were suspended in Afghanistan. Women were not allowed to work and girls were not allowed to go to schools. Women could not venture out of their homes without a male companion. Men had to grow their beard. Amputation, flogging and stoning were common. Kabul’s famed football stadium had been turned into a public execution ground. Music, TV, cinema, photography, painting and even kite-flying were banned. The sixth century monumental statues of Bamiyan Buddhas were destroyed. The Taliban did all these because they believed in a puritanical interpretation of Islam and in their bid to establish a “pure Islamic system”. They haven’t disowned these beliefs. The Taliban may have taken Kabul within a day without bloodshed. But their long road to victory has been marred with violence. Over the past 20 years, they have carried out many attacks, including suicide attacks, killing thousands of civilians. Particularly after the U.S.-Taliban agreement was signed in February 2020, Afghanistan saw a series of assassinations of journalists, liberal critics and even pilots. And in areas the Taliban captured since May, there were reports of public executions, beatings and forced marriages of young girls with Taliban militants. In Kabul, many residents say, the Taliban were doing a door-to-door search, looking for those who worked with the government despite assurances from the group’s leadership that no one would be harmed. The chaotic scenes from Kabul airport indicate how much sections of Afghan society fear the Islamist militants. On Wednesday, Taliban militants in Jalalabad opened fire into a crowd of protesters, putting down the first demonstration of public dissent violently. So the Taliban spokesman’s comments about moderation and rights of the people are not supported by the Taliban history and the developments on the ground. It’s up to the militants to prove the sceptics wrong. On the other side, the Taliban have shown more willingness to engage with other countries this time, especially with China and Russia. And Pakistan has openly welcomed the Taliban’s capture of power.  Is there any resistance? In 1996 when the Taliban took power, the Mujahideen government of President Barhanudeen Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Massoud retreated to Panjshir where they regrouped the Northern Alliance. This time, the Taliban appear to be more powerful. They reached Kabul after forcing the U.S., the world’s most powerful country, to pull back. Most top officials in the Afghan government, including President Ghani, have fled the country. The only top official who still stays defiant is Amrullah Saleh, the former First Vice-President. Mr. Saleh, a former aide of Massoud during the Northern Alliance days, is believed to be in Panjshir along with Ahmad Massoud, son of Ahmad Shah Massoud. On August 17, almost at the same time as the Taliban’s Mujahid was holding the press conference in Kabul, Mr. Saleh tweeted, saying he’s “the legitimate caretaker President” of the country, according to the Afghan Constitution. He also asked Afghans to join the “resistance”. It’s too early to say which direction Mr. Saleh’s efforts would take. In the 1990s, Massoud had the backing of Russia, Iran and India, and the Northern Alliance was strong across northern and northeastern provinces. This time, Panjshir is the only province that stays out of the Taliban’s control. It’s to be seen whether Panjshir could hold off the Taliban and Mr. Saleh could muster enough domestic and regional support to mount a credible challenge to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-next-for-afghanistan/article35989388.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||China won’t recognise Taliban until government formation||China on Wednesday indicated it would not consider recognising the new Taliban regime in Kabul until a government was formed. Beijing was earlier this week the first major country to say it “stands ready to develop good-neighbourly, friendly and cooperative relations with Afghanistan” in the wake of the dramatic takeover by the Taliban and the fall of Kabul. The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Wednesday clarified it was yet to recognise the Taliban regime and that would not happen until government formation. “It is an customary international practice that the recognition of a government comes after its formation,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “China’s position on the Afghan issue is clear and consistent. We hope that Afghanistan can form an open, inclusive and broadly representative government that echoes the widely shared aspirations of its own people and the international community.” Regardless of whether the Taliban does or does not follow through on its stated commitment of forming a truly “inclusive” government — an eventuality that is by no means a given considering the group’s past record and the history of its treatment of women and minority groups — it appears to be a question of when and not if China does recognise the Taliban. Several countries, including India, the U.S. and the U.K., have said they will not recognise a government that takes power by force and it remains to be seen how they will deal with the new regime in Kabul. Terror outfits China’s message has been that it would be open to working with the Taliban but called on the grouping to “make a clean break” from its links with terror outfits, particularly the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) that has carried out attacks in China’s Xinjiang region. China had underlined that message in late July when it hosted a Taliban delegation, led by Abdul Ghani Baradar who was at the time heading its political office in Doha and is now expected to take up a prominent role in the new regime. “As a friendly neighbour to and sincere friend of Afghanistan, China upholds a friendly policy towards the entire Afghan people,” Mr. Zhao said. “This did not, does not and will not change. China will continue to support peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan, and provide help for socio-economic development in Afghanistan as our ability permits.” On a Taliban spokesman’s comments that “rights of women would be respected within the framework of Islamic law” and that the group “intended to form an inclusive government in Afghanistan”, Mr. Zhao said China “hopes that the Afghan Taliban and factions in Afghanistan will establish an open and inclusive political structure through dialogue and consultation, implement moderate and prudent domestic and foreign policies, and earnestly protect the safety of foreign institutions and personnel in Afghanistan”. “At the same time, we hope it will resolutely crack down on all kinds of terrorist forces, including the ETIM, and earnestly honour the commitment of not allowing any force to use Afghan territory to threaten the security of its neighbours,” he said. “China will continue to work with the international community to support peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan and help it achieve lasting peace and stability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-wont-recognise-taliban-until-government-formation/article35989385.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||China to curb ‘excessive income’ in push for ‘common prosperity’||In the wake of regulatory crackdown targeting alleged monopolistic behaviour of some of China’s biggest private sector companies, China’s Communist Party leadership has signalled that next in its sights are the country’s wealthy. Party General Secretary and President Xi Jinping said measures will be introduced to curb “excessive incomes” and promote “common prosperity”, following a meeting on Tuesday of the Central Committee for Financial and Economic Affairs, which he heads. Observers noted the timing of the meeting held particular significance, as the first notable public appearance of the leadership and the first major political announcement following the annual secretive retreat of top present and past leaders in the town of Beidaihe, believed to have taken place in early August. Mr. Xi was quoted as saying by official media that “common prosperity is an essential require- ment of socialism”. Specific measures were not mentioned but an adjustment to the taxation structure is one possibility, analysts said. A readout of the meet said “rather than being egalitarian or having only a few people prosperous, common prosperity refers to affluence shared by everyone, both in material and cultural terms, and shall be advanced step by step”. Mr. Xi said “common prosperity” would be essential “to strengthen the foundation for the party’s long-term governance” ahead of “the second centenary goal”, referring to 2049 when the People’s Republic of China turns 100. Ending absolute poverty was the party’s goal for the “first centenary”, marked this year when the party turned 100. The meeting “called for establishing a scientific public policy system and a reasonable distribution system”. The readout said China’s “reform and opening period” saw the party “summarise both positive and negative historical experiences”, referring to the turmoil of the Mao years, realising that “poverty is not socialism” and “allowing some people and regions to get rich first”. Since the 18th Party Congress in 2012, the party “placed greater importance on gradually achieving common prosperity for all people”, the readout said. It also called for implementing “the requirements of strict governance across the board” and to “enhance the supervisory capacity” of the financial system, suggesting that the regulatory crackdown of the past year is set to continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-curb-excessive-income-in-push-for-common-prosperity/article35989386.ece
19 August 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Support talks, says Ghani||Former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said on Wednesday he supports talks between the Taliban and top former government officials, and that he was “in talks to return” home after seeking refuge in the United Arab Emirates. Mr. Ghani added that he had left Kabul to prevent bloodshed and denied reports he took large sums of money with him as he departed the presidential palace. “If I had stayed, I would be witnessing bloodshed in Kabul,” Mr. Ghani said in a video streamed on Facebook. He left on the advice of government officials, he added. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-says-hosting-ghani/article35989383.ece
19 August 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar junta crackdown toll passes 1,000||Myanmar’s security forces have killed more than 1,000 civilians since the military ousted Aung San Suu Kyi from power six months ago, an advocacy group said on Wednesday. The country has been in turmoil since February 1, when the armed forces seized power in a lightning coup, triggering dissent as protesters demanded a return to democracy.  Activist group Assistance Association for Political Prisoners — which verifies the deaths and mass arrests under the regime — said the number of people killed by security forces reached 1,001 on Wednesday. The actual number is likely far higher, said AAPP’s joint secretary Ko Bo Gyi. “As long as the military is in power, they will continue to kill youths, professionals like doctors and teachers, men, women and children,” he said. “They are not only killing our lives but the country’s future and democratic hopes.” Ko Bo Gyi — whose group has been named an “unlawful” organisation by the junta and is currently in hiding — also accused authorities of “weaponising” COVID-19 as the country weathers a deadly surge. So far, Myanmar has recorded more than 360,000 cases and 13,623 deaths from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-junta-crackdown-toll-passes-1000/article35989382.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Why we watch sport||Our reactions to the performance of India’s athletes at the Tokyo Olympics have been telling. Neeraj Chopra’s scintillating success in the men’s javelin throw was met with deserved adulation, but it was also accompanied by dollops of now-familiar jingoism. In contrast, others who came up short, for no apparent fault of their own, have been served with affronts. Disproportionate responses The wrestler Vinesh Phogat, who won gold both in the Asian Games and in the Commonwealth Games, hadn’t so much as set foot in India when the Wrestling Federation suspended her on grounds of indiscipline. Phogat, who had crashed out in the quarterfinal in Tokyo, was afforded no hearing before the decision was made. She has since written about the difficulties she faced in recovering from COVID-19. “Since I got COVID first time (August 2020), I can’t digest protein,” Phogat wrote in The Indian Express . “One year and I have had no protein in my body. It doesn’t stay inside. When I came back from Kazakhstan after Asian Championships, I fell ill again. I was tested positive COVID for the second time which I contracted in Almaty. I recovered and flew to Bulgaria. A few days later, my family back home tested positive.” Phogat’s physical and mental struggles were compounded by the whims of the Wrestling Federation. While the men’s contingent was accorded the support not only of the Indian national coach, but also a foreign trainer and a dedicated physio, the women’s team was ostensibly denied equivalent benefits. It’s impossible to tell whether Phogat would have won a medal had she been provided equal support. But the decision to deny her parity smacks of despotism. What is worse is that despite the circumstances surrounding her loss, Phogat is now seen as a sportsperson past her best, as someone dispensable in the nation’s consciousness. If she didn’t get the support she needed when she was seen as a favourite, imagine her fate now. By themselves, these disproportionate responses to the performances of India’s athletes are not surprising. As a society that consumes games as a commercial product, we’ve come to see victory as the ultimate purpose of sport, and we attach to it an ersatz transcendence. Our emotions are now built into watching sport not as the pursuit of human excellence, but the pursuit of something more grotesque — of a triumph that will serve our tribal demands. To be sure, the organisation of any team sport invariably requires making a division along partisan lines. For instance, a local club or society is founded either on regional lines or on the lines of a commercial franchise. The division made in the case of the Olympics is nationality, which today may be unavoidable. But when the division is taken to its extreme, when partisanship turns into tribalism, we tend to relinquish the most cherished principles that otherwise inhere in sport, the primary reasons why we see sport as a thing of value. In a recent lecture, Mukul Kesavan argued that partisanship is especially destructive when sport is seen as a vehicle for nationalism. Overcoming this isn’t easy because sport, he said, citing the historian Eric Hobsbawm, is effectively constitutive of nationalism. “It is not the cherry on the cake, it is baked into the foundations of the nation state.” Moreover, even when sport is organised along different lines, say in the form of franchises, as is the case with the National Football League in the U.S., “militaristic chauvinism,” Kesavan said, has an uncanny way of creeping in.  Symbol of political nationalism In the original conception, the Olympic Games were meant to serve as an antithesis for nationalistic zealotry. The founder of the Games, the 19th century French aristocrat Pierre de Coubertin, envisioned the Olympics as a means of engineering a sporting culture that would remain apolitical. For that reason, the 1896 Games at Athens even allowed for mixed teams. The gold in the men’s tennis doubles, for instance, was won by a Briton paired with a German. But Coubertin’s vaunted idealism, as many have argued, failed to account for the existing realities of the world, in particular inequalities based on race, class, sex, and nationality. As a result, the Games, far from fostering a culture of fraternity, came to serve as a symbol of political nationalism, exemplified best by the 1936 Berlin Olympics. Since then, repeated efforts have been made to depoliticise the Games. A United Nations General Assembly Resolution, titled ‘Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal’, has been adopted before every edition of the Games since 1994. But the structure of the event has at its heart a paradox: while athletes from across the globe come together to compete against each other, they play under the banners of their national flags. These athletes are seen not as individuals, but as representatives of a nation state. Thus, Indians, when the Games come around every four years, see the country being put on examination. This time around, as always, the inquest into the Tokyo Games in India was focussed on the medal count and on whether it does justice to our abilities as a nation. This, though, begs the question: what is the true value of sport? To many today, especially to those in power, sport is merely a means towards scoring geo-political victories, towards the exhibition of national greatness on a global stage. Without doubt, it is perfectly fine to take pride in how athletes from India perform. But limiting our analysis — and our joy — to the narrow and the parochial does the Olympic Games a disservice. Sports as a cultural good Ultimately, if we want to benefit as a society from sport, we must take more seriously the values inherent in its practice. What might they be? The American scholar Jan Boxill has argued, for example, that sport helps establish a moral function for society, that it accords individuals a path towards freedom, towards “self-expression” and “self-respect.” But to understand this we must start seeing sport through a lens less tinted by nationalism, and as spectators rather than as supporters. When we do that, we can appreciate not just Chopra’s gold medal, but also moments of genius from other athletes, from across the globe: Elaine Thompson-Herah’s double-double in the 100m and 200m sprints, Katie Ledecky’s battle in the pool with Ariarne Titmus, Mutaz Barshim and Gianmarco Tamberi choosing to share the gold medal in the high jump, and Karsten Warholm’s breathtaking performance in the 400m hurdles are just a few of the many uplifting performances from the Games. These feats mattered not because the athletes were representing their nations, but because they were striving to achieve the highest form of excellence that they were capable of. Each performance in the Games was an exhibition of sport as freedom. And it is that freedom that we should attempt to engender. To do so requires us to treat sport as an essential cultural good, to see in it its intrinsic values, to see it as a thing of merit to each of us as individual beings. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-we-watch-sport/article35989381.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The significance of the ‘there is no data’ answer||It can be safely assumed that the popular American dictum, “In God we trust; all others must bring data”, is unlikely to be found in any office of the Narendra Modi government. There is mounting evidence to show that either the Government has ‘no data’ about issues that show it in a bad light, or with its ‘alternate facts’, the answer is zero. If there was a filing cabinet that citizens maintained, then the file titled ‘No Data’ would be the thickest. The desperate scenes of migrants walking back to their villages after the announcement of the sudden lockdown on March 24, 2020 were recorded by global media. A World Bank report concluded that 40 million migrant jobs were impacted/lost in India in April 2020. But when the Government was first asked how many migrants had lost their jobs, the answer was that it had no data. When asked in September 2020 on how many frontline health workers had lost their lives during the pandemic, the then Health Minister announced that there was no data. Consumer data, other cases Well before the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation decided not to release the results of the all-India Household Consumer Expenditure Survey conducted by the National Statistical Office during 2017-2018. The results of the Survey would have come before the 2019 parliamentary elections. But the Government waited for after the results, offering an excuse in November 2019 that there were “data quality issues”. It is pertinent to note that leaks from the data had suggested a noteworthy slump in consumption expenditure, an ominous proposition that showed this for the first time since data collection had started in 1972-73. The no data declarations have continued this year. The Government told Parliament in this monsoon session that the number of deaths caused by manual scavenging were not available. On the lack of oxygen claiming lives in the second wave of COVID-19, the Government said it had no information. On the number of farmers dead during the farmers’ agitation, it has been a stubborn stonewall of no data. On the economic loss caused due to Internet shutdowns, in which India has the world record for the most by any democracy, the Government said it had no information. On a parliamentary question on vaccine shortage, clear as day with a number of inoculation centres shutting down due to no doses, the Union Minister of State for Health declared in Parliament (written reply to the Rajya Sabha) on July 20, that there was no shortage of vaccines. The Government understands the power of constructing a narrative using data. The power of the Rs. 1.76-lakh crore ‘notional loss’ due to airwaves sold during the second term of the United Progressive Alliance government was a datapoint that was used masterfully to weave a narrative. A serious attempt to comprehend why it is saying no data is important, because this is no trivial matter but critical to a larger political project. Hands off responsibility The first reason why ‘no data’ is to be maintained is easy to understand. If the Government were to acknowledge any data, even if these were highly discounted numbers, it would be tantamount to entering the ring and opening itself up to scrutiny as being accountable for the mess and deterioration in the state of affairs. “Thank You Modi ji ” has replaced Acche Din on Government advertisements across the board, embodying the total personalisation of governance. The flip side is that any failure by the Government would imply failure of this centralised machine that continually claims credit. Denial of data on important markers of governance, delivery and issues that matter to people — whether it is farmers killing themselves, people consuming far less than before, hunger rising, the mismanagement of the pandemic or the botch-up in the vaccine policy — keeps responsibility at bay. If the Government knows, it must be responsible. And conversely, if it does not, it can pretend no one died or no one lost jobs and that the failures did not occur at all. Bounced to States The second reason for not acknowledging facts or numbers is to deflect accountability to the only other unit of power that continues to stand and challenge the Centre — and that is State governments. The fall in the share of taxes due to States has never been so low in five years, as it is now. To continue to mesmerise citizens and keep them invested in the benefits of centralisation, washing hands off responsibility is critical for the Union government. Acknowledging data or information of failures derails the project and the creation of alternate facts is very important. This needs not just avoidance of responsibility but deflection from vital issues. So, we continually hear variants of “health is a State subject.” India was told that there was no data on deaths due to ‘no oxygen’ because States did not give the data. And if it is not the States, it must be the political Opposition or past governments that will be held accountable by the Centre. The third reason, apart from the direct evasion of responsibility and accountability, why ‘no data’ is consistently maintained is that it allows regimes to rewrite the story of the times. This is not about rewriting history but about retaining the power to script the present at a future date. The truth does not matter, the narrative does. Recently, crucial health data from the National Health Mission’s Health  Management Information System went missing. It was only after data-watchers made a fuss that the data on the website was restored. Consider giving absolutely no data for the lack of oxygen deaths. The news cycle allows public memory to be only that long. It might be fully possible to tell the story of oxygen in the second wave in a year’s time, by writing fiction, if data on it is simply withheld now. If data on this subject were provided now, it narrows the flight of how far spin can go on to market a dismal failure as a success. Widening information gap Information is power and a lack of information is the absence of power. There is a gigantic and growing information gap between the state and citizens. The state is building the largest ever technology-driven structure ever built by India for identification under Aadhaar, which wants biometrics before poor people even get their food grain rations. The state wants to be able to use facial recognition tools before putting in place a legal framework to be able to do so. All this data is sought to be extracted from citizens while it is trying to maintain an effective ‘no data’ position on the biggest snooping revelations that an international consortium has exposed globally, after the National Security Agency (NSA) revelations in the United States by Edward Snowden. The asymmetry of power can only be sustained by keeping citizens in the dark while increasing the rulers’ reach to know everything about everyone else. Moreover, there is a certain brazenness in saying with a straight face and on record, at constitutional fora such as Parliament, that the Government does not have the data. It is seen to feed the public image of a ‘strong ruler’ by demonstrating unbridled authority and unconstrained power, but this partly is also apiece with the information skew — encouraged not only because the Government does not wish to part with data but because denying citizens the data helps to restate the emergent power equation between the Government and citizens. It is something that Right To Information activists witness routinely as they try and exercise their ‘right’ to get information. Lest the total concentration of power with the rulers get diluted, the data will not be given, shared or made easily available. Sometimes, dead citizens speak up. At the height of the second wave of COVID-19, when poor and hapless citizens ended up burying their dead relatives on the shores of the Ganga, it was taken as the end of the matter. But being in denial did not help when it rained. Sixty buried bodies floated up on the banks of Allahabad’s Phaphamau on July 30, and the Uttar Pradesh State government was forced to perform their last rites that night. Challenge before citizens But those were exceptional and dramatic circumstances. Eventually, lived experiences of people, those whose kith and kin died due to lack of oxygen, or of those who died of COVID-19 begging for medical aid, will have to challenge the Government narrative. This can be a tall order, expecting citizens to hold their reality as a contrast to sarkari spin, that too in a situation where several institutions and a large section of the media have turned into government mouthpieces. Denial of data is not a bug but a feature of the political ideology governing the country. In a scenario where a majority of citizens may be dead to the truth of their times, the challenge would be for them to recognise the truth and unhesitatingly push for it. It is a long road, but good and truthful information is the very basis of the quality of democracy. It matters to fight this fight. Seema Chishti is a journalist-writer based in Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-significance-of-the-there-is-no-data-answer/article35989197.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping an eye on China’s expanding nuclear stack||More evidence emerged recently that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) is expanding the size of its nuclear arsenal by building more missile silos. The debate, though, surrounding China’s nuclear build-up is mired in considerable dispute. The source of contention is over the scope and prospective size of the PRC’s nuclear capabilities. The construction of the nuclear missile silo field in Xinjiang region in western China indicates the PRC is fielding a larger nuclear force based on fixed land-based capabilities. The site is believed to host 110 silos. This development comes against the backdrop of evidence that China had built a site with 120 silos in the arid region of Yumen, in the Gansu province. The most likely reason behind the current expansion of China’s nuclear arsenal is: increase the survivability of its arsenal against a first strike from their nuclear adversaries, most prominently the United States. Washington, which possesses a larger arsenal, stands at 3,800 warheads, and paired with its growing missile defence capabilities poses a threat to Chinese retaliatory nuclear forces. However, other countries too loom large in China’s nuclear expansion such as Russia and India, even if Russia is not an overriding concern presently. Rate and extent is key The key question is not so much why or whether the PRC is expanding its arsenal, but rather the rate and extent of the production. Does China want a usable and deployable atomic stockpile running into thousands of warheads, or does Beijing want an arsenal in the middle to high hundreds? Making a precise estimate of the PRC’s nuclear strength is not easy. However, Chinese nuclear forces stand at roughly anywhere between 250 to 350 nuclear warheads according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) as well as the Federation of American Scientists (FAS). Last year, the United States Strategic Command (USTRATCOM) chief Admiral Charles Richard stated that the PRC could double its current operational stockpile which is still in the “low 200s” over the next decade. However, the current silo-based missile expansion being undertaken by the PRC can be misleading, because the PRC’s quest might be as much to conceal the number of missiles tipped with nuclear warheads in its possession as it is to disassemble and deceive by building a large number of decoy missile silos. A first strike strategy Land-based nuclear capabilities also enable the Chinese to present a nuclear adversary with a larger menu of targets to strike, exhausting a large number of the enemy’s missiles in a first strike. Indeed, some of the decoy silos are meant to absorb and exhaust a part of the enemy’ first strike nuclear forces. Thus, the larger the target list for any potential opponent, the greater the chances of China’s arsenal surviving a first strike thereby boosting the credibility of China’s nuclear deterrent. In all probability, the PRC is expanding its nuclear forces if not to match the larger nuclear forces fielded by the Americans and the Russians, but sufficient to withstand a first strike and then execute a retaliatory attack that would defeat U.S. missile defences. China’s nuclear tipped ballistic missiles forces, whether land-based or sea-based, have certainly improved in quantity and quality. The PRC’s Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) capabilities and Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile (IRBM) capabilities in the form of the Dongfeng-41 (DF-41) and the DF-26, respectively, are its most potent land-based missile systems. At least 16 launchers of the DF-26 are known to be deployed in the Xinjiang region close to the Sino-Indian border. In the case of the first, the silos being built in Xinjiang and Gansu could house DF-41 ICBMs that are capable of carrying multiple warheads much like their road mobile counterparts. In addition, the decoy silos can launch conventional armed ballistic missiles, and since they are likely to be interspersed with nuclear-tipped missiles, they create inadvertent escalation risks. What New Delhi should track Consequently, the latest development of silos presents a grim and disturbing set of consequences for the world and India. The PRC has refused to enter any tripartite arms control negotiations with Americans and Russians that could forestall the deployment of a more numerically robust nuclear arsenal, and possibly sees its current build-up as a necessity to bridge the nuclear asymmetries it faces vis-à-vis Washington and Moscow. The growth in China’s nuclear arsenal might not have an immediate impact on India, but its development of land-based nuclear silos in the Xinjiang province should worry decision-makers and strategic elites in New Delhi given the region’s proximity to India. More importantly, it is likely to have an impact on the ongoing boundary stand-off between the two countries in Eastern Ladakh. The issue is not so much actual nuclear use by the PRC against India, but the coercive leverage fixed land-based nuclear capabilities give the Chinese in consolidating their territorial gains in Depsang, Demchok and Gogra-Hotsprings. If anything, it is likely to produce a suppressive effect against any conventional military escalation. The more extreme and adverse outcome for India is that New Delhi is left with no choice but to accept China’s fait accompli . The strategic balance between China and India is unlikely to be altered because of the Chinese nuclear expansion, but New Delhi would be wise to keep a close eye on its neighbour and work on enhancing its own strategic capabilities. Amidst an all-round sharpening of great power contestation, the nuclear issue will continue to challenge policymakers. Harsh V. Pant is Director of Research at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College London. Kartik Bommakanti is a Fellow at ORF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/keeping-an-eye-on-chinas-expanding-nuclear-stack/article35989195.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The police we need||Ranjeeta Sharma, an Indian Police Service (IPS) probationer from Haryana, bagged the honour recently of commanding the passing-out parade at the National Police Academy (NPA). She won two awards: the Best All-round IPS Probationer and the Sword of Honour for the Best Outdoor Probationer. Interestingly, the honour of being the Best Probationer went to a woman officer, Kiran Shruthi, last year too. The ideal police officer The choice of the probationer commanding the passing-out parade is reasonably objective. It takes into account both the outdoor performance and classroom performance of a trainee. The probationer cannot be a mere bookworm or a brawny athlete excelling in activities such as ceremonial parade or horse riding; he or she is expected to be an all-rounder. The Best Probationer award recognises good conduct, empathy and a quick reflex. These are the ideal qualities of the police who are required to intervene in dangerous situations and also go to the rescue of the poorest when they are harassed by anti-social elements. The most positive feature today is that many IPS officers are technology savvy. This augurs well for the future of law enforcement in India. Even the lower rungs of the police, who do not belong to the elitist IPS, are avid in the use of technology, especially for regulating public assemblies and solving crimes. India stands out for entrusting independent responsibility to IPS officers even in the early years of their induction. This is why an IPS assignment is not only prestigious but is laden with unparalleled trust in an inexperienced youth just out of university. Only a few come in with previous work experience. However, it is distressing to note the declining levels of integrity among senior IPS officers who are expected to be role models for their junior colleagues. Recently, a case of alleged extortion was registered against a former Mumbai Police Commissioner. A senior IPS officer in Tamil Nadu was recently served a charge sheet in court in connection with a case pertaining to the sexual harassment of a woman officer. Nothing can be more disgraceful for a premier police force. Glittering passing-out parades therefore seem mere window dressing. The NPA has the greatest role in building character. This is where its success is only modest. What does an average citizen want from the police? Citizens desire a friendly police force which treats the rich and poor alike. They would also like to see less rapacious police stations where they receive service to which they are entitled, without having to pay any bribe. Except in a few places in the country, most citizens don’t get all this. We are still a country where crime against women is high. Arguing that this is the case in many other countries is no consolation. While many quote data, we would like not to do that since the available data have many issues: there is under-reporting of cases, and the police often refuse to register complaints made. We would rather go by perceptions about the police capacity and interest. The popular belief is that India is still not safe for women. The gang rape and murder in 2012 of a young woman in Delhi left an indelible scar not merely on the face of the Delhi Police but on the whole Indian police force. This is just one example — there are many more. Occupying public positions In this context, it is important to mention the management of police personnel. In an ideal world, brilliant and straightforward officials would be chosen to occupy public positions calling for objectivity and skill. Unfortunately, this is not the case with IPS appointments. Many officers are given plum posts based on their links and loyalty to the ruling party. A silver lining, however, is the Supreme Court mandate laying down the process for selection of Director General of Police. The State government now has to make the appointment from a panel of three names approved by the Union Public Service Commission. This will ensure that no outrageous appointments are made. Ultimately it is the honest and hard-working officer at the top who will make the difference between good and tendentious policing. India needs a police force that is responsive and respected and not one that is feared, as is the case now. But for that, we need to know why some young men and women officers with a distinguished educational record and who often come from middle and lower sections of the society deviate from the path of virtue after solid training at the NPA. Is this because of faulty selection or poor supervision? Or is it due to the fact that new arrivals no longer have role models like the ones we had in the past? R.K. Raghavan is a former CBI Director who is now Professor of Criminal Justice at the Jindal Global University, Sonipat, and D. Sivanandhan is a former Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, and a former DGP, Maharashtra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-police-we-need/article35989378.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A moral disaster for the west||At the momentous fall of Kabul, Aisha Khurram, a young Afghan woman, had tweeted, “Dear world:/ Does your heart not ache?/ Does your blood not move?/ To see the displaced/ To see the agonizing pain my people face. How do you react to the number of people being killed and displaced in Afghanistan without feeling at least some level of panic?” It would be a reasonable surmise that U.S. President Joe Biden’s heart does not ache for the people of Afghanistan. After all, once you have decided to have blood on your hands, you are no longer moved by human suffering. The President may have been acting out his presumed destiny, for buried deep in the psyche of the west is the conviction of the otherness of the east, whose people count for less than their own. After all, the Democrat Biden was only taking forward the intent expressed by the Republican Donald Trump at election time that he would bring the troops back. A perfidious act The American historian Stanley Wolpert has provided a useful foil to much of the academic history writing on India from Britain, characterising the U.K.’s departure from India in 1947 as ‘Shameful Flight’. In the British official records, this event is presented as ‘the transfer of power’, eliding the partition of a subcontinent on religious lines and the horrific butchery that had followed. It is not just that this may be seen as an ungrateful act after Britain had gained immeasurably from the possession of India. The commodity and financial flows that were extracted from India had started with the East India Company but continued unabated after its rule was replaced by the British Crown once India’s First War of Independence showed up the usurper’s shaky hold on the country. The rise of the U.S.’s economy, and thus political power, is not independent of this. The slave economy of the New World had thrived on the Industrial Revolution in England by supplying it the cotton that it devoured, and the latter had gained from a vast captive market in India, which India could not protect due to its dependent status, even as western powers protected theirs. All the while, the narrative was propagated that the British were in India to provide good governance, as if the record of Ashoka Maurya and subsequent native princes was inadequate. Americans in Afghanistan After the Second World War, Britain’s mantle was taken over by the Americans. Ostensibly to checkmate a communism that suppresses human rights they preferred a Pakistan ruled by dictators over a democratic India, mercilessly bombed first Vietnam and then Cambodia, and effortlessly switched their allegiance from Taiwan to their one-time foe Mao Zedong. In their unflinching support to their ally Pakistan, they even sent the Seventh Fleet to intimidate an India that had gone to war in Bangladesh following a genocide unleased by Pakistani generals. In pursuit of this strategy they finally reached Afghanistan which had been overrun by the Soviets. The Americans funded the mujahideen, the forerunners of the present-day Taliban. Then 9/11 happened, and the hunt for Osama bin Laden began. Believing him to be hiding in Afghanistan, they first bombarded and then invaded it, only to find him ensconced in Pakistan. The Americans now found themselves in the wrong country, but remained there for 20 years. It is not clear what they did during this time but building a strong democratic state that could secure human rights was not one of them. Weak-willed, like the British after the Second World War, the Americans have re-enacted a shameful flight, leaving millions to face the Taliban, known for their misogyny, visceral hatred of democracy and intolerance towards anyone who dares question their interpretation of Islam. This is a moral disaster for the west, that has for the past 200 years projected itself as the pre-eminent defender of liberty and egalitarianism, the bedrock of democracy. In world politics, India is on her own now, and has no option but to be the sole defender of human rights. Will we rise to the challenge? Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-moral-disaster-for-the-west/article35989379.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Aftermath||As nations come to terms with the abrupt change of regime in Afghanistan, they will seek answers to many questions about the nature of the new Taliban government that controls most of the territories. Almost as an emergency measure that reflects the sense of alarm in Afghanistan’s prospects of a stable future, U.S. President Joe Biden and U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson have agreed to hold a virtual G7 leaders’ meeting to discuss a common strategy and approach. Yet, it will be a complex and likely frustrating task for the G7 to reconcile its position on minimum governance norms for Afghanistan with the ground realities of rule by the Taliban. In its May 2021 Foreign Ministers’ communiqué, the G7 noted that “a sustainable, inclusive political settlement would be the only way” to achieve a just and durable peace that benefits all Afghans. To that end, the G7 promised its support to the negotiations in Doha and efforts to convene a high-level conference on Afghanistan in Istanbul. But the sheer audacity of the Taliban takeover and its promise to make Sharia orthodoxy the basis of jurisprudence suggest that Taliban interlocutors attending these parleys may not truly represent the voice of their commanders and administrators on the ground. Similarly, the G7’s enduring aspiration for meaningful participation and inclusion of the voices of women, young people, and those from minority groups, looks to be dashed. Given that the project of long-term military occupation and regime change has amounted to naught in this country, going forward, the only lever that G7 might have to press for internal change in Afghanistan is foreign aid and, should the circumstances warrant it, sanctions. Indeed, the May 2021 communiqué noted that “Current and future support to the Afghan government relies on the adherence to the principles set out in the Afghanistan Partnership Framework and progress towards the outcomes in the Afghanistan National Peace and Development Framework II as decided upon at the November 2020 Geneva donors’ conference”. Yet, if there is one signal that the conditional norms elucidated by the G7 will be brazenly disregarded by the Taliban it is that they have already been disregarded to the extent that the Islamist group has been linked to numerous attacks on civilians, including targeted campaigns against women in public life, human rights activists, and media persons. This means calls for eschewing violence and allowing unhindered access to humanitarian aid may fall on deaf ears unless there is a punitive element that lends teeth to such demands. If the Taliban have distilled past strategic learnings, it might hold out hope that this time around, they will limit the damage they inflict on the fabric of mainstream Afghan society, if nothing for fear that the backlash that it will bring from the global community will once again break their grip on power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aftermath/article35989189.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A delayed intervention||After much delay, the Government has notified the rules and rates based on which exporters can claim rebates on taxes paid on their outbound cargo. That it took nearly eight months to come up with these critical details after the scheme promising such rebates kicked in has meant that exporters have had to conjure up additional working capital to the extent of taxes paid but not refunded during this period. A new scheme was necessitated to replace the erstwhile merchandise exports incentive scheme after the WTO dispute settlement body held it was not compliant with the multilateral trade watchdog’s norms. The Government is confident that the new scheme, Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP), and effective from January 1, is WTO-compliant. Covering 8,555 tariff lines, or roughly 65% of India’s exports, the remission rates now notified, range from 0.5% to 4.3% of the Freight On Board value of outbound consignments. For some goods, there is a cap on the value of the exported items. Steel, pharmaceuticals and chemicals have been excluded from the RoDTEP. Some sectors are concerned about the rates being lower than expected, while engineering firms are worried that taxes on key raw materials are not adequately offset. Fine-tuning may be needed, but a vacuum has been plugged at last. There can be no doubt that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to scale up exports to $400 billion this year helped expedite the disentangling of inter-ministerial red tape over the RoDTEP scheme. A new foreign trade policy, a couple of smaller export-related schemes and a mechanism to fork out the last two years’ pending dues under the earlier export incentive programme are expected by September. This urgency must not be lost. Having opted out of RCEP, India is looking to re-ignite free trade pact negotiations with Australia, the U.K., the EU and the U.S. The global economy is on the cusp of one of its strongest rebounds as COVID-19 vaccination drives cross a tipping point in many advanced economies. As they look to go beyond China to service domestic consumption demand, India needs to aggressively step up to the opportunity. Although the second wave’s damage on the economy is less severe than the wreckage from last year’s national lockdown, domestic recovery is still feeble and uneven. Consumption may see some pullback on pent-up demand as well as the impending festive season, but its sustainability is fragile. Till that firms up, private investments are unlikely to take off. That leaves public capital spending and exports as the two growth engines with feasible firepower to aid the recovery momentum. There is no time to dither on either of these fronts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-delayed-intervention/article35989190.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Bombay labour||After a quiet of several months, there occurred a sudden outburst of labour trouble at the workshops of the G.I.P. Railway on Wednesday afternoon. The work went on as usual in the morning. When the men were returning to the shops in the afternoon after recess at 1 p.m., some of the workers began to throw stones, lumps of iron, etc., at the time office and after half an hour’s hooliganism, deliberately set fire to the time office, destroying the workmen’s records and tickets. Police force not being near, the rowdies had their own way for a time until a detachment of auxiliary force arrived on the scene and succeeded in clearing men from the workshop compound. The damage is estimated at about twenty-five thousand due to total reckoning of the time office. The railway authorities are unaware of the real cause of troubles. They are inclined to think that a few budmashes among their workmen must have incited others to commit the outrage. Some of the workmen, they think, did not like guards erected at the entrance to the time office some months ago, but no official complaint was made about them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bombay-labour/article35989198.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Flood situation in Bihar||The Union Finance Minister Mr. Y.B. Chavan, who arrived here today for a two-day on the spot study of the flood havoc in the State, said that Bihar was faced with an “unbelievably grim situation caused by the recent unprecedented and devastating floods”. He said the State Government should reframe its Plan in view of the widespread loss to crops and property. Addressing the Bihar Ruling Congress Flood Committee, Mr. Chavan promised assistance from the Central Government but cautioned that the State Government and the people should not solely depend on Central assistance. “Bihar’s problem is a national problem and would be tackled on that basis,” he said. On the quantum of possible Central assistance, Mr. Chavan said, “I cannot off-hand give any figure. I would, however, urge you to keep in mind the limitations of the Union Government and multiple demands on its financial resources.” The unprecedented floods in Bihar have so far claimed 100 lives and forced over one million people to move out of their homes to places of safety. The Bihar Government has estimated the loss due to the floods at Rs. 134.68 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/flood-situation-in-bihar/article35989199.ece
19 August 2021||MUMBAI,||April-June GDP growth to be ‘deceptively high’ at 20%: ICRA||India’s GDP is estimated to grow at the “deceptively high” level of 20% for the April-June quarter but would still remain far below the pre-COVID level, ratings agency ICRA said on Wednesday. ICRA said the low base of the last fiscal year, when GDP had contracted by close to 24%, ‘conceals’ the impact of the second wave of COVID-19 infections. Economic activity has been boosted by robust government capital expenditure, merchandise exports and demand from the farm sector, it said, estimating the GDP to grow by 20% and the gross value added (GVA) to register a growth of 17% for the June quarter. GVA is estimated to contract 15% compared with the preceding March quarter, showing the impact of the second wave. “The double-digit expansion expected in YoY terms in Q1FY22 is deceptively high, as it benefits inordinately from last year’s contracted base,” ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said. “We forecast GVA and the GDP to have shrunk by around 9% each in Q1FY22 relative to the pre-COVID level of Q1FY20, highlighting the tangible distress being experienced by economic agents in the less formal and contact-intensive sectors.” Official data on economic activity is expected by the end of the month.   ICRA cautioned that the organised sector was expected to have gained at the cost of the less formal space. Available statistics were often unable to capture the pain experienced by the latter, which might result in an overestimation of growth under the present circumstances, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/april-june-gdp-growth-to-be-deceptively-high-at-20-icra/article35989177.ece
19 August 2021||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank vows to recover lost credit card market share||HDFC Bank’s MD and CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan on Wednesday said the lender will be aggressive and ‘come back with a bang’ as it seeks to win back lost market share in the credit card segment. “With the lifting of the restriction on cards acquisition, all the preparations and strategising that we have put in place to come back with a bang will now be rolled out,” Mr. Jagdishan said in an email to more than 1.2 lakh employees of the largest private sector lender. Conceding that the bank had lost customer market share in the more than nine months of the ban, Mr. Jagdishan said HDFC Bank would go aggressively to the market with existing products and unveil new ones in the form of co-brands and partnerships. ‘Plans in place’ “We have the resources and plans in place to further reinforce our pole position in the credit card segment,” Mr. Jagdishan added. The RBI on Tuesday partially lifted the ban on issue of new credit cards imposed on the bank in December last year after repeated instances of technology outages but continued with the restrictions on the new launches on the digital front. “The restrictions on all new launches of the digital business generating activities planned under Digital 2.0 will continue till further review by the regulator,” HDFC Bank said. “We will continue to engage with the regulator and ensure compliance on all parameters,” the lender added.  (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra in Mumbai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-vows-to-recover-lost-credit-card-market-share/article35989165.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Honda confirms India specific SUV, plans mass model hybrid||Honda Cars is developing a ‘brand new’ sport utility vehicle (SUV) for the Indian market and planning a mass market hybrid vehicle next year, said Gaku Nakanishi, president and CEO, Honda Cars India. “Last time we had shared that Honda was keenly studying the SUV segment in India,” Mr. Nakanishi told The Hindu . “Now, I can confirm that the brand new India focused SUV is under development,” he added, declining to divulge further details. However, a source said the new model was likely to be available in the Indian market in 2023. The company on Wednesday unveiled the New Amaze at prices starting from Rs. 6.32 lakh for the petrol variant and Rs. 8.66 lakh for diesel. Mr. Nakanishi said that Honda Cars India was looking to start its electrification journey with a “mass model hybrid” which they intended to unveil next year. Given that this was better than IC engines in terms of fuel efficiency and CO2 ratings, the government support would “definitely be helpful both to environment and the demand”. Rajesh Goel, senior VP & director, Marketing & Sales, said it was a fact that the sedan segment was overall on the decline and the SUV segment was growing. However, since the market would keep growing, a couple of years down the line the absolute numbers for sedans would be more than now, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/honda-confirms-india-specific-suv-plans-mass-model-hybrid/article35989171.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||MG Motor unveils Astor with personal AI tool||MG Motor India on Wednesday unveiled its upcoming mid-size SUV ‘Astor’ that will come with a personal artificial intelligence (AI) assistant and level 2 autonomous driving technology. Astor, which the company plans to start selling nearer the festive season, is the first model in the company’s global portfolio to get personal AI, a system that has been designed by American firm ‘Star Design’. When it hits the market, Astor will compete with the likes of Hyundai’s Creta and Kia’s Seltos. Asked about the availability of Astor in India, Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commercial Officer — MG Motor India, said, “We are trying to bring it near the festive season this year, but frankly the global chips shortage situation is so alarming that we have to be very, very flexible and be prepared for the situation which may not be that favourable; but currently, that’s the time frame we are targeting.” On security of personal data, he stressed that the AI tool does not listen in to conversations, and will be activated only when users say ‘Hello Astor’. Further, all car-related data is stored using Microsoft Azure. “We are working with Microsoft to ensure that the highest level of data security is maintained,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mg-motor-unveils-astor-with-personal-ai-tool/article35989172.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India on track to meet climate goals, says FM||India is among the few G20 countries on track to meet United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and Paris Agreement goals and has taken decisive actions to tackle climate change, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Wednesday. The Minister, in a meeting with COP 26 president-designate Alok Sharma, said the government is taking concrete steps and at ‘appreciable speed’ to meet its commitments on the target of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. She also said 100 GW of this had already been achieved. The Minister discussed issues related to climate change and specifically COP 26, the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. The U.K. will host the international climate conference COP 26 in November this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-on-track-to-meet-climate-goals-says-fm/article35989175.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Global goods trade continues recovery: WTO||Global merchandise trade is continuing its robust recovery from the shock of the COVID-19 pandemic, as per the WTO’s Goods Trade Barometer, which hit a record high in its latest reading issued on Wednesday. The latest barometer reading of 110.4 is the highest on record since the indicator was first released in July 2016, and up more than 20 points year-on-year, the Trade Organisation (WTO) said. The reading will augur well for India, as the country’s exports are recording healthy growth rates. “The rise in the barometer reflects both the strength of current trade expansion and the depth of the pandemic-induced shock in 2020,” it said, adding the reading suggests that goods trade will see an even larger year-on-year rise in the second quarter. However, it said the outlook for world trade continued to be overshadowed by risks such as regional disparities, continued weakness in services trade, and lagging vaccination timetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/global-goods-trade-continues-recovery-wto/article35989181.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Green bonds help projects net Rs. 26,300 cr.’||Indian renewable energy project developers have raised Rs. 26,300 crore through issuance of green bonds during January to June this year, according to a CEEW-CEF report. “Indian renewable energy [RE] developers have issued green bonds worth Rs. 26,300 crore ($3.6 billion) in the first half of 2021 alone, beating even previous one-year records, according to an independent study released on Wednesday by the CEEW Centre for Energy Finance (CEEW-CEF),” a statement said. The study is titled ‘Financing India’s Energy Transition Through International Bond Markets’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/green-bonds-help-projects-net-rs-26300-cr/article35989163.ece
19 August 2021||Pune,||VW begins production of Taigun SUV||Volkswagen Passenger Cars India on Wednesday announced the start of production and pre-bookings for mid-sized SUV Taigun. The vehicle is built on the MQB A0 IN platform under the India 2.0 project and is the first Volkswagen product under the project. The first Taigun was rolled out from the company’s Chakan plant in Pune on Wednesday. Deliveries will begin in September, the company said. Powered by TSI technology, the Taigun will be available in two engine options — 1.0L and 1.5L.  (The writer visited Chakan, Pune, at the invitation of the company)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vw-begins-production-of-taigun-suv/article35989168.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Neuberg plans Rs. 100-cr. global expansion||Chennai-based Neuberg Diagnostics has drawn up a Rs. 100-crore plan to set up diagnostics labs in African and west Asian countries during FY22, said CMD GSK Velu. “During the fiscal, we are planning to open diagnostics facilities in Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria, and Ghana,” Mr. Velu said in a statement. “In West Asia, we are looking to set up labs in a few middle eastern countries for which we have earmarked a sum of Rs. 100 crore,” he added. Currently, Neuberg has more than 120 labs and 1,000 touchpoints across four countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/neuberg-plans-rs-100-cr-global-expansion/article35989173.ece
19 August 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI to buy Rs. 25,000-cr. of bonds Aug. 26||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday said it will conduct an open market purchase of government securities of Rs. 25,000 crore on August 26 under the G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 2.0). Earlier this month, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said the RBI’s secondary market G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP) has been successful in anchoring yield expectations.  In a statement, the RBI said it will buy five government securities aggregating to Rs. 25,000 crore via a multi-security auction using the multiple-price method on August 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-to-buy-rs-25000-cr-of-bonds-aug-26/article35989178.ece
19 August 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Affordable housing to aid HFC recovery’||Recovery in economic activities and pent-up demand are likely to help in improvement of asset quality of home loans in the long term and affordable housing segment will lead the recovery in housing finance companies (HFCs), according to a report. Brickwork Ratings, in a report, said, “the recovery in the economic activities will provide further fillip to the revival of asset quality of the home loans in the long term. It is expected that the affordable housing segment will grow much stronger and lead the sector (housing finance companies) going forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/affordable-housing-to-aid-hfc-recovery/article35989179.ece
19 August 2021||Mumbai,||Tata Motors unveils new version of Tigor EV||Tata Motors has unveiled a new version of the Tigor EV, which will be introduced in the market shortly. Starting Wednesday, the company commenced bookings for the EV at select dealerships at Rs. 21,000. “With Tigor EV, we want to lead this evolution to mainstream EVs in India,” said Vivek Srivatsa, Head, Marketing, Passenger and Electric Vehicles Business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-unveils-new-version-of-tigor-ev/article35989167.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Google Pixel buds||Foraying into the personal wireless audio segment in India, Google on Wednesday announced the unveiling of its Pixel Buds A-Series in the country at a price tag of Rs. 9,999. Pixel Buds A-Series will be available August 25 onwards at Flipkart, Reliance Digital and Tata Cliq and will be gradually made available at more retail outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-pixel-buds/article35989169.ece
19 August 2021||Tokyo,||First batch of Indians arrive in Tokyo||The first batch of Indian para-athletes arrived in Tokyo on Wednesday for the Tokyo Paralympics which gets underway from August 24. Fifty-four para-athletes from across nine sports disciplines will be featuring in the showpiece event. This is India’s biggest ever contingent to the Paralympic Games. The first batch of the Indian contingent for the 2020 Paralympics had departed for Tokyo from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport in the wee hours of Wednesday. Ahead of departure, Tek Chand, a javelin thrower, said, “I will try my best to win a medal. There were a few hurdles but that is part of life. I overcame them. Now, I am going to represent the country.” Paralympic Committee of India (PCI) president Deepa Malik said the Indian team was in great shape. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent his wishes along with Sports Minister Anurag Thakur. I’m delighted. I’m in a different role as I’m not competing this year but it is a different feeling to work alongside the athletes. The team looks in great shape. I wish them all the best for the Games,” she said. The Tokyo Paralympic Games is scheduled to be held between August 24 and September 5. India will start its campaign on August 27 with the men’s and women’s archery events. T. Mariyappan, gold medal winner at Rio 2016, will be India’s flag-bearer at the Games while Gursharan Singh will be the chef de mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-first-batch-arrives-in-tokyo/article35989503.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Historic mixed relay bronze for India||Strapline option: : Despite being the country's fastest quartermiler, Priya H. Mohan had been left out of the Indian 4x400m mixed relay team for the Tokyo Olympics as she was not a national camper. But on Wednesday evening, the 18-year-old from Karnataka produced a strong second leg as India won the mixed relay bronze at the World Athletics under-20 athletics championships in Nairobi. It was the country's first-ever medal in a relay event at the global level and the team, comprising Bharath Sridhar, Priya, Summy and Kapil, clocked a season-best 3:20.60s to better the time (3:23.36) it had posted in the heat in the morning. Abdul Razak had run the opening leg in the morning but the team management replaced him with under-20 Federation Cup champion Bharath Sridhar for the final. And when Priya took the baton for the second leg, she was in the fourth position but the national champion worked her way up nicely to help India the third spot. The next two runners, Summy - who manoeuvred through the traffic smartly at the start of the third leg – and Kapil also did an impressive job to help India to a memorable bronze, behind Nigeria (3:19.70s) and Poland (3:19.80). Incidentally, it was the third quartermile of the day for the two girls. In the morning, nearly two hours after the relay heat, Priya was back on track for the individual 400m and entered the final after finishing third in her heat. She clocked 53.79s and qualified as one the two fastest losers. Summy, the other Indian in the event, finished fifth in her heat and 12th overall in 55.43s and failed to make the cut. There were no surprises as the two Indian javelin throwers, Kunwer Ajay Raj Singh Rana (71.05m) and Jay Kumar (70.34), progressed to the 12-man final after finishing sixth and seventh overall in the qualification round. Amandeep Singh Dhaliwal (17.92m) also advanced to the final in men's shot but hammer thrower Vipin Kumar failed to make the cut, finishing 10th in his group and 20th overall with 63.17m. He had a personal best 68.94m while winning the under-20 Federation Cup early this month. Some of the world's top countries, including USA, Australia, China, Britain, Germany and Japan have skipped the under-20 Worlds owing to the global pandemic. eom South Africa's Mire Reinstorf (women's pole vault, 4.15m) and Ethiopia's Tadese Worku (men's 3000m, 7:42.09s) won the day's other two golds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/historic-mixed-relay-bronze-for-india/article35989463.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Vignesh rips through Trotters||Pacer L. Vignesh bowled Vijay CC to a commanding position against Globe Trotters with a five-wicket haul on the first day of the TNCA first division semifinal (2019-20) on Wednesday. Led by Vignesh’s efforts, Trotters was bowled out for 170. Maan K. Bafna made a valiant unbeaten 69, adding 59 for the seventh wicket with Sumra. In reply, Vijay ended the day on 109 for no loss, with openers K.B. Arun Karthick and L. Suryapprakash making unbeaten half-centuries. In the other semifinal, M. Kaushik Gandhi’s 112 (195b, 16x4) powered Jolly Rovers to 372 against Young Stars. Kaushik and B. Aparajith (61) added 135 for the second wicket stand to lay the foundation for a big total. For Young Stars, pacer R. Silambarasan starred with a six-wicket haul.  The scores:   At SRMC: Globe Trotters 170 in 58.3 overs (Sanvir Singh 35, Maan K. Bafna 69 n.o., Akash Sumra 34, Rahil Shah 3/32, L. Vignesh 5/30) vs Vijay CC 109/0 in 34 overs (K.B. Arun Karthick 56 batting, L. Suryapprakash 51 batting).   At IC–Guru Nanak College: Jolly Rovers 372 in 100 overs (M. Kaushik Gandhi 112, B. Aparajith 61, B. Indrajith 48, Ankeet Bawne 31, R. Sonu Yadav 47, R. Nilesh Subramanian 36 n.o., R. Silambarasan 6/70) vs Young Stars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vignesh-rips-through-trotters/article35989557.ece
19 August 2021||New York,||Princepal Singh creates NBA history||Young cager Princepal Singh became the first Indian to be part of an NBA title winning team when his side Sacramento Kings clinched the 2021 NBA Summer League crown. The 6-foot-9 forward made history by being the first Indian to be part of a championship roster at any level of the NBA. The Kings dominated the championship game against the Boston Celtics, clinching the title with a 100-67 win on Tuesday. The win also made the Kings the only franchise to win multiple Summer League titles, having previously clinched it in 2014, according to the NBA. In the final, Princepal, an NBA Academy India alumni, played the last 4:08 minutes of the game and put his name alongside Satnam Singh Bhamara. Princepal finished with two points by scoring the Kings final bucket which took them to 100, while also pulling down one rebound. The 20-year-old’s appearance in the championship game comes exactly a week after he made his brief yet landmark debut at the Summer League, where he checked-in for the final 1:22 minutes of a Kings’ victory over the Washington Wizards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/princepal-singh-creates-nba-history/article35989183.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Learnt it from a text message from a player’||Sharath Kamal has been left to search for a playing partner after Manika Batra and G. Sathiyan decided to join forces. More than the decision, the way the issue was handled has hurt Sharath. “Forget my seniority, as a teammate, I expected them to tell me about their plans. I learnt it from a text message shared by a fellow player,” said Sharath, the only table tennis player to receive the Padma Shri for his enormous contribution to the sport. “I will take a call once I resume my training next week and plan ahead,” said Sharath. For the record, Manika had informed Sharath about her decision in an email. On his part, Sathiyan wrote to the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) indicating that the duo had set its sights on the 2024 Paris Olympic Games.  The TTFI Executive Board, on August 4, took a unanimous decision to issue a show-cause notice to Manika for “indiscipline” during the Tokyo Olympics, and she was to respond within 10 days. However, the show-cause notice has not been served on her yet. On Tuesday, a non-committal TTFI secretary Arun Banerjee sought more time to explain the delay in issuing the show-cause notice. “I will be able to talk about the matter on Thursday,” he said.  I will take a call once I resume my training next week and plan ahead — Sharath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/learnt-it-from-a-text-message-from-a-fellow-player/article35989510.ece
19 August 2021||BENGALURU,||ATK Mohun Bagan downs Bengaluru FC||Goals from Roy Krishna and Subhasish Bose helped ATK Mohun Bagan defeat Bengaluru FC 2-0 in the Group D opener of the 2021 AFC Cup at the National Stadium in Maldives on Wednesday. The star-studded ATKMB team handed debuts to 2020-21 ISL winners Amrinder Singh and Hugo Boumous, and Deepak Tangri, while fellow new signings including the pacy Liston Colaco, started on the bench. Two changes BFC’s Marco Pezzaiuoli made two changes to the side that overcame Club Eagles, with Naorem Roshan Singh and Ajay Chhetri replacing Ashique Kuruniyan and Rohit Kumar. Antonio Habas’ side broke the deadlock in the 39th minute when Carl McHugh’s header from a Boumous corner was turned in from point-blank range by Krishna. Looking for an equaliser, BFC made a change at the break as summer signing Danish Farooq replaced Ajay Chhetri. But ATKMB doubled its lead just moments after the restart, when David Williams found Subhasish in the middle of the box, who turned and smashed the ball low into the far corner. Resolute defence  Even as BFC threw men forward in search of goals, ATKMB defended resolutely in the closing stages to ensure a winning start in the continental competition. BFC will next take on Bashundhara Kings on Saturday while ATKMB meets Maziya SRC on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mohun-bagan-downs-bengaluru-fc/article35989500.ece
19 August 2021||London,||India deserved to win: Strauss||Former England skipper Andrew Strauss feels that the manner in which Joe Root’s team capitulated against a fired-up India in the second Test could hurt the “bruised and battered” hosts in the remainder of the five-match series. “They were favourites but let things slip before lunch (on the final day) and then had another top-order collapse,” said Strauss. “Those early wickets put huge pressure on the middle-order and India just had enough overs to bowl them out. It was feisty.” He said India “thoroughly deserve” to go 1-0 up in the five-match series. “Every series with India, and particularly (Virat) Kohli, is feisty and as the match was on the line you expected nothing else. It has been five brilliant days of Test cricket. “India was exceptional and there were times when England looked like it was going to get out of jail but, in the end, you have to say that India deserved it... they did enough to win. England is going to be absolutely battered and bruised as a result of that,” he added. Strauss also called for a change in England’s top-order after another disappointing show by the batsmen. He was certain that the woefully out-of-form opener Dom Sibley could be dropped for the third Test at Headingley starting on Aug. 25.  “There are a lot of problems for England, no doubt about that. If it had got away with it again, we might have been able to paper over the cracks, but not anymore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-deserved-to-win-strauss/article35989458.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||PM’s breakfast with champions||On the night of August 7 at Tokyo’s Olympic Stadium, Neeraj Chopra threw a javelin far into history. He won India’s first-ever gold in athletics at the Olympics. His second attempt that night registered a distance of 87.58m, clinching gold. Nine days after that historic moment, India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Neeraj why he looked so confident after that second attempt. The interaction occurred on Monday morning at the Prime Minister’s residence, where Mr. Modi hosted a breakfast meeting with the Olympians. The video of the event was released on Wednesday by Mr. Modi through his social media accounts. Early on in the video, you can watch him asking the young athlete about his winning throw: “I was surprised to find you in a victorious mood after your second attempt and starting celebrations. You must have been so confident. How did it happen?” Sensing it Neeraj said that from his effort, he sensed it was the best throw for the night: “It all comes from experience and training.” The Prime Minister praised the young athlete’s attitude: “Success doesn’t get to your head and loss doesn’t stay in your mind.” Neeraj may have been India’s brightest star in Tokyo, but there were others too who shone brilliantly on sport’s greatest stage. The Tokyo Olympics saw India come up with its greatest performance ever, with seven medals. And it was not just the medal winners who had breakfast with the Prime Minister. There were also others who failed to reach the podium despite putting in their best efforts. Mr. Modi had words of consolation for them. When Deepika Kumari, the World No. 1 archer, told him that she had not lived up to the expectations at the Olympics, her third, he said: “A sportsperson never loses hope.”  He also complimented C.A. Bhavani Devi, the first Indian fencer ever to qualify for the Olympics. Examining her sword, he told the delighted fencer: “You have inspired the children of India to take up this new sport.” The Prime Minister also kept a promise. During an online chat before the Olympics with badminton star P.V. Sindhu, who would go on to win her second successive medal, he had told her that they would have an ice cream after her victory. Sindhu’s diet had been so strict that she was abstaining from her favourite food. Earlier, she had presented her racquet to him, Neeraj his javelin, Lovlina Borgohain her boxing gloves and the men’s hockey team, a signed stick. The Prime Minister asked them whether he could auction their equipment to raise funds for a good cause and the athletes readily agreed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pms-breakfast-with-champions/article35989465.ece
19 August 2021||BUDAPEST,||Manika faces Sreeja in quarters||Manika Batra overcame a stiff challenge from Giorgia Piccolin of Italy to prevail 3-2 and set up a women’s singles quarterfinal clash with country-mate Sreeja Akula in the World Table Tennis Contender Budapest here on Wednesday. Earlier, fourth-seeded G. Sathiyan bowed out of men’s singles, losing to Niagol Stoyanov of Italy 1-3 in the Round of 16. Stoyanov overpowered Sathiyan with a sustained attack on both flanks. The highlight of the day from the Indian angle was the performance of qualifier Sreeja Akula. The 23-year-old, ranked 150 in the world, scripted a facile 3-0 win over Barbora Balazova of Slovakia, ranked 97 places above her, in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   Men’s singles (round of 16): G. Sathiyan lost to Niagol Stoyanov (Ita) 10-12, 11-7, 12-10, 19-17; Harmeet Desai lost to Dang Qiu (Ger) 5-11, 13-11, 11-6, 11-4; Manav Thakkar lost to Kirill Skachkov (Rus) 10-12, 13-11, 8-11, 11-6, 11-9.   Women’s singles (round of 16): Manika Batra bt Giorgia Piccolin (Ita) 12-10, 11-13, 11-5, 4-11, 11-8; Sreeja Akula bt Barbora Balazova (Svk) 11-9, 11-6, 13-11; Archana Kamath lost to Mariia Tailakova (Rus) 11-4, 11-6, 11-6.   Men’s doubles (quarterfinals): Sanil Shetty & S. Snehit lost to Vladimir Sidorenko & Kirill Skachkov (Rus) 9-11, 11-3, 11-7, 11-8; Harmeet Desai & Manav Thakkar bt Erik Huzsvar & David Szantosi (Hun) 11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-8.   Mixed doubles ( quarterfinals ): G. Sathiyan & Manika Batra bt Libomir Pistej & Barbora Balazova (Svk) 11-4, 3-11, 6-11, 11-6, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreejas-dream-run-continues/article35989467.ece
19 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Mar Ivanios wins overall title||Mar Ivanios College won the overall title in the Kerala University inter-collegiate athletics meet at the University college here on Wednesday. Mar Ivanios, which came first in both men and women sections, tallied 94 points to finish at the top. SN College, Punalur (53 points) and St. John's College, Anchal (43) came second and third. Muhammed Jaseem (SN College, Chempazanthy) and Aparna Roy (Mar Ivanios College) were declared individual men’s and women’s champions. Vijay Nikson (100m & 200m), Mrudula Maria Babu (100m & 200m), T. Chrisopher (800m & 1500m) and Minnu P. Roy (800m & 1500m) completed a double each.  The results (winners only): 200m: Vijay Nikson (SD College, Alappuzha) (22.70s); 800m: T. Christopher (SNC, Chempazanthy) (2:00.57s); 5000m: K.V. Vishnu (SNC, Chempazanthy) (16:13.52s); 110m hurdles: V.K. Muhammed Lazan (Mar Ivanios College, Tvpm) (15.04s).   400m hurdles: Dilin Sunny (St. John's College, Anchal) (59.04s); 3000m steeple chase: Alan Jose (Mar Ivanios College, Tvpm) (11:13.67s); Hammer: N.S. Sudheer (SNC Chempazanthy) (38.90m); Discus: Ravikant Singh (LNCPE, Kariyavattom) (36.28m).   Pole vault: Akash C. Bose (SD College, Alappuzha) (3.20m); Triple jump: K. Aravind (Govt. College, Kariyavattom) (14.47m).   Decathlon: V.S. Vaisakh (MG College, Tvpm) (4991 pts); 4x100m relay: SNC, Kollam (45.88s); 4x400m relay: SNC, Punalur (3:38.11s).   Women: 200m: Mrudula Maria Babu (Mar Ivanios College) (26.85s); 800m: Minnu P. Roy (Mar Ivanios College) ( 2:33.10s).   5000m: Sandra S. Nair (Mar Ivanios College) (19:34.11); 400m hurdles: J. Reshma (SNC Punalur) (1:16.36s).   3000m steeple chase: L. Adithya (St.John's College, Anchal) (15:14.74s); Hammer: S.L. Lekshmi Priya (SNC, Punalur) (28.76m).   Discus: Shrija SIngh (LNCPE, Kariyavattom) (26.94m) Triple jump: S.U. Ajmi (SNC Punalur) (10.17m).   Heptathlon: Vindhya Augustine (St. Joseph's College, Alappuzha) (2534 pts). 4x100m relay: Mar Ivanios College, Tvpm (54.55s): 4x400m relay: SN College, Punalur (4:43.77s).   Overall points: 1. Mar Ivanios College, Thiruvananthapuram (94 points), 2. SNC, Punalur (53 pts), 3. St. John's College, Anchal (43) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mar-ivanios-wins-overall-title/article35989910.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||India gets decent draw in Thomas, Uber Cup||Indian badminton teams were on Wednesday handed comfortable draws in the rescheduled Thomas and Uber Cup Finals, slated to be held between October 9 and 17 at Aarhus, Denmark. The Indian men’s team has been clubbed alongside defending champions China and minnows Netherlands and Tahiti in Group C, while the women’s side will be challenged by last edition runners-up Thailand, Spain and Scotland in Group B. The draw ceremony was held by the game’s governing body BWF at Kuala Lumpur. The top two teams in each group at the end of the group stage will make it to the knock-out round. The Indian men’s and women’s teams had failed to reach the knockout stage in the last edition in 2018. The Indian women’s team had lost to champion China in the semifinal stage in the 2016 edition of Uber Cup. They also reached the semifinal in the 2014 New Delhi edition. Host Denmark, which had claimed the Thomas Cup trophy in 2016, was put in a challenging Group B with Korea, France and Germany. Indonesia, which has won the Thomas Cup a record 13 times, are in Group A with Chinese Taipei, Algeria and Thailand, while last edition runner-up Japan are in Group D with Malaysia, Canada and England. In Uber cup, defending champions Japan are in Group A with Indonesia, Germany and France, while Group C features Korea, Chinese Taipei, Tahiti and Egypt. China, which has won the tournament 14 times but failed to make the final in 2018 for the first time since they started participating in the 1980s, is in Group D with Denmark, Malaysia and Canada. The event was originally scheduled to be held from May 16-24 last year but was postponed to August 15-23. Later it was further delayed to October due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Withdrawals Following a wave of withdrawals by top teams, including Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand and Chinese Taipei, amid the health crisis, the prestigious tournament was postponed again last September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-gets-decent-draw-in-thomas-uber-cup/article35989498.ece
19 August 2021||Tokyo,||Having no spectators is a challenge: IPC chief||Having no fans at the Tokyo Paralympics will be “a challenge”, International Paralympic Committee (IPC) chief Andrew Parsons said on Wednesday, but he is confident the event will reach “more people than ever before”. The Paralympics are set to open behind closed doors on Tuesday, after organisers decided this week to follow the Olympics’ example in banning spectators over virus fears. State of emergency Japan is currently battling record coronavirus infections, with Tokyo and other parts of the country under a state of emergency. International Paralympic Committee president Parsons said the decision to ban spectators will have “an impact that we cannot minimise”, but he believes a global TV audience will still put the Paralympics on the centrestage. “Of course, the fact that we will not have spectators at the venues is a challenge, but we believe we will reach more than four billion people through broadcasting,” he said. “So we still believe the reach of these Games will be incredible. We will reach more nations and more people than ever before.” Surging cases The Games comes with virus cases surging across Japan. More than 20,000 new daily infections have been recorded in recent days, driven by the more contagious Delta variant. Japan’s government has insisted the Paralympics will be held safely and that it remains committed to hosting it. Around 4,400 athletes are expected to take part, and like their Olympic counterparts they will face daily testing and restrictions on their movement. Parsons said the implementation of the Olympic “bubble” convinced him the Paralympics can work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/having-no-spectators-is-a-challenge-ipc-chief/article35989501.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI:,||Gods Plan has an edge in main event||Gods Plan, has an edge over his rivals in the first division of the Rare And Gorgeous Handicap (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Aug. 19).  FEET OF FLAMES HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Beforethedawn (1) Kuldeep Singh 60, 2. Fun Lover (5) Farid Ansari 59, 3. Rwanda (3) A. Imran Khan 59, 4. Golden Streak (8) Yash Narredu 58.5, 5. Welcome Chakkaram (6) Farhan Alam 58.5, 6. Full Of Surprise (7) Zervan 58, 7. Lord Of The Turf (4) Nakhat Singh 56.5 and 8. Perfect Support (2) P. Surya 53.  1. GOLDEN STREAK, 2. RWANDA, 3. FUN LOVER   FEET OF FLAMES PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Sirona (1) P. Vikram 62, 2. Wise Don (5) Shahzad Alam 62, 3. Oberon (6) H.M. Akshay 61, 4. Fiat Justitia (8) Kuldeep Singh 60.5, 5. Farewell (7) A. Imran Khan 60, 6. Lady Blazer (9) Azfar Syeed 59, 7. Glorious Sunlight (4) Nikhil Naidu 58, 8. Protea (2) Akshay Kumar 58 and 9. Asian Empress (3) P. Surya 51.5.  1. GLORIOUS SUNLIGHT, 2. SIRONA, 3. PROTEA   LIGHT PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Cartel (9) Zervan 56, 2. Conscious Keeper (8) Shahar Babu 56, 3. Reign Of Terror (10) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Wind Symbol (1) Yash Narredu 56, 5. Abilitare (3) C. Brisson 54.5, 6. Amber Lightning (2) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 7. Dashing Beauty (7) Asfar Syeed 54.5, 8. Lakshanam (4) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 9. Mujer (6) Neeraj 54.5 and 10. Turf Beauty (5) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. TURF BEAUTY, 2. WIND SYMBOL, 3. LAKSHANAM   LOVEDALE CUP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 3-30: 1. Eagle Prince (5) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Eyes Of Falcon (8) Surya Prakash 59, 3. Glorious Legend (9) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 4. Wild Frank (6) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 5. Amendment (4) C. Brisson 57.5, 6. Beauty Of The Turf (1) Farid Ansari 54.5, 7. Hadar (7) P. Surya 52.5, 8. Sunday Warrior (3) R. Manish 51.5, 9. Mayflower (10) Azfar Syeed 50.5 and 10. Country's Genius (2) Rayan Ahmed 50.  1. GLORIOUS LEGEND, 2. AMENDMENT, 3. EAGLE PRINCE   RARE AND COURAGEOUS HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Oscars Thunder (1) Rayan Ahmed 60, 2. Storm Flag (4) Shahar Babu 57, 3. Breaking Bounds (5) Surya Prakash 55.5, 4. Emissary (9) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 5. Gods Plan (7) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 6. Torbert (8) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 7. Magnetism (3) Farhan Alam 53, 8. Star Guitar (6) Azfar Syeed 53 and 9. Catelyn (2) Kuldeep Singh 52.5.  1. GODS PLAN, 2. TORBERT, 3. EMISSARY   RARE AND GORGEOUS HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 4-30: 1. Mon General (6) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Pretty Gal (8) P. Sai Kumar 60, 3. Octavian (3) Yash Narredu 59, 4. Penang (9) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 5. Lordship (2) A. Imran Khan 58, 6. Rutbedaar (7) Azfar Syeed 58, 7. Star Twist (1) Dhanu Singh 58, 8. Sentosa (4) Koshi Kumar 57.5 and 9. Wakeful (5) Surya Prakash 56.5.  1. WAKEFUL, 2. OCTAVIAN, 3. LORDSHIP   PARTY ROYAL HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Excellent Phoenix (7) H.M. Akshay 61, 2. Namaqua (9) Kiran Naidu 60.5, 3. Celeritas (5) Zervan 59.5, 4. Esteva (6) P. Vikram 57.5, 5. My Kingdom (2) P. Sai Kumar 57.5, 6. Star Waves (3) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 7. Rhiannon (1) Koshi Kumar 56, 8. Comanche Brave (4) Nakhat Singh 53.5 and 9. Star Convey (8) Surya Prakash 51.5.  1. STAR WAVES, 2. NAMAQUA, 3. RHIANNON   PARTY ROYAL HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over, 5-30: 1. Baller (2) A. Ayaz Khan 60, 2. Texas Rose (7) R. Manish 59.5, 3. Royal Rules (3) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 4. Butterfly (6) A. Imran Khan 58, 5. Full Bloom (8) Nakhat Singh 53, 6. Victoria’s Secret (1) Dhanu Singh 53, 7. Glorious Victory (5) Azfar Syeed 52.5 and 8. Welcome Baby (4) Farhan Alam 52.  1. BUTTERFLY, 2. BALLER, 3. ROYAL RULES  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini-jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gods-plan-has-an-edge-in-main-event/article35989553.ece
19 August 2021||Melbourne,||Smith set for IPL return, Finch T20 WC||Australia batsman Steve Smith, who had been sidelined due to an elbow injury, is expected to make a return during the IPL, while limited-overs skipper Aaron Finch is on track to recover in time for the T20 World Cup. Smith had given the tours of the Caribbean and Bangladesh a miss due to a left elbow injury, which had been troubling him since last year. However, he has been recovering well with the 32-year-old batting in the nets for an hour at a time at New South Wales’ training and is set to be available for the resumption of the IPL, according to cricket.com.au . Going well “It seems to be going really well. I know that he’s (Smith) been building up his batting time over the last couple of weeks – I know that would have been difficult to have a time limit on his net times,” Finch told cricket.com.au on Wednesday. “From all reports, he’s been really strict with that, making sure he doesn’t overdo his elbow so it hinders his rehab,” he added. The white-ball skipper, who recently had a surgery on his left knee, is confident of being fit before the World Cup. “I’m confident of that (being fit for the World Cup),” said Finch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smith-set-for-ipl-return-finch-t20-wc/article35989456.ece
20 August 2021||Ufa (Russia),||Ravinder bags silver, Bipasha in final||Ravinder took the men's freestyle 61kg silver medal, while Bipasha reached the women's 76kg final to assure India of another medal in the World junior wrestling championships here on Wednesday. Bipasha defeated Dilnaz Mulkinova of Kazakhstan 6-3 and Odbag Ulzibat of Mongolia 9-4 to enter the final. Among women, Simran (50kg), Sito (55kg), Kusum (59kg) and Arju (68kg) will fight their respective bronze medal matches. Simran lost in the semifinals, while Sito, Kusum and Arju faced defeat in the quarterfinals. Ravinder, who made it to the final on Tuesday, lost to Iranian Rahman Mousa Amouzadkhalili 9-3 to take the silver. Yash (74kg), Pruthviraj Patil (92kg) and Kumar Anirudh (125kg) got into the bronze medal matches. Yash lost in the pre-quarterfinals while Pruthviraj and Anirudh were beaten in the quarterfinals before witnessing revival of their fortunes. On Tuesday, Gourav Baliyan (79kg) and Deepak (97kg) bagged bronze medals .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravinder-bags-silver-bipasha-in-final/article35989512.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Reward for hard work, says archer Ridhu Varshini||Fourteen-year-old S. Ridhu Varshini made history by becoming the first archer from Tamil Nadu to be part of the compound gold medal-winning team in the World Youth Championships, which concluded in Wroclaw (Poland) recently. “It feels great. All the hard work that I’ve put in has borne fruit. The credit goes not just to me but to my coach (R. Yuvaraja), parents, physio and psychologist [of the Indian team] and the team led by Shihan Hussaini, secretary of The Archery Association of Tamil Nadu,” said Ridhu to The Hindu on Wednesday, after her arrival in Chennai from Poland. Beating Turkey in the cadet (u-18) girls’ final was satisfying, Ridhu felt. She attributed the team gold to the friendship she forged with co-archers Parneet Kaur and Priya Gurjar. “With friends like Parneet and Priya, I could see my pressure getting reduced significantly. We motivated each other,” she said. Hailing from Coimbatore, Ridhu has been training with Yuvaraja for the past six years at his Academy named 5rings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reward-for-hard-work-says-archer-ridhu-varshini/article35989552.ece
19 August 2021||PARIS,||Thiem withdraws from the US Open||Defending champion Dominic Thiem announced on social media on Wednesday the “tough decision” to pull out of this month’s US Open after failing to recover sufficiently from a wrist injury he picked up in Mallorca in June. The 27-year-old Austrian, who will also miss the remainder of the 2021 season, said he had been making good recovery before feeling renewed pain last week. “It has been a tough decision but I know this is what I have to do,” he said. Thiem staged a memorable comeback in New York last year, losing the first two sets before beating Alexander Zverev in five sets in the final. The World No. 6 struggled for form after the win, taking a break from the game before losing his first round match at the French Open when he blew away a two-set lead against Pablo Andujar. “Unfortunately, I’ve had to withdraw from the US Open and will miss the rest of the 2021 season,” he posted on Twitter. “I'm really disappointed not to be able to defend the title in New York as I haven’t recovered from the wrist injury I suffered back in June at the Mallorca Open." On Sunday, Roger Federer also pulled out of the US Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiem-withdraws-from-the-us-open/article35989185.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘My story at Real has been written’||Juventus star Cristiano Ronaldo has rubbished the "disrespectful" media reports which suggested the Portugal striker could return to Real Madrid. The star footballer is entering the last year of his Juventus deal and there were talks of him moving to his old club. "Anyone who knows me is aware of how focused I am on my work. L “ess talk and more action, this has been my guiding motto since the start of my career. “However, in view of everything that's been said and written recently, I have to set out my position," Ronaldo said in a statement on Instagram. "More than the disrespect for me as a man and as a player, the frivolous way that my future is covered in the media is disrespectful to all the clubs involved in these rumours, as well as to their players and staff. "My story at Real Madrid has been written. It's been recorded. In words and numbers, in trophies and titles, in records and in headlines. “ It's in the Museum at the Bernabeu Stadium and it's also in the minds of every fan of the club. "And beyond what I achieved, I remember that in those nine years I had a relationship of deep affection and respect for 'merengue aficion ', an affection and respect that I retain to this day, and that I will always cherish. “ I know that the true Real Madrid fans will continue to have me in their hearts, and I will have them in mine," he added. The Juventus star also blasted the recent news and stories claiming that he is in talks with other clubs too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/my-story-at-real-has-been-written/article35989665.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Dravid reapplies for NCA’s head post||Former India captain Rahul Dravid has reapplied for the position of Head of Cricket at the National Cricket Academy, a development that should end speculations about him replacing Ravi Shastri as head coach of senior national side after the T20 World Cup in November. BCCI had to invite applications since Dravid's two-year contract had ended. As per the new constitution, there is no provision for extension and the hiring process has to start afresh. “Yes, Rahul has reapplied for the post of Head of Cricket. You don't need to be a genius to guess that he is going to continue after the tremendous work he has put in to change the face of NCA, which is now truly a centre of excellence," said a senior BCCI source privy to the development on conditions of anonymity. “In fact, as of now, save Rahul, there are no other prominent names of stature who have applied for the post.” Deadline extended It has been learnt that the BCCI has decided to extend the deadline for submission of applications by a few more days to ensure that interested candidates get enough time to apply. “The BCCI top brass has decided to extend the deadline from August 15 by a few more days. When Rahul is in the fray, everyone knows that there is little meaning in applying for the post,” the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-reapplies-for-ncas-head-post/article35989460.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI:,||Mzilikazi wins Madras Race Club Cup||Mzilikazi (Zervan up) won the Madras Race Club Cup, the main event of the races held here on Wednesday (Aug. 18). The winner is owned by M/s Five Stars Shipping Co. M/s. Darashaw Bloodstock and trained by R. Foley. Jockey Nikhil Naidu and trainer Sebastian scored a treble each.  1. MY KINDA GIRL HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 00 to 25: DAIYAMONDO (Surya Prakash) 1, Beauregard (Yash Narredu) 2, Kings Pride (Shahzad Alam) 3 and Alwaysastar (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 3, 2 and 3/4. 1m, 1.51s. Owners: Mr. Kishore Futnani & Mr. Chirag D. Joshi. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  2. RESILIENT HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 20 to 45: INCREDIBLE STAR (P. Vikram) 1, Star Fling (C. Brisson) 2, Palsy Walsy (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Skylight (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 2-1/4, snk and snk 1m, 0.12s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  3. AUGUST HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: MR KOOL (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Race For The Stars (Nakhat Singh) 2, Big Treasure (M. Bhaskar) 3 and Annexed (Akahay Kumar) 4. 1/2, 5-1/4 and lnk. 1m, 14.36s. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Sebastian.  4. INDEPENDENCE CUP (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): LADY ROYAL (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Glorious Symphony (Yash Narredu) 2, Subjucate (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Soul Mate (Shahar Babu) 4. 4, 3/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 0.29s. Owner: M/s. Sans Craintes Stud Farm. Trainer: Sebastian.  5. MADRAS RACE CLUB CUP (1,200m), rated 80 & above: MZILIKAZI (Zervan) 1, Classic Remark (A. Ayaz Khan) 2, Angelino (Dhanu Singh) 3 and Priceless Ruler (Nakhat Singh) 4. 2-3/4, 1-1/2 and 2. 1m, 11.73s. Owners: M/s. Five Stars Shipping Co. M/s. Darashaw Bloodstock. Trainer: R. Foley  6. STAR MARKER HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: PENSE'E (Neeraj) 1, Glorious Trust (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Angel Heart (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Emelda (C. Brisson) 4. Shd, 3/4 and 2. 1m, 11.97s. Owner: Mr. S.M. Ruia. Trainer: J.E. Mckeown.  7. STAR MAKER HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: SHALEM (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Pirate's Love (Zervan) 2, Otus (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Rippling Waters (Farid Ansari) 4. 3/4, 1 and 2-1/4. 1m, 13.19s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparmbil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mzilikazi-clinches-madras-race-club-cup/article35989563.ece
19 August 2021||Kochi,||Blasters to take on Kerala United||Kerala Blasters FC will play Kerala United FC in its first pre-season match at the Sports Academy ground, Panampilly Nagar, at 4 p.m. on Friday. “We are excited to get on the ground and showcase our talented players in the land of such enthusiastic football fans,” said the Kerala Blasters' head coach Ivan Vukomanovic. Live streaming There will be live streaming of the match on the Blasters’ official YouTube channel . KBFC will be playing Kerala United again on August 27 and Jammu and Kashmir Bank FC on September 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-to-take-on-kerala-united/article35989911.ece
19 August 2021||Tokyo,||Japanese GP cancelled||This year’s Japanese Grand Prix was cancelled following discussions between the government and race promoters, Formula One organisers said on Wednesday. The race in Suzuka had been scheduled for Oct. 10, between the events in Turkey and USA. “The decision has been taken by the Japanese government to cancel the race this season due to ongoing complexities of the pandemic in the country,” F1 said in a statement. “Formula 1 is now working on the details of the revised calendar and will announce the final details in the coming weeks.” The decision creates another dent in F1’s calendar of Asia-based races following the cancellation of the Australian and Chinese GPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japanese-gp-cancelled/article35989186.ece
19 August 2021||Melbourne,||Schutt and Jonassen opt out of India series||The Australian women's cricket team's seasoned campaigners Megan Schutt and Jess Jonassen have opted out of the upcoming multi-format home series against India due to various reasons. The tour, starting September 19, involves three ODIs, three T20Is and one Day-Night Test. While pace spearhead Schutt has requested the selectors to not consider her for selection due to personal reasons, spin bowling all-rounder Jonassen will miss the assignment after suffering a bone stress injury in her tibia. Another notable absentee from the 18-member squad is Belinda Vakarewa, who is also skipping the series due to personal reasons. Getting their first national call-ups are Stella Campbell and Georgia Redmayne.   The squad: Meg Lanning, Rachael Haynes, Darcie Brown, Maitlan Brown, Stella Campbell, Nicola Carey, Hannah Darlington, Ashleigh Gardner, Alyssa Healy, Tahlia McGrath, Sophie Molineux, Beth Mooney, Ellyse Perry, Georgia Redmayne, Molly Strano, Annabel Sutherland, Tayla Vlaeminck, Georgia Wareham .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/schutt-and-jonassen-opt-out-of-india-series/article35989946.ece
19 August 2021||Mysuru:,||Natl. regatta from Aug. 19||The Royal Mysore Sailing Club (RMSC) will be conducting the first National regatta championship in the backwaters of KRS in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, from August 19 to 24. Competitions will be conducted in three categories, laser, optimist and seabird.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-regatta-from-aug-19/article35989505.ece
19 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Dhruv beats Dhananjay||Dhruv Vikrambhai Hirpara had a walk in the park, winning 6-2, 6-0 against Dhananjay Athreya, in the boys’ pre-quarterfinals of the Tennishub-MPTA National junior under-18 clay court tennis championships here on Wednesday. Top four seeds advance In the girls’ category, the top four seeds — Reshma Maruri, Akanksha Nitture, Suhitha Maruri and Lakshmi Prabha Arunkumar — moved into the quarterfinals without much ado.  The results (pre-quarterfinals):   Boys: Chirag Duhan (Har) bt Parv Nage (Har) 6-1, 5-7, 6-1; Aditya Nandal (Har) bt Deep Munim (MP) 6-3, 6-2; Denim Yadav (MP) bt Yuvan Nandal (Har) 6-4, 6-2; Dhruv Vikrambhai Hirpara (Guj) bt Dhananjay Athreya (TN) 6-2, 6-0; Yogee Panwar (Har) bt Azmeer Shaikh (Mah) 6-4, 6-1.   Daksh Ashok Agarwal (Mah) bt Arjun Premkumar (Kar) 6-1, 6-1.   Daksh Prasad (MP) bt Rushil Khosla (UP) 7-6(9), 6-4; Saheb G. Sodhi (Mah) bt Mukil Ramanan (TN) 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(5).   Girls: Reshma Maruri (Kar) bt Ruma Ashutosh Gaikaiwari (Mah) 6-3, 6-3; Tejsavi Dabas (Del) bt S.R. Ananya (TN) 6-4, 6-1.   Lakshmi Prabha Arunkumar (TN) bt Apurva Vemuri (TS) 6-4, 6-3; Riya Uboveja (Guj) bt Adithi Are (TS) 6-1, 6-3.   Kaavya Palani (TN) bt Kundali Majgaine (Utk) 6-4, 6-3; Veda Raju Prapurna (TS) bt Mirudhula Palanivel (TN) 3-6, 6-2, 6-4.   Akanksha Nitture (Mah) bt Madhurima Sawant (Mah) 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhruv-beats-dhananjay/article35989506.ece
19 August 2021||Cincinnati,||Bopanna & Dodig bow out||Filip Krajinovic and Fabrice Martin defeated Rohan Bopanna and Ivan Dodig 1-6, 6-4, [10-7] to in the doubles first round of the $5,404,435 ATP tennis tournament here. The Indo-Croatian pair collected $12,910.  The results:   $5,404,435 ATP, Cincinnati: Doubles (first round): Filip Krajinovic (Srb) & Fabrice Martin (Fra) bt Ivan Dodig (Cro) & Rohan Bopanna 1-6, 6-4, [10-7].   $15,000 ITF men and women, Monastir: Men, singles (first round): Gage Brymer (USA) bt Adil Kalyanpur 6-2, 6-2.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Blake Ellis & Dane Sweeny (Aus) bt Sascha Gueymard Wayenburg (Fra) & Adil Kalyanpur 6-3, 7-6(3).   Women, doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Yuka Hosoki & Nana Kawagishi (Jpn) bt Maria Vittoria Viviani (Ita) 6-3, 6-0.   $25,000 ITF women, Ourense, Spain: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Marina Bassols Ribera (Esp) & Jacqueline Cabaj Awad (Swe) bt Sakura Hosogi (Jpn) & Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-dodig-bow-out/article35989507.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Moment to savour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moment-to-savour/article35989514.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neeraj Chopra down with exhaustion and fever||Neeraj Chopra, suffering from exhaustion and fever, had to leave midway during a welcome ceremony at his native Khandra village, near Panipat, on Tuesday. The 23-year-old, who has had a busy schedule the last week, has taken a break to give his body some much-needed rest. A source close to Neeraj said that the star athlete should be fine after a good rest and that he left the function as a precautionary measure. “A lot of people turned up for the welcome ceremony and Neeraj reached the venue on a cavalcade. Midway through the function, he felt exhausted and had slight fever. So he left the function and took rest at a place nearby,” the source said. “There were rumours that he had been taken to a hospital. That is not true. He is all right, it’s not a serious issue. Basically, he is feeling exhausted due to attending functions non-stop after returning from Tokyo.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-down-with-fever/article35989453.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jhingan joins HNK Sibenik||Sandesh Jhingan will become the first India international footballer to play in the Croatian top-tier league Prva HNL after completing a move from ATK Mohun Bagan to HNK Sibenik. Jhingan is excited to get the opportunity. “I think I am at a stage of my career where I really want to test myself in the highest-level possible and I think this is the perfect platform for me,” said Jhingan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhingan-joins-hnk-sibenik/article35989471.ece
19 August 2021||Dubai,||Rahul and Siraj soar in rankings||Riding on his brilliant century against England in the second Test at Lord’s, KL Rahul jumped 19 spots to 37th place, while his skipper Virat Kohli continued to remain India’s top-ranked batsman at fifth position in the latest ICC rankings released on Wednesday. Rahul, who had re-entered the rankings in 56th position last week, had scored 129 in India’s first innings against England to play a big role in his side’s 151-run win. Kohli, who had dropped a spot last week, remained static at fifth, while opener Rohit Sharma and wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant also retained their sixth and seventh spots respectively. Pakistan captain Babar Azam moved up two slots to eighth. England captain Joe Root, who started the series in fifth place and overtook Kohli after the first match against India, has risen another two slots to be at second position after the second Test. He is on 893 rating points, only eight less than New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson. India’s R. Jadeja moved down a spot to third in Test all-rounders’ rankings, which also features senior India spinner R. Ashwin at the fourth spot. In the bowlers’ list, India speedster Jasprit Bumrah dropped a spot to 10th while his fellow pacer Mohammad Siraj, who took four wickets in each innings at Lord’s, made significant gains, climbing 18 spots to reach 38th position. England veteran James Anderson has gained one spot and is sixth after a five-wicket haul in the first innings while Mark Wood occupies the 37th spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-and-siraj-soar-in-test-rankings/article35989461.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Swaroop stars in Cambridge win||S.H. Swaroop (135) powered Cambridge CC past Bangalore United CC (1) in the KSCA under-19 inter-club cricket tournament here. Swastic Union (1) bowler Nathan D' Mello, who had returned a six-for in an earlier outing, took five for 14 in his team's victory over The Bangalore Cricketers.  The scores:   Cambridge 292/6 in 50 overs (S.H. Swaroop 135, Eshaan Akhoury 44, Aryan Inchal 26 n.o., Kanishka Sundara 3/69) bt Bangalore United (1) 121 in 40.4 overs (A. Yuvraj 31, Rishikesh 29, Hardik Raj 4/24).   Social Cricketers 250/8 in 50 overs (S. Manjunath 49, Roopak Sahoo 43, Dhruv Desai 66 n.o., J.P. Aravind 38, Karan 4/40, S.U. Karthik 3/29) lost to Jawans 253/5 in 46.1 overs (Shashank Krishnamurthy 28, Ninad Parmeshwar 38, S. Abhinav 84, Rahul Punia 46, Darun Reddy 26 n.o.).   Visweswarapuram (1) 438/5 in 50 overs (Ashwin Santosh 103, Diwakar Shankar 59, Shubham Biswal 112, Maanik Bhardwaj 88 n.o.) bt Friends XI (Doddaballapura) 125 in 29.1 overs (Charles Kwan 45, Arnav Gokhale 4/36).   The Bangalore Cricketers 119 in 38 overs (M. Tanush 36, Jaiveer 27, Nathan D’ Mello 5/14, Ayushman 3/19) lost to Swastic Union (1) 121/2 in 27.1 overs (Anirudh Srinivas 44 n.o., Ayushman 36 n.o.).   Jolly Cricketers 153 in 36.4 overs (Aryan Mawa 43 n.o., Pavan Shirdi 43, N. Pratham 3/26) lost to Jawahar (1) 157/3 in 24.3 overs (V. Prithvi 78 n.o., Amod Kaluve 40).   Friends Union (1) 351/6 in 50 overs (Abhay Rangan 38, V.P. Neeraj 48, R. Darshan 72, Sidharth Rao 124, Shreyas Raju 3/47) bt Cavaliers 155/9 in 50 overs (M.K. Yashwanth 29, Sidvin Gowda 33, Ronith Iyengar 3/36).   Friends Union (2) 240/9 in 50 overs (Shravan Babu 112, Ravi Reddy 25, Rohan Yareshmi 25) lost to Vultures 245/1 in 41.5 overs (Rahul Prasanna 31, Samit Dravid 100 n.o., R. Smaran 100 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swaroop-stars-in-cambridge-win/article35989504.ece
19 August 2021||Coimbatore:,||Kiran spins Sri Ramakrishna CAS to victory||Leg-spinner S. Kiran claimed six for 30 as Sri Ramakrishna CAS scored a convincing 86-run win over RKS Cricket Academy in the CDCA second division league at the PSGIMS grounds here recently. In the fourth division, medium-pacer V. Immanuel (5/22) shone in Akshaya CET’s three-wicket win over Magma.  The scores:   II div.: Sri Ramakrishna CAS 190/9 in 50 overs (A.H. Abul Hakkim 46 n.o., K. Ponmurali Krishnan 4/22) bt RKS 104 in 37.1 overs (K. Ponmurali Krishnan 64, S. Kiran 6/30, A. Infant Christopher 3/8).   IV div.: Magma 146 in 46 overs (V. Immanuel 5/22) lost to Akshaya CET 147/7 in 47.4 overs (V. Prabhu 55 n.o.).   VI div.: Rain Drops 173 in 47 overs (S. Sivakumar 66, S. Prakash 5/18) bt Noyyal Ninjas 169 in 49 overs (J. Praveen 59, P. Dinesh Kumar 3/25) .    Anand (80), Naveen (56 n.o.) and Thangaraj (50 n.o.) chipped in with useful scores to help Youth register a 129-run win over Popes in the Thoothukudi DCA first division league recently.  The scores:   I div.: Youth 315/8 in 50 overs (Anand 80, Naveen 56 n.o., Thangaraj 50 n.o., Arul 46, Regin 3/39, Mugesh 3/46) bt Popes 186 in 37.5 overs (Mugesh 37, Bromio 3/45).   II div.: Ramesh Flowers 172 in 31 overs (Manikrishnan 55, Vanish 3/33) lost to Seconds-A 173/9 in 39.5 overs (Prem 38 n.o.).   III div.: Pearl City 109 in 27.1 overs (Abhi 41, Lakshmikanth 5/25) lost to Sealines 113/5 in 16.4 overs (Mani 53.n.o.) .    Master Thunder won all its nine matches and emerged the RDCA first division champion. Rainbow (eight wins) finished runner-up. In the second division, Grandslam and SDAT Sports Hostel finished with seven wins each in the 10-team league. Grandslam (+1.4) edged out SDAT Sports Hostel (+1.18) on NRR to bag the top spot.  The scores:   I div.: Mamannar Maruthupandiyar 131 in 38.4 overs (R. Sathishkumar 43, S. Soundrapandi 4/32, T. Jangu Thapa 3/16) lost to Nehru 132/3 in 20.3 overs (M. Karthick 34, M. Ajithkumar 33, R. Kaleeswaran 31).   Kalaipuli 101 in 26.4 overs (S. Immanuel 4/22, S. Emines 3/12) lost to New Ilampuyal 102/8 in 22.4 overs (A. Ibramsha 3/26).   Master Thunder 230/9 in 45 overs (R. Yogeshwaran 38, H. Tahir Ali 34, C.M. Sanjeev Kumar 32, A. Priyadharsan 32, S. Seeni Umar Mukthar 3/27) bt Agni 147 in 33.1 overs (S. Seeni Umar Mukthar 66, S. Syed Sameen 4/22, R. Vinoth Kumar 4/33).    J. Murugavel claimed five for 28 as Associated defeated K.K. Nagar by 25 runs in the Tiruchi DCA third division league.  The scores:   Associated 174/9 in 45 overs (R. Vignesh 69, B. Pradeep 3/40) bt K.K. Nagar 149 in 33.5 overs (V. Hanoosh Vijayan 95, J. Murugavel 5/28, K. Prasanna Kannan 4/47).   Campion 106 in 32.1 overs (M. Muhil Adithyan 48, K. Kesavan 3/16) lost to Ponnagar 109/6 in 16.4 overs (K. Raja 50 n.o., S. Jagadeesan 4/22).   K.K. Nagar 246/8 in 44 overs (A. Mohanraj 28, R. Iniya Sarath 90, K. Vithushan 50) bt Campion 70 in 19.3 overs (V. Hanoosh Vijayan 3/30, F. Adhilsha 4/3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiran-spins-sri-ramakrishna-cas-to-victory/article35989635.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, I div., semifinals, Vijay CC vs Globe Trotters (SRMC, turf); Jolly Rovers vs Young Stars (IC-Gurunanak College), day two, 9 a.m.   All-India YSCA Trophy, AG’s Office vs YSCA ‘B’ (Murugappa); IOB vs Gurunanak College (Reddy’s Sumangali turf ‘A’), 8 a.m.; Indian Bank vs SRM IST (Murugappa);   Freyer International vs Little Hearts CA (Reddy’s Sumangali turf ‘A’), 1 p.m.   Tennis: Tennishub-MPTA National junior under-18 clay court championships (MPTA-KTC Kottivakkam), 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article35989558.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 09:58 IST,||Sudoku — August 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-19-2021/article35990648.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The khakhi files||KR Shenai, in his trademark sunglasses, stands atop an open jeep surveying the crowds. The black-and-white picture taken in the years Shenai, from the Indian Police Service batch of 1947, was Commissioner of Madras (1971-75) exudes an air of power and responsibility. It is a frame that lends itself to the central theme of the Tamil Nadu Police Museum that is poised to open soon with a repository of exhibits that marks the passage of the enforcement agency from colonial India to a technologically advanced force. It is also the story of the Indo-Saracenic building in which the city’s Police Commissionerate was housed from 1856 to 2014, when it moved to its present location opposite the Kirk. “Conservation efforts began in October 2020 and the restoration of the building took nine months,” says A Amalraj, IPS, Additional Director-General of Police, Tamil Nadu Commando Force, and the coordinator of the project, adding, “We are working on the ticketing and the visitors’ cafeteria and will be ready to open in a month.” While the former and the present State police chiefs — DGPs JK Tripathy and C Sylendra Babu — oversaw the project, the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation, Reach Foundation and Conservation Mainstream explored the adaptive reuse of the building. With Steve Borgia, chairman, INDeco, as the honorary executive curator and a team of nine co-curators, the two-storied building that was on the verge of being demolished was restored. The once-white structure and its outlying grounds of 14 acres that belonged to Arunagiri Mudaliar were bought for Rs. 21,000 and became the headquarters of the first Police Commissioner of Madras, Lieutenant-Colonel John Carne Boulderson in 1856. Over time, to accommodate an expanding force, the building’s beauty was lost to temporary partitions. Today, it stands shielded from the road by trees and guarded by cannon. Doric columns hold up a grand portico where a blue Plymouth Belvedere, once the car that Commissioners such as FV Arul travelled to work in, is parked. Massive louvred doors open in from the deep verandah that runs around the building. Beyond the lone armed sentry is a parade of vehicles that marks the evolution of what the beat constable (penny farthing bicycle), the despatcher (Royal Enfield bike), and coastal security personnel (motorised speedboat) used as a means of transport. Lording over is late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa’s bullet-proof SUV. At the far end is a series of brass bells used by firemen to signify different alarms. The first high ceiling hall with wooden beams showcases landmark cases dealt by the Chennai police — the 1965 anti-Hindi agitation, the 1975 LIC building fire, the surreal pistols-at-dawn moment when LTTE chief V Prabakaran and PLOTE leader Uma Maheswaran whipped out guns and shot at each other in Pondy Bazaar in 1982 leading to the arrest of the duo by a deputy inspector. A wall panel discusses the gory Auto Shankar case; alongside it is a sub-jail where visitors can enter and look at life from behind bars. Mannequins wear Sam Browne belts and sola topees, and uniforms of the various wings while a bandsman is surrounded by musical instruments. In an adjoining gallery are rare temple sculptures recovered by the Idol Wing. A red baize-lined wooden staircase rises from the flag-stone floor to the first storey, past a picture of Usha Rani, the first woman sub-inspector to join in 1973. A battery of guns — from the old faithful 303 to a Bren light-machine — shares space with Winchester and 12 bore bullets. In the ceremonial swords, array of cameras that have captured crime scenes, riot gear, detective kits, explosives, manacles, handcuffs and service medals is entwined the story of Chennai’s policemen. Downstairs, the Commissioner’s officeroom replete with a roll-top table, unusual paperweights, fobs and ink-wells, parade mascots and portraits of taciturn chiefs who stare down at visitors, has been recreated. Mounted on the wall is the revolver that former Commissioner WI Davaram was presented with for being the best IPS probationer of his batch. In the foyer, Bakelite switches turn on lights that focus on the honour roll of men and the lone woman — Letika Saran — who have occupied the hallowed office of the Commissioner of Police. Beside it on a brass plaque is written “Oh you men in khakhi, you face what others fear.”  The museum is at 483 Pantheon Road, Egmore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-khakhi-files/article35989351.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mammookka at 50||Fifty years of shining bright on the silver screen has not dimmed the lustre of Mammootty, aka Muhammad Kutty Panaparambil Ismail.  On August 6, 1971, Mammootty, then a lanky student of Maharaja’s College in Kochi, made his debut as an actor in a blink-and-miss appearance in film director KG Sethumadhavan’s Anubhavangal Paalichakal.  Mammootty reappeared in 1980 in a small role in Vilkkanundu Swapnangal (Dreams for Sale), written by MT Vasudevan Nair and directed by Azad. It was the late IV Sasi’s movies, many written by T Damodaran and MT Vasudevan Nair, that catapulted Mammootty into a superstar. Seema, Sasi’s wife, who acted with Mammootty in several blockbusters, recalls meeting him on the set of Sphodanam in 1981. “I liked his confidence and wondered who he was. I was told he was a newcomer called Mammootty. I went across and met him and told him that I liked the way he carried himself,” she says. When the actor was at his busiest, he got a call from auteur Adoor Gopalakrishnan for Anantharam (1987). “It was not the lead and I told him that. But it hardly mattered to him. He came up with a superb act. Then he played the lead in Mathilukal for which he won his first National award for Best Actor,” says Adoor.  Vidheyan , the third film that Adoor and Mammootty teamed up, bagged the actor his second National award for Best Actor. “It was an anti-hero role. As soon as I called Mammootty, he said ‘yes’. He asked if he could read the screenplay. Mammootty is the only actor in my films who has read a screenplay of mine before the film began ,” says Adoor. Praising his discipline, Adoor says the halo of a ‘star’ was nowhere visible when Mammootty faced the camera. “Even at his peak as a superstar, here was an actor who was keen on doing offbeat films and enjoyed pushing himself to breathe life into his role,” he adds. Like nobody During the Eighties and Nineties, Mammootty worked in several back-to-back films under the helmsmanship of PG Viswambharan, J Sasikumar, Padmarajan, Bharathan, Lohitadas and so on. He also went on to act in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Hindi and an English film on Dr Ambedkar. Among the younger lot, Lal Jose ( Oru Maravathoor Kanavu) , Lohitadas ( Bhoothakkannadi ), Anwar Rashid ( Rajamanikyam ), Aashiq Abu ( Daddy Cool ), Blessy ( Kazhcha ), Amal Neerad ( Big B ) and Martin Prakkat ( Best Actor ) are those who turned directors with a Mammootty film. “It was Mammookka who made me a director. I was the cinematographer of Ranjith’s Mammootty-starrer Black and was set to return to Mumbai where I was working. Once the film was over, out of the blue, Mammookka told me to call him when I have a project to direct,” says Amal, whose first film was Big B.  Showing no signs of slowing down, Mammootty is currently working and listening to scripts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mammookka-at-50/article35989333.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Wang’s kitchen lives on||Our story begins in the 1970s, at IIT-Kharagpur, where Ken Liu, founder of Liu’s Waldorf, is helping set up his brother-in-law’s restaurant. The Chinese joint, also called Waldorf, turned out to be popular among the students, and a chance-meeting with an IIT professor helped Ken realise the prospects of a thriving restaurant business in then Madras, a city slowly warming up to a cosmopolitan character. Could he replicate this success? In 1974, when Ken moved to Madras, he would find that the answer was yes. Adyar, which was bustling with student crowds from the nearby institutions such as IIT-Madras and Anna University, became a hotspot for business and before he knew it, Liu’s Waldorf was a hit. It certainly was not the first Chinese restaurant in the city, since Mount Road at least had three: Chungking, Nanking and Southern Chinese. But it was the only Chinese joint in the Adyar, Besant Nagar and Taramani area. Until 1975 when Ken bought the place to turn it into a full-fledged restaurant, Liu’s Waldorf had minimal character: an open place with just a roof and small kitchen. Nestling between Ramco Systems and IIT-Madras, it was the only restaurant, or building for that matter, on the sidelines of Sardar Patel Road, which was thankfully breezy, courtesy a bed of trees. The entire region resembled a jungle and was pitch dark in the evening; the only light that shone was Liu’s. Initially, Liu’s Waldorf was seen as a fast-food joint, especially by students who lined up for the Waldorf special soup, chilli chicken, chilli pork and beef. “The latter is popular even today. In fact, our customers come to us for the chilli pork and beef, since you don’t get them everywhere,” says Wang I Hsing, head chef and current owner, adding that American chop suey and noodles, too, are popular. The restaurant was a resounding success as it was priced economically: soup for Rs. 1 and a bowl of fried rice was Rs. 3.50 in the initial years. “It has gone up to 10, or even 15 times more today since we are no longer a restaurant for just students; it is now a family restaurant,” adds Wang with a laugh. Chinese vibe, Indian heart Liu’s Waldorf, like most Chinese restaurants in the city, is a show run by one family. Wang, 55, also known as Peter, joined as the head chef in 1980. He took over the business from his brother-in-law Ken and sister Susy, when the former passed away. For a long time, the family lived above the restaurant; a space now turned into a storeroom. Wang is the third generation of the family. His father, Wang Min Hsien, was from China. He came looking to start a business in Calcutta, where he met and married Wang’s mother. As he chats, Wang effortlessly switches between English, Tamil and Hindi — a result of his cross-cultural life. “I find Tamil much easier than Hindi, since I have lived all my life in Chennai and I am very much Tamil,” he says. The family also runs a few beauty parlours managed by Wang’s sister, and his wife, Rochelle. Waldorf’s interiors have not changed much over the years. The tables once covered in red gingham are now set with placemats. The dimly-lit space comes alive in the evening, illuminated by Chinese lanterns and a welcoming laughing Buddha. What has changed, however, is unlike before when they ferried sauces and groceries from Calcutta, now they have agencies in Chennai who deliver the necessary ingredients. Wang says he learnt the recipes from his mother. “But, I had to make it spicy to meet the Indian taste.” Unlike many other restaurants that shut operations due to floundering businesses during lockdown, Liu’s Waldorf has managed to stay afloat. “I am able to run it because we own the place. Otherwise it would have been very difficult. During a time like this, you cannot think about your margin, but your staff,” he says. Wang attributes the popularity of Liu’s to the once-students of the ‘70s and ‘80s who have now become fathers and grandfathers. “They bring their grandchildren and reminisce. Some of them even remember and ask about Ken. Such has been our relationship,” says Wang, heading back into the kitchen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wangs-kitchen-lives-on/article35989355.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Swords||Sword in hand, armour fastened, helmet on: a boisterous group of teenagers gets into fencing gear at Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium. Ever since the lockdown eased, this group resumed training here: gathering every morning and evening, as well as in between online classes, to practise at the stadium’s Fencing Hall. Now that Tamil Nadu’s — more specifically, Old Washermanpet’s — CA Bhavani Devi has taken Indian fencing to the global stage as the first Indian fencer to participate in the Olympics, the pressure on these young fencers from Chennai has skyrocketed. The practice bout begins: they duel in pairs. Step, lunge and jab. The opponent blocks, takes a few quick steps back and lunges again. Their quick footwork is music to the ears. Agility, swiftness and presence of mind in these precious few minutes are what makes a good fencer, says D Nagappan, secretary of Chennai District Fencing Association (CDFA), as he looks on. Fencing is far from new in Tamil Nadu’s sporting history. While the interest came about as a natural offshoot of 1980s Tamil cinema pop culture — sword duel was an oft-seen trope in period movies — it was soon formalised, when it was offered as an option for the ‘Sports in Schools’ initiative started by the late Chief Minister, J Jayalalithaa. Students were required to choose between fencing, gymnastics, squash, boxing and swimming. Where it all began “I was nine years old when I got inspired by vaal sandai in movies. I would watch only action movies. And, even in action movies, I was only keen on sword or knife fights, not even silambam . I remember duelling with my relatives using keerai thandu (amaranth stems) when I was a kid,” laughs 73-year-old P Vishwanathan. Now credited as the pioneer of fencing in Chennai, Vishwanathan founded the Tamil Nadu Fencing Association in 1987, and has trained over 150 students in his time as a coach, including Bhavani Devi when she started out. Military officer RK Singh informally introduced him to the basic techniques of fencing. “He had learned it from British officers. He told me that my defence and speed were good and I could continue,” says Vishwanathan. With the help of stunt artistes and rule books, he carried on until he received training from a Russian coach. Then, in 1991, the Chennai District Fencing Association (CDFA) came into existence. In the beginning, Vishwanathan travelled across Tamil Nadu to train PT teachers from various schools. “Most of them didn’t even know that fencing was an Olympic game. That too, one of the oldest sports to be inducted in the first Olympics Games in 1896,” he exclaims. Finally, in 2006, the country’s first Commonwealth Youth Fencing Championship was held in Chennai’s Jawarharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium. And, in 2010, the city also hosted the first South Asian Fencing Championship. All said and done, fencing was and continues to be an expensive sport. But that never deterred Vishwanathan. In the ‘90s, he fashioned swords and non-electrical fencing equipment himself, using steel — a few prototypes stand tall in the corner of his room. “Even when we had to go for National-level competitions, we would borrow the equipment from other states like Manipur and Assam,” adds Nagappan. Bhavani says she started with bamboo sticks since they saved the little equipment they had for competitions. “Earlier, when I used to win international medals, many wouldn’t even understand what the excitement was about,” says Bhavani. But now, people have started recognising the sport in India. Room to grow Though some institutes like the Centre for Sports Sciences in Chennai offer fitness training for fencers, no private institutions have emerged for coaching. Such institutes are likely to crop up, thanks to Bhavani’s run in the Tokyo Olympics. “With Bhavani’s global recognition, the city hopes to see a new crop of fencers emerging,” says Vishwanathan. Back at Nehru Stadium, we are in the company of this burgeoning talent — National-level medallists — who have been steadily training through lockdowns: sometimes, a wall at home was the opponent, at others, a pillar. There are more than 300 students currently training under CDFA. Sasi Prabha, a 14-year-old national gold medallist sabre player, has been training for five years now. “The speed got me hooked to sabre. I was curious about the game since Class II, when I would accompany my sister to the stadium,” she says. Her sister, 17-year-old Swarna Prabha states that the fact that fencing is an individual sport makes it attractive. “It is similar to chess, in terms of using one’s mind,” she says. Sixteen-year-old Dhivya Darshini remembers fighting with her mom for pushing her to practice. She was in Class IV then and had just started training. A foil player, she now juggles training and school effortlessly. While their love for the sport is unmissable, some of them hope to see an improvement in the infrastructure. “We work on a cement floor here, sometimes we play very well here and go to the Nationals, see the facilities there and get nervous,” says Sri Saravanan, an 18-year-old foil player. After their previous coach G Nagasubramanian moved to Gujarat on a posting, they are still waiting for a coach to take charge. “I want to be an Olympian,” says Saravanan. Swarna Prabha adds, “I can’t express how lovely this game is. It is an emotional connection.”  Know your sport Modern fencing has evolved to be a combination of three disciplines: the épée, the sabre, and the foil. While in épée, the entire body is a valid target area, in sabre, the upper body becomes the target and in foil, only the torso can receive a strike. Weapons used in each also differ in terms of their make and flexibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/swords/article35989368.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ringside tales||‘Tiger’ Nat Terry was one of the most feared names in the Madras of yore. This Anglo-Indian boxer, after successful bouts all over the country, challenged one of Madras’ most popular boxers, Arunachalam, for a fight in the 1940s. That match proved fatal for Arunachalam, as one of Terry’s fierce blows caught him unawares. He collapsed in the ring at Kannapar Thidal. Barely three months later, Terry took on Kitheri Muthu, a rising star of Madras boxing, in one of the most celebrated duels till date. During that match, thousands of enthusiasts from across the city are said to have gathered to witness Kitheri Muthu take down Terry in an intense clash, fuelled by crowds baying for payback, on Arunachalam’s behalf. “It was a big deal,” recalls Kitheri Muthu’s grandson S Babu, who currently runs MKM Boxing Club in Washermanpet along with his relatives Stephen and Sebastian, “Back then, three things drew huge crowds in North Madras: political gatherings, stage plays and boxing.”  Tamil Nadu, with a rich history of martial arts like silambam (stick fighting), took to boxing thanks to the British and Anglo-Indians. While Kitheri Muthu’s father, Manicka Mudaliar, was a silambam exponent, his son took to boxing after he turned 16. Fight clubs The epicentre of all this was North Madras, bustling with members of the fishing community and manual labourers. Eager to beat the British at their own game, the city raised several talented boxers over the next few decades . “Based on the neighbourhoods they hailed from, they were divided into various parambarais (clan) , ” says Babu. Sarpatta Parambarai, Idiyappa Naicker Parambarai and the Ellapa Chettiyar Parambarai were among the most renowned boxing clans. Kitheri Muthu, from Royapuram’s Panaimara Thotti, belonged to the well-established Sarpatta Parambarai and enjoyed as much popularity as leading film stars of that generation. Several boxers emerged from the same parambarai , one of the most prominent among them being a fisherman named Sundar Raj, who also hailed from Royapuram. “A couple of boxing coaches saw him during a local brawl and were impressed with his confidence. They trained him, and he went on to become one of the best boxers of the Sarpatta clan,” recalls Sundara Ganesh, boxing coach and grandson of Sundar Raj. Today, parambarais have become clubs; 30-year-old Sundara Ganesh and his father Tamil Selvan run one in Sundar Raj’s memory. With over 50 aspirants training every day, students who usually train near Marina Beach, work at making an impression at local and national tournaments. Outside the ring If Royapuram was the epicentre of boxing in the past, other neighbourhoods soon started picking up the sport. In the Seventies, people from Perambur and other neighbourhoods headed to Royapuram to pick up boxing skills, and subsequently trained others closer home. Ramalingam and Govindaraj are two such aspiring boxers; their family has been into the sport for five decades now. G Thyagarajan aka Thiru, former National-level boxer and currently a coach, hails from a household in which boxing is an integral part of their everyday lives. “It helps that it led to employment opportunities,” explains Thiru, who currently runs Lakshmanan Boxing Club in Perambur’s Muniappa Chetty Street, “My uncle, Jilla (Rajamani) and another relative, Selvam, got inducted in the Integral Coach Factory due to their boxing credentials. Many boxers got employment in the Railways, Army and the police force. Boxing not only taught us discipline, but also gave us a livelihood.” Which is why Thiru, who got into the sport in 1999, is giving back now. Apart from guiding actor Arya for the recent hit boxing movie Sarpatta Parambarai , Thiru is training 50-plus boxers, most of them in their twenties, to get to the next level. “Two things have changed the fortunes of boxing recently: Pa Ranjith’s Tamil film, and Lovlina Borgohain’s bronze medal in the recent Tokyo Olympics. Today, for the first time, I see mothers standing at 5am outside a boxing club to see their children excel in the ring.” Like his student, S Kishan Akash from Perambur. The 16-year-old has been training for three years, and is looking at a full-time boxing career. “When I joined, I thought it will be like in films where I can send people flying, but slowly, I realised it was much tougher than that. This last year, with restrictions on going outside, has helped me practise more: I train in the ring for almost five hours every day. Someday, I’ll become an internationally-known boxer….” And if he does, Madras’ connection with boxing, from the days of fearing Anglo-Indian boxer Terry, would have come a full circle.   Turn to page 2 to read     about the other grassroots sports that thrive in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ringside-tales/article35989361.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The precision strikers||Maria Irudayam was 16 when he started playing carrom, back in the 1980s. From his first local match in the bylanes of North Madras to receiving the Arjuna Award in 1996, his rise is one of the prominent chapters in Chennai’s love story with the game. Now, as his training academy opens, re-shuts and gingerly opens again in tandem with lockdowns, Maria continues to help script the success story of carrom in Chennai, through all its ups and downs, club matches and world championships. Yes, world championships. North Chennai has produced numerous world champions in carrom through the years, from 65-year-old Maria who is the country’s only carrom player to receive the Arjuna Award, to 35-year-old S Ilavazhaki who has won two world cups and two world championships till date. But international medals and a few minutes of media spotlight are not what draws talent to the table in this part of the city. They are drawn to the thrill of the game — and, to an extent, to a small promise of economic stability. “The Postal Services, and some other Government departments like Excise, are happy to hire serious carrom players every year. A district or State-level certificate is helpful in getting a job,” says B Ravi Kumar, president of the Chennai District Carrom Association, “But the main fact is that people here just love playing. We have been trying to reopen one or two places for a short while, so the children who miss their game can come back and play.” By children, Kumar means the likes of 14-year-old M Khazima and 15-year-old N Mithun, both sub junior National-level winners and carriers of multiple accolades in the sport. Though high achievers, they are not a rarity in Chennai. “There are 800 to 900 carrom players in Madras today, belonging to one of 64 clubs,” says Irudayam, adding that before the pandemic hit, Chennai would see seven or eight club tournaments through the year, besides a district-level championship. “From the district, we send 32 players to the State Championship, from where the winners go to the National Championship,” continues the man who has held the title of national champion nine times. And then, there are the board room tournaments — a somewhat slick, more organised version of what once used to be a wobbly table, a streetside light, and a carrom board holding dozens of people in thrall till the wee hours of morning. “They used to play standing games in those days,” recalls Kumar, “The games did not follow proper rules; it was mainly to pass the time.” Picking up pace But now, says Kumar, even casual games are “serious”, thanks to Chennai’s many board rooms. “There are about 30 to 40 now, not only in North Chennai but also in Santhome and Vadapalani. They are the place to go to, for extra guidance to better your game,” he adds. These are not always formal set ups. “But some of the city’s best talent comes from here,” says Kumar. The only place for carrom training recognised by the carrom association, is Maria’s International Carrom Academy on Naval Hospital Road, Periamet. Other coaching centres have also cropped up around town, Kumar adds, but the buck still stops with the player. “In carrom, there is no formal coaching, no certification for trainers. Everyone begins at home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-precision-strikers/article35989364.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Motherhood nuggets||“There was a day after I had Taimur, when I was alone in my room. I undressed for a shower. And I looked at myself in the mirror. Reality hit hard. There I was — scarred, chubby, puffy, tired,” says Kareena Kapoor. The Udta Punjab actor, who had her second child, Jehangir, with husband Saif Ali Khan earlier this year, is quite conscious of being a ‘belching, bloated star’, in her new book Kareena Kapoor Khan’s Pregnancy Bible . Published by Juggernaut, the book is an insight into her life as a pregnant woman — from nutrition, fitness and breastfeeding, to preparing the nursery, shopping for the baby, pregnancy fashion and self care. “I think most new moms place a lot of pressure on themselves — I certainly did! I was so paranoid and nervous about handling Taimur, and I am so much more relaxed with Jeh,” she says  in an email interview. Kareena’s account of her experiences are interspersed with explanations from specialists such as dietitian Rujuta Diwekar, fitness trainer Namrata Purohit and Professor of Psychiatry at NIMHANS, Dr Prabha Chandra. “Today, we have access to lots of online information about pregnancy, but we were missing a one-stop book for pregnant Indian moms. A lot of us are vegetarian and we have to ensure we get enough protein, iron and calcium in our diets. Postpartum depression affects more than half of Indian moms. Many Indian moms may not have an exclusive nursery for their baby, so we need to think about the changes they should make to their bedroom to make it baby-friendly,” says Kareena, adding that the book is authorised by FOGSI, India’s federation of obstetricians and gynaecologists. “Above all I wanted to be completely frank about my experience,” she says. A pandemic baby Jehangir’s birth in February was right before the second wave of Covid-19 rose; Kareena was shooting Laal Singh Chadha with Aamir Khan in Delhi during her second trimester. A second pregnancy at 40 already meant greater exhaustion, and adding to it, was the stress of the pandemic. “I think if life continues in this way for much longer, Jeh’s ‘normal’ will be different from Taimur’s,” she observes. Through the book, she compares and contrasts her two pregnancies, sharing how she prepared Taimur for the arrival of his baby brother. “I would even show him the ultrasounds — he didn’t really understand them but he liked being included,” she says. Given the extra stay-at-home time during the pandemic, Kareena says that she enjoys watching her two sons interact with each other. “By the time Jeh was two months old, Taimur had already been lying in bed with him, trying to read him stories. He has chalked out a bunch of games that he will play with his baby brother. Jeh is exciting for him. He can’t wait for him to grow up. I can see Jeh will soon grow to adore his big brother,” she says. She credits Saif with Taimur’s self assurance and lack of sibling jealousy. “Saif really carried the load for me when Taimur was born. I was nervous with Taimur. And while he is close to me, he shares an altogether different bond with his father. Saif has been my rock.” Though she hopes that her book will be a one-stop manual for moms to be, she acknowledges that true learning can begin only when there is a live, kicking baby in your arms that has a mind of its own. “You may know the exact method in which to make your baby latch on your nipple, but what if it doesn’t happen? You may think your baby is crying with hunger but actually it might have colic. You may have read all about baby blues, but when it hits you like a ton of bricks you may be helpless,” she says. Whatever happens, she reminds us, “Be kind to yourself... though I know that is easier said than done!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/motherhood-nuggets/article35989328.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hollowed out beauty||Lalit Kala Akademi in Greams Road once again looks alive. The gallery, which remained empty through the lockdowns, now welcomes visitors with abstract sculptures in bronze, aluminium and copper, as well as framed sketches and pastels — a curated collection of veteran artist S Murugesan’s work spanning decades, titled ‘Visual Treasure: A Retrospection.’ The display juxtaposes the artist’s latest works created over the pandemic, with those that date back to even the 1960s. Clad in white, with an affable demeanour, Murugesan greets anyone who walks in. As he sits down to talk, many stories crowd his mind. Still active, the 88-year-old artist starts his day with a notepad and pen. “Who knows when an idea might strike?” he asks. On some days, drawings unfold, while on others, he meditates with an idea for hours on end. Perhaps, this explains how the artist, a prominent figure of the Madras Art Movement and former Principal of Government College of Fine Arts , managed to continue creating through the pandemic. The body of work on display constitutes only a fourth of his collection; it gives his much renowned, large-scale stone sculptures and oils, a miss. Murugesan began his sculpting with wood. “But I was not happy with the medium, because I was not able to preserve it,” he says. Metals like bronze, copper, aluminum and stone soon became his preferred mediums. Woman, a sculpture fashioned by him in 1962, stands tall in the gallery — hollowed out, yet with curves that outline a woman’s body. An ever-changing form Link, another one of his popular works done in 1973, a bronze sculpture that morphs into unfamiliar, yet grounding shapes, is also a showstopper — “it signifies the link between the universe and the earth. Without this link, there would be no growth,” he says, adding, “The original works [of the two] were done in wood, and later I converted them into bronze.”  “There are two basic aspects in sculpting — the depth and the projection. It is the only medium that absorbs all the movements that keep changing in your mind,” says the artist. Though his love for sculptures knows no bounds, the artist believes that paintings, sketches and drawings are where it all begins. About the series of drawings that he worked on during the pandemic, he says, “It’s been nearly two years now. Some of the drawings denote the effect of the pandemic. I was preoccupied with thoughts about suffering, and how the pandemic continues to dominate us all.” The pen drawings, in contrast to his sculptures, leave no pockets of spaces — they are crowded, intense and often denote distress. While some are realistic manifestations of the artist’s observations, others are abstract meditations on the pandemic. On some, verses from the Thirukkural , written in both Tamil and English, can be seen lining the corners. Murugesan’s decades-long relationship with art has led him to experience the changing landscapes. Viewers’ shorter attention spans and fluctuating interest towards art worries him. “Changes in art movements are also very rapid. Unless you follow that very keenly, you can’t appreciate it. In the past 100 years, already two -isms have taken place — modernism and postmodernism,” he says. Then concludes, “Art is a common language. It is the only form through which you can register your feelings, according to your senses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hollowed-out-beauty/article35989344.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||No custard like Ninan’s||Every city has its iconic restaurants, serving food with a flair that is satisfying in both taste and historicity. With his upcoming programme Food Art , chef, Carnatic vocalist and TV presenter Rakesh Raghunathan strolls down the bylanes of Chennai, to showcase seven such iconic food spots. Launching in time for Madras Day (August 22) on his YouTube, Facebook and Instagram accounts, Food Art is all about the emotions that go into creating dishes that become the calling card of an eatery. “The programme not only talks about the food, but also the creator, who I am calling the ‘artist’. I wanted to delve deeper into this, because today we only look at chefs with their signature dishes; we have forgotten dedicated cooks who have been basically satisfying the souls of hungry people,” says Rakesh. Like his earlier projectsPuliyogare Travelsand Dakshin Diaries , Food Art documents the culinary heritage of different communities. It looks at offerings like biryani, caramel custard, halwa, idli -pongal and ande ki mithai, each of which has made a certain place in Chennai enduringly famous. “We have documented Ninan’s Restaurant in the historic YMCA building in Parry’s Corner, that is famous for its caramel custard. We spoke to the third-generation owners of the restaurant, and the stories behind their recipes. We also went to Rayar Mess in Mylapore. What stood out here was the story of how their establishment evolved, and how they serve the customer in a comforting home-style ambience,” he says. While he worked on the script during lockdown, Rakesh and his team did the filming last week, when restrictions were eased. “It’s interesting to see how some of these places have modernised their cooking methods, but still retained their quintessential taste, and how some have opted to stay off the grid of food delivery apps. Many of the people we spoke to weren’t keen on expanding or changing the way they work just to feed more people. Commercial success doesn’t matter to them as much as customer satisfaction,” says Rakesh.  Food Art the show will be followed by a book. “I decided to dedicate the first series to Chennai, a city where I have grown up and that has given me a lot. But this is a concept that can definitely be used to explore other parts of India.” Food Art is on YouTube channel Rakesh Raghunanthan, with a new episode out every Sunday starting Madras Day, August 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/no-custard-like-ninans/article35989347.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Onasadhya to go, please||While Onam lunch is traditionally a time for families and friends to get together, with the ongoing pandemic, we are looking at another year of takeaway. This time, chefs and restaurateurs have found inventive ways to make the experience festive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/onasadhya-to-go-please/article35989375.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||KASHISH Mumbai International Queer Film Festival’s 12th edition will focus on Asian stories||In its first edition in 2010, KASHISH Mumbai International Queer Film Festival had some prominent guests, including Manisha Koirala, Rahul Bose, Zeenat Aman, and Shyam Benegal. But its size was fairly modest — just 110 films and a total cash prize of Rs. 85,000. Its audience, too, was limited, as the LGBTQ+ community in India was not as public or vocal as it is today. Since then, the festival has grown in popularity and stature. The 12th edition, which will take place online from August 19 to September 5, for instance, has received over 800 submissions and will exhibit over 220 films. The fest offers Rs. 2,00,000 to emerging Indian filmmakers to make an LGBTQ+ themed short film. Filmmakers from Canada, Sweden, Belgium and other countries will also participate. Festival director Sridhar Rangayan says the kind of films exhibited has changed too. “The audience’s taste has evolved. Earlier, they wanted romcoms predominantly. But now they want to see cinema that reflects different cultures,” he says, “Earlier, the films were more about people with anxious questions of their identities. Now, filmmakers, especially Indian directors, have gone beyond that to explore nuanced stories about romances, family acceptance and workplace acceptance. The stories have more hope and happiness.” This is reflected in mainstream cinema, too. Recent Hindi films like Ek Ladki Ko Dekha Toh Aisa Laga , Geeli Pucchi (a short from Ajeeb Daastaans ), and She Loves Me, She Loves Me Not (a short in Feels Like Ishq ) explored homosexual romance. This year’s fest will highlight over 39 LGBTQ+ films from Asia. It is also the second year in a row that the fest is online.  For registration and more information, visit mumbaiqueerfest.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kashish-mumbai-international-queer-film-festivals-12th-edition-will-focus-on-asian-stories/article35989330.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Swords||Sword in hand, armour fastened, helmet on: a boisterous group of teenagers gets into fencing gear at Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium in Chennai. Ever since the lockdown eased, this group resumed training here: gathering every morning and evening, as well as in between online classes, to practise at the stadium’s Fencing Hall. Now that Tamil Nadu’s — more specifically, Old Washermanpet’s — CA Bhavani Devi has taken Indian fencing to the global stage as the first Indian fencer to participate in the Olympics, the pressure on these young fencers from Chennai has skyrocketed. The practice bout begins: they duel in pairs. Step, lunge and jab. The opponent blocks, takes a few quick steps back and lunges again. Their quick footwork is music to the ears. Agility, swiftness and presence of mind in these precious few minutes are what makes a good fencer, says D. Nagappan, secretary of Chennai District Fencing Association (CDFA), as he looks on. Fencing is far from new in Tamil Nadu’s sporting history. While the interest came about as a natural offshoot of 1980s Tamil cinema pop culture — sword duel was an oft-seen trope in period movies — it was soon formalised, when it was offered as an option for the ‘Sports in Schools’ initiative started by the late Chief Minister, J. Jayalalithaa. Students were required to choose between fencing, gymnastics, squash, boxing and swimming. Where it all began “I was nine years old when I got inspired by vaal sandai in movies. I would watch only action movies. And, even in action movies, I was only keen on sword or knife fights, not even silambam . I remember duelling with my relatives using keerai thandu (amaranth stems) when I was a kid,” laughs 73-year-old P. Vishwanathan. Now credited as the pioneer of fencing in Chennai, Vishwanathan founded the Tamil Nadu Fencing Association in 1987, and has trained over 150 students in his time as a coach, including Bhavani Devi when she started out. Military officer R.K. Singh informally introduced him to the basic techniques of fencing. “He had learned it from British officers. He told me that my defence and speed were good and I could continue,” says Vishwanathan. With the help of stunt artistes and rule books, he carried on until he received training from a Russian coach. Then, in 1991, the Chennai District Fencing Association (CDFA) came into existence. In the beginning, Vishwanathan travelled across Tamil Nadu to train PT teachers from various schools. “Most of them didn’t even know that fencing was an Olympic sport. That too, one of the oldest sports to be inducted in the first Olympics Games in 1896,” he exclaims. Finally, in 2006, the country’s first Commonwealth Youth Fencing Championship was held in Chennai’s Jawarharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium. And, in 2010, the city also hosted the first South Asian Fencing Championship. All said and done, fencing was and continues to be an expensive sport. But that never deterred Vishwanathan. In the ‘90s, he fashioned swords and non-electrical fencing equipment himself, using steel — a few prototypes stand tall in the corner of his room. “Even when we had to go for National-level competitions, we would borrow the equipment from other states like Manipur and Assam,” adds Nagappan. Bhavani says she started with bamboo sticks since they saved the little equipment they had for competitions. “Earlier, when I used to win international medals, many wouldn’t even understand what the excitement was about,” says Bhavani. But now, people have started recognising the sport in the country. Room to grow Though some institutes like the Centre for Sports Sciences in Chennai offer fitness training for fencers, no private institutions have emerged for coaching. Such institutes are likely to crop up, thanks to Bhavani’s run in the Tokyo Olympics. “With Bhavani’s global recognition, the city hopes to see a new crop of fencers emerging,” says Vishwanathan. Back at Nehru Stadium, we are in the company of this burgeoning talent — National-level medallists — who have been steadily training through lockdowns: sometimes, a wall at home was the opponent, at others, a pillar. There are more than 300 students currently training under CDFA. Sasi Prabha, a 14-year-old national gold medallist sabre player, has been training for five years now. “The speed got me hooked to sabre. I was curious about the game since Class II, when I would accompany my sister to the stadium,” she says. Her sister, 17-year-old Swarna Prabha states that the fact that fencing is an individual sport makes it attractive. “It is similar to chess, in terms of using one’s mind,” she says. Sixteen-year-old Dhivya Darshini remembers fighting with her mom for pushing her to practice. She was in Class IV then and had just started training. A foil player, she now juggles training and school effortlessly. While their love for the sport is unmissable, some of them hope to see an improvement in the infrastructure. “We work on a cement floor here, sometimes we play very well here and go to the Nationals, see the facilities there and get nervous,” says Sri Saravanan, an 18-year-old foil player. After their previous coach G. Nagasubramanian moved to Gujarat on a posting, they are still waiting for a coach to take charge. “I want to be an Olympian,” says Saravanan. Swarna Prabha adds, “I can’t express how lovely this game is. It is an emotional connection.”  Know your sport Modern fencing has evolved to be a combination of three disciplines: the épée, the sabre, and the foil. While in épée, the entire body is a valid target area, in sabre, the upper body becomes the target and in foil, only the torso can receive a strike. Weapons used in each also differ in terms of their make and flexibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/swords/article35989898.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The precision strikers||Maria Irudayam was 16 when he started playing carrom, back in the 1980s. From his first local match in the bylanes of North Madras to receiving the Arjuna Award in 1996, his rise is one of the prominent chapters in Chennai’s love story with the game. Now, as his training academy opens, re-shuts and gingerly opens again in tandem with lockdowns, Maria continues to help script the success story of carrom in Chennai, through all its ups and downs, club matches and world championships. Yes, world championships. North Chennai has produced numerous world champions in carrom through the years, from 65-year-old Maria who is the country’s only carrom player to receive the Arjuna Award, to 35-year-old S. Ilavazhaki who has won two world cups and two world championships till date. But international medals and a few minutes of media spotlight are not what draws talent to the table in this part of the city. They are drawn to the thrill of the game — and, to an extent, to a small promise of economic stability. “The Postal Services, and some other government departments like Excise, are happy to hire serious carrom players every year. A district or State-level certificate is helpful in getting a job,” says B. Ravi Kumar, president of the Chennai District Carrom Association. “But the main fact is that people here just love playing. We have been trying to reopen one or two places for a short while, so the children who miss their game can come back and play,” he says. By children, Kumar means the likes of 14-year-old M. Khazima and 15-year-old N. Mithun, both sub junior National-level winners and carriers of multiple accolades in the sport. Though high achievers, they are not a rarity in Chennai. “There are 800 to 900 carrom players in Madras today, belonging to one of 64 clubs,” says Irudayam, adding that before the pandemic hit, Chennai would see seven or eight club tournaments through the year, besides a district-level championship. “From the district, we send 32 players to the State Championship, from where the winners go to the National Championship,” continues the man who has held the title of national champion nine times. And then, there are the board room tournaments — a somewhat slick, more organised version of what once used to be a wobbly table, a streetside light, and a carrom board holding dozens of people in thrall till the wee hours of morning. “They used to play standing games in those days,” recalls Kumar. “The games did not follow proper rules; it was mainly to pass the time,” he adds. Picking up pace But now, says Kumar, even casual games are “serious”, thanks to Chennai’s many board rooms. “There are about 30 to 40 now, not only in North Chennai but also in Santhome and Vadapalani. They are the place to go to, for extra guidance to better your game,” he adds. These are not always formal set ups. “But some of the city’s best talent comes from here,” says Kumar. The only place for carrom training recognised by the carrom association, is Maria’s International Carrom Academy on Naval Hospital Road, Periamet. Other coaching centres have also cropped up around town, Kumar adds, but the buck still stops with the player. “In carrom, there is no formal coaching, no certification for trainers. Everyone begins at home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-precision-strikers/article35989897.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe in ‘Sulli deals’ case hits legal hurdle||Nearly a month and a half after Delhi Police registered a case in connection with photos of Muslim women being uploaded without permission on an app called ‘Sulli deals’, investigators said the hosting platform, GitHub, has replied to their notice. Police sources said that a notice under Criminal Procedure Code was issued to GitHub to share the details of the IP address of the web page where photographs of Muslim women were shared, but the company has responded asking the enforcement agency to take the legal route to approach them under Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT). “GitHub has asked for a legal request to be raised under MLAT. The procedure to raise the request has been initiated,” an officer privy to the probe said. ‘Will take months’ The MLAT is an agreement between two or more countries put in place for the purpose of gathering and exchanging information in an effort to enforce laws. Explaining the course of action, sources said that because GitHub is not an India-based platform, they can choose to not consider CrPC as legally binding. “The documents prepared for the requested information will go to the Ministry of Home Affairs, who will then take it to the embassy concerned. The legal aid of the embassy then will take it further. This procedure will delay the information by at least a few months, sources said. Derogatory term In July, pictures of Muslim women were shared on the platform with the phrase “Sulli deal of the day”. Reportedly, Sulli is a derogatory term used to refer to Muslim women. Many women who found their names on the list shared their anger on social media. A case under Section 354A (3) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Special Cell on July 7 and the application was removed from GitHub. Police sources said that no statements have been recorded so far. One of the women whose photo was on the web page said that while her name is not on the list of complainants in the case, she is connected with the women and in her knowledge, none of them have been contacted by the enforcement agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-in-sulli-deals-case-hits-legal-hurdle/article35989689.ece
19 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Still studying OBC quota subcategorisation report: U.P. Minister||Almost three years after a report recommending subcategorisation of Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota into three divisions was submitted to the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government, a BJP Minister from the OBC community on Wednesday said the government was still examining the report. The report has been a political hot potato for the BJP government as it suggested limited quota for dominant castes such as Yadavs, Kurmis and Jats. Clubbing together the Yadavs, who form the support base of the Opposition Samajwadi Party, with the Kurmis, who are tilted towards the BJP and even have a party Apna Dal led by Kurmi leader Anupriya Patel allied to the ruling party, puts the BJP in a tight spot and jeopardises its till now successful strategy of pitting the non-Yadav OBCs against the Yadavs. Panel report A social justice committee headed by retired Allahabad High Court judge Raghavendra Kumar in October 2018 submitted a report to the State government recommending a split in the 27% OBC quota into three categories; they would be the Pichda Varg (Backward Class), who get 7%; the Ati Pichda (More Backward), who get 11% and the Atyant Pichda (Most Backward), who get 9%. The panel listed 79 sub-castes under the OBC category. Of these, nine fall under Backward Class, 37 under More Backward and 33 under Most Backward categories. Despite being submitted to the government, the report is yet to be tabled in the Assembly or implemented. On Wednesday, Om Prakash Rajbhar, president of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and former BJP ally, demanded that the government clarify if it was going to implement the sub-categorisation. “Six months are left for this government. Will this report be implemented or not,“ Mr. Rajbhar asked in the Assembly, accusing the BJP of betraying the backward caste people by dumping the report into a “dustbin.” Mr. Rajbhar was sacked as a Cabinet Minister in the Yogi Adityanath government in 2019 months after he had launched a campaign demanding the implementation of sub-categorisation of quota and turned rebel. Following his departure, BJP’s Rajbhar face Anil Rajbhar was allocated the Backward Class Welfare Ministry held by Mr. Om Prakash Rajbhar, in a strategic move to downsize the latter’s impact. Responding to Mr. Om Prakash Rajbhar’s demands, Mr. Anil Rajbhar said the BJP government was fully committed to social justice and was examining the social justice committee report so that nobody could challenge it in court. “The Yogi government doesn’t want to leave scope for anyone to question it or get an opportunity to approach court,” Mr. Anil Rajbhar said. The BJP Minister, however, did not clarify if and when the government would implement the report. “The government is examining it. When it is done, the picture will be clear. Yogiji’s government is committed to doing whatever is necessary for the welfare of the most-backward and backward caste [people],” Mr. Anil Rajbhar informed the House. Leaked report As per a leaked copy of the 400-plus page report, listed under the Backward Class, meaning who will be restricted to 7% quota, are castes such as Yadav, Kurmi and Jat. The panel says these castes are politically, socially, economically and culturally “strong” and have got employment in government jobs more than the ratio of their population, while also enjoying influential political representation. The More Backward category would include castes such as Gurjar, Kushwaha-Maurya-Shakya, Prajapati, Gaderia-Pal, Baghel, Sahu, Kumhar, Teli and Lodh. The panel says that though these castes may not face cultural exclusion, they have poor representation politically and economically. The third category, the Most Backward, consists of the most deprived castes, who are backward in all respects. Their political drawing power is also limited, the report notes. They include the riverine castes like Mallah, Nishad, Kewat, Kashyap and Kahar, apart from Bind, Rajbhar, Bhar, Loniya Chauhan, Dheevar and Ghosi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/still-studying-obc-quota-subcategorisation-report-up-minister/article35989680.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC: no anticipatory bail for Navy officer accused of raping woman||The Delhi High Court has rejected anticipatory bail of a senior Navy officer, accused of raping a woman on the pretext of marrying her, noting that he was allegedly trying to influence his colleagues to cause destruction of evidence. Justice Yogesh Khanna also took serious objection to the allegation levelled by the Navy officer against the woman of trying to extort money from him. “No doubt, the victim is an educated lady, but is an educated person immune to cheating. The answer would be “no”,” the judge remarked. Marriage prospects “The facts do show the petitioner [Navy officer] and prosecutrix [woman] did have such relations to kindle a hope in the prosecutrix that the petitioner shall marry her at all costs. It was not illogical for her to think so,” the High Court said. “Can he be allowed to play with her dignity on the pretext he cohabited with her just for fun and later claim she is extorting money from him. Such allegations if not backed with proof are rather insulting,” Justice Khanna remarked. Destruction of evidence The court also took note of Delhi Police’s status report in the case which stated that the officer, being a senior officer of the Indian Navy, was “rather influencing other officers of the (Naval) Academy (Kannur) to manipulate the things causing destruction of evidence”. The High Court was also of the view that the mobile phone of the officer is also required to be seized “as it allegedly contains nude pictures and videos of the prosecutrix”. It also noted that he has “deleted the electronic record in the form of chats, text messages and Facebook messages/chats exchanged between the parties”. “This act of the petitioner rather reflects his intention to cover-up his wrongs by erasing the relevant electronic record/data, which would otherwise had given a true picture of the facts,” the judge said. The woman, in her complaint, alleged that from December 2019 to January 2020 he has been calling her at Kota House, here in the Capital and having physical relations on the promise of marriage. After January 2020, he went to Kolkata for training with a promise to return after 2-3 months, but did not return. Subsequently, in March this year, she reached Kannur, Kerala to meet him. She was adjusted by him in the Guest House of Indian Naval Academy, Kerala. When she asked him to marry, he denied saying he did it only for fun. When the woman threatened to lodge a complaint, he told her he had nude photographs of her and video recordings at Kota House and he shall upload the same on the Internet and shall ruin her career. Later, on June 15, 2021, the woman got to know that the officer had married another girl in Kerala. Following this, she lodged the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-no-anticipatory-bail-for-navy-officer-accused-of-raping-woman/article35989683.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||Police oppose Natasha Narwal’s plea to let her leave Delhi at will||The Delhi police on Wednesday opposed JNU student Natasha Narwal’s plea, seeking modification in the bail condition asking her not to leave the national capital without the court’s permission, stating that she may destroy evidence. Ms. Narwal, an accused in three north-east Delhi riots cases, sought modification of a 2020 bail order in which she was directed not to leave Delhi, saying she has to travel outside for research purposes for her PhD and to visit her hometown but has to seek the court’s permission every time.  ‘A conspirator’ During the hearing, Additional Public Prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma opposed the plea and told the court that Ms. Narwal is a conspirator and may destroy evidence or run away if the condition of not leaving Delhi is changed. “So much evidence may get destroyed. We have great suspicion and apprehension. The investigation is still going on,” the prosecutor, representing the police, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. Mr. Sharma further said that there are conspiracy charges against her and a conspirator is always the most dangerous person as they can destroy the evidence and save themselves. “Tomorrow if they go abroad or run away, who will catch them,” he asked.  Meanwhile, advocates Kunal Negi and Adit S Pujari, representing Ms. Narwal, told the court she is an accused in three cases but the court while granting bail in the other two matters, did not impose any such condition on her. “There is no such condition even in the conspiracy case. We will inform the IO prior to travel if the condition is modified,” they emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-oppose-natasha-narwals-plea-to-let-her-leave-delhi-at-will/article35989692.ece
19 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC adjourns hearing on plea against Asthana’s selection as police chief||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing on a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner for next week. A Bench of Justices D.N. Patel and Jyoti Singh asked the counsel for the government to find out, by next hearing, if any other court was seized of a similar petition against Mr. Asthana. The petition filed by one Sadre Alam has contended that the 1984-batch IPS officer, serving as the director general of Border Security Force, was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27, just four days before his superannuation on July 31. ‘Appointment illegal’ Mr. Alam, in his plea, argued that the decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Appointments Committee of Cabinet in appointing Mr. Asthana for the post was “completely illegal on multiple grounds”. The plea said the appointment was “in clear and blatant breach” of the directions of the Supreme Court as Mr. Asthana “did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months”, and that no Union Public Service Commission panel was formed for appointment of the Delhi Police Commissioner. Rule violation The petition further submitted that the appointment of the police commissioner violates the fundamental rule which stipulates “no government servant shall be granted extension in service beyond the age of retirement of 60 years”. The appointment was also in violation of the policy regarding Inter-Cadre deputation of All India Service Officers as prescribed under the Department of Personnel and Training’s Office Memorandum of November 8, 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-plea-against-asthanas-selection-as-police-chief/article35989685.ece
19 August 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur govt. employees seek enhanced pay scale||The working of the government offices in Manipur was severely affected on Tuesday, the first day of the indefinite cease-work strike launched to demand the implement the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. The strike was called by the Manipur Government Services Federation and the Manipur Secretariat Services Association. The leaders of the striking employees said that the government had “failed to translate the various commitments and understandings into actions”. As employees in all major departments joined the strike, normal official work came to a grinding halt. The leaders said that though the government had given assurances from time to time to implement the enhanced pay scale many departments were yet to get it. There was a pay discrepancy among some employees. They said that the nurses in the government medical college and JN Institute of Medical Sciences get the enhanced pay while those in district-level hospitals were yet to get it. Difference in allowances They also pointed out that while the Dearness Allowances of the pensioners of the Central government were increased to 28% those of the State government services continued to get just 7%. They said that the strike would continue till the revised pay and pension were implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manipur-govt-employees-seek-enhanced-pay-scale/article35989905.ece
19 August 2021||kolkata,||Trinamool Congress will win Tripura, says Mamata||Coming down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Tripura, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will win the next Assembly polls in Tripura. “They are not allowing us to stay in hotels. This is too much. The State of Tripura is not even adhering to the basics of democracy and law and order. Vandalism and hooliganism is going on,” the Chief Minister said. Ms. Banerjee said leaders of Tripura were joining the TMC in large numbers and added that, during the day, Jiten Sarkar, former Speaker of the Tripura Assembly, had written to her, expressing his willingness to join the TMC. “They cannot stop us like this. We will win Tripura. I want that people of Tripura should get benefits of welfare schemes that we have started in West Bengal,” she said. Over the past few weeks, Trinamool Congress leaders have been making visits to the Northeastern State. During the day Tripura High Court refused to put a stay on the investigation against TMC general secretary and five others for allegedly obstructing police from performing their duties. Ms Banerjee announced that a Bengal Ministerial team will visit Delhi and seek allocation for Ghatal Masterplan, a mega flood protection infrastructure project for lower Damodar basin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trinamool-congress-will-win-tripura-says-mamata/article35989677.ece
19 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot govt. looks to make mining auction transparent||The Rajasthan government intends to adopt a transparent process for mining auction and data sharing following a study of mining operations in four States. The study has found Odisha’s technology-based system suitable for replication in view of its target for collecting revenue worth Rs. 30,000 crore from mining activities. The models adopted in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka were also found effective in the study. Additional Chief Secretary (Mines & Petroleum) Subodh Agarwal said here on Wednesday that new technology and equipment would be acquired and the process modernised in the State. Four teams had recently visited the mining blocks in the four States and studied the innovations, modern technological applications and online data sharing methods adopted there. “We need to adopt similar procedures in Rajasthan with the emphasis on exploration of minerals through scientific methods,” Dr. Agarwal said. Odisha model At a presentation on the study’s findings on Odisha, the officials pointed out that the revenue was mainly earned through the mining of iron ore, chromite, manganese and graphite. Odisha has a quality testing laboratory as well as the facility for X-ray fluorescence analysis of minerals, which has helped in speedy development of mining sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gehlot-govt-looks-to-make-mining-auction-transparent/article35989678.ece
19 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Community policing drive inaugurated||Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana inaugurated a community policing programme ‘Ummeed’ in the North-East district on Wednesday. Mr. Asthana also highlighted the achievements of a community-based organisation Nagrik Bhaichara Samiti. He said that since it is not feasible to deploy policemen in every nook and corner, a self-disciplined and service-oriented society is required to assist the police to establish peace and harmony. “Crime has no religion and only a few anti-social elements spoil the social environment. Such unscrupulous elements need to be identified and dealt with as per law,” he said. “We live in an age of technology, and economic progress can be attained only in a peaceful environment. We should all strive to live together in harmony,” said Mr. Asthana, while hailing ‘Ummeed’ as an initiative to strengthen the common chord of togetherness and mutual trust between communities in order to live peacefully in the spirit of coexistence. Mr. Asthana added that there was no place for violence in society as India was known for unity in diversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/community-policing-drive-inaugurated/article35989696.ece
19 August 2021||August 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for some rain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-for-some-rain/article35989695.ece
19 August 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Gorakh Dhanda’ term banned by Haryana govt.||The Haryana government has banned in official communication the use of expression ‘Gorakh Dhanda’, generally used to describe unethical practices. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Manohar Lal after a delegation of the Gorakhnath community met him, according to an official statement on Wednesday. Mr. Lal said Gorakhnath was a saint and using this term hurts sentiments of his followers. Therefore, the use of the word in whatsoever context has been completely banned, the CM said according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gorakh-dhanda-term-banned-by-haryana-govt/article35989681.ece
