20 August 2021||KOLKATA,||CBI, SIT to investigate Bengal violence cases||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed a CBI investigation into all cases of murder and crimes against women in connection with alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal. For other cases, the court constituted a special investigation team of three senior IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. The order by a five-judge Bench comes after allegations of violence were brought before the court in the form of multiple writ petitions. The court had directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to set up a committee to look into the allegations. The committee submitted its report on July 13, suggesting a CBI investigation into the matter. “All the cases where, as per the report of the committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation. The committee, NHRC, any other commission or authority and the State shall immediately hand over entire record of the cases entrusted to the CBI for investigation,” the order by the Bench, headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, said. The Bench will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT. It asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. The order was written by the acting Chief Justice and Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar gave concurring orders, some with their own views. “Heinous crime such as murder and rape deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation. It is for the reason that in number of cases, the State had failed to register FIRs and opined the same to be not cases of murder. This shows pre-determined mind to take investigation into a particular direction. Under such circumstances, investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned,” Justice Bindal wrote in the order. Hours after the order, the CBI formed four teams headed by senior officers to investigate the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-sit-to-investigate-bengal-violence-cases/article36008799.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.S. not interested in trade pact: Goyal||Hopes of an India-U.S. trade pact are off the table even as India is keen to resolve trade issues with the U.S., Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday, after referring to signals from the Joe Biden administration that it is not interested in a free trade agreement. The comments are significant as this is the first time that the stance of the Biden administration on the FTA negotiations, something the previous Donald Trump administration was keen to work on, has been spelt out officially. “The U.S., as of now, has kind of indicated that they are not looking for new trade agreements, but we will look at working with them on market access issues on both sides,” Mr. Goyal said during an interaction with exporters. The Minister added that even resolution of these issues would boost outbound trade to the U.S. Resolving issues such as non-tariff barriers, entering mutual recognition agreements, and aligning with each other on higher quality international standards would help spur trade between the countries, he said. On his recent visit to India, U.S. Secretary of State Anthony J. Blinken had said India and the U.S. must continue to grow their trade relationship to fuel the economic recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/us-not-interested-in-trade-pact-goyal/article36008793.ece
20 August 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active case tally dips further to 57,579||Maharashtra’s recoveries marginally outweighed its case surge on Thursday, with 5,557 patients being discharged as against 5,225 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s active case tally saw a marginal dip to touch 57,579. With 154 deaths, the cumulative fatalities has risen to 1,35,567, while the case fatality rate stands at 2.11%. The total case tally has reached 64,11,570, while total recoveries have risen to 62,14,921, with the recovery rate standing at 96.93%. “Of a total of 5,17,14,950 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,11,570 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 12.4%) have returned positive with more than 2.55 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune recorded over 1,000 new cases, taking its tally to 11,07,665, while 25 deaths pushed the toll over 18,550. District authorities said active cases stand over 8,200. 282 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 282 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,40,289, while the active count marginally rose to 3,030. Five fatalities took the city’s death toll to 15,935. Ahmednagar district reported over 750 new cases and 11 deaths, taking its tally to 3,00,969, of whom 6,127 are active. The toll has risen to 6,393. Satara reported 707 new cases and 37 deaths, taking the tally to 2,32,131, of whom 6,792 are active, while the toll climbed to 5,646. Sangli reported over 500 new cases and 13 deaths. The tally stands at 1,96,652, with active cases rising to 5,316 while its toll reached 5,477. Kolhapur reported just 170 new cases and 10 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-active-case-tally-dips-further-to-57579/article36009404.ece
20 August 2021||Kolkata,||WBTC’s street art campaign lends colour to Kolkata||The Transport Department and art may not always travel hand in hand, but in Kolkata they have come together to lend some colour to roads in the heart of the city. This Independence Day, the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) began an art campaign, ‘Colours of Kolkata’, to celebrate what it called the diversity of Kolkata. “Street art is common in America, Australia and Europe. A small attempt is being made to add some colour to the city of joy. This year marks 100 years of Satyajit Ray and 160 years of Rabindranath Tagore. To begin with, the street art has begun with these two stalwarts. The location is Park Circus, on the wall of a WBTC tram depot,” said WBTC Managing Director Rajanvir Singh Kapur. “The whole idea is to add some colour to our mundane streets. The art, celebrating Kolkata and her famous people, will be done on WBTC depot walls, mostly located in the heart of the city in prime locations. A lot of times, people spit and deface our depot walls. It looks bad. This would add an artsy touch to the art capital of India and also maybe discourage people from spoiling the walls,” Mr. Kapur, who has initiated a string of people-friendly measures ever since he took charge in January 2020, said. Eminent artists “In future, eminent artists of Kolkata will be invited to help in creating such public art at prominent locations to make the city of joy even more beautiful,” he said. The ‘Colours of Kolkata’, starting from Park Circus, will cover the walls of most of the depots by Durga Puja in mid-October. The next places in line are Tollygunge, opposite the Tolly Club, and also, Gariahat, near Ballygunge Phari, which also houses the Tram World. The Tram World was launched in December 2020, commemorating the 140th anniversary of the foundation of Calcutta Tramways Company in London. The first two art works under ‘Colours of Kolkata’ have been curated by the WBTC in collaboration with Mudar Patherya, a city-based artist, who has long experience in livening up walls and electrical boxes. “The objective is to utilise the public walls of the city to send out a singular message — that Kolkata is artistically and aesthetically one of the most vibrant cities of the country,” said Mr. Patherya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wbtcs-street-art-campaign-lends-colour-to-city-of-joy/article36009000.ece
20 August 2021||Kolkata,||New species of cascade frog discovered in Arunachal||Researchers have discovered a new species of cascade frog from Arunachal Pradesh and named it after the Adi hills, the abode of Adi tribes. Amolops adicola , the new species discovered by a team of Indian and American biologists from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), University of Delhi, India, and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Science, the U.S., is a predominantly brown colour frog, with a size ranging roughly between 4 cm and 7 cm. Cascade frogs are named so because of their preference for small waterfalls or cascades in flowing hill streams, for which they have developed certain morphological features such as expanded digit tips and extensive foot webbing that makes them adapt to strong water currents. The discovery was made when biologists were investigating a group of medium- to large-sized cascade frogs (scientifically belonging to genus Amolops) from northeast India over the last five years. “This study is once again testament to how little is known about the most threatened animal groups, frogs, in northeastern India. Many frogs in this region are reported to occur widely but, in fact, have relatively small geographical ranges and require special attention for conservation before they go extinct forever,” said S.D. Biju, University of Delhi, corresponding author of the study. “Northeast India is a treasure house of species still unknown to science.” The species draws its nomenclature from Adi tribes, an indigenous group of people from the Himalayan regions of Arunachal Pradesh. The region from where the discovery was made is also referred as Adi hills — adi literally means “hill” or “mountain top”. Historically, this region was also known as Abor hills. “The new species was discovered while revisiting a century-old Adi expedition in 2018, and named after the land of the Adi tribe in Arunachal Pradesh, where this species dwells particularly during the post-monsoon season,” said Dr. Abhijit Das from WII. The details of the discovery can be accessed in the publication titled ‘Phylogenetic position of the poorly known montane cascade frog Amolops monticola (Ranidae) and description of a new closely related species from Northeast India’ published in the Journal of Natural History . “The new species, formally described as Amolops adicolasp.nov., is morphologically distinguished from its congeners by a suite of characters that include adult size, body colouration and markings, skin texture, snout shape, foot webbing and digit tip morphology,” the publication reads. Apart from the external morphology, Amolops adicola was identified based on DNA and a distinct calling pattern. Resolving confusion The study also resolved century-old taxonomic confusions surrounding the identity of another cascade frog species, Amolops monticola , which was described from the Sikkim Himalayas 150 years ago. The genus Amolops is one of the largest groups of ranid frogs (family Ranidae), with currently 73 known species that are widely distributed across northeast and north India, Nepal, Bhutan, China, through Indochina to the Malaya peninsula.  Northeast India is a treasure house of species still unknown to science S.D. Biju University of Delhi, corresponding author of the study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-species-of-cascade-frog-discovered-in-arunachal/article36009240.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan for close watch on financial transactions||Expressing concern at the fake challan scam in the Department of Registration and Stamps (DoR&S), Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday questioned officials how these transactions, which made a huge dent in the State’s revenue, could be kept under wraps till they were detected by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and why were they not brought to his notice. He ordered that the payments and receipts in all departments, including the DoR&S, should henceforth be closely monitored to prevent such massive leakage of revenue, and asked what action had been taken against those involved in the scam that shook the department. He was chairing a review meeting on the activities of Registration and Stamps, Excise and GST Departments. Mr. Jagan said efforts should be made to garner additional revenues and focus laid on recovering monies due to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-for-close-watch-on-financial-transactions/article36008794.ece
20 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||HC protects interfaith couples from Gujarat law||Granting protection to inter-faith couples from harassment under Gujarat’s anti-conversion law, the Gujarat High Court on Thursday said some sections of the Act will not apply to a marriage that did not involve force, fraud or allurement. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav, passed the interim order, saying it was meant to protect people from unnecessary harassment. The order applies to Sections 3, 4, 4A to 4C, 5, 6 and 6A of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021. “Pending further hearing, rigours of Section 3, 4, 4A to 4C, 5, 6, and 6A shall not operate merely because the marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with another religion without force, allurement or fraudulent means, and such marriages cannot be termed as marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion,” the Chief Justice said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-protects-inter-faith-couples-from-gujarat-law/article36008797.ece
20 August 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal reports 731 new cases||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 731 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 15,40,989. With 12 deaths, the State’s death toll has surged to 18,337. Kolkata reported the highest new cases at 89. As many as 781 people were discharged during the day, taking the recovery rate to 98.18%. The State has 9,653 active cases, while 15,12,999 people have recovered so far. A total of 45,115 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, according to the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-reports-731-new-cases/article36009247.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Offline classes deferred||The Dakshina Kannada administration has deferred till August 28 the commencement of offline classes for Class IX and Class X for the academic year 2021-22. Hence, physical classes will not resume on August 23. This is as per a direction from Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra, according to a release from Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy. It applies to all schools. However, schools can conduct online classes. The decision was taken as the COVID-19 positivity rate in the district is above 2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offline-classes-deferred/article36009355.ece
20 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland CM allays fears over RIIN||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio has sought to allay fears over an exercise akin to Assam’s National Register of Citizens, allegedly designed to leave out certain Nagas and non-Nagas for their eventual eviction or denial of opportunities. The State government, through a notification on June 29, 2019, had decided to update the Register of Indigenous Inhabitants of Nagaland (RIIN) with December 1, 1963, as the cut-off date for the inclusion of people in it. The exercise was put on hold after opposition from various quarters, which demanded that the cut-off date be changed to April 28, 1977, when the government laid down the criteria for issuing indigenous inhabitant certificates to the residents. “Citizens of India should not be denied their rights. Therefore, decisions on RIIN should be well thought-out and should not cause any harassment to any community,” Mr. Rio said at a consultative meeting between the government and leaders of apex Naga tribal bodies on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagaland-cm-allays-fears-over-riin/article36008959.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of safe haven||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-search-of-safe-haven/article36009245.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||‘Clear Stan Swamy’s name in Elgaar case’||The lawyer of late tribal rights activist Stan Swamy has written to the Bombay High Court, urging it to “clear his name and reputation” in the Elgaar Parishad case. Swamy, a Jesuit priest-turned-activist, died in hospital on July 5. Senior counsel Mihir Desai this week wrote a note to the high court on behalf of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, which is seeking to pursue Swamy’s case as his next-of-kin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clear-stan-swamys-name-in-elgaar-case/article36009402.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Mangaluru man returns from Kabul||Fifty-year-old Melwyn from Uliya in Ullal, who was in Afghanistan, returned home safely on Wednesday, to the great joy of his family. However, wait continues for return of his brother Demsy, who has landed in Qatar from Kabul. Mr. Melwyn was among the seven civilians of those 160 airlifted and brought to the Air Force base in Jamnagar on Tuesday. Mr. Melwyn then took a flight to New Delhi and from there reached Mangaluru on Wednesday evening. Mr. Melwyn told reporters on Thursday that he had been working with a British firm doing electrical maintenance in the NATO military base hospital in Kabul for the last 10 years. As the situation got worse in the last few days, many locals rushed to Kabul airport to fly to other countries. “The airport was filled with people and hence, aircraft could not land, which led to a delay of two days in us getting airlifted,” he said. Mr. Melwyn said he was the only one from Mangaluru in the aircraft and the remaining six civilians, who also worked in the same firm, were from other States, including Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. Mr. Melwyn said he was among the 500 Indians living in Kabul. “Most of the Indians have been airlifted. Some have gone to other countries, including my brother Demsy, who has landed in Qatar. After finishing quarantine and other formalities, they will come to India,” he said. Mr. Melwyn’s family members contacted Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader to seek his intervention in getting safe passage for Mr. Melwyn and Mr. Demsy. Mr. Khader, in turn, wrote to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The latter appointed Additional Director-General of Police Umesh Kumar as nodal officer for coordinating with the Ministry of External Affairs for bringing back Karnataka residents stuck in Afghanistan. Among those who are yet to be airlifted include Jesuit Jerome Sequeira, a resident of Siddakatte in Bantwal taluk, who is working since January with a non-governmental organisation, Jesuit Refugee Services, in Kabul. His brother Bernard Sequeira of Siddakatte told reporters that Mr. Jerome Sequeira called him on Tuesday to say that he was safe in Kabul. On Sunday, he failed to get a flight from Kabul airport and he returned back to a safe place in the city, Mr. Jerome Sequeira is said to have told his brother. ‘I am safe’ Sister Theresa Crasta, 50, from Sisters of Charity in Mangaluru, who is serving as a nurse in a home for mentally challenged children in Kabul, has called the Provincial here to say that she is safe. Sister Crasta was sent by Sisters of Charity three years ago to serve as a nurse in the home run by an organisation from Italy. She was staying along with nuns from Pakistan. The home was close to the airport in Kabul and all the nuns have stayed put in the home, Sister Crasta is said to have told the Provincial. Sister Crasta, a native of Kasaragod in Kerala, studied nursing in Fathers Muller’s College in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mangaluru-man-returns-from-kabul/article36008825.ece
20 August 2021||Hyderabad,||Karvy Stock Broking MD held for ‘fraud’||CMD of Karvy Stock Broking Private Limited, C Parthasarathy, was arrested for allegedly cheating Induslnd Bank by availing credit facilities of Rs. 137 cr. He allegedly pledged securities/shares on a personal guarantee by suppressing facts that he pledged the securities of his clients without their consent by misusing power of attorney.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karvy-stock-broking-md-held-for-fraud/article36009127.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Loan scheme to be notified soon, says FM||A Rs. 60,000 crore loan guarantee scheme for helping sectors hit the hardest by COVID-19 is yet to get off the ground, 52 days after it figured at the top of an economic relief package to cope with the shocks of the second wave. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said work on it was under way, and it will be notified and implemented soon. “It’s all happening and is in the process,” she toldThe Hindu. This proposed credit support was part of a new Rs. 1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for COVID-affected sectors, announced on June 28 under a relief package whose financial implications were pegged at nearly Rs. 6.29 lakh crore by the government. Of the Rs. 1.1 lakh crore additional credit that was to flow to COVID-affected businesses, Rs. 50,000 crore was earmarked for healthcare projects in non-metro cities and was approved by the Union Cabinet two days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-60000-crore-loan-scheme-yet-to-take-off/article36008791.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State ready to vaccinate children: Veena||The State is ready to vaccinate children aged below 18 against COVID-19 as and when the Centre decides to launch the drive, Health Minister Veena George has said. Speaking to mediapersons here on Thursday, Ms. George said the State was able to maintain a vaccination rate much higher than the national average. Over 52% of the population had received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-ready-to-vaccinate-children-veena/article36009175.ece
20 August 2021||BENGALURU,||Cabinet approves State mental healthcare rules||The State Cabinet has approved the Karnataka State Mental Healthcare Rules, 2021, to implement the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, of the Centre, to provide healthcare and services for persons with mental illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-approves-state-mental-healthcare-rules/article36008826.ece
20 August 2021||Guwahati,||Nagaland CM, State BJP chief called to Delhi||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and State BJP president Temjen Imna Along left for New Delhi on August 19 for an emergency meeting. A leader of the State party said the duo was summoned by Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagaland-cm-state-bjp-chief-called-to-delhi/article36009246.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre for CBI probe into ‘DTC low-floor bus scam’||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has recommended a preliminary enquiry by the CBI into the purchase of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi government. In a letter to the Chief Secretary of the Delhi government, the Ministry took note of a report submitted by a three-member panel, set up on the order of Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, for a detailed inquiry. The BJP and the Congress had demanded a free and fair probe into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-for-cbi-probe-into-dtc-low-floor-bus-scam/article36008960.ece
20 August 2021||Patna/New Delhi,||Caste-base census: Bihar team to meet PM Modi||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will lead a delegation of multiparty leaders from the State to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to press for a caste-based census in the country. With the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election just a few months away, the BJP has maintained an uneasy silence on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caste-based-census-bihar-team-to-meet-pm/article36008962.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||Seven FIRs registered over BJP’s rally in Mumbai||At least seven FIRs for alleged violation of COVID-19 norms were registered in Mumbai on Thursday against the organisers of the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra, an official said. Cases were registered at Vile Parle, Kherwadi, Mahim, Shivaji Park, Dadar, Chembur and Govandi police stations under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobeying an order duly promulgated by public servant) as well as the Disaster Management Act and Mumbai Police Act.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-firs-registered-over-bjps-rally-in-mumbai/article36009405.ece
20 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||Venkaiah Naidu to visit Tungabhadra Reservoir||Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and his family will visit Tungabhadra Reservoir and UNESCO World Heritage Site Hampi on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/venkaiah-naidu-to-visit-tungabhadra-reservoir/article36009111.ece
20 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Comprehensive caste census needed’||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayana Swamy told presspersons in Haveri on Thursday that there is a need for a comprehensive caste census in the country to facilitate implementation of a comprehensive reservation system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/comprehensive-caste-census-needed/article36009112.ece
20 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Nine file nomination papers for HDMC polls||Nine candidates, including four from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), filed their nomination papers on Thursday for the elections to the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-file-nomination-papers-for-hdmc-polls/article36009114.ece
20 August 2021||mysuru,||Manasagangotri to see a slew of launches today||The Manasagangotri campus in Mysuru will be witnessing a slew of launches of projects of the University of Mysore on Friday, including the School of Engineering. Also listed is a career hub to be built with Central funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manasagangotri-to-see-a-slew-of-launches-today/article36009409.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 cases fall to 1,702 in Tamil Nadu||In comparison with the past few days, there was a significant fall in fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu as 1,702 people tested positive on Thursday. The State’s positivity rate also dropped to 1.05%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-fall-to-1702-in-tamil-nadu/article36008889.ece
20 August 2021||Patna/New Delhi,||Census: Bihar team to meet PM||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will lead a delegation of multi-party leaders from the State to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to press for a caste-based census in the country. The BJP-led Union government has so far remained non-committal on the issue. “We got information yesterday [Wednesday] evening to meet the Prime Minister at 11 a.m. on August 23 on the issue of our demand for caste-based census. A multi-party delegation will meet him and the final list of leaders will be sent to his office,” Mr. Kumar told presspersons in Patna on Thursday. With the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election just a few months away, the BJP has maintained an uneasy silence on the issue. It fears that a caste census could disrupt the carefully crafted non-Yadav OBC bloc that it has nurtured. Already, the BJP government in U.P. has been sitting on a report recommending sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota for the past three-years. The sub-categorisation will limit the quota for the dominant castes, including Yadav, Jat and the BJP’s key vote bank of Kurmis. Asked if the BJP’s State leaders too would be in the delegation, Mr. Kumar said, “Yes, they too will be part of the delegation and their party will finalise the list of leaders.” But the BJP’s discomfort is clearly visible. Recently, its leader and Deputy Chief Minister, Renu Devi, tried to lodge the ball back in the Chief Minister’s court saying, “The Bihar government, like Karnataka, is free to hold caste-based census, but the Central government will not accept any proposal for this, as its policy decision is not to conduct caste-based census.” JD(U)’s advice to BJP The Janata Dal(U) though has a word of advice for the BJP. “This is just a friendly advice to a friendly party that if caste census is delayed any longer, even the non-Yadav OBCs will get alienated,” the party’s secretary-general K.C. Tyagi said. He denied the fact that “caste census” could create a chasm between the two allies. “Every party has certain core commitments and social justice is ours. This is not the first time we are raising it. Mr. Kumar has been advocating it since 1990,” he said. If 35% of the Ministers in the Modi Cabinet could be from the OBC community, then what could be the problem in holding a caste census, he asked. “This is a demand that can no longer be ignored, almost every other party in the country is asking for it,” he said. The JD(U) Parliamentary Party had sought an appointment to submit a memorandum to the Prime Minister, but were told to meet Home Minister Amit Shah instead. Mr. Kumar stepped in to ensure that the issue is raised with Mr. Modi. The JD(U) though claims that Mr. Kumar is leading the delegation on a request of all Opposition leaders who met him earlier. The Bihar legislature had unanimously passed resolutions twice for caste-based census in the country. “With caste-based census, we can know the exact proportion of population of every community,” said a JD(U) leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/census-bihar-team-to-meet-pm/article36008552.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tough wait for Indians in Afghanistan||With as many as 450 Indians possibly still stranded inside Afghanistan, the Government of India is coordinating with the embassies of the United States and other countries to assist in their return, as transport to the airport as well as flights from Kabul to Delhi are proving to be a challenge. In addition, four days after the Taliban militia took control of the capital, there was no formal government in place, making it harder for those who do not have all the necessary documents, officials said. “Our biggest problem is that even those in Kabul aren’t able to leave their residences without approval from Taliban guards to travel to the airport,” an official said. While U.S. troops were in charge of Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport, located just 10 km from the Indian Embassy, they were unable to provide support outside it for convoys to reach, and it became necessary to deal with local militia at every checkpoint, the official said. On Monday, Indian diplomats trying to leave the city after closing the embassy faced several issues, after most of their convoy was turned around by Taliban gunmen posted near the city outskirts, and it took them more than a day to make the necessary arrangements to leave. As a result, one of the special military C-17 flights operated by the Indian Air Force (IAF) had to return to Delhi with only 40 passengers, as the rest could not make it to the airport. Another C-17 that had landed, was asked to fly to Dushanbe, in neighbouring Tajikistan, after the tarmac got overrun by Afghans desperate to leave. Officials said the U.S. Embassy in Kabul as well as its diplomats in Delhi have been helping by providing their teams access to the airport and security within the area, and had also been providing them updated information on their movements so that the government could “plan ahead”. U.S. officials also coordinated parking slots for the C-17 that finally flew out on Tuesday carrying the remaining 120 Indian diplomats and about 20 others. Among the Indians left behind who have reached out to the government are doctors, university professors and engineers, many of whom had tried to leave Afghanistan earlier, but had been unable to find seats on Air India flights to Delhi, which were suspended this week. On Thursday, Air India officials told The Hindu that no new flights had been planned at present. The speed with which the Indian Embassy had to be closed also left several Afghans stranded, as they had submitted their passports in order to receive their visas, and those could not be returned before they left. “We are in danger here, but without the passports we can’t do anything right now,” Mohammad Farhan (not his real name), a Ph.D. student who is one of four students who applied some months ago for their visas, told The Hindu over the telephone from Kabul. Hundreds of calls have come in to the External Affairs Ministry at a “Special Afghanistan cell” manned round the clock by about 20 officers. The cell was originally set up on Monday night, just as diplomats and personnel from the Indian Embassy were leaving so as to ensure “seamless contacts” for Indians who are still stranded inside the country. The officers are preparing an updated database based on the calls received, on what sort of assistance they need. They gave estimates of between 300 and 450 Indians who still remain and need to be evacuated. Newly launched visa The special cell is also coordinating visa applications for the newly launched “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” for Afghan nationals wanting to flee the country urgently, which will be processed after security clearances by the Union Home Ministry. According to sources, hundreds of applications have already been filled out online by Afghans, many of them belonging to minorities and sects such as the Hazara community that fear being at risk of harm from the Taliban. However, when asked, officials said the visas will likely take some time to process, and only a few have been issued so far.  ( With inputs from   Jagriti Chandra )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tough-wait-for-indians-in-afghanistan/article36008576.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre monitoring booster dose move in U.S.||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said it was “closely following the developments in the United States”, which has given the green signal for booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines. Doctors in India are also advocating a booster dose. They said some research papers had suggested that giving a third dose after a space of six or eight months had been shown to increase immune response markedly. Sandeep Kharb, senior consultant, endocrinology, QRG Health City, Faridabad, said, “So in view of the new emerging variants, booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines should be used in high-risk groups. It will add to herd immunity too.” Akshay Budhraja, senior consultant, pulmonology, Aakash Healthcare, observed that booster doses would definitely be a requirement in future. But there was a big vaccine gap between low-income and high-income countries, which was why the World Health Organization (WHO) had recommended a stop to it for now. “The scenario in the U.S. is different, as most of the population has been fully vaccinated, so there is no harm in giving booster doses, although we will only be able to understand its benefits after studies are conducted on it. It is certainly going to be a trend in future to get a booster dose every year, just like the flu vaccine. As the virus keeps on mutating, even vaccines need to be updated with the latest strain annually. It has to be decided whether it would be administered on a yearly basis or not or whether every person would require it,” he said. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Randeep Guleria had earlier said that India would have to take a serious look at bringing in booster doses to ensure that the population was able to keep up the antibody levels. Viswesvaran Balasubramanian, interventional pulmonologist at Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad, said that currently the U.S. FDA had agreed to the booster doses for mRNA vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. No clear guidelines “However, with respect to J&J vaccines, there are no clear-cut guidelines regarding the booster dose yet. There are still considerations for mixing of vaccines as a booster dose, which is still a matter that needs further studies and research data. Currently in India, we still do not have guideline recommendations for booster doses of vaccine. However, with the upcoming scientific evidence, we may see a role for such booster doses in the near future,” he said. Arunesh Kumar, senior consultant, pulmonology, Paras Hospital, explained that with variants of the virus coming in, it had become more important that people had neutralising antibodies at a higher level to prevent breakthrough infection. “It may be planned in a phased manner, everyone who is a vaccine candidate may need a booster and perhaps it could be administered first to people who are more exposed to the virus — healthcare and frontline workers — and then can be rolled out for all age groups,” he suggested. The Indian Council of Medical Research on Thursday said the country had achieved a milestone of conducting 50 crore COVID-19 tests on August 18. “With an average daily testing of more than 17 lakh in August, India has tested 50 crore samples till date and the last 10 crore tests in only 55 days. On July 21, India had tested 45 crore COVID-19 samples, which reached the 50-crore-mark on August 18,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-monitoring-booster-dose-move-in-us/article36008741.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘India should have kept a small team in Kabul’||India tried to maintain a core team of diplomats in Afghanistan, but could not do so because of lack of operational space for non-NATO countries at the Kabul airport, The Hindu has learnt. The decision to withdraw all Indian officials from Kabul has drawn criticism from some veteran diplomats who believe that there are many who require India’s help in Afghanistan and a well-trained small team of diplomats should have been left behind to help them. “Evacuation of the embassy in Kabul was a mistake that needs to be corrected promptly,” said former Ambassador K.P. Fabian, who had played a crucial role in the airlift of Indians in 1990 after Iraq had invaded Kuwait. India on Tuesday evacuated 120 diplomats and officials in a special flight as Kabul was taken over by the Taliban. An attempt was made at this time to station a core team of diplomats in Kabul, but it did not work out as the place for diplomatic outposts in Kabul airport at present is meant only for the NATO countries. Apart from security concerns, there was also a need to observe the behaviour of the Taliban and other major powers on the ground in Afghanistan, which was of crucial importance for India’s security, said Mr. Fabian. “Instead of monitoring developments, India should seek to shape them,” he added. Former Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Jayant Prasad said the Taliban were yet to prove that they were serious in tackling the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). “There have been reports of clashes between the Islamic State and the Taliban in the recent past, but we have not noticed any attempt by the Taliban to counter the LeT and JeM,” said Mr. Prasad. Former diplomat Vivek Katju, however, supported the evacuation of Indian officials. “In view of the complexities and dangers inherent in the current situation in Afghanistan, the withdrawal of the mission was justified,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-should-have-kept-a-small-team-in-kabul/article36008574.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Record sugar exports help reduce cane dues||Sugar mills have surpassed their 60 lakh tonne export target this year, making it easier for them to pay sugarcane farmers and reducing arrears for this year to less than Rs. 9,000 crore, according to government data. Pending dues to cane farmers are a thorny political issue in several States, provoking protests in western Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Given that India produces more sugar than it consumes, leading to liquidity concerns for mills and delayed payments to farmers, the Centre has been encouraging diversion to exports and ethanol production. Exports have increased more than 10 times from just 6.2 lakh tonnes in 2017-18, with the Centre now providing assistance to the tune of Rs. 6,000 per tonne to facilitate exports. As against an export target of 60 lakh tonnes this year, contracts of about 70 lakh tonnes have been signed, according to a statement from the Food Ministry on Thursday. High demand As global prices have also spiked substantially in the last month and there is high demand for Indian sugar in the international market, the Ministry has advised domestic mills to sign forward contracts with importers for the next season, and some have already done so. Along with the diversion for ethanol production, which the government sees as a more permanent solution to the problem of surplus stocks, the export revenue has allowed mills to partially pay off their dues to cane farmers. At the end of May, unpaid cane dues for 2021-21 stood at Rs. 18,820 crore, along with pending payments from previous years worth Rs. 2,501 crore. However, by mid-August, mills had bought a record Rs. 90,872 crore worth of cane from farmers, against which Rs. 81,963 crore have been paid, leaving arrears of Rs. 8,909 crore. Pending payments from previous years are also down to Rs. 142 crore. Protest in Punjab In Punjab, farm unions will block rail and road traffic on Friday, with a dharna on the Jalandhar highway, demanding that arrears of Rs. 200 crore from the last season, mostly from private mills, be cleared at once.  By law, cane farmers must be paid within 15 days of delivery. On August 4, the Supreme Court issued notices to 11 cane growing States as well as industry bodies to reply to a plea from Maharashtra farmers to set up a mechanism to ensure timely payment and attach the assets of mills with accumulated arrears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-sugar-exports-help-reduce-cane-dues/article36008735.ece
20 August 2021||Srinagar,||Subedar, Apni Party leader and militant killed in J&K||A junior commissioned officer (JCO), a militant and a J&K Apni Party leader were killed in two separate militancy-related incidents in the Union Territory on Thursday. A subedar of the Army’s Rashtriya Rifles suffered bullet injuries in a “fierce gun battle” with hiding militants in Rajouri district of the Pir Panjal Valley in the morning. “The JCO was immediately evacuated to a nearest medical facility but he died of his injuries,” the spokesman said. The JCO was identified as Subedar Ram Singh. One soldier was injured in the operation. One militant was also killed but his body was not retrieved till last reports came in, the police said. On August 9, two militants of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were killed in Thanamandi area. Suspected militants killed a J&K Apni Party leader in Kulgam in south Kashmir. Gunmen opened fire from a close range at Ghulam Hassan Lone at his home in Devsar. “He died on the way to hospital,” an official said. J&K Apni Party is headed by Altaf Bukhari, a businessman-turned-politician and a former Peoples Democratic Party leader, who floated the party in 2020. Mr. Bukhari termed the killing “extremely unfortunate”. “Such attacks are intended to stop the current ongoing peace process in J&K,” he said. “Unfortunately, there seems to be no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir,” Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said. National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said the renewed trend of targeting politicians by militant outfits was worrying. Three BJP leaders were killed in the Valley in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/subedar-apni-party-leader-and-militant-killed-in-jk/article36008563.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC acquits family sentenced to life||The Supreme Court has acquitted three members of a family, framed by the police acting under political pressure and sentenced to life imprisonment by the courts, after they complained about their relative’s murder over a Rs. 250 debt, 13 years ago. A Bench comprising Justices Indira Banerjee and V. Ramasubramanian, in a judgment, said the police, instead of proceeding in pursuit of the truth, tried to bury it deep in a case that was a shocking reminder of police docility to political influences, a lack of proper legal representation in courts and judicial oversight. In May 2008, a grievously injured Nand Kishore was rushed to hospital by Madhav. Kishore was the brother of Raju Yadav. Yadav was married to Madhav’s sister, Sahodara Bai. But Kishore was declared dead on arrival. Bai informed the police and the three of them named two men, Ruia and Kailash, in the First Information Report (FIR) as the culprits. However, the case took a bizarre turn when the Madhya Pradesh police turned on them. Instead of investigating the FIR, the police arrested the three family members of the dead man. The trial court convicted all three and sentenced them to life in prison. During the trial, they realised that the two men they had named in the FIR for Kishore’s murder were arraigned as star witnesses. The High Court confirmed the punishment. “We are conscious of the fact that at times persons who commit a crime, themselves make/lodge the first information so as to create an alibi of innocence. But even in such cases, the investigation would normally proceed first against those named as accused in the FIR, and thereafter, the needle of suspicion may turn against the informant himself,” Justice Ramasubramanian, who authored the judgment for the Bench, reasoned. The apex court was appalled that both the Sessions Court and the High Court “overlooked” crucial admissions. Besides, Justice Ramasubramanian wondered why both the courts found nothing amiss in the prosecution version that a murderer would rush his victim to the hospital in an autorickshaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-acquits-family-sentenced-to-life/article36008567.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,||Railways reiterates ‘Make in India’ policy||Did Central procurement agencies tweak tender conditions to circumvent the ‘Make in India’ policy, an ambitious initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi? The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade has “observed” that government procuring agencies, including Public Sector Undertakings, had not implemented the Public Procurement (Preference to ‘Make in India’ Order), 2017, in “letter and spirit”. It was found that “excessive turnover, requirements of specific brands/make, requirement of foreign certification, requirement of unreasonable prior experience and requirement of prior experience of supplying to specific nations/entities” were sometimes prescribed as qualifying criteria. The Ministry of Railways, which makes huge purchases for its manufacturing, maintenance and service sectors every year, has flagged the issue with the General Managers of all Zonal Railways, Production Units and other major establishments across the country. In an advisory issued last week, Chandan Kumar, Director, Railway Board, said there were instances where the provisions of the Public Procurement (Preference to ‘Make in India’ Order), 2017, were not incorporated in the tender. The policy was to encourage ‘Make in India’ and promote manufacturing and production of Goods, Services and Works in India with a view to enhance income and employment. “In view of the above, it is advised to all the procuring entities to ensure full compliance of the Public Procurement (Preference to ‘Make in India’ Order), 2017, as amended, in letter and spirit. Procuring units, including Public Sector Undertakings, should review the implementation of the order and take all necessary measures/corrective actions so that there is no deviation,” the advisory said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-reiterates-make-in-india-policy/article36008736.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||After Sonia meet, Opposition may issue joint statement||Top Opposition leaders are likely to adopt a joint resolution or statement on a host of issues, including the recent washout of the monsoon session of Parliament, after a virtual interaction with each other at a meeting convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar will be the among the leaders attending Ms. Gandhi’s meeting. Though the list of invitees is not public yet, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) may not be among the invitees. The joint statement, which is expected to be adopted by the Opposition leaders, is a work in progress. Senior leaders from the Congress and other Opposition leaders have exchanged notes on the issues that are likely to figure, said a source on Thursday. Opposition parties would squarely hold the government responsible for the monsoon session’s washout by refusing to discuss the snooping controversy and the use of the Pegasus spyware, thereby “not allowing” the Opposition to raise other important issues. The joint statement is also likely to mention the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, the need to scale up the pace of vaccination to contain a possible third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, disinvestment of “profitable public sector enterprises”, the “fragile” state of the economy, job losses during the pandemic, and the demand for cash transfers for those who have lost their incomes because of repeated lockdowns. The alleged “indiscriminate” of use of sedition laws against activists and political workers can also be part of the statement, said a source. The chosen date for the Opposition leaders to come together on a common platform is significant, August 20, also marks the 77th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister, the late Rajiv Gandhi. The virtual meet could set the stage for discussions to have a more formal structure, and if the pandemic situation permits, Opposition leaders could also have a physical meeting next month. “Ms. Gandhi wants to keep the momentum going in terms of the Opposition unity that one saw during the Parliament session, when Rahul Gandhi hosted a breakfast for Opposition leaders,” said one Opposition leader. Ms. Gandhi’s meet is seen against the backdrop of a dinner hosted on August 9 by Kapil Sibal, a member of the Congress group of 23 dissenters, which was attended Mr. Pawar, Rashtriya Janata Dal patriarch Lalu Yadav, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Sitaram Yechury of the CPI(M), and D. Raja of the CPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-sonia-meet-opposition-may-issue-joint-statement/article36008548.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,||Tough legal battle awaits wives of slain IS men post extradition||Freedom may remain a distant dream for widows of Islamic State (IS) members, including Nimisha Fathima, a Keralite, as a long-drawn battle awaits them in India, if extradited from Afghanistan. She has been accused of joining the IS, a banned terrorist organisation, an offence under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). There were reports that Nimisha was among those released from jail after the Taliban took over the reins of the country. She and three others had accompanied their husbands to join the IS in the Khorasan province. Bexen Vincent, her husband and an IS activist, is believed to have been killed in Afghanistan. K. Bindu, Nimisha’s mother, had recently approached the authorities to bring back her daughter and five-year-old granddaughter. Incidentally, the National Investigation Agency has included Nimisha on the list of most wanted persons in the IS case. She has also been accused of associating with the IS to furthering and supporting its activities. She will have to face trial for waging war against Afghanistan. All the charges levelled against Nimisha are non-bailable. In UAPA cases, the court may grant bail only if it is satisfied that the charges are baseless, judicial sources indicated. The challenge before the NIA is to gather evidence to link Nimisha to the offences allegedly committed in Afghanistan. It may have to bank heavily on digital evidence and witnesses in India to prove the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tough-legal-battle-awaits-wives-of-slain-is-men-post-extradition/article36008965.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath opens Defence Startup Challenge 5.0||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday launched the 5th edition of the Defence India Start-up Challenge (DISC) under Innovations for Defence Excellence - Defence Innovation Organisation (iDEX-DIO) meant to achieve self-reliance and foster innovation and technology development in the defence and aerospace sectors. “Thirty-five problem statements —13 from the Services and 22 from Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) — were unveiled under DISC 5.0. These are in areas such as situational awareness, augmented reality, artificial intelligence, aircraft-trainer, non-lethal devices, 5G network, underwater domain awareness, Drone SWARMS and data capturing,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Speaking at the virtual launch, Mr. Singh said the iDEX provided a strong foundation for innovation, Research and Development (R&D) to the industry. “Initiatives like iDEX form a link between our youth, academia, R&D, start-ups and the armed forces,” he said. On the earlier editions of DISC, Mr. Singh said that more than 80 start-ups, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and individual innovators had joined as winners in over 40 technological areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-opens-defence-startup-challenge-50/article36008558.ece
20 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Transit camp’ title is humane, says Assam||The “detention centres” in Assam have been renamed “transit camps” to humanise them, the Assam government said on Thursday. Last Tuesday, the Home and Political Department issued a notification saying the “nomenclature of Detention Centre is changed to Transit Camp for detention purpose”. Assam currently has such centres within the Dibrugarh, Goalpara, Jorhat, Kokrajhar, Silchar and Tezpur central jails. A standalone detention centre with a capacity to house 3,000 foreigners is under construction at Agia in Goalpara district. “One should not read much into the cosmetic change. The government has copped criticisms for years over the detention centres, which sound like concentration camps. We are trying to make them more humane,” a senior administrative officer said, declining to be quoted. Political parties sense a softening of stand by the government on the issue of “illegal immigrants”, specifically non-Muslims, who came from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan up to December 31, 2014, sought to be given preferential citizenship under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. ‘More respectability’ “The government is trying to give the detention centres some respectability by using the new softer term,” said Assam Jatiya Parishad president Lurinjyoti Gogoi. Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma said changing names was a BJP trait. “They have not made the legal ramifications of the change in nomenclature clear. One needs to know how long an inmate would be kept in transit, which means temporary stay,” she observed. The inmates of the detention centres have allegedly been treated on a par with the criminals in the jails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/transit-camp-title-is-humane-says-assam/article36008560.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS-affiliated farm unions plan stir||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated farmers and trade unions on Thursday announced plans to hold protests on September 8 to demand Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops and curbs on price rise. Leaders of the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) said the Centre should either bring in a law to ensure that MSPs are actually paid to farmers or amend the 2020 farm reform laws to do so. This is also a demand of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) platform of farm unions, which is opposed to the BJP and has been vociferously protesting the three farm laws for almost a year now. “There is no point in announcing MSP rates if most of the farmers are not actually getting that price in the mandi s. Many farmers are not even getting their production costs covered,” BKS general secretary Badri Narayan Chaudhary told The Hindu on Thursday. “We will give the government time to take action and respond to our concerns until the end of this month. But if they do not, we are prepared to carry out a dharna at the national level on September 8,” he added. He said the BKS was not asking the government itself to necessarily procure all crops at MSP rates, but rather to ensure that no buyer, whether government, private or corporate, is allowed to pay below MSP rates. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the Central trade union affiliated with the RSS, wrote to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday with a copy of the resolution passed in their meeting last week. The BMS resolution said it would hold protests in all districts of the country on September 8 if the government did not take immediate steps to curb price rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-affiliated-farm-union-plans-stir/article36008572.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Activists flay exemption to disability quota rule||The Centre has exempted posts under the Indian Police Service (IPS) from the mandated 4% reservation for persons with disabilities (PwD) in government jobs, a move that rights groups say goes against the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. On Wednesday, the Social Justice Ministry issued a notification saying that Section 34 of the RPD Act, which provides for 4% reservation in jobs for PwD in government establishments, would not apply to all categories of posts of IPS, the Indian Railway Protection Force Service and the police forces of Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Combat roles At the same time, the Ministry issued another notification on Wednesday making a distinction between combat and non-combat roles in the security forces. The Ministry exempted all combat posts in the Border Security Force, the Central Reserve Police Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Sashastra Seema Bal and the Assam Rifles from the non-discrimination and reservation provisions of the RPD Act. V. Muralidharan, general secretary of the National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled, called for a withdrawal of the notification regarding the police forces. “Exemptions should be granted only in cases of combat roles in keeping with the intent and spirit of the proviso under Section 34 of the RPD Act. It is regrettable that a department that is supposed to safeguard the rights of the disabled and empower them is doing just the opposite,” he said, referring to the Department of Empowerment of PwD under the Social Justice Ministry. He added that the proviso of the Act did not intend to give blanket exemptions from hiring PwD, but to make sure that combat roles are not assigned to them. He said the decision was even more shocking given the fact that the Delhi Police had in October 2019 issued an advertisement for “head constable (ministerial)”, with reservations for PwD. In March this year, the Goa Police invited applications for various posts, including 34 posts of “lower division clerk”, with four posts reserved for PwDs. A rights activist and doctor, Satendra Singh, of the Doctors with Disabilities group, said there were many roles that PwD could fill within police forces and exempting all categories of roles was wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-flay-exemption-to-disability-quota-rule/article36008577.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. not interested in trade pact, says Goyal||“… Beyond that, we have to keep working through the barriers that stand in the way of greater bilateral investment and deeper commercial ties. If we create the right conditions from more trade and investment and innovation, there really is no limit to what our private sectors can achieve together,” he said at a joint briefing with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on July 28. Harvest deal Mr. Goyal said India had begun working on an FTA with Bangladesh and was close to sealing an early harvest deal with Australia “which has almost agreed” on the matter, with a similar deal being worked out with the U.K. “Australia is first on the list, the U.K., then the UAE, and if the UAE happens, the pact with GCC [countries that are part of the Gulf Co-operation Council] will also be expedited. We have already started the dialogue with the UAE and one more country from the Middle East,” said Mr. Goyal on the FTAs currently on the priority list of the government, which also includes Israel. While talks with Canada got waylaid amid the pandemic, the Minister said the dialogue was expected to pick after the Canadian elections conclude in the next few months. The European Union, he said, had agreed to restart renegotiations after abandoning earlier talks in 2013, purely on the basis of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “goodwill”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-not-interested-in-trade-pact-says-goyal/article36008553.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Loan scheme to be notified soon, says FM||“It’s all happening and is in the process,” she told The Hindu . This proposed credit support was part of a new Rs. 1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for COVID-affected sectors, announced on June 28 under a relief package whose financial implications were pegged at nearly Rs. 6.29 lakh crore by the government. Of the Rs. 1.1 lakh crore additional credit that was to flow to COVID-affected businesses, Rs. 50,000 crore was earmarked for healthcare projects in non-metro cities and was approved by the Union Cabinet two days later. For other sectors, including tourism, a Rs. 60,000 crore loan guarantee scheme was promised with the interest on such loans capped at 8.25%, as opposed to prevalent rates of 10%-11% without such a guarantee. An official statement at the time indicated more decisions may be taken later “based on evolving needs”. With none of the expected credit flowing to them yet, the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India had urged Ms. Sitharaman to intervene to notify the scheme “with immediate effect” in a communique last week. It cited the “colossal damage suffered by the tourism and hospitality sector” after the second wave added to the losses they have suffered since the onset of the pandemic. The Federation also pointed out that lenders were not processing applications of several members and small enterprises for loan restructuring or assistance under the existing Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). The relief package announced in June had enhanced the ECLGS cap from Rs. 3 lakh crore to Rs. 4.5 lakh crore, stating that contact intensive sectors are “already covered” under the scheme and “shall be continued”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-60000-crore-loan-scheme-yet-to-take-off/article36008554.ece
20 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Caste column in Assam college forms draws ire||Students’ organisations in Assam have slammed some colleges for seeking specific caste and religion of applicants in online forms for graduate courses. Organisations such as the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) and Chhatra Mukti Sangram Samiti said these forms go beyond the standard policy of asking students to tick boxes such as Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes for reservation. Online forms issued by Guwahati-based institutes such as Handique Girls’ College, Arya Vidyapeeth College and Karmashree Hiteswar Saikia College have asked applicants to specify if they are Brahmin, Ganak, Kalita, Kayastha, Muslim, Sudra, Vaishya or Other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caste-column-in-assam-college-forms-draws-ire/article36008559.ece
20 August 2021||Srinagar,||‘BJP-affiliated’ sarpanch, associate held with pistol||A “BJP-affiliated” sarpanch and an associate were arrested and a pistol and ammunition seized from him at Kulgam in south Kashmir on Thursday. The arrested were identified as Aqib Shafi Badder, sarpanch from Badderpora-Qaimoh in Kulgam, and Mohammad Amin Hajam from Hangalgund Kokernag in Anantnag. BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said, “The arrested person didn’t contest on BJP ticket. He, however, participated in some of the rallies of BJP. We disown him”. The police said, “A joint patrolling party of the Army’s 1 Rashtriya Rifles and the police apprehended the two persons when they were riding a motorcycle in Khudwani area.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-affiliated-sarpanch-associate-held-with-pistol/article36008561.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||CBI, SIT to investigate Bengal violence cases||The Bench emphasised that the working of the SIT should be overviewed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court, for which a separate order would be passed. The court directed that immediate action should be taken by the State to pay compensation to the victims of crime as per the policy of the State, after due verification. While the verdict was unanimous, two judges expressed reservation over the NHRC committee recommendations. “The said committee had only power under our order to report on facts as gathered by them on investigation. They had no jurisdiction to make any recommendation or to express any opinion. We did not vest them with that power,” Justice Mukerji wrote in his order. Justice Sen was also critical of the remarks made by the NHRC against politicians and police officers. “ I am of the view that such remarks and recommendations were uncalled for and to that extent the committee has transgressed its limits.” Acting Chief Justice Bindal had rejected the allegations of bias against the committee, pointing out: “It seems to be an argument in frustration, where on the core issue the State has been found on a wrong foot”. While the BJP leadership welcomed the order, sources in the West Bengal government hinted that it may move the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-sit-to-investigate-bengal-violence-cases/article36008565.ece
20 August 2021||United Nations,||‘Terror groups continue to work with impunity’||Terror groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) continue to operate with both impunity and encouragement, India told the UN Security Council (UNSC), asserting that the international community must never host sanctuaries for terrorists as it recalled the 2008 Mumbai terror attack, Pathankot air base and Pulwama attacks carried out by Pakistan-based terrorists. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, chairing a high-level United Nations Security Council briefing on ‘Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts’ held under India’s current presidency of the UNSC, said the heightened activities of the proscribed Haqqani Network justified this growing anxiety. “In our own immediate neighbourhood, ISIL-Khorasan [ISIL-K] has become more energetic and is constantly seeking to expand its footprint. Events unfolding in Afghanistan have naturally enhanced global concerns about their implications for both regional and international security,” he said. “Whether it is in Afghanistan or against India, groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed continue to operate with both impunity and encouragement,” Mr. Jaishankar said. ‘No complacency’ It is, therefore, vital that the Security Council does not take a selective, tactical or complacent view of the problems we face, the External Affairs Minister said. “We must never countenance sanctuaries for terrorists or overlook their raising of resources,” he said. Mr. Jaishankar, slamming Pakistan, where proscribed terrorists and terror groups enjoy safe havens and state support, said: “When we see state hospitality being extended to those with innocents’ blood on their hands, we should never lack the courage to call out this double-speak.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terror-groups-continue-to-work-with-impunity/article36008570.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||HC protects interfaith couples from Gujarat law||“This interim order is to protect the parties which solemnised interfaith marriages from unnecessary harassment,” he added. The anti-conversion law was amended this year to bring in new sections that penalise forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage. The law was notified on June 15. The law, the State government contended, was meant to stop religious conversion through interfaith marriages, citing several incidents of alleged conversion through marriages. No forcible conversion In the new amendment, Section 3 of the law defines what is “forcible conversion”. It says “no person shall convert or attempt to convert any person from one religion to another by use of force, or by allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married, nor shall any person abet such conversion”. As per Section 4, people found guilty of violating the provisions of Section 3 will face up to three years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 50,000. If the victim is a minor, a woman or from SC or ST community, then the jail term will be four years with a fine of Rs. one lakh. The court acted on a petition filed by the Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind challenging constitutional validity of some of the amended sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-protects-inter-faith-couples-from-gujarat-law/article36008564.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The Jnana marga||There are many ways to reach God. Saivism shows the paths of Satputra, Dasa, Saha and Sanmarga as the means to experience and realise God. Gnanasambandar tread the path of Satputra, Tirunavukkarasar that of Dasa marga, Sundarar Saha marga and Manikkavachagar San marga or jnana marga. Of these, Jnana marga is the most difficult to practise. Jnana is described as consciousness, knowledge, awareness, enlightenment and so on. Knowledge is of two types, that pertaining to the world, which is known as ‘Apara’ jnana; and that which is higher or ‘Para’ jnana. Para jnana when purified further with bhakti becomes Parama jnana. Turaimangalam Sivaprakasar, a staunch devotee of Manikkavachagar, who has delved deep into the saint’s hymns, asserts that by following the way of life taught by Manikkavachagar, one can easily attain salvation, pointed out Sri Ka Vinayakam in a discourse. From the life and works of Manikkavachagar it is clear that Siva alone is the granter of salvation. He had come as a Guru to Manikkavachagar who was steeped in worldly concerns when he served as a minister in the court of the Pandya king. Siva chose to bless him at an appropriate time. In the normal course of life, the aspirant goes in search of a guru. Sivaprakasar also had learnt under more than one guru. But in the case of Manikkavachagar, Siva is his guru who comes in search of a worthy disciple. Manikkavachagar has taught us the secret and mystery in the path of jnana. One should cultivate a pure mind since God dwells in such a pure mind and heart. The mind has to be kept under control and has to be fixed in the Lord at all times. This is how devotion takes root and gets strengthened. Siva, who grants mukti on His own accord, seeks out His devotee and takes him in His fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-jnana-marga/article36008579.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘India must be open-minded with Taliban’||Former External Affairs Minister Yashwant Sinha on Thursday said India should be “open-minded” about dealing with the Taliban and suggested that it should open its Embassy in Kabul and send back the Ambassador. Noting that the people of Afghanistan had great love for India while Pakistan was not popular among them, Mr. Sinha said the Indian government should not conclude that the Taliban would place itself “in Pakistan’s lap”, as every country furthered its own interests. As a big country, India should approach the issues of the Taliban with a degree of confidence and should not indulge in a “widow’s wail” as if Pakistan had taken over Afghanistan or had an advantage over it, he added. That the Taliban now controlled most of Afghanistan was a reality, Mr. Sinha said, adding that India should adopt a “wait and watch” mode and be in no hurry either to recognise or to dismiss its regime. “It appears on the face of it that the Taliban of 2021 is not the same Taliban of 2001... They are making mature statements,” Mr. Sinha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-must-be-open-minded-with-taliban/article36008571.ece
20 August 2021||Guwahati,||Nagaland CM, State BJP chief called to Delhi||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and the State’s BJP president, Temjen Imna Along, left for New Delhi on August 19 for an emergency meeting. A senior leader of the Nagaland unit of the BJP said the duo had been summoned by Home Minister Amit Shah. The issue of discussion is expected to be the inclusion of the Naga People’s Front (NPF) in the coalition government, leaving the State Opposition-free. The BJP’s central leadership is reportedly unhappy with the political development “in the name of achieving a peaceful solution to the Naga political issue”. The issue pertains to the peace process with extremist groups since mid-1997. Mr. Rio’s Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), the BJP and independent MLAs had stitched up the People’s Democratic Alliance government in 2018. On August 16, the coalition included the NPF by “setting aside political rivalry” for the sake of the Naga peace process and renamed the coalition the Nagaland United Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-cm-state-bjp-chief-called-to-delhi/article36008568.ece
20 August 2021||Kolkata,||HC judge caught in row elevated||Kaushik Chanda, an additional judge of the Calcutta High Court whom the Supreme Court Collegium has appointed as a permanent judge, was in West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s line of fire over his alleged proximity to the BJP. The Trinamool Congress chief had even opposed his confirmation. Justice Chanda had on July 7 recused himself from hearing a petition by the Trinamool chief challenging the election of Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram after she expressed apprehension of bias against her by the judge. The Collegium, headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, met on August 17 and approved the proposal. The statement was uploaded on the top court’s website on Thursday. Besides Chief Justice Ramana, Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar are part of the three-member Collegium that takes decisions on the appointment of High Court judges. Justice Chanda had imposed Rs. 5 lakh costs on Ms. Banerjee for the manner in which she had sought his recusal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-judge-caught-in-row-elevated/article36008785.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Only 3,996 of 1.08 lakh govt. flats rented out||Only 3,996 out of the 1.08 lakh vacant government flats identified when the Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC) scheme was announced in May 2020 have been rented out to beneficiaries so far, according to a Housing Ministry official. The scheme was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as a part of the COVID-19 relief package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-3996-of-108-lakh-govt-flats-rented-out/article36008578.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||3.86 cr. people did not get 2nd dose on time||Over 3.86 crore persons did not get their second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine within the stipulated time period, the Union government has said in a response to a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. According to information on the CoWIN portal, 44,22,85,854 persons have received their first dose, while 12,59,07,443 have taken their second as of Thursday afternoon. Activist Raman Sharma had filed a query under the RTI Act, seeking to know from the government the number of persons who had received the first dose of a vaccine, either Covishield or Covaxin, but had not taken the second within the stipulated time period. The Health Ministry urged people to ensure that the second dose was taken on time in order to get the full benefit of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/386-cr-people-did-not-get-2nd-dose-on-time/article36008733.ece
20 August 2021||Shillong,||Curfew lifted in Shillong for 12 hours||Curfew, which was clamped here following unrest, was lifted for 12 hours from 5 a.m. on Thursday as the law and order situation improved in the last 24 hours, an official said. The restriction, however, will be in place at night, he said. East Khasi Hills Deputy Commissioner I. Laloo has issued an order, relaxing the curfew in Shillong urban agglomeration for 12 hours till 5 p.m. on Thursday, the official said. Shops involved in selling essential commodities have been allowed to open till 4 p.m. and transactions at banks permitted till 3 p.m., according to the offical order.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curfew-lifted-in-shillong-for-12-hours/article36008970.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coal shortage: CBI books CCL officials, firm||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against some officials of Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and its directors for allegedly causing a loss of about Rs. 83.64 crore to the exchequer. Among the accused are chief manager (mining) Nihar Ranjan Saw, area senior manager (surveyor) Umesh Kumar Singh and senior officer (surveyor) Pankaj Kumar Jha of the CCL’s Magadh Amrapali Area at Chatra in Jharkhand, besides project officer Dilip Kumar Sharma and manager Shambhu Kumar Jha of the Amrapali Project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coal-shortage-cbi-books-ccl-officials-firm/article36008556.ece
20 August 2021||Pune,||Modi’s bust removed from temple built by BJP worker||Days after a BJP worker constructed a temple for Narendra Modi in Pune, the bust of the Prime Minister was removed from it. Mayur Munde, who built the temple, could not be reached for comments on what prompted him to remove the bust. Some NCP workers staged a mock protest outside the temple in the Aundh area here on Thursday. “Optimism had prevailed that now [after the construction of the temple], fuel prices will come down, inflation will dip and people will get Rs. 15 lakh in their accounts. However, we came here and saw that the ‘god’ is missing,” a NCP leader said sarcastically.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modis-bust-removed-from-temple-built-by-bjp-worker/article36008546.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||President undergoes cataract surgery||President Ram Nath Kovind underwent a cataract surgery at the Army’s Referral and Research Hospital on Wednesday. A Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said the President was discharged from hospital after the surgery. Earlier in March, the 75-year-old President had undergone a bypass surgery. Mr. Kovind has been active post his heart surgery and recently undertook a four-day trip to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-undergoes-cataract-surgery/article36008550.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Diesel price cut by 20 paise, petrol price unchanged||The price of diesel was cut by 20 paise per litre on Thursday, the second consecutive day of reduction, but petrol rates remained unchanged. Diesel price in Delhi was reduced to Rs. 89.47 per litre from Rs. 89.67 a litre, according to a price notification by state-run oil companies. The reduction comes on the back of a similar cut on Wednesday. Just like on Wednesday, the petrol price was not revised on Thursday. In Delhi, petrol continued to be priced at Rs. 101.84 a litre. The price cut follows international oil prices tumbling to their lowest level since May.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diesel-price-cut-by-20-paise-petrol-price-unchanged/article36008732.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||DRDO develops chaff technology to safeguard fighter jets||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Thursday said it had developed an advanced chaff (strips of metal foil released in the air to obstruct radar detection) technology to safeguard the fighter aircraft of the Air Force against hostile radar threats. “The IAF has started the process of induction of this technology after the completion of successful user trials,” a DRDO statement said. “The technology has been given to the industry for production in large quantities to meet the annual rolling requirement of the IAF,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-develops-chaff-technology-to-safeguard-fighter-jets/article36008742.ece
20 August 2021||Guwahati,||Nagaland CM allays fears over RIIN||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio sought to allay fears over an exercise akin to Assam’s National Register of Citizens. The State government, through a notification on June 29, 2019, had decided to update the Register of Indigenous Inhabitants of Nagaland (RIIN) with December 1, 1963, as the cut-off date for the inclusion of people in it. The exercise was put on hold after opposition from various quarters. On Wednesday, Mr. Rio said that any decision on the issue should be well thought and should not cause any chaos or panic among any community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-cm-allays-fears-over-riin/article36008743.ece
20 August 2021||Lucknow,||Kin of 41 corona warriors who died of COVID-19 given compensation: Adityanath||A total of 103 corona warriors — health and sanitation workers —died of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh and so far the families of 41 of them had received the Rs. 50 lakh ex-gratia compensation promised to them, according to the State government. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath provided the details in a written reply in the Assembly on Thursday to a direct question by Sanjay Garg, Samajwadi Party MLA from Saharanpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kin-of-41-corona-warriors-who-died-of-covid-19-given-compensation-adityanath/article36008745.ece
20 August 2021||Sirsa,||Ex-Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala writes Class 10 English paper||Former Haryana Chief Minister and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala has written the Class 10 English exam of the Haryana School Education Board at a centre here at the age of 86 years. “I had appeared in the Class 10 examination two years ago while I was in the Tihar Jail. However, I did not appear in the English paper. The education board gave me a compartment in the subject, so I wrote the paper now,” Mr. Chautala said. He said he had prepared for the exam thoroughly and would pass with 100% marks.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-haryana-cm-om-prakash-chautala-writes-class-10-english-paper/article36008784.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests PISL managing director in Rs. 3,316-crore bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested the managing director (MD) of Prithvi Information Solutions Limited (PISL) for allegedly causing a loss of Rs. 3,316 crore to a consortium of public sector banks. Vuppalapati Satish Kumar has been accused of money laundering in connivance with his sister, Hima Bindu B, who is the MD of VMC Systems Limited (VMCSL). The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the CBI against VMCSL, which had taken loans from the consortium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-pisl-managing-director-in-rs-3316-crore-bank-fraud-case/article36008555.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||The north’s love affair with sports||The south of the city has tended to overshadow the north in modern times. This is why, as cricket ruled the roost in the south, with swanky facilities and ace training centres, the tenacious connections that north Madras had with sport were often eclipsed. While the entire city has been struggling to access sporting facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic, in the north of the city, sport continues to play an essential role in the lives of people. North Madras has had a hoary history of association with sports such as boxing, swimming, football and hockey, while the city itself came to be known internationally for its links with cricket and tennis. But cricket is certainly not the only sport that the British brought to these shores. Boxing for fun When the British came ashore in the 1600s, they needed a pastime, and the sailors divided themselves into two teams — to fight in the ring. Like wrestling, boxing was played with bare hands. It was somewhere in the later centuries that people began covering their hands with cloth to avoid injuries and the focus was on the power of punches, according to Na.Bha. Sethuraman, a trainer. In March 1925, newspapers carried an article calling on boys to participate in the second annual inter-house boxing competition. The response was huge, and the contest went on for nearly three hours. Each bout lasted two minutes. In that event, two boxers faced each other blindfolded, adding to the entertainment. This, it is to be noted, was not restricted to one or two places, but it looked like all of north Chennai was celebrating boxing. The South Indian Athletic Association Limited held a show at People’s Park, entertaining 5,000 spectators, and at another competition at Perambur Mills School, the headmistress distributed prizes, newspaper reports recorded. Sponsored exhibition matches were held at Esplanade theatre, and newspapers gave evocative accounts. Boxers came from across the country. Soon influential Indians began patronising the sport. Among them was Madras High Court judge Pandalai, who sponsored the Madras Tournament. Practice ring In March 1934, the Amateur Boxing Association for Madras Presidency was established with the aim of preventing irregularities creeping into the sport. The association called for developing a practice ring and mooted the idea of becoming part of the Olympic Federation. Members of the Anglo-Indian community, who had settled in large numbers in north Madras, became legends for their boxing prowess. Boxer Gopi of Mattungkuppam rationalises that rugged, aggressive cultural setting of the slum tenements gave them a good physique, and an attitude that made them fit for the sport. T. Sundar, a third-generation boxer and coach at Sundar Raj Boxing Club, launched in memory of his grandfather, said the fishing community at Ayodhya Kuppam, Nochi Kuppam, Mattungkuppam, Kasimedu, Royapuram and Washermanpet had generated a large number of talented young boxers but they tended to fade in the absence of sponsorship. Playing ball In other pockets of north Madras, youngsters enthusiastically kicked the ball around. Football was very popular. Football enthusiast Paul Sunder Singh, who runs NGO Karunalaya for children and trains disadvantaged children in various sports, remarked that along with boxing, football, hockey, swimming and Kabbadi attracted a lot of youngsters of north Chennai. While interest thrived, it was only in the last decade or so that provision of good sporting infrastructure (for instance, Nehru Stadium) helped to make football a serious sport for a large number of children from Royapuram, Thiruvottiyur, Washermenpet, George Town and Purasawalkam. Old Madras had football legends — in Nagesh (boxing also had a legend with the same name) and Sriramulu. There were days when people bought tickets to watch Sriramulu play. Mr. Singh, who is coaching a girls football team for the Street Child Football World Cup in Doha next year, says, “The local legend used to pedal a long distance just to play football, all the way from his house at Thiruvottiyur.” Local greats Football coach Thangaraj, of the Slum Children Sports Talent and Education Development Society in Vyasarpadi, remembers several football greats — ‘Kulla’ Palani, ‘Ottaga’ Maya, ‘Olli’ Bharani and ‘Mukkuthi’ Kuppa — having a good fan-following in north Madras. Similar to the effect the game had on children of Brazil and Argentina living in poverty, playing and watching matches were, for several youths in the north of the city, an escape route from their daily trials and tribulations. It will be easy to encounter boys named Messi, or Neymar or Ronaldo on the streets of north Chennai. That is the intensity of the fan-following. Sometimes, among themselves, Vyasarpadi is referred to as a ‘mini Brazil’. Kabaddi and swimming Kabaddi has been the sport of choice for children at Royapuram, with the Babu Jagjivanram Stadium hosting local tournaments. It is with the professional kabbadi league that opportunities had opened up for youngsters, coaches say. Several kuppams along the Marina beach have been churning out national swimmers for years, thanks in part to the swimming pool constructed by the Chennai Corporation. North Chennai is continuing to play the same sports as it did when it was Madras. Even as the city changed and some additional infrastructure was located in this area, the plea has been that it does not match up to the facilities in the south of the city, both private and public. Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University secretary K. Kannadasan agrees: “If we can provide infrastructure, equipment and coaches, they will flourish. We also need sponsors to develop the sport.” ILLUSTRATION: J.A. PREMKUMAR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-norths-love-affair-with-sports/article36008895.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activists press for speedy resolution of POCSO cases||For the nine years when the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been in force, concerns about pendency of cases have started to become louder and more forceful. While some child rights activists demand that more special POCSO courts be set up for quick disposal, others propose a fundamental change in attitude and investigation to resolve more cases. According to data available, as on January 31, 2020, there were over 1,000 POCSO cases under investigation in Tamil Nadu, a further 888 cases not taken on file, and 4,614 cases that were pending trial. Not taken on file (see table) stands for the cases in which the chargesheet would have been approved but the court has not taken it on record and so it has not yet been numbered to be taken up for trial. “The whole idea is that children are involved in these cases, and they are often recounting very traumatic and disturbing incidents. Pendency of trial, if the case gets to court, that is bound to be very painful for the victims of child sexual abuse,” says Vidya Reddy of Tulir-Centre for Prevention and Healing of Child Sexual Abuse. Pendency flies in the face of the basic provision in the Act, which mandates that every case be disposed of within a year, once taken cognisance of, she points out. As per National Crime Records Bureau statistics, in 2019, there was a pendency of 88.8% in POCSO cases in the country. In March, a parliamentary panel said 31,668 cases had been filed in 2017; 38,802 in 2018; and 46,005 cases in 2019 under the Act. Noting the increase in the number of cases over the years, it recommended that the Centre expedite the setting up of fast-track special courts, and that the courts stick to a time frame for adjudicating the cases. There are 325 courts for POCSO cases in the country. Justice K. Chandru, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, however, asks the question: how many of these cases are really ready for trial? Since there are special procedures, there might be a time delay. But he is quick to point out that if the trial is not expeditious, there are likely to be consequences. For instance, he said, in the Podhumbu case (in 2011), in which a school headmaster was arrested for sexually abusing at least 40 girl students, 24 witnesses had turned hostile because of the delay. The delay in the disposal of cases, he explains, is likely to be a combination of factors — tardy investigation or investigation by corrupt police personnel and delaying tactics of the defence. The way out, according to him, is more rigorous training and sensitisation for trial judges, prosecutors and the police. “More courts will be a stop gap arrangement to push more cases to resolution,” says Girija Kumarababu, general secretary, Indian Council for Child Welfare. “There is no doubt we need to expedite the resolution of POCSO cases. The thing is both the child who has been abused and the abuser live in the same environment, where the latter usually has more power, socially.” The longer a case drags on, the less reluctant is the family or the child to keep on coming back to court; victims also feel the need to move on, she says. Activists, at this point, recall the DMK’s promise in the run-up to the Assembly election that it would set up special courts in all districts to deal with POCSO cases and punish the guilty at the earliest. They hope Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will make good on the promise. Justice delayed, as they say, is often justice denied; particularly so in POCSO cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-press-for-speedy-resolution-of-pocso-cases/article36008924.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special camps to be held for slum dwellers||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched a special vaccination drive for residents of slums in the city, setting a target of vaccinating 75% of the eligible population in the next few weeks. Access to vaccination for poor people in low income neighbourhoods in the city had been discussed at a recent meeting. The civic body has launched additional vaccination camps at slums. The Corporation encountered resistance for vaccination in some slums in the past few months. As a result, most of the 17.13 lakh residents of slums had not been vaccinated. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Vishu Mahajan, who has been entrusted with the task of improving vaccination in slums, schools and colleges said the additional camps at 45 slums every day would improve access to vaccines for the poor. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said 44,51,728 people had received at least one dose of vaccine in the city as on August 17. “So far, 32,32,921 beneficiaries have received their first dose and 12,18,807 beneficiaries have received their second dose vaccination as of August 17. A total of 21,47,137 beneficiaries aged 18 to 44 have received the first dose of the vaccine,” said Mr. Bedi. A total of 23,999 out of 17.13 lakh residents had received vaccination at the camps organised in the slums. On Thursday, 1,434 residents of slums were administered vaccine at the camps. Tondiarpet zone lags Tondiarpet zone has the largest number of 1.89 lakh residents in slums among the 15 zones. However, just 1,530 residents had received vaccine at the special camps so far. Only 190 residents received vaccine at the camps held in slums of Tondiarpet zone on Thursday. Only 820 residents, out of 1.84 lakh residents in slum tenements of Sholinganallur zone, received vaccine at special camps. No resident in slum areas of Kodambakkam was vaccinated on Thursday. In all, 2,105 residents had received the jab at vaccination camps. The zone has around 1.85 lakh residents in slum neighbourhoods. The Corporation has administered the first dose to 70% of the 5,143 teachers and non-teaching staff at 281 of its schools. Vaccination of staff of other schools is expected to be completed by September. Students aged above 18 would receive the vaccine at the camps organised on the school premises after September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-to-be-held-for-slum-dwellers/article36008897.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre gives nod for Metro phase II||The Union government has accorded approval for the phase II project of the Metro, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin informed the Assembly on Wednesday. “We received the information yesterday [August 17] that the Union government has given its approval for the phase II project,” he said in the House. The Chief Minister recalled his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, where he insisted on the project. “Based on the pressure we mounted, we have received the permission yesterday,” he said. As for the Metro project for Coimbatore city, which was raised by BJP legislator Vanathi Srinivasan (Coimbatore-South), Mr. Stalin said his government would mount pressure on the Union government in connection with the project. “There is no need to worry. Not just Coimbatore but for Madurai too, where we have announced a project. Wherever the projects are announced, they will be implemented definitely,” the Chief Minister said. During her speech, Ms. Srinivasan pointed out the Budget speech of the Finance Minister and asked why the State government said it would consult the Union government about implementing the Metro project for Coimbatore. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan rose to clarify that rules mandated that the State government had to consult the Centre to implement such projects. Only during consultations, the details of how the project would be implemented would be finalised — whether it would be 50:50 or 60:40, he said. The Chief Minister said such projects would have to be implemented with funds from the Union government, and that had been the case so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-gives-nod-for-metro-phase-ii/article36009092.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 trees cut at HUL site, say activists||Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) illegally chopped down more than 300 trees from four acres at its defunct mercury factory in Kodaikanal, and that has exposed the toxic soil at the plant site to erosion by rainwater and wind, according to the Chennai Solidarity Group. The activist group released Google Earth images of the site from March 2018 and January 2020 to show the cutting down of the trees. They said at least 100 kg of soil-bound mercury was likely to have been washed off into the eco-sensitive Pambar Shola section of the Kodaikanal Wildlife Sanctuary. “This clear-felling is a reckless move that will allow Unilever to clean-up its site by poisoning the Wildlife Sanctuary and the Vaigai catchment. The Forest Department and the TNPCB stand exposed as incapable of protecting the sanctuary and environment,” said Nityanand Jayaraman of Chennai Solidarity Group. Mr. Jayaraman said as per the Upscaled Remediation Plan approved by the TNPCB in 2018 and a soil conservation study, no tree should be felled and steps need to be taken to ensure that standing trees are not destabilised due to excavation of contaminated soil. He alleged that the violation was supervised by NEERI that was deputed onsite to ensure that the remediation goes as per the plan prepared by it. However, HUL refuted the charges and said, “Only a minimum number of trees have been cut. Once remediation is complete, we will plant more trees than what we have had to cut. This seems to be another attempt to spread misinformation and delay soil remediation.” A company spokesperson said trees were cut prior to the commencement of soil remediation at the site as it was required to execute the excavation and remediation of soil. Furthermore, the trees were cut well above the ground level to ensure soil is not disturbed, the spokesperson said. “Trees were cut down only after HUL obtained the necessary permissions from the Dindigul District Hill Area (Preservation of Trees) Committee, chaired by the District Collector, and the District Forest Officer in October 2019 and December 2019, respectively. This was in line with the recommendation made by the TNPCB and the Scientific Experts Committee constituted by the Supreme Court Monitoring Committee earlier that year, for tree removal in the area requiring soil remediation. Additionally, HUL constructed soil retaining walls, silt settling tanks and silt traps to ensure there is no discharge of contaminated soil outside of the factory premises,” the spokesperson said. Further, the company has already planted 500 trees at the nearby Mother Teresa University, the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-say-300-trees-cut-at-hul-kodaikanal-factory-site/article36008921.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister promises action against contractors, officials||Minister for Rural Industries and Slum Clearance Board T.M. Anbarasan said on Thursday that stringent action would be taken against contractors and officials who were responsible for the poor construction of Slum Clearance Board flats at K.V. Park in Egmore. Replying to a calling attention motion moved by E. Paranthaman of the DMK on the poor construction, Mr. Anbarasan said he had visited the area with HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu and officials and approached the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras for a report on the quality of construction. “It was our leader Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] who created the board for constructing houses for the poor and to create a State without any huts. We will not spare anyone involved in the poor construction,” he said. Mr. Paranthaman made a strong case for inspecting and reviewing all the buildings constructed in the last 10 years of the AIADMK government. “What has happened in Egmore is an open secret. The hospital building in Namakkal district collapsed during construction and a check-dam in Villupuram was washed away,” he said.  What happened in Egmore is an open secret. A hospital building in Namakkal collapsed during construction and a check-dam in Villupuram was washed away||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-promises-action-against-contractors-officials/article36008915.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu sees a significant dip as fresh infections fall to 1,702||Tamil Nadu recorded a significant fall in fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, as 1,702 people tested positive for the infection. After recording a positivity rate of 1.1% on Wednesday, the State’s positivity rate reduced further to 1.05% on Thursday. A total of 1,62,173 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. As the daily count dropped from 1,797 on Wednesday to 1,702, no district reported more than 200 cases. Coimbatore’s daily cases fell below 200 after 20 days — 198 people tested positive. Chennai recorded 193 cases, while in Erode, they dropped marginally from 156 to 147. There were 112 cases in Thanjavur. Cases dropped below 100 in both Chengalpattu and Salem districts — there were 98 cases in the former and 94 in the latter. There were 86 cases in Tiruppur and 64 in Tiruvallur. The total number of cases in Vellore touched 48,558, with 29 more people testing positive. While 47,085 people have been discharged so far, its active cases stand at 367. Its toll stood at 1106. In Ranipet, 21 people tested positive, and the tally stood at 42,344. Tirupathur saw five fresh cases, and its tally reached 28,461. Tiruvannamalai district recorded 37 infections, taking the tally to 52,938. Of these, 51,820 people have been discharged so far, and the active cases stand at 472. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 25,95,935. Another 1,892 people were discharged after treatment. The active caseload fell below 20,000 — 19,864 people are under treatment. They include 2,303 people in Coimbatore and 2,074 in Chennai. Twenty-nine people succumbed to COVID-19. The deaths included reconciled reports from Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. Zero fatalities There were no fatalities in 23 districts. Coimbatore accounted for five deaths, while there were four in Chennai and three each in Tiruvarur, Tiruppur and Tiruchi. This took the toll to 34,639. Among the deceased was a 33-year-old man from Dharmapuri who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital on August 12, and died on August 17 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Four more persons who succumbed to the infection were in their 30s.  Another 1,892 people were discharged after treatment. The active caseload fell below 20,000 — 19,864 people are under treatment. They include 2,303 people in Coimbatore and 2,074 in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-sees-a-significant-dip-as-fresh-infections-fall-to-1702/article36008917.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-day-old baby undergoes surgery||When M. Thooyavan and S. Sangeetha came to know that their yet-to-be-born child had Vein of Galen Malformation (VOGM), a rare and potentially fatal complication in the brain, they were shattered. Mr. Thooyavan said it appeared as if the happiest moment they were expecting in their lives might turn out to be devastating. Soon after the condition was diagnosed in the 30th week of pregnancy, the family began its pursuit to find a hospital in the country that offered treatment for the condiditon. Facing a deadend after four weeks, he dropped an e-mail to a surgeon in New York, who had done procedures for VOGM. To the family’s surprise, the surgeon said a solution was available closer home. He asked them to contact Srinivasan Paramasivam, head of Neuro-Endovascular Surgery at Apollo Hospitals, who previously practised and taught at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. VOGM refers to a congenital condition, where blood from the arteries of the brain directly flows to the veins due to the absence of some capillaries in between, which help in slowing down the blood flow. Dr. Paramasivam said the condition led to extra pressure in the vein, which in turn led to heavy flow of blood to the heart and lungs. “This forces the heart to work overtime to get blood to the rest of the body, and will eventually lead to congestive heart failure,” he said. He said while the condition was rare with an occurrence of one in three million births, around 80% to 90% of the cases resulted in fatality either due to failure to diagnose the condition or due to lack of treatment. Dr. Paramasivam said as the diagnosis happened relatively early, it provided room for planning the treatment post child-birth. In the 38th week of pregnancy, C-Section was performed. Dr. Paramsivam said the complex non-invasive procedure should preferably be done at least six months after birth to minimise risks. However, in this case, the procedure had to be performed 48 hours after birth as the baby’s condition began to deteriorate rapidly. Two catheters were inserted, one through the umbilical artery and the other through the jugular vein. While the former was used to perform the endovascular embolisation in the brain, the other was used to control the heart beat through a pacing monitor. He said that extreme precision and care was required as any error could could completely damage the the delicate blood vessels of the two-day-old baby. Dr. Paramasivam said through the pacing monitor, the heart rate was increased to 300 beats a minute. “Because the heart is beating so fast, the pumping becomes inefficient and results in blood flow to organs getting stopped for about 20 to 30 seconds,” he said. This window was used to perform the embolisation by injecting a medical superglue at that part of the vessel in the brain with malformation to artificially slow down the blood flow. Dr. Paramasivam said that such an embolisation procedure, along with cardiac pacing for VOGM, had been performed only a few times in the world, and it was most likely the first such instance in India. Suneeta Reddy, managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group, appreciated the entire team of doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-day-old-baby-undergoes-surgery/article36009091.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs Lyca Productions to pay Rs. 5 lakh to actor Vishal||The Madras High Court on Wednesday imposed costs of Rs. 5 lakh on film production company Lyca Productions Private Limited, and directed it to pay the money to actor-producer Vishal Krishna Reddy. Justice G. Jayachandran passed the order while dismissing an application by Lyca Productions seeking a direction to Mr. Reddy to pay it Rs. 30.05 crore along with interest at the rate of 30% per annum till the date of realisation. The judge criticised the firm for having taken out the application by picking stray sentences from a counter-affidavit filed by the actor, making a misleading claim that the actor had admitted his entire liability. The court was told that Mr. Reddy had initially availed a loan of Rs. 15 crore from Anbuchezhian of Gopuram Films to make Marudhu in 2016. He could not repay the amount and the liability along with interest increased to Rs. 21.29 crore. On September 21, 2019, Lyca entered into an agreement with Mr. Reddy, agreeing to discharge his liability on condition that he repay the amount to Lyca with 30% interest, and that the company would have a lien over all his future projects until the debt was cleared. Justice Jayachandran was shocked to find that Lyca had not only created a lien on all his future professional activities, but had also stated that the actor should not oppose any legal action taken to recover the dues. The judge observed that the validity of the terms of the agreement would be decided when the suit gets taken up for final disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-lyca-productions-to-pay-rs-5-lakh-to-actor-vishal/article36009084.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Celebrating Madras, its architectural heritage||Madras Inked: the impressions of an artist and an architect , a book that celebrates Madras and its rich architectural heritage, was launched in the city on Thursday, coinciding with the Madras Week. Launching the book authored by Manohar Devadoss, renowned artist, and Sujatha Shankar, architect and convenor, INTACH, Chennai chapter, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said it encapsulated the essence of the city. The first copies of the book were received by Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali and former judge Madras High Court Prabha Sridevan at an event organised by The C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation and Chennai Willingdon Corporate Foundation. The Governor, as the chancellor of some universities, said he would write to them to have the book in their libraries as a valuable addition to their collection. Describing Mr. Devadoss’s drawings as masterpieces, he said it was a delight to see the collection of heritage buildings and landmarks of the city in the impeccable fine line drawings of Mr. Devadoss accompanied by insightful narratives of Ms. Shankar, which bring out the aspects of architectural character and historical significance of landmarks. Mr. Devadoss had overcome his challenges in eyesight in creating such drawings. The book delved into icons of Madras from public heritage buildings, temples, mosques and churches, streetscapes to Buckingham Canal and heritage bungalows through its 60 impeccable drawings and engaging texts. It would be a learning experience for students to understand the styles and techniques of architecture in the past, he said. The Governor appreciated both the foundations for their efforts to publish the book. Recalling about the collaboration, Ms. Shankar said Mr. Devadoss had earlier brought out a book on Madurai. Mr. Devadoss said unlike his other books, Madras Inked had drawings done over six decades for various reasons like magazine covers and his greeting cards project. He lauded Ms. Shankar for meticulous care in unearthing interesting information on subjects. C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation president Nanditha Krishna and Chennai Willingdon Corporate Foundation director V. Sriram spoke. The proceeds from the book sale would go towards charity organisations: Mahesh Memorial Trust for the Paediatric Oncology Centre at Cancer Institute, Govel Trust for the Mahema Devadoss Endowment of Aravind Eye Care System and The C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation for Saraswathi Kendra Learning Centre for Children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrating-madras-its-architectural-heritage/article36008891.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stella Maris sociology dept. turns 50||The Department of Sociology of Stella Maris College has curated a two-day virtual “Made in India” platform to commemorate its golden jubilee this year. Sociologists and academicians will address students, faculty and alumni in the virtual mode. Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, who inaugurated the celebration on Thursday, said the college had set an exemplary model to other institutions for all-round development of women in academics, the NSS, NCC and YRC units. He spoke on employment-based education and the importance of an interdisciplinary approach in higher education. College Principal Sr. Rosy Joseph said the discipline was among the foremost in social sciences and humanities for study and research. Department head J. Maria Sasitha said the department, which has over 5,000 alumni, was started in 1971. The department was the preferred choice of young women as it offered a variety of career opportunities, she said and added industry summits, panel discussions, career symposia would be part of the year-long celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stella-maris-sociology-dept-turns-50/article36008918.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK delegation meets Governor, complains about govt.||A delegation of the AIADMK called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday and complained about the “illegal activities” of the DMK government. The delegation comprised party coordinator O. Panneerselvam, co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, deputy coordinators K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, and members of the steering committee P. Thangamani, S.P. Velumani, D. Jayakumar and C.Ve. Shanmugam. Briefing journalists about the party’s petition, Mr. Palaniswami criticised the government for “having failed to deliver on all fronts”, including measures to tackle the spread of COVID-19. The new regime has put several projects and work executed by the previous AIADMK government in the backburner, he said, accusing the DMK regime of having an agenda of indulging in “corruption, collection and vendetta.” Apart from reiterating his charge that the government was trying to foist cases against him, his colleagues and members of the information technology wing, the former Chief Minister blamed the government for attempting to book cases against those expressing their views on social media platforms. In the petition, the party wanted the Governor to investigate the issues raised by it and take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-delegation-meets-governor-complains-about-govt/article36008904.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Finance Minister to resume economic survey next year||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said on Thursday that he would resume the Annual Economic Survey next year before the Budget. In his reply to the debate on the revised Budget in the Assembly, he said the survey had not been released in the last 10 years. He stressed the need for gathering as much data as possible across as many platforms and sources and integrating them into one database and ensuring that they were up to date. He underscored the need for analysing the data and extracting appropriate lessons. “We will study how many suo motu announcements were made [by the Chief Ministers] and how many of them were implemented and how many were given up. How the resources were tapped into and how the money not in the Budget was mobilised? How these announcements make an impact on the government and the finances? A report on this would be released in the Assembly,” he said. As for the MLAs’ request for unrestricted use of the constituency development fund, he said, “A good decision would be taken in consultation with the Chief Minister.” Mr. Rajan said that as per law, the relationship between the government and the legislature could not exceed a limit as they had to function as two different pillars. “I promise that whatever help and finances necessary would be extended without violating the tradition,” he said. The Finance Department’s building in Chennai, would be named after late DMK leader and former Finance Minister K. Anbazhagan. “It will be called Perasiriyar K. Anbazhagan Maaligai,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-minister-to-resume-economic-survey-next-year/article36008913.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS cites slowdown, introduction of GST for fall in revenue growth||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday attributed economic slowdown and the introduction of Goods and Services (GST) Tax to the inadequate rate of growth in the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) in the last five years. Responding to the criticism levelled by the DMK government in the White Paper and the Budget on various aspects of the previous AIADMK regime’s handling of the economy during 2011-21, Mr. Panneerselvam issued a statement running to about 40 pages. In it, he said that after 2015-16, the implementation of the Fourteenth Finance Commission’s recommendations had led to the State losing Rs. 7,000 crore annually in real terms. Since 2016-17, the Central government, which had scrapped certain Centrally-sponsored schemes, also increased the State’s share from 60% to 75% in the schemes in general. “Considering the interest of people, we continued to implement the schemes which were dropped by the Centre,” he said, pointing out that this had caused an additional burden of Rs. 7,000 crore to the State. Tangedco debt Besides, the State government had absorbed the outstanding debt of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to the tune of Rs. 22,500 crore. This had pushed up the revenue deficit and the State’s debt. A portion of the debt — Rs. 4,563 crore — was provided as grants every year for adjusting the loans given to Tangedco. As a result of the implementation of the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission for government staff and teachers, the expenditure went up by Rs. 15,000 crore. “With the White Paper pointing out some of these aspects and leaving out some others conveniently, a deceptive picture has been sought to be portrayed as if tax revenue had fallen due to administrative inefficiency,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. Disapproving the comparison of Tamil Nadu with States such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka, the AIADMK leader, who held the portfolio of Finance for much of the 10 years, said that in the devolution scheme of the Fourteenth Finance Commission, it was Tamil Nadu that suffered while the other States benefited. Contending that the overall debt and interest payments were kept under control, Mr Panneerselvam said no State had taken up welfare schemes on the scale that Tamil Nadu had been doing. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat were not even spending one half of what Tamil Nadu had been incurring annually towards food subsidy — Rs. 9,500 crore. On the SOTR’s proportion in Total Revenue Receipts (TRR), he wondered how it could be called being "close to 70 per cent” till 2013-14, when the ratio ranged from 62.33% in 2007-08 to 65.44% in 2009-10. “It was during the Amma’s [Jayalalithaa’s] government that the ratio went up to 72.1% in 2012-13,” Mr. Panneerselvam observed. He said the Budget neither had new schemes for Adi Dravidars and employment generation nor had it spelt out new strategies and approach in crucial sectors or announced measures for revenue mobilisation.  Considering the interest of people we continued to implement the schemes dropped by the Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-cites-slowdown-introduction-of-gst-for-fall-in-revenue-growth/article36008911.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Banyan scales up ‘Home Again’ programme||The need to create sustainable and inclusive ecosystems to address mental health took the centre stage at a webinar “A tomorrow that feels like home” organised by The Banyan, a city based NGO, on Thursday. The focus was on “Home Again”, a community mental health service by The Banyan, which since 2015, has worked with over 240 individuals with experiences of homelessness and mental illnesses. Through this initiative, these individuals moved out of mental health institutions to live in 49 family styled homes in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. The Banyan has now announced that the Home Again programme would be active in 10 States in India and one region in Sri Lanka. While they would work with local partners to scale up in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala, new residences would be established in Andhra Pradesh, New Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Nagaland, and over 500 long stay residents of State Mental Health institutions there would be transitioned into these formed family homes with housemates. “With a community mental health service programme like Home Again, people become independent, they leave with dignity and they are accepted by the community. They are able to lead normal lives, contribute to the local economy and continue to receive mental health support and health care,” said Kishore Kumar, Director, The Banyan. Rajya Sabha member Kanimozhi said that this model should be replicated in all districts in Tamil Nadu. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, said “Home Again” was among challenging initiatives of The Banyan given that it seeks to work with society instead of institutions. Nicole Bardikoff, Lead for Mental Health at Grand Challenges; Paul Glick, Canada Executive Director, Rural India Supporting Trust; and S.M. Vijayanand, former Chief Secretary, Government of Kerala; spoke. Both Grand Challenges and Rural India Supporting Trust are among the primary funders for the scale up of the Home Again initiative.  With a community mental health service programme like Home Again, people become independent, they leave with dignity and they are accepted by the community Kishore Kumar Director, The Banyan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-banyan-scales-up-home-again-programme/article36008927.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual tour explores Chennai’s links with the U.S.||A virtual tour titled “America in Chennai - Sites, Streets, Structures” was organised by the United States-India Educational Foundation (USIEF) in collaboration with the University of Madras. It kickstarted the U.S. Consulate General Chennai’s Madras Week celebrations. U.S. Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin joined Indian Fulbright-Nehru alumnus Professor Suresh Sethuraman on the virtual tour. “Today, we not only celebrate the Fulbright Program’s 75th anniversary but also the founding day of the city called Madras, which is now Chennai,” she said. Prof. Sethuraman, archaeologist and architectural historian, shared fascinating facts about the city’s historic links with America. “Chennai boasts several sites, streets, and structures that have strong ‘America’ connections — the St. Mary’s church within Fort St. George where Elihu Yale of Yale University fame got married in 1680,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-tour-explores-chennais-links-with-the-us/article36008892.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will donate 1 lakh palm seeds: Appavu||Assembly Speaker P. Appavu on Thursday said he would give one lakh palm seeds to the Agriculture Department to increase palm trees in the State annually. When Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam explained the significance and capabilities of palm trees in enriching ground water and preventing soil erosion, the Speaker said he would donate one lakh seeds every year. Leader of the House Duraimurugan said he could understand the interest shown by the Speaker. Mr. Panneerselvam said the Chief Minister also had promised to distribute palm seeds and had made it clear that Collector’s permission was necessary for felling palm trees. He also complained that the Kudimaramathu scheme implemented by the AIADMK government resulted in destruction of a lot of palm trees.  The Chief Minister has also promised to distribute palm seeds and has made it clear that Collectors’ permission was necessary for felling palm trees M.R.K. Panneerselvam Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-donate-1-lakh-palm-seeds-appavu/article36008906.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prohibition will improve skills of youth: G.K. Mani||PMK Legislative Party leader G.K. Mani on Wednesday made a strong pitch in the Assembly for total prohibition, arguing only such a measure would improve the skills of youth and develop human resources in Tamil Nadu. Recalling arguments that prohibition would result in illicit liquor brewing and drop in the State revenue, Mr. Mani said the government had the police department and village administrative officers and no one would dare to brew illicit liquor. “Every village has mobile phones and people will inform the administration about illicit liquor brewing and sale. If there is a will, there is a way,” he pointed out. Though PMK, an ally of the AIADMK, staged a walkout from the Assembly earlier in the day, its members came back to the House to participate in the debate. Mr. Mani was effusive in his praise of the DMK government for its efforts to turn around the economy and the agriculture budget. He said after 2016 there was a favourable mindset among political parties for imposing prohibition and the revenue loss could be compensated by reforming all the 69 public sector organisations. “The PMK already released suggestions on ways to improve the revenue. What can prevent the state transport corporation from making revenue when private bus operators are doing so?” he asked. Mr. Mani also requested the government to construct check dams across rivers in every 5 km and desilt canals and waterbodies. “Karnataka is able to increase its cultivable areas by water management. We should take a cue from the State and improve ours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibition-will-improve-skills-of-youth-gk-mani/article36009087.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tunnelling for phase II likely to start next year||While work on Metro phase II’s elevated stretch has started in some parts of the city, tunnelling work for underground sections is likely to start only early next year. In the 118.9 km phase II project, the priority has been given to the stretch between Poonamallee and Power House and hence, the construction began a few weeks back. It is likely to be complete in four years, if the contractor meets the deadlines. Simultaneously, two contracts for the underground stretch from Madhavaram to Taramani have been awarded to Tata Projects and Larsen and Toubro for building stations and tunnels. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), barricades have been put up in many parts of the city and topography studies are under way to assess the nature of the soil before excavation and tunnelling begin. “The diaphragm wall construction for the underground station will start by November. The machinery will arrive at the sites by the end of next month. After assembling, we plan to start construction in full swing in November. But we will be able to do the tunnelling work only by early next year,” a source said. Details regarding the boring machines that will be used have been sent by the contractors to CMRL and may be approved shortly. The casting yard for building precast rings for tunnels would also be finalised soon, sources said. The process is on to finalise other contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tunnelling-for-phase-ii-likely-to-start-next-year/article36009093.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pending dues to be paid to cane farmers||The Tamil Nadu government will pay pending dues to the tune of Rs. 182 crore to co-operative and public sector sugarcane mills in the State, M.R.K .Panneerselvam, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, told the Assembly on Thursday. Mr. Pannerselvam said the government will provide the funds as procedural loans. He said there are 10 co-operative and two public sector sugar mills in the State. For 2020-21, the government will provide the amount pending for the sugarcane farmers based on the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) fixed by the Union government. The dues were being paid taking into account the welfare of the sugarcane farmers who had supplied their produce to these sugar mills. He also detailed the funds to be provided to each of the sugar mills. The Minister said the government has finalised farmers’ crop insurance with two firms — Iffco-Tokio and the Agriculture Insurance Company of India — as only these two had come forward to provide insurance. He said that due to the Union government reducing its share of premium, the State’s burden had increased and many firms did not come forward to provide insurance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pending-dues-to-be-paid-to-cane-farmers/article36009055.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrol price cut will fetch the Centre Rs. 1,200 crore||The reduction in petrol price by Rs. 3 in Tamil Nadu has resulted in a 12% increase in sales, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan informed the Assembly on Thursday. “We have reduced the sales tax, but not the Union government. The sales have increased by 11.29 lakh litre a day. We do not know whether this [trend] would continue or not. If it does, it will bring Rs. 3.55 crore a day and the Union government will get Rs. 1,200 crore in additional revenue,” he said in his reply to the debate on the revised Budget for 2021-22. Mr. Rajan said the price cut prompted people to use more petrol, having a multiplier effect on the economy. He also made out a strong case for data-centric governance. He said he would request the Chief Minister to prevail upon the Union government to establish a data collection and sharing model. “We are making efforts to enact a law that will allow the Union government to share date on income tax, petrol and diesel use and vaccination.” He said the role of two members of the Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister was important. “Jean Dreze has written extensively about it. All the statistical offices of the Union government have stopped functioning. The Indian Statistical Institute has stopped collecting data...,” he said. The Union government, he added, was functioning without data. “Aravind Subramanian, the former adviser to the Union government, will be helpful in this regard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-price-cut-will-fetch-the-centre-rs-1200-crore/article36008908.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK members were not evicted from the House, clarifies Speaker||Speaker P. Appavu on Thursday said AIADMK members had staged a walkout from the House on Wednesday and were not evicted as reported by a section of media. “Media should be careful in the future,” he said, in response to the Leader of the House, Duraimurugan, who brought the issue to his attention. Mr. Duraimurugan said though the AIADMK members left the House immediately after the Chief Minister addressed the House, a section of newspapers had reported that they had been evicted. “It has caused confusion in the minds of the readers. This is not healthy, as such reports run against the action of the Speaker,” Mr. Duraimurugan said. Mr. Appavu said when the AIADMK leader in the House had raised an issue, he had said that it would set a wrong precedent, since Mr. Palaniswami had not obtained the Chair’s permission. “I allowed him, since I believed that he would raise a public issue. But he spoke about a personal issue. When the other members displayed placards, I told them this can’t be allowed. They then left the House, and were not evicted.”  When the other members displayed placards, I told them this can’t be allowed. They then left the House, and were not evicted P. Appavu Speaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-members-were-not-evicted-from-the-house-clarifies-speaker/article36008912.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kauvery Group of Hospitals ropes in Dhoni as brand ambassador||Kauvery Group of Hospitals has roped in former India captain and Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni as its brand ambassador. According to a press release, Kauvery Hospitals Group is a new age family hospital with multi-speciality clinical expertise. It is currently a 1,500-bed hospital group with presence in Chennai, Tiruchi, Hosur, Salem and Bengaluru, in addition to planned entry in new markets. Manivannan Selvaraj, managing director, Kauvery Group of Hospitals, said, “Mr. Dhoni, who rose from a small town and achieved great heights, is similar to Kauvery’s journey. We started with a 30-bed hospital in Tiruchi and now, we are a 1,500-bed strong group with branches across Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru, working towards the mission of delivering quality healthcare at affordable cost.” “We feel he is a great fit for the brand because he strikes the right chord with our value systems of trust, dependability, reliability and focused leadership. A person who is fit and strong makes the ideal representative of our healthcare brand, helping us promote overall health and wellness,” said Dr. Selvaraj, as per the release. Speaking about his association with the brand, Mr. Dhoni said, “Kauvery Group of Hospitals has been offering exemplary medical services for over two decades with paramount focus on patient care and satisfaction. I am glad to be associated with one of the most trusted and reputed healthcare brands.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-ropes-in-dhoni-as-brand-ambassador/article36009085.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Web app of the Indus script book inaugurated||The Indus Research Centre, which is part of the Roja Muthiah Research Library, has launched a web app-indusscript.in. Thangam Thennarasu, Minister for Industries, Tamil Official Language, Tamil Culture and Archaeology, inaugurated the website at a function held in the city on Tuesday. The web app was developed through a financial grant from the Department of Archaeology. Source book  The Indus Script: Texts, Concordance and Tables, written by Iravatham Mahadevan, is the sourcebook for studying and analysing the Indus scripts and is most sought after by researchers from all over the world. The book published in 1977 by the Archaeological Survey of India is out of stock and available only in a few libraries. The Indus Research Centre of the Roja Muthiah Research Library to help the researchers get access to the book has developed this web app. N. Ram, director of The Hindu Publishing Group, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/web-app-of-the-indus-script-book-inaugurated/article36008929.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Snake Park starts a fundraiser||The Chennai Snake Park, which has been hit financially by the prolonged lockdowns due to the pandemic, has started a fundraising inititative now. Managed by the Chennai Snake Park Trust, which is a non-governmental and non-profit initiative, the park currently houses around 300 animals across 35 species. “The prolonged closure has resulted in a slow draining of revenue for the last 12 months, which has resulted in a severe financial crisis. The annual income for the park is around Rs. 80 lakh and a majority of this comes from the entry fees paid by visitors. The average annual expenditure, which includes maintenance and staff salaries, is around Rs. 75 lakh,” said S. Paulraj, executive chairman, Chennai Snake Park Trust. While the park did receive some CSR funds from companies and philanthropic donations during the pandemic, they had been mostly exhausted by May 2021. Over the years, the park has also been creating awareness about snakes and other reptiles, and has worked on research and outreach programmes with educational institutions in the city. While the park was reopened after the first wave of the pandemic between October and April, visitor footfall had greatly reduced. “We usually have an annual footfall of around 5 lakh which includes residents, children on school trips, students and tourists,” said S.R. Ganesh, deputy director and scientist. Persons who wish to contribute can visit https://www.ketto.org/fundraiser/save-chennai-snake-park?payment=options||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snake-park-starts-a-fundraiser/article36009110.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors at govt. hospital remove complex ovarian cyst||A team of doctors of the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) and the Government Hospital for Women and Children removed a complex ovarian cyst weighing about 22 kg in a 45-year-old woman. According to S. Vijaya, director of IOG, the woman had complaints of abdominal distension and dyspepsia for the past one year. She was evaluated, and a scan showed a complex cyst of size 33 x 26 x 33 cm. A team of doctors, including Kavitha Sukumar, surgical oncologist, and gynaecologists Anandhi and Sujatha, professors of obstetrics and gynaecology, and Ebenezer, head of anaesthesia, planned a laparotomy on the patient. Surgery proceeded to right salpingo oophorectomy — removal of right ovaries and fallopian tubes — with total abdominal hysterectomy, left salpingo oophorectomy with appendectomy. A cyst weighing 22 kg was excised completely. “The surgeons removed the tumour without rupture. Analysis found it to be malignant, and the patient has been admitted to undergo chemotherapy,” Dr. Vijaya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-at-govt-hospital-remove-complex-ovarian-cyst/article36008930.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waqf Board members elected||P. Abdul Samad and J. Muhamed Shanavas, MLAs, have been elected members of the Tamil Nadu Waqf Board. The two were the only candidates to file their nominations under the category of Muslim members of the Legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waqf-board-members-elected/article36008919.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neuberg ropes in Dhoni for wellness campaign||Neuberg Diagnostics on Thursday announced that it had partnered with former Indian cricket team captain M.S. Dhoni to create awareness on its health and wellness campaign. Mr. Dhoni, also the captain of Chennai Super Kings, said the commitment of the leaders at Neuberg towards providing affordable healthcare across India had struck a chord with him. “Amid the pandemic, they have taken up the campaign to raise awareness about health and wellness across age groups. I personally feel that such efforts are important and deserve to be advocated,” he said. G.S.K. Velu, chairman and managing director, Neuberg, said the company was honoured to partner with the cricketer, and have him as its evangelist and global brand ambassador. He said the company was keen to take its diagnostic services across the country and empower every citizen with better and affordable healthcare. “Furthermore, Mr. Dhoni’s commitment towards maintaining good health and fitness resonates well with our mission and will remind people to prioritise their health,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neuberg-ropes-in-dhoni-for-wellness-campaign/article36008922.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin releases special edition||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday released Thalai Nimirum Thamizhagam - Nootrandin Thisaiyil Nooru Naatkal , a special edition of the magazine Tamizharasu . Brought out by the Department of Information and Public Relations, it details schemes announced by the Chief Minister, meetings of Ministers and speeches at important events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-releases-special-edition/article36008898.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pending dues to be paid to sugarcane farmers||The Tamil Nadu government will pay pending dues to the tune of Rs. 182 crore to co-operative and public sector sugarcane mills in the State, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam informed the Assembly on Thursday. Mr. Pannerselvam said the government would provide the funds as procedural loans. He said there were 10 co-operative and two public sector sugar mills in the State. For 2020-21, the government would provide the amount pending for the sugarcane farmers based on the fair and remunerative price (FRP) fixed by the Union government. He said the dues were being paid taking into account the welfare of the sugarcane farmers who had supplied their produced to the mills. He also detailed the funds to be provided to each sugar mill. The Minister said the government had finalised the farmers’ crop insurance with two firms — Iffco-Tokio and the Agriculture Insurance Company of India — as only they had come forward to provide insurance. He also requested farmers taking loans to insure the crops as notified for Kharif and Samba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pending-dues-to-be-paid-to-sugarcane-farmers/article36008905.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VIT develops 3D printed heart valve||Vellore Institute of Technology, Chennai, has developed a heart valve using 3D printing technology. Specialised biopolymers, similar to human tissue, were used to manufacture the valve. The project was undertaken in collaboration with the Centre for Automation and School of Mechanical Engineering at the institute. Chennai-based heart surgeon Sanjay Cherian displayed a working prototype of the valve. The 3D printed heart valve has been developed using specialised computer-aided design software and modelling technique, based on MRI scan images of human heart. The benefit was that it would fit exactly to the dimensions of a patient’s heart, Dr. Sanjay said. The institute was in the process of patenting the product.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-develops-3d-printed-heart-valve/article36008902.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opportunity to intern with the govt.||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Thursday announced an internship programme with monthly stipend for students to help them understand the democratic tradition and increase their interest and participation in it. He said the pilot internship programme would involve graduates, postgraduates and law students, and would familiarise them with the Finance Department, land and asset management initiatives and risk management. “The important aspect of the programme is to provide students an understanding of how to protect people’s welfare, land and money, and how to manage and reduce risk,” he explained in the Assembly. Responding to a request for translating the Union government’s schemes in Tamil, he said it would be taken up immediately. Mr. Rajan said reviews would be conducted in all departments but it would not be taken as vindictive action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opportunity-to-intern-with-the-govt/article36008909.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Only one SC Bench is an ‘injustice’, says HC judge||Establishment of only one Bench of the Supreme Court in New Delhi is an “injustice” done to people spread across the length and breadth of the country, said Justice N. Kirubakaran, the senior most judge of the Madras High Court, on Thursday. He batted strongly in favour of setting up regional benches of the top court so that the doors of justice were readily accessible for the common man. In his reply to a formal farewell accorded a day before his retirement, since Friday was a court holiday on account of Muharram, the judge said: “In judiciary, Delhi and Mumbai are the power centres. States are not properly represented in the Supreme Court except Delhi and Mumbai [Maharashtra]. It is a fact. The honourable Supreme Court is meant for the entire population and not just for people living in and around New Delhi.” Known for being vocal on public issues, the judge did not mince words while expressing his mind and told the gathering that “keeping the Supreme Court in New Delhi alone is injustice done to most of the people. It is said that the honourable Supreme Court, on its administrative side, rejected the proposal to set up regional benches. I hope, the court would reconsider the decision and permit setting up of regional benches.” If that does not happen, the Centre should amend the Constitution and set up the regional benches. He also lamented that despite having been a judge of the High Court since March 2009 and delivering numerous verdicts true to his conscience, he could not order implementation of total prohibition in the State and close down all liquor shops to realise the dream of Mahatma Gandhi. He urged the State government to close down the liquor shops run by it through Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) at least partially and then strive to bring in total prohibition. The judge also acknowledged that he miserably failed in his multiple attempts to streamline the legal profession and legal education. He urged the practising lawyers and the Bar Council to restore the glory of the profession. Also being self-critical, he said: “People criticise me as a publicity monger who commits judicial overreach and accuse me of not going by the rules. Yes, I did uphold Dharma dehors the rules and regulations. After all, rules are handmaids of justice. Many a times, strict compliance (to rules and regulations) would frustrate the object. Sometimes, I used to conduct 'Judicial Kattapanchayat' when it is necessary in the interest of justice.” Stating that each case was unique and required a distinct treatment, he said, the law of precedence should be dispensed with since it would, at times, not help in delivering justice. Stating that motor accident claims and matrimonial disputes were two branches of law which touch human lives in a big way, he urged lawyers to strive and unite couple who approach them seeking divorce. He said children need the care of both parents. Earlier, in the day, when the judge presided over the first Division Bench along with Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee, a battery of lawyers commended him for his judgment on the plight of migrant workers who lost their lives on rail tracks and had to walk several hundred kilometres to reach their native places during the nationwide lockdown imposed to fight COVID-19 in 2020. They said, it was only after he took up the issue, it gained traction and was followed suit by the Supreme Court as well as other High Courts in the country. In that verdict, Justice Kirubakaran wrote: “One cannot control his/her tears after seeing the pathetic condition of migrant labourers shown in the media for the past one month. It is nothing but a human tragedy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-one-sc-bench-in-delhi-is-an-injustice-to-people-says-hc-judge/article36008926.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||10% of population fully vaccinated in Coimbatore||Around 3.9 lakh people received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccines in the district as per the statistics available in the Government of India’s CoWIN portal as of Thursday. With the district having a population of about 38 lakh, about 10% have been vaccinated fully. The portal showed that 16.53 lakh people received first jab as of Thursday evening. First and second dose together, the health facilities in the district administered a total of 20.45 lakh doses of vaccines to people. People aged between 18 and 44 received 10.20 lakh doses, followed by those aged between 45 and 60 who had 6.07 lakh doses. Health Department officials said the current focus was on ensuring vaccine availability to people who had their first dose and are due to take the second jab. “We are conducting special camps for those who are supposed to take their second dose of vaccine. They are given priority in general camps, too,” said P. Aruna, Deputy Director Health Services, Coimbatore. According to her, the district was currently getting adequate doses of vaccine to conduct regular camps. The department and the Coimbatore Corporation also conducted several special camps for the benefit of differently abled people and their dependents, government officials, health workers, police and conservancy workers. Another health official said that the new initiative of private hospitals administering vaccine free of cost to people through CSR funding was gaining momentum in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-of-population-fully-vaccinated-in-coimbatore/article36008941.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More women give statements against accused in Pollachi sexual assault case||More women have raised complaints before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case. The CBI informed the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, in July that eight women victims have given statements against the accused, said sources. The agency made the submission before the court to oppose the bail application by K. Arulanantham (34), a former functionary of AIADMK’s student wing at Pollachi. The court dismissed his bail plea. The AIADMK had expelled Arulanantham from the party following his arrest along with two others namely P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu (27) and Haronimus Paul (29), all hailing from Pollachi, on January 5 this year based on statements given by three women. As of January 25, five women had given statements against the accused. Three more women Three more women turned up against the accused after January as per the recent submission of the investigating agency. On August 11, the High Court rejected the bail of Arulanantham and directed the CBI to arrest all the persons involved in the case. It also directed the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, to begin the trial in the first week of September, conduct it on a day-to-day basis and complete in six months. The agency arrested M. Arunkumar of Kittasurampalayam near Pollachi on August 13 and named the ninth accused in the case. Arunkumar was the business partner of one of the five persons who were arrested first in the case in 2019, sources said. He was arrested based on the statements given by one of the survivors who recently turned up before the CBI against the group of men. N. Rishwanth (26) alias Sabarirajan, K. Thirunavukkarasu (28), N. Sathish (30), T. Vasanthakumar (25) and R. Manivannan (31) alias Mani are the five other accused who were first arrested by the State police in the case based on a complaint lodged by a 19-year-old college student from Pollachi in February 2019. The CBI took over the investigation in April 2019 and filed a chargesheet against the first five accused in May 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-women-give-statements-against-accused-in-pollachi-sexual-assault-case/article36009104.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Flower prices shoot up||With Varalakshmi Vratham and Onam, flower prices have shot up in Coimbatore though vegetable markets are seeing a slump in business. Traders at the flower market here said sales are up on Wednesday and Thursday. Prices of jasmine shot up to Rs. 2,400 a kg on Thursday, winter jasmine at Rs. 1200 a kg and chrysanthemum at Rs. 200 a kg. Arrivals from different flower growing centres have reduced because of COVID-19. Sales to Kerala is less by nearly 10 tonnes, the traders said. Meanwhile vegetable traders said the wholesale vegetable trade here is largely dependent on Kerala market. However, this year it is less than 10% of usual sales for Onam. “Last year, there was shortage in availability. This year, the availability is surplus,” says an onion wholesale dealer. Onam celebrations used to last for 10 days in Kerala. For the last 5-6 years, it is for three or four days. This year, the demand is low even for Onam day. “There is hardly any sales. It is not just the traders, but the farmers, too who are affected because of slump in demand,” he said. Vegetable demand from Kerala has dropped drastically because of COVID-19 and it has not improved for Onam too, the traders say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-prices-shoot-up/article36008940.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal interpretation centre, museum to come up at ATR||Authorities of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) are into a unique task apart from conserving its flora and fauna. Home to six ethnic tribes, ATR will soon have a tribal interpretation centre-cum-museum that will showcase their culture, life and history. Unused building A brainchild of I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) and Field Director of ATR, the interpretation centre will come up in an unused building of the Medicinal Plants Conservation Area at Topslip. A team led by Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Director of ATR, has started collecting artefacts and collections related to the lives of the six tribal communities of the tiger reserve, namely Kadar, Muduvar, Malasar, Malai Malasar, Eravalar and Pulayar. Culture and heritage “Apart from being a tiger reserve, ATR can also be called an anthropological reserve. Little work has been done so far to document the culture and heritage of ethnic tribes which the Forest Department has taken up now. Exhibits at the centre will showcase their rich culture, heritage and identity,” said E. Prasanth, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Pollachi Division of ATR. Landscape According to him, the centre will be a dedication to the tribes for their contribution to the landscape and for being the guardians of the forests. “Except Pulayars, the five other ethnic tribes do not depend on agriculture. They collect minor forest produces. They live in sync with nature leaving less carbon footprint. They live in small dwellings made of natural products,” said Mr. Prasanth. There are 35 settlements of these six ethnic tribes within the limits of ATR in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. Tribal activist S. Thanraj of Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu, welcomed the move and expressed the hope that the centre would highlight the rich heritage of the tribes in the region. Own language “In fact, they have been living in forests for centuries, coexisting with wild animals. They have their own language. Their rich heritage has to be highlighted and passed on to the non-Adivasis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-interpretation-centre-museum-to-come-up-at-atr/article36008948.ece
20 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tech startup for senior citizens launches service in Coimbatore||Alserv, which offers non-real estate based services to senior citizens, targets serving about 500 customer families in Coimbatore district by 2022. Jagadish Ramamoorthy, co-founder and director of Alserv, told The Hindu that the technology-based startup has roped in over 50 verified vendors to offer services under five broad categories - food and catering, housekeeping and maintenance, healthcare and medical, safety and security and concierge - for the elderly. Alserv caters to over 750 families in Chennai and launched its services in Coimbatore recently, he said. The services will be available at the houses of the senior citizens. While Coimbatore has a large number of retirement communities, there is a huge population of senior citizens living outside these communities in the district. The app-based services of Alserv can also be availed by dialling 044-46664888 or sending message on WhatsApp to 917397444888. Alserv plans to reach out to senior citizens in Tiruppur and Pollachi too, with its launch in Coimbatore, he said. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Alserv’s subscribers increased 500 % and the company launched several new services. The vendors and their service partners will be verified and ensure professional services, he added. Apart from Coimbatore, Alserv will expand to Kochi too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tech-startup-for-senior-citizens-launches-service-in-coimbatore/article36008935.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Namma Kovai’ website launched in Coimbatore||District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Thursday launchedwww.nammakovai.org, a website that will strive to meet the needs of the district by involving the public, voluntary organisations, and the industry. Namma Kovai, which started in 2016 as a WhatsApp group, brings together the officials, governmental organisations, trade and industry, voluntary organisations, and experts. The Collector pointed out that if there is a need or challenge in the district, some are met through government agencies and some through voluntary organisations. Namma Kovai bridges the two and has found solutions to several issues in the district, he said. The website will enable all those who want to help, serve the society come together and meet the needs that have been verified. It can be in the fields of education, health, skill development, etc. It will facilitate reaching of right support to the beneficiaries at the right time. Volunteers or those who want to contribute funds or other support to the district can log on and register or know the current requirements, he said. The Collector said that non-governmental organisations, industries and the public have contributed Rs. 42 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief for COVID-19 management. Further, with the CSR funds received through NGOs, vaccinations worth Rs. 1.2 crore have been given to the public. Mr. Sameeran also distributed sewing machines to 15 beneficiaries, handsets to 14 school children who lost their parents to COVID-19, and appointment orders to three women who lost their husbands to the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namma-kovai-website-launched/article36008938.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CPI to hold ‘People’s Parliament’||The CPI will organise a ‘People’s Parliament’ at 5,000 places in the State between August 23 and 27. CPI State Secretary R. Mutharasan said Parliament was adjourned every day during the recently concluded session. However, it was announced that 25 Bills had been passed. The Opposition parties wanted discussion on the three Farm Bills which the farmers are protesting against. They also wanted a discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue, petroleum prices and electricity bill. This could not be accepted. Hence, the CPI decided to organise the people’s Parliament. The sessions will start at 10 a.m., elect a Speaker, have debates and pass bills. This is to express public anger at the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-to-hold-peoples-parliament/article36008931.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Withdrawal of cases against farmer sought||Shops and establishments across Annur taluk remained shut from dawn to dusk on Thursday as the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam called for a protest seeking the withdrawal of cases against K. Gopalsamy, a farmer who was caught in a recent controversy at Ottarpalayam village office near here. The association wanted the police to withdraw two cases registered against Mr. Gopalsamy based on complaints lodged by former Ottarpalayal Village Administrative Officer (VAO) V. Kalaiselvi and Village Assistant (VA) P. Muthusamy. Mr. Gopalsamy was booked under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IPC on August 8, after a video of the VA, a Dalit, falling at his feet and apologising at the village office went viral. A week later, a second video which surfaced, showed Mr. Muthusamy assaulting Mr. Gopalsamy at the village office. People supporting Mr. Gopalsamy had claimed that the VA fell at the feet of Mr. Gopalsamy and apologised for having assaulted him. According to them, the VA later alleged that Mr. Gopalsamy forced him to fall at his feet and made casteist remarks against him, fearing legal action for the assault. The Annur police had booked Mr. Muthusamy for the assault on Mr. Gopalsamy. Representatives of the farmers association alleged that district police failed to conduct a proper investigation into the incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdrawal-of-cases-against-farmer-sought/article36008946.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Loan camp for MSMEs||The Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation is organising loan camp for MSMEs till August 27 at its offices on Nanjappa Road and Kurichi. According to a press release, details about government schemes and subsidies will also be explained at the camp. There will be 50 % concession in processing fees and complete processing fee waiver for NEEDS applications. UAN link The Employees Provident Fund Organisation has said that with effect from September 1, filing of electronic challan and return for payment of provident fund/pension contribution of the employees will be permitted only for employees whose UAN is linked and verified against the Aadhaar. Linking of UAN with Aadhaar is mandatory, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loan-camp-for-msmes/article36008947.ece
20 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI to hold ‘People’s Parliament’||The Communist Party of India (CPI) will organise a ‘People’s Parliament’ at 5,000 places in the State between August 23 and 27. CPI State Secretary R. Mutharasan told presspersons here on Thursday that Parliament was adjourned every day during the recently concluded session. Howver, it was announced that 25 Bills had been passed. The Opposition parties wanted discussion on the three Farms Bills which the farmers are protesting against. Similarly, they wanted dicussion on the Pegasus snooping issue, petroleum prices, and electricity Bill. This could not be accepted. Hence, the CPI has decided to organise the ‘People’s Parliament.’ The sessions, to be held at 200 places in Coimbatore, will start at 10 a.m., elect a ‘Speaker,’ have debates and pass ‘Bills’. This is to express the anger of the public against the government, he said. On Union Minister L. Murugan saying that farmers are not facing any issue, he said the farmers are protesting in Delhi because the power to determine the minimum support price will go to corporates and they will also stock the essential commodities. This will definitely affect the farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-to-organise-peoples-parliament-at-5000-places-in-state/article36008952.ece
20 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in Bhavani||A woman and her daughter drowned in river Bhavani on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as S. Sanguvathi (50) and her daughter J. Kavitha (30) from Govindasamy Nagar, near Mettupalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown-in-bhavani/article36008943.ece
20 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs one death||Cuddalore district reported one more COVID-19 death and 50 new cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 61,719. The district saw 60,200 recoveries and 692 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 34 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 44,447. Kallakurichi district recorded 27 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 29,788.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-one-death/article36009448.ece
20 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to apply for solar powered motors||Farmers are invited to migrate to solar energy powered farm motors under the PM-KUSUM scheme in the district. Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Uttan Mahabhiyan Scheme (PM-KUSUM) envisions enabling farmers to migrate to solar power. To encourage farmers to use solar power as an alternative source of energy, the scheme funded by the Center and the State, with farmer’s contribution entails migrating of farm motors linked to the Tamil Nadu State Electricity Corporation to solar energy. The scheme is jointly implemented by the Tangedco, Tamil Nadu Renewable Energy Development Agency, and Agricultural Engineering Department. Subsidy The scheme provides for 30% as Central subsidy, 30% as State subsidy and 40% as farmer’s share. Of the farmer’s share, 30% financial assistance through banks will also be provided. The solar energy generated shall provide an annual income of Rs. 40,000. According to the administration, this includes Rs. 2.28 per unit of energy generated with an annual income of Rs. 33,858 and an incentive of Rs. 0.50 paise per unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-asked-to-apply-for-solar-powered-motors/article36009095.ece
20 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||Applications are invited from students belonging to Backward Classes, and denotified communities for higher education scholarship. The State government has announced scholarship scheme for students pursuing higher education in the central universities and institutions of excellence including the IITs, IIMs, IIITs, NID, and other institutions. According to the administration, students belonging to Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes, denotified communities and pursuing higher education in any of institutions of learning are eligible to apply for annual scholarships of Rs. 2 lakh. Students whose annual family income does not exceed Rs. 2 lakh are eligible to apply for the current fiscal of 2021-22. Applications may be sent with a bona fide certificate from the institution to the Director, Backward Class Welfare Board, Ezhilagam, II floor, Chennai -5 (ph: 044-28551462) ortngovtiitscholarsip@gmail. comby November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited/article36009094.ece
20 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Mini-forests in all panchayat unions in Dindigul within a year: Collector||Within about a year, the district administration has ambitious plans to cover all panchayat unions with mini-forest, said Collector S. Visagan here on Thursday. Speaking at Vedasandur after launching the concept of establishing a mini-forest by planting 432 saplings in 2,152 square feet of area in E Sithur village under the Miyawaki method, the Collector said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced plans to enhance the forest cover in the State. Keeping this in mind, the Dindigul district administration would expand its green cover in a phased manner and thus contribute to the State’s afforestation plans, he added. The Collector also planted saplings in Kulathur in Vedasandur block with 401 saplings in 2,025 sq ft. Officials said the entire area had been fenced and water for the saplings would be provided from the neighbouring water bodies established exclusively for the mini-forest programme. The Miyawaki concept of raising mini-forest was catching up fast across many districts now, the Collector said and urged the people to raise saplings such as Vembu, teak, Marudam, Vilwa, lemon, gooseberry and among others. Mr Visagan said the pits for each of the saplings had adequate organic manure which would be capable of raising the plants in a healthy way. Additional Collector S. Dinesh Kumar and other officials said that in a month's time, they planned to raise trees in 100 spots and, in about a year's time, mini-forest would be covering 1,000 locations in the district. They appealed to the residents to join the programme in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-forests-in-all-panchayat-unions-in-dindigul-within-a-year-collector/article36009059.ece
20 August 2021||Hassan,TAMIL NADU||18 calves die in mishap||Eighteen calves died when a vehicle they were being carried in met with an accident at Dyavappanahalli near Halebid in Belur taluk early morning on Thursday. The vehicle, which carried 41 calves, hit an electric pole. The local people, who noticed the incident, informed the police. The driver had immediately left the place. Belur MLA K.S. Lingesh, who also visited the spot, called up senior officers. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish and Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda visited the spot on Thursday morning. The DC appealed to the public to hand over the calves to the goshalas if they could not look after them. “There are two goshalas in the district. Nobody should sell the calves to slaughterhouses”, he said. Regarding the incident, he said 18 calves were killed and 23 had been rescued. Halebid Police have registered a case against Paramesh of Gandasi in Arsikere taluk, who owned the vehicle, on charges of transporting cattle without taking clearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-calves-die-in-mishap/article36008751.ece
20 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Fodder development scheme to be implemented on 40 acre in Krishnagiri||The State Fodder Development Scheme for 2020-21 was inaugurated by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy in Pillanakuppam village at Shoolagiri here on Thursday. Grazing fields The scheme envisions creating grazing fields with fodder cropping to enable grazing of livestock. It entails levelling of lands over an expanse of 40 acre under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Under this, land is levelled, mud bunds are set up and fodder is cropped using the MNREGS workforce. The scheme is being jointly implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry and the Rural Development Agency. It aims at creating self-sufficiency in fodder and provides for local access and availability. Under the scheme, 40 acre has been proposed to be brought under fodder cropping for the current fiscal in Krishnagiri. This includes 5 acre at Begepalli village in Hosur, 25 acre at Reddypatti village in Vanipatty panchayat, Mathur block and 10 acre at Pillanakuppam village in Vepanapalli block. Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, K. Malarvizhi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fodder-development-scheme-to-be-implemented-on-40-acre-in-krishnagiri/article36009097.ece
20 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||POCSO cases on the rise during pandemic period||COVID-19 pandemic outbreak and the subsequent lockdowns have resulted in an increase in the number of child abuse cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Data obtained from the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) show a 36.5% increase in the number of POCSO cases registered in the first seven months of 2021 when compared with the cases recorded in the whole of last year. CWC member-cum-bench magistrate L. Shanmugam said the increase might be due to two reasons: firstly, children were spending a lot of time in their homes and were exposed to sexual abuse by friends, neighbours or relatives; and secondly, their increased usage of mobile phones leading to harassment through or using social media. “In the last six months, there have been several POCSO cases in which children aged under 18 were exposed to sexual abuse or harassment via the social media. Children, particularly girls, are targeted in such crimes,” said Mr. Shanmugam. Another member, B. Pandiaraja, said girls who felt alone started interacting with strangers without knowing their bad intentions, met them and got abused. At a time when crimes against children were increasing, it had also been difficult to keep children glued to online classes throughout the day. Child Rights activist C. Jim Jesudoss is of the opinion that the pandemic has exposed children to the adult world and its complexities. “The vulnerability of children to such crimes has definitely increased in this period. If both parents are employed, children are left alone to take care of themselves. Deeper studies can be done to see if the pandemic has resulted in more sexual abuse cases against children,” he added. Better awareness among the people and consequent reporting of more cases might be another reason for the increase in POCSO cases, he added. Apart from POCSO Act crimes, child victims of abandonment, trafficking, prostitution, child labour, child marriage and drug abuse are brought to the CWC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pocso-cases-on-the-rise-during-pandemic-period/article36009106.ece
20 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||ADGP reviews law and order situation||Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) P. Thamarai Kannan reviewed law and order situation in Madurai and its neighbouring districts on Thursday. Mr. Thamarai Kannan held a review meeting at the City Police Office with Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha and other officers. Later, he held a similar meeting at the office of Inspector General of Police (South Zone), in which IGP T.S. Anbu and Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, N. Kamini (Madurai) and Vijayakumari (Dindigul) took part. The ADGP also held discussions on bandobust arrangements proposed for Vinayaka Chaturthi and tyagi Immanuel Sekaran memorial day. Superintendents of Police from Madurai, Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Theni took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adgp-reviews-law-and-order-situation-in-madurai/article36009075.ece
20 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure multi-level narcotic checks in prisons: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to ensure multi-level checking to prevent narcotic substances getting inside prisons by providing modern facilities and using trained sniffer dogs. The court passed the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed in 2019 by Aseervatham of People’s Watch, Madurai. He sought a probe into the agitation staged by 25 remand prisoners at Madurai Central Prison on April 23, 2019. The Madurai District Legal Services Authority conducted a preliminary inquiry and submitted a report to the High Court stating that the agitation was staged due to inadequate supply of water for bathing, cleaning and toilet use. The report said the ill-treatment meted out to prisoners by authorities during searches for narcotic substances and mobile phones was another reason for the agitation. No prisoner sustained any serious injury in the agitation. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar passed a series of directions to prevent such incidents. The court took note of the fact that the situation was now under control. Apart from the multi-level checking, the court directed that the inmates could be checked/searched for possession of drugs by trained staff. The inmates could be called to a cell installed with CCTV camera and the search operation could be videographed. Water for drinking and other purposes should be provided adequately. J udicial officers, who visited prisons, should record the adequacy of water supply and management. There should be no human rights violation, the judges said. The judges observed that the judicial officers should conduct random enquiry on every visit to the prison to make a remark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-multi-level-narcotic-checks-in-prisons-hc/article36009090.ece
20 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘When representation is given in English, reply too should be in English’||When a representation is given in English, it is the duty of the Union government to give the reply only in English, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed. The High Court Bench has directed the Centre to strictly follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act and Rules. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and M. Duraiswamy on Thursday observed that under Article 350 of the Constitution a person was entitled to submit representation to an authority in any language used in India. One could understand the importance of languages as States were reorganised based on language. Importance should be given to the mother tongue, the judges said. Many languages in India were in existence for over thousand years. Therefore, governments should take steps to preserve and develop languages, the judges said. The court was hearing a petition filed in 2020 by Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan. The MP had sought a direction to the Centre to ensure that all communications between the Centre and Tamil Nadu should only be in English. He was upset over a reply sent to him in Hindi by a Union Minister of State. Mr. Venkatesan had sought a reply from the Centre as to why there were no examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the recruitment of paramedical staff in the CRPF. He said he was shocked to receive the reply in Hindi, which he did not understand. Centre response The Centre had informed the court that the communication was inadvertently sent in Hindi. There would not be any violation of the Official Languages Act and Rules in the future, it submitted. Taking note of the submission, the court directed the Union government to strictly follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act and Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-representation-is-given-in-english-reply-too-should-be-in-english/article36009081.ece
20 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Picking of lots for RTE seats begins||The first round of picking lots for entry-level admissions for underprivileged children in private schools under RTE (Right To Education) Act began at several schools in the district on Thursday. A total of 18,347 applications were received from 5,525 students. Many of them had applied for multiple schools in their locality. A government school headmaster who supervised the lot picking at Sri Aurobindo Mira Matriculation Higher Secondary School said, “Students who are orphaned, physically-challenged, HIV-affected, transgenders and children of sanitary workers are given preference. Though details regarding this is available in their applications, we confirm it with the parents before picking the lots. If the house of the student is beyond one km away from the school, the application is rejected.” At this particular school, 65 people had applied for eight entry-level seats. So names of eight students were picked from the lot, and an additional five names were also picked to keep them in waiting list in case someone does not make use of the available seat. One of the parents, R. Seenivasan, who got admission for his daughter at the school, was elated. He said that he came from an underprivileged background and this seat meant a lot to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/picking-of-lots-for-rte-seats-begin-in-private-schools/article36009341.ece
20 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Erect statue of TMS in Madurai’||Madurai South MLA M. Boominathan has appealed to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to install a life-size statue for renowned playback singer T. M. Soundararajan, popularly known as TMS, in Madurai. In his maiden speech at the Legislative Assembly, copies of which were released to the media on Thursday, Mr. Boominathan said that the singer had been honoured by the Union government by giving him a Padmashree award, and by the State government with Kalaimamani award. A commemorative stamp and a cover were also released in his memory in 2016. “TMS was born in Madurai in a Sourashtra family. He has fans across the world since he captivated the global audience with his innumerable songs, particularly those sung for the late veterans Sivaji and MGR, for over four decades. As a mark of respect and a fitting tribute, the State government should install a life-size statue for the singer around the famous Thirumalai Naick Palace, as it would be the suitable location, for he lived in the vicinity, the MLA said. The MLA appealed for construction of an elevated corridor between Anna Statue and St. Mary's Church on the East Veli Street. The stretch had become highly congested due to burgeoning vehicular traffic. All vehicles bound for many southern districts such as Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi and Madurai airport used this stretch, Mr. Boominathan said. After 25 years, the Rising Sun - the party symbol of the DMK, had emerged victorious from the Madurai South Assembly Constituency for which he thanked the voters, the alliance partners and the MDMK party supremo Vaiko and his son Durai Vaiko. The MDMK contested in the DMK's symbol here and Mr. Boominathan defeated the sitting AIADMK MLA S. S. Saravanan. A loyalist of Mr. Vaiko, Mr. Boominathan, who is the party's urban district secretary, said that he wished to get ‘patta’ for 300-odd tribal families in his constituency. They had been living for over 40 years in Anuppanadi and hoped the government would accord permission for classification of the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erect-statue-of-playback-singer-tms-in-madurai/article36009076.ece
20 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Shift Tamil documents, estampages to Chennai: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Ministry of Culture and the Archaeological Survey of India to shift all Tamil documents and estampages preserved in its epigraphy branch in Mysore to the branch in Chennai in six months. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and M. Duraiswamy also directed the Centre and ASI to name the epigraphy branch of the Archaeological Survey of India in Chennai as the epigraphy branch-Tamil. The court directed the State government to provide adequate infrastructure to the epigraphy branch in Chennai. Further, the judges directed ASI to appoint the required number of epigraphists and other officials as per the number of inscriptions in each language. PIL petitions The court was hearing a batch of PIL petitions that sought a direction to the Centre and the ASI to shift Tamil documents and estampages of inscriptions at the epigraphy branch in Mysore to the one in Chennai. The petitioners said the estampages were not adequately protected. The petitions were disposed of with the direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shift-tamil-documents-estampages-to-chennai/article36008933.ece
20 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Action against computer centres misusing citizen login facilities’||The Namakkal district administration has warned of stern action against private computer centres misusing citizen login of the government’s digital services. In a release, District Collector Shreya P. Singh said it had come to their notice that a few private computer centres were found getting applications from the public for various digital services offered by the government and applications were being made through the citizen login facility. Various irregularities were found in these applications and higher rates were charged by agents from the public for getting these services. The district administration advised the public to visit e-service centres authorised by the government to apply for various digital certificates and for other digital services.  The public can send complaints regarding higher charges totnesevaihelpdesk@tn.gov.inor contact toll-free numbers 18004251333 and 18004251997. The district administration warned of stern action against private computer centres applying through the citizen login facility or for placing hoardings of providing these services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/computer-centres-warned/article36008950.ece
20 August 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Focus on high-density cotton cultivation||Cotton farmers have been sensitised to benefits of mechanised sowing of high-density planting system and pesticide spraying by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s research station at Vepppanthattai. The high-density system involving raising of five to 10 plants per square metre will improve yield and suit mechanised harvesting. For sowing under high density with good precision, pneumatic seed drill may be effectively used, said S. Somasundaram Head of Cotton Research Station. In the four-row configurated seed drill, the row spacing is adjustable. It can sow both cotton and corn, the dominant crops of this region. According to Elumalai, Deputy Director of Agriculture, mechanisation of cotton farming is a must to increase the area under cultivation in Perambalur-Ariyalur districts. Mechanical sowing and spraying will result in saving 30% of labour in cotton cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-high-density-cotton-cultivation/article36009042.ece
20 August 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC outlets told to install CCTV cameras||The Prohibition and Enforcement Wing of the Police organised a meeting with the supervisors of all TASMAC liquor outlets in the district here on Thursday driving home certain measures to be taken by them. The meeting was conducted on the instruction of the Superintendent of Police S. Mani. Speaking on the occasion, Additional Superintendent of Police, Prohibition and Enforcement Wing A. Sujatha also asked the TASMAC officials to ensure personal distancing at the liquor outlets in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and desist from selling liquor to those below 18 years of age. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-outlets-told-to-install-cctv-cameras/article36009047.ece
20 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No respite from traffic snarls in Puducherry||Choked junctions, bumper-to-bumper traffic, and complete chaos on main thoroughfares are a common sight for road users in the coastal town. Even as the traffic congestion has reached abysmal proportions on the national highways passing through the town over the years, the territorial administration is yet to come out with any concrete solution. Poor traffic management coupled with haphazard development and lack of coordinated planning on the part of concerned departments has been contributing to the chaotic traffic scenario in Puducherry. Puducherry has four arterial roads - Tindivanam Road, Villupuram Road, Cuddalore Road, and the East Coast Road. The coastal town's unplanned development in the last 10 years combined with the mushrooming growth of residential colonies and business outlets on almost all the roads are cited as one of the main reasons for congestion. The absence of Bypass Road and Outer Ring Roads has also resulted in the outbound traffic entering Puducherry and choking traffic, residents say. The Indira Gandhi square and Rajiv Gandhi square are the most congested places due to the lack of a link road and encroachment of road space for haphazard parking of vehicles. "A case in point is the 100-feet-Road. The stretch from Pakkamudayanpet to Muruga theatre junction remains the most congested due to the misuse of road space for parking vehicles. Buses and tempos encroach on the carriageway, resulting in heavy traffic jams. To mitigate the traffic problem, successive governments announced that a flyover will be constructed. However, the project still remains on paper," said an urban planner. The situation is similar at the Indira Gandhi square, which is a major transit point for people travelling to the northern districts of Tamil Nadu or are entering Puducherry. “Both sides of the road are encroached upon by shopkeepers who have extended their business to the roadsides, shrinking road space. The stretch from Nellithope junction to Reddiyarpalayam experiences traffic snarls even during non-peak hours,” says A. Arasu Kumar, a resident of Kamban Nagar. In 2019, the Traffic police in association with the Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE) had initiated an exercise to improve the flow of traffic through important intersections and signals in the town. Though IRTE had suggested various measures it was not properly implemented. IRTE had also suggested establishment of a traffic management committee,which should have an inclusive role for traffic police, say sources. In Puducherry, almost 90% of the signages are erroneous and of poor quality or absent. This too has been adding to the traffic chaos, according to a study. According to an official, “The Government has proposed the construction of a grade separator at the Indira Gandhi square and Rajiv Gandhi square to ensure smooth flow of traffic. A consultant will be appointed shortly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-respite-from-traffic-snarls-in-puducherry/article36009454.ece
20 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Teaching science to rural students is ennobling: awardee||Imparting science education to rural students in government schools is the most ennobling aspect of the profession, says Jayasundhar V., a science teacher in the Government Middle School in Manapet, who is among the recipients of the National Awards to Teachers, 2021. Mr. Jayasundhar, who figured in the list of 44 awardees released by the Ministry of Education on Wednesday, bagged the honour from a short list of 155 applicants from across the country. The teacher says the inspiration to turn to teaching as well as a strong service orientation came from his father, a Tamil teacher at Jeevanandam Higher Secondary School, who regarded teaching as a Godly endeavour where the number of hours you put in or the salary you get were irrelevant. “When students from underprivileged families come to the classroom with full faith in you, you need to give them as much as you can,” he said. Helping students In an informal way, Mr. Jayasundhar had been helping government school students of the neighbourhood struggling with science subjects until he decided in 2006 to turn professional by acquiring a B. Ed. After a three-year stint in Achariya School, he has since been serving in various government schools in the outlying regions, and has handled classes up to tenth. At the Middle School he teaches for students in Classes six to eight. He finds it extremely satisfying that for three years the students at the Government Higher Secondary School in Karaiyamputhur scored centums in science in their SSLC examinations. Recognition at fests Later, his students at the Chedilal Government High School, Abishegapakkam, got recognition for their science projects in competitions at the national level and also at the Faites de la Science competition, conducted by the University of Paris, South 11, Orsay. Since the news broke on Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Jayasundhar has been receiving felicitations from the Education Department officials and a flood of congratulatory messages from friends and well-wishers. It will be another proud moment for him when President Ram Nath Kovind honours the 44 selected teachers on Teachers' Day on September 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teaching-science-to-rural-students-is-ennobling-awardee/article36009451.ece
20 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Plan to improve PRTC efficiency, says Minister||Measures are being initiated to improve the overall efficiency of the Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Transport Minister Chandira Priyanga has said. The Minister, who undertook an inspection of the PRTC depot on Wednesday, said the visit was primarily to take stock of the priorities and shortcomings that needed to be tackled to generate more revenue and put the loss-making PSU back on the road to profitability. “One of the first steps is the preparation of an inventory database,” she said. The Minister who interacted with all levels of PRTC employees during the visit, also took note of their grievances. She also stressed the need for greater coordination across levels of employees and enhancing productivity. “We are working out a revival plan that will focus on improving staff productivity and re-evaluate poorly patronised routes to raise revenue and improve the overall performance of PRTC,” Ms. Priyanga said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-improve-prtc-efficiency-says-minister/article36009446.ece
20 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Notification for Deputy Speaker's post likely to be issued tomorrow||The notification calling for filing of nominations for the Deputy Speaker's post is likely to be issued on August 21. An official source told The Hindu that the notification is under preparatory stage and in most likelihood will be issued on Saturday. The last date for filing of nomination papers will be August 25. The election (if there is more than one candidate) will be held on the first day of the budget session of the Assembly. The post is likely to go to the All India N. R Congress in the National Democratic Alliance after Bharatiya Janata Party secured the Speaker's post in the power sharing agreement during government formation after the Assembly poll. A source in AINRC said the names of three legislators, including that of a former Minister was being considered for the Deputy Speaker's post. Meanwhile, as announced by Speaker R. Selvam earlier, the Assembly Secretariat on Thursday issued a notification re-convening the house on August 26. A notification issued by the Assembly Secretary R. Mounissamy said the house will assemble at 9.30 a. m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/notification-for-deputy-speakers-post-likely-to-be-issued-tomorrow/article36009449.ece
20 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 134 new cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 134 new cases on Thursday. Karaikal recorded the fatality to take the cumulative toll to 1,806. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,429), Karaikal (232), Yanam (105) and Mahe (40). Puducherry accounted for 86 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,487 tests, followed by Karaikal (19), Yanam (6) and Mahe (23). The test positivity rate was 2.44%, case fatality rate 1.47% and recovery rate 97.74%. With 95 patients posting recovery, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 971 – 172 patients were in hospitals and 799 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,22,676 cases against 1,19,899 recovered patients. Of an estimated 15.96 lakh tests administered so far, over 13.54 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,102 persons took the jab in the last 24 hours across the U.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-134-new-cases/article36009447.ece
20 August 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Light engine trial conducted on Pamban bridge||Trial run of a light engine was conducted on the century-old Pamban rail bridge after the completion of the strengthening work which was undertaken recently. Rail traffic on the bridge was suspended from July 15 to enable the strengthening work after the continuous health monitoring system installed in the iron bridge raised an alarm. “Strengthening work has been completed on the main membranes and as part of investigation, a light engine was run on the bridge. The reading of the sensors installed on the bridge would be studied by experts of IIT-Madras for further course of action,” a railway official said. Suspension of train services on the bridge would continue till September 14, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-engine-trial-conducted-on-pamban-bridge/article36009078.ece
20 August 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Armed gang from Vellore district held in Ramanathapuram||An armed gang from Vellore district, which was waiting in a vehicle near the railway station here, was detained by police on Thursday. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the gang carriedweapons, including two knives, Rs. 1 lakh in cash and two monkey caps, among other things. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik said questioning revealed that they had indulged in waylaying and robberies in several districts including Chennai. It has come to light that in March last, the gang waylaid and robbed Rs. 20 lakh from a motorist here at Ramanathapuram railway station Further investigation was on. Sub-Inspector Ramachandran said the accused were identified as Syed Mohamed Backer, 47, of Keelakarai and his accomplices from Vellore included Rahim, 32, Karthik, 41, Ibrahim, 44 and Robert John Kennedy, 30. As the cash waylaid from the motorist was suspected to be hawala money, there was no complaint, he replied and added that the vehicle bearing Vellore district plate was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-gang-from-vellore-district-held-in-ramanathapuram/article36009073.ece
20 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Flower prices soar for Onam, other festivities||The prices of flower varieties have increased many-fold for Onam festival and other festivities during the end of the week. The Salem flower market had been buzzing with crowd and the prices of various flower varieties that would be used for making flower carpet, a customary part of the Onam festival, had gone up by three times, flower traders here said. However, supply to market had reduced and less quantities were being sent to Kerala compared to previous years, they added. C. Chakravarthy, a flower trader, said the price of jasmine had gone upto Rs. 1,800-Rs. 2,000 a kg. Likewise, the price of other jasmine varieties was close to Rs. 1,000. The price of lilies had increased to Rs. 400 and the price of samanthi varieties are between Rs. 120-Rs. 400, he said. Button rose cost up to Rs. 400 and the price of rose varieties from Bengaluru had increased to Rs. 400, he said. Mr. Chakravarthy said though the prices had gone up, supply to the market was poor. He added that festivals like Muharam, wedding muhurtham, Varalakshmi puja and Onam festivities had caused increase in prices at least two-fold compared to previous week. Traders said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, farmers did not cultivate in large quantities this year fearing another lockdown affecting the sales. Another trader said the supply to Kerala had reduced due to COVID-19 restrictions. Only four-five tonnes of flowers were sent from here while generally, up to 20 tonnes of flowers would be sent to Kerala for Onam. The traders also lamented that due to increase in prices, the public were buying flowers in low quantities. Raju, president of VOC Market flower traders association, said the recent rain had affected the arrival of flowers to the market and added that the COVID-19 restrictions in Kerala had reduced sales for Onam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-prices-soar-for-onam-other-festivities/article36009100.ece
20 August 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||12 nursing students test positive||Atleast 12 nursing students at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital have tested positive for COVID-19. According to Hospital authorities, the classes for nursing students of all batches began this week. The third year students were engaged in non-COVID-19 duties. One of the students complained of symptoms on Tuesday and the samples were collected from 19 students who came in contact with the student. Ten students tested positive and they are undergoing treatment at GMKMCH. In the tests conducted to contacts of these students across batches, two more students tested positive and they are also undergoing treatment at GMKMCH. According to hospital authorities, the patients are recovering well. Hospital authorities said that students have been advised to follow all standard safety protocols issued by the State government. Persons, who came in contact with the students, have been quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-nursing-students-from-salem-test-positive-for-covid-19/article36008949.ece
20 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stray dogs to be sterilised in Salem||The Salem Corporation is planning to sterilise 400 stray dogs a month at its facility near Ammapet here. In a release, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj said there had been complaints of stray dogs causing inconvenience to motorists and the public. At the Corporation’s sterlisation centre near Ammapet, there were facilities to sterilise 120 dogs a month. The number would be increased to 400 and 10 new shelters would be arranged for stray dogs at the centre. All the dogs would be released into respective areas safely after the procedure. The civic body was taking all measures to control the stray dog population, Mr. Christuraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-dogs-to-be-sterilised-in-salem/article36009102.ece
20 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 third wave: panel formed to assess facilities||The district administration has formed a four-member committee to assess infrastructure at the healthcare centres here for a likely COVID-19 third wave. The committee has P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital among other Health Department staff. According to officials, the committee will assess the infrastructure available at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, taluk hospitals, PHCs and other healthcare centres for availability of oxygen cylinders, concentrators, beds and safety gear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-third-wave-panel-formed-to-assess-facilities/article36009086.ece
20 August 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||A man identified as Raja of Aranthangi in Pudukottai district was held by Karaikudi police on Thursday. Police said Raja was engaged in the business of organising weddings in Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts. He had women staff members. It is alleged that he forced some of them to consume liquor and indulge in sex with his friends and others. When the matter came to light, other staff roughed up Raja and the video went viral on social media. As the information reached police, Sivaganga SP Senthil Kumar directed Karaikudi DSP Vinoji to probe. A policeman, who was seen shouting at the accused also went viral on social media and drew comments comparing the video with Pollachi sexual abuse scam. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article36009070.ece
20 August 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance driver escapes leaving body after collision||A private ambulance driver, who was transporting a dead body from Manamadurai Government Hospital to Melapeedavur in Sivaganga district, lost control of the vehicle and hit a stationary fire tender near Thayamangalam Road here on Thursday. The ambulance driver, Ajit Kumar, escaped from the spot leaving the body inside the vehicle. The collision resulted in three fire fighters suffering injuries and they were admitted to Sivaganga Government Hospital. Police said the firefighters, Markandan, 28, Vinod Kannan, 29, and Selva Ganapathi, 29, had just finished their meal in a restaurant and were about to leave for the fire station when the collision occured. Police shifted the body to another ambulance. A hunt was on to arrest the absconding driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulance-driver-escapes-leaving-body-after-collision/article36009071.ece
20 August 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Women's College bags award||Principal of Thassim Beevi Abdul Kader College for Women S. Summayya has received the ‘Green Champion’ award from Collector J .U. Chandrakala. At a recent workshop, the college was chosen for its performance in areas such as sanitation, hygiene, water and waste management and importance of conserving energy, a press release said here on Thursday. The objective was to make the district clean er and greener, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-college-bags-award/article36009072.ece
20 August 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||It is raining medals for Sivakasi children at national event||Children from Sivakasi have bagged several medals in Silambam events at the 4th National Championship 2021-22 held at Amritsar. Among them were two sisters, S. Ashwini Priya and S. Hemalatha, who won gold medals in different events for under 17 and under 12 categories respectively. Inspired by a neighbour, the girls have been practising silambam for seven years. “When we expressed our desire to learn the Tamil martial arts, our parents readily put us in an academy. Silambam has helped us keep healthy and physically fit,” said Ashwini Priya. Like the sisters, S. Abinaya, a Class X student, and Latika, a Class XI student, too have been practising silambam at the academy every evening. ‘Gives us confidence’ “It gives us confidence and courage,” said Latika. These girls have bagged silver and bronze medals respectively in under 17 category. They displayed their talent in stick rolling and double stick rotation. The speed and style mattered in the event that lasted two minutes, said silambam master K. Prabhakaran. The students of one academy have secured 16 medals at the event organised by Youth and Sports Development Association of Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-raining-medals-for-sivakasi-children-at-national-event/article36009083.ece
20 August 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||32.6 tonnes of ration rice seized||In a major seizure, Revenue officials on Thursday seized around 32,600 kg of ration rice stocked in a godown near Maraneri. Acting on a tip-off, the officials, led by Sub-Collector, Sivakasi, M. Birathiviraj, raided the godown on Bodireddipatti Road near Maraneri. The officials found that around 464 bags of ration rice, each weighing around 50 kg, were stocked there. Around 150 kg of wheat was also found. The officials also found a number of bags, with ‘Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation’ tags, raising suspicion that the bags were directly smuggled from ration shops. The rice would be taken to the TNCSC godown where the actual quantity would be ascertained. Two persons fled from the godown upon seeing the team. “We have seized a four-wheeler and a two-wheeler. We have alerted the police to investigate,” Mr. Birathiviraj said. Enquiries revealed that the godown, belonging to an individual Ayyanar, had been rented out to some other person. Sivakasi Tahsildar, Rajakumar, Taluk Supply Officer, R. Jayapandian, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-seize-326-tonnes-of-ration-rice-in-sivakasi/article36009057.ece
20 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Free travel for women finds many takers||Free travel concession offered to female passengers in town services operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam Division, is said to have been utilised well by beneficiaries for short-distance commuting to their workplace or personal reasons. On an average, a little over 1.25 lakh women passengers per day were utilising these services operated by the TNSTC, Kumbakonam Division, in 12 districts in Central Tamil Nadu. The patronage is likely to increase further once normal life returns after the containment of COVID-19 virus pandemic, official sources said. Meanwhile, trade union representatives are sceptical about the continuance of the gratis travel for women as they fear that such sops would only aggravate the financial position of the Corporation which was already looking up to the State government for allocation of funds to ensure normal functioning both in terms of operation of bus services and fulfilling the financial obligation to the workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-travel-for-women-finds-many-takers/article36009035.ece
20 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Health workers honoured||The 100% COVID-19 vaccination at a hamlet near Kumbakonam seems to have eluded the attention of the District Health Department officials but the local body chief honoured the health workers for their efforts at the Village Panchayat Office on Thursday. According to P. Jayakumar, village panchayat president of Cholanmaligai near Kumbakonam, the health department staff had ensured that all those eligible to receive the jab had been covered recently. A total of 1,950 persons residing in the panchayat have been administered with the vaccine, he claimed. As efforts put in by the staff has failed to attract the attention of the district-level officials, a function to honour the field staff was organised by the panchayat on Thursday to keep up the morale of the COVID-19 field-level warriors, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-honoured/article36009037.ece
20 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Delay in relaying of roads irks residents||Delay in relaying roads that were dug up for laying underground drainage pipes at Banathurai in Kumbakonam town is said to have driven the residents to stage a demonstration on Wednesday. Several streets in the area were dug to lay underground sewage network system a year ago and they have not been relaid for several months. When residents approached the civic body a few days ago with a plea to relay roads before the onset of monsoon, they were informed by the officials that the work would be taken up soon as necessary funds had already been allotted for the work. Meanwhile, the Banathurai Keezha Veethi, Mela Veethi, Sannathi Street, Vadakku Veethi and Pathukattu Street got inundated in the showers that lashed the town recently. Hence, on Thursday a group of residents staged a symbolic ‘nursery transplanting’ demonstration on these streets to highlight their plight. However, they were pacified by the civic body and police officials. Traders of Therkku Veethi in Thanjavur approached the Thanjavur Corporation seeking relaying of a road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-relaying-of-roads-irks-residents/article36009036.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||24-hour drive-through vaccination centre a hit||The State’s first drive-through vaccination centre got off to a rousing start at Government College for Women here on Thursday. The round-the-clock facility that enables people to receive COVID-19 vaccine from their vehicles has found much acceptance. While all the 500 vaccine doses allotted for the initial day were administered, 4,000 vaccination slots for the next four days were fully booked within 20 minutes of being opened on the CoWIN portal. Arranged on the spacious campus, the centre has separate counters for verification, vaccination, and observation. While spot registration is not available, people can choose time slots from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Flexibility too District Collector Navjot Khosa said those who had registered online would receive the vaccine even after 5 p.m., thereby providing a degree of flexibility. Volunteers and health workers have been deployed to cater to such requirements. Those arriving at the facility will not be required to step out of their vehicles. They can opt to undergo the 30-minute observation period after vaccination either in their vehicles or at the observation counter. Official sources said the college, situated at the heart of the city, provided an advantage through its proximity to major hospitals. While a medical team has been stationed at the centre, ambulances have been kept on standby to transport anyone developing allergic reaction to the Government Women and Children’s Hospital nearby. An oxygen war room is also functioning on the campus. To other districts Dr. Khosa said the district administration had been focusing on innovative methods to boost vaccine coverage. While it had managed to distribute the vaccine to large numbers through its mass vaccination drive at the Jimmy George indoor stadium in February, the drive-through facility would expedite the process. The centre is aimed at intensifying the vaccination drive during the Onam holidays. Health Minister Veena George, who took stock of the arrangements at the centre, said the drive-through facility will be extended to other districts, if found successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-hour-drive-through-vaccination-centre-a-hit/article36008758.ece
20 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Vilathikulam GH gets oxygen facility||Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi on Thursday inaugurated an oxygen facility at Vilathikulam Government Hospital in the district. Ms. Kanimozhi said the new facility to save critically ill patients had been created on an outlay of Rs. 42 lakh of which Rs. 38 lakh was sponsored by Ekam Foundation under its corporate social responsibility. It had 60 oxygen-supported beds, suction pipe, alarm system and six beds for intensive care unit. “This is the first time in Tamil Nadu that a peripheral taluk hospital has been equipped with oxygen-supported beds with suction pipe. Since each cylinder has a capacity of 6,000 litres, the 22 cylinders installed at the hospital will come in handy in saving critically ill patients. At the same time, it will ease pressure on Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, which is playing a great role in saving COVID-19 patients,” she said. Collector K. Senthil Raj, who accompanied the MP, said all 60 beds at the facility were connected to a centralised oxygen supply unit through 8X8 manifold D type cylinders and six remote-controlled ICU cots with 2X2 manifold D type connection. The project was funded by Protec software and Kaleeswari Refineries CSR funding routed through Ekam Foundation. “This hospital has also been equipped with ECG, X-ray, blood autoanalyser, reverse osmosis plant, reception point and other facilities for COVID-19 treatment,” Dr. Senthil Raj said. He thanked Additional Director General of Police A.K. Viswanathan for channelising the CSR funds for the initiative. Strengthening the peripheral hospital for COVID-19 management was part of the strategy to face the anticipated third wave of the viral infection. It would ensure better and swift treatment of patients from peripheral areas, avoid overcrowding at medical college and district headquarter hospitals and need to transport patients for long distances, enable early hospitalisation and ensure quality of treatment at doorstep, thereby prevent morbidity and mortality, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vilathikulam-government-hospital-gets-oxygen-facility/article36009066.ece
20 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Ambergris worth Rs. 23 crore seized||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has seized ambergris worth Rs. 23 cror e and nabbed three persons who reportedly attempted to smuggle it to Sri Lanka from Thoothukudi coast. Following information about the smuggling of banned products from Thoothukudi coast, a DRI team led by Assistant Director Karthikeyan camped at Thermal Nagar Camp 2 Beach. When the team was monitoring the movements of suspicious elements, a car with three occupants arrived at the beach on Thursday. Intercepting the car, the officials checked the vehicle and found ambergris, weighing about 23 kg, concealed inside. The sale of ambergris, a waxy substance secreted by sperm whale found floating in sea or washed ashore and used to make perfume and medicines, is banned in India. The three men were identified as Saddam Hussein, 30, of Netaji Road in Melapalayam in Tirunelveli, Periyasamy, 55, of Meenakshipuram in Thoothukudi, and Prabhakaran, 39, of Tharuvai near Palayamkottai in Tirunelveli. They were being grilled to locate the source and people engaged in supply of the ambergris. In June last, Tiruchendur police seized two kg ambergris from six persons during vehicle check.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambergris-worth-rs-23-crore-seized/article36009063.ece
20 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||2.10 tonnes of turmeric, van, eight bikes seized||Q Branch police on Thursday seized 2.10 tonnes of smuggled turmeric en route to Sri Lanka from a coastal hamlet near Tiruchendur on Thursday. The police, besides arresting two persons, also seized a van and eight bikes from the scene of crime. Smuggling of turmeric from Thoothukudi to Sri Lanka was on the rise and the spice was sold at a premium following sharp increase in demand in the island nation, especially after COVID-19 outbreak. Monitoring  Acting on a tip-off about smuggling of turmeric from Odaikkarai on Wednesday night, a police team led by Inspector Vijaya Anita monitored the coastal areas around Tiruchendur. When they reached Odaikkarai beach around 3 a.m., two persons were unloading bags from a van. They nabbed the two men identified as U. Esakki Pandi, 38, of Rice Mill Street in Karaiyiruppu on Tirunelveli outskirts and V. Ramkumar, 28, of Terespuram and seized the van with 2.10 tonnes of turmeric packed in 70 bags. The special team also seized eight bikes from the spot. During inquiry, police found that the turmeric was about to be loaded in a country boat to be taken to Sri Lanka. Further investigations were on to identify the mastermind behind the attempt and the purpose behind bringing eight bikes to the beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turmeric-seized/article36009079.ece
20 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Traffic islets in Tiruchi showcase culture||As a part of its initiative to beautify the traffic islets and junctions, the Tiruchi Corporation has been installing decorative statues, highlighting the tradition and culture of the State. It has roped in the services of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd, which is popularly known as Poompuhar, to install the statues on important traffic junctions. According to sources, a sum of Rs. 98 lakh has been earmarked for the project. It is being implemented under the Smart City Mission. Salai Road-Shastri Road junction, Shastri Road roundabout (near Mahatma Gandhi Centenary Vidyalaya), Thillai Nagar (south) junction and Uyyakondam canal bridge (Chettipalam) are the places selected for installing the statues. While the Salai Road-Sashtri Road junction will have the bronze statues of folk artistes performing ‘karakattam’, a statue of a lion will be installed on Shastri Road (south) junction. Similarly, Thillai Nagar (south) junction will have decorative statue of fish and horses will be installed on the Uyyakondam canal bridge. Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu that the project was aimed at enhancing the beauty of traffic roundabouts and junctions. It was with the aim of installing statues with near perfection, that it had roped in the services of Poompuhar. Installation of statues at two places had already been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-islets-in-tiruchi-showcase-culture/article36009039.ece
20 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special trains witness good occupancy rate||There has been a steady movement of passengers in certain daily special trains originating from Tiruchi Division, of which two are inter-State trains, during the last four months of the current fiscal notwithstanding the pandemic situation. The percentage of occupancy in four special trains originating from Tiruchi Division has ranged from more than 50 % to over 100 % from April to July. Top on the list is the Chennai-bound special (Cholan Express) from Tiruchi Junction in which the occupancy was around 107% with more than 1.4 lakh passengers having travelled during the period April to July, say railway officials. This is a day-time special that is being operated on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Chidambaram and Cuddalore. The Karaikal - Ernakulam inter-State special (Tea Garden express) too has witnessed good occupancy in the last four months of the current financial year with its percentage being about 86. Occupancy on the Tiruchi - Chennai Egmore special (Rockfort Express) train was a little over 70% with nearly one lakh passengers having travelled on this train. The occupancy in the Tiruchi - Thiruvananthapuram special (Inter City Express) - another inter-state train - was lower when compared to the other three specials. Officials said the occupancy in Tiruchi - Thiruvananthapuram special was around 53 %. Railway officials said the reason for Chennai-bound special (Cholan Express) running with full capacity was due to the fact that it was the only day-time train being operated up to Chennai. Although there was a dip in passenger movement especially during the time when there was a sudden surge in viral infection cases in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the State in May, traffic slowly picked up once the cases began to decline, the officials said exuding hope that the movement could further rise during the forthcoming festival season such as Deepavali. There has been a long pending demand among travelling public in the delta region that the Cholan Express train be operated with chair car coaches instead of sleeper class compartments as the train is run during day time, says A. Giri, secretary of the Thanjavur District Railway Users Association. Further deployment of chair car coaches will increase the number of seats which in turn will further increase occupancy in this train, he adds. The railway administration could think of suitably revising the timing of the Cholan Express to depart from Tiruchi at 6 a.m as this would avoid a whole day travel for the passengers proceeding to Chennai, says Mr. Giri. Likewise, the departure time of the same train could be revised from Chennai Egmore to start at 2 p.m. The railway administration could also explore the possibility of having a dedicated rake for the Cholan Express, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-witness-good-occupancy-rate/article36009046.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tiruchi-Nagapattinam agro-industrial corridor a game-changer’||Farmer producer companies (FPOs) in central districts, where paddy cultivation has been the mainstay, are confident that fructification of the proposed Tiruchi-Nagapattinam Agro-Industrial Corridor announced in the State Budget will pave way for crop diversification. According to FPO representatives in the delta region, hand-holding support by agencies such as Tamil Nadu Small Farmers Agri-Business Consortium (TN-SFAC), and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) to stake-holders in the proposed corridor will result in formation of more number of farmer producer companies and reflect in large-scale cultivation of vegetables, oil seeds, pulses, and cash crops alongside paddy. According to K. Raja, Director, Karikalan Pulses Farmer Producer Company, Mannaragudi, cultivation of groundnut and other oil seeds will go up in the event of there being a system for timely processing of the produce and instant cash flow to farmers. The agro-industrial corridor planned for the first time by the State, if implemented in letter and in spirit, will transform the hitherto rural outlook of the region. The agro-industrial corridor has been a felt need for the region, Varatharajan, member, Thaaiman Traditional Agri-Related Producer Company, Thiruthuraipoondi, said. Establishment of cold storages will obviate the necessity for farmers to sell their produce in a hurry to middlemen. There will be transparency in the sale of harvested crops to the rest of the States and also other countries.There will be more knowledge dissemination of the higher returns from cash crops. and there will also be better financial support from banks to Farmer Producer Companies, he added. According to officials, the Tiruchi-Nagapattinam agro-industrial corridor will be energised to a large measure by the Central government’s scheme initiated earlier this year for formation of 10,000 new FPOs at an investment of Rs. 6,865 crore. The scheme aims to facilitate farmers to form FPOs through provision of access to better technology, credit, better input and more markets and incentivise them to produce better quality commodity. It envisages developing FPOs in produce clusters, wherein agricultural and horticultural produces are grown, cultivated for leveraging economies of scale and improving market access for members. FPOs will be provided financial assistance up to Rs. 18.00 lakh each for three years. In addition to this, provision has been made for matching equity grant upto Rs. 2,000 per farmer member of FPO with a limit of Rs. 15.00 lakh per FPO and a credit guarantee facility up to Rs. 2 crore of project loan per FPO from eligible lending institution to ensure institutional credit accessibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-nagapattinam-agro-industrial-corridor-a-game-changer/article36009034.ece
20 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Reconstitution of panel to study hydrocarbon projects welcomed||The Anti-Methane Movement has welcomed the reconstitution of the high-level expert committee on exploration of hydrocarbon projects and the revision of its terms of reference so that the study can be taken up in areas other than the protected agricultural zone. Terming it “timely action”, the Anti Methane Movement Chief Coordinator T. Jayaraman, in a statement, observed that although the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act 2020 came into force on February 21, the entire Cauvery delta was not brought under its ambit. Besides, the Act did not prevent ongoing projects. The government has been taking a series of measures to protect agriculture and the soil wealth of the State. Now as the next step, the terms of reference of the committee has been extended to cover hydrocarbon projects in areas other than the Cauvery delta region and to assess the impact of drilling technologies such as hydro fracturing on groundwater and the environment. The committee will assess the impact of use of chemicals and quantity of groundwater required to be drawn out for carrying out exploration of coal bed methane, shale gas, petroleum and natural gas and whether such large-scale pumping of groundwater will lead to its depletion. Besides, the committee will also study if such projects will lead to any subsidence of land and de-stabilise the tectonic plates below the area of exploration and their impact on the livelihood of people and food security of the State. “We hope that the committee report will play an important role in protecting the soil wealth of the State, its people and their livelihood. A report based on scientific reasoning is a necessity to stop any project. Hence, the committee report will play a crucial role in future in protecting Tamil Nadu’s soil and water resources from devastating oil and gas projects,” Mr. Jayaraman said. The committee report will also help overcome the shortcomings in the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act 2020, he added. Mr. Jayaraman wondered why there should be any hesitation to give up oil and natural gas exploration as the world was moving towards alternative energy sources. “Besides, why should our resources be destroyed when imported and domestically produced oil are sold at the same price?” he wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconstitution-of-panel-to-study-hydrocarbon-projects-welcomed/article36009040.ece
20 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Drive begins to remove dead fish from teppakulam||The Tiruchi Corporation has begun a drive to remove the dead fish at the teppakulam of the famous Rockfort temple near Main Guard Gate. The teppakulam of Sri Thayumanaswamy Temple, is being maintained by the Tiruchi Corporation and it carries out periodic maintenance to keep it neat and clean. However, it was said that for the last few days stench had been emanating from the tank apparently due to large scale death of fish. Since the bad odour had troubled the shopkeepers, traders and shoppers, they had urged the Corporation to remove the dead fish floating on the water. They also demanded the civic body to ascertain the reasons for the death of fish. Some of them raised apprehension that the fish were poisoned. Following this, the Corporation engaged a group of persons to study the issue. They then began collecting the dead fish found floating. Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu that the death was due to severe oxygen deficiency in the water. Depletion in oxygen level was due to a manifold increase in fish population. Hence, it has been decided to remove the dead fish and all the live fish would be caught in a few days. Mr. Rahuman said that the fish would be sold and one-third of the revenue generated from the sale would be given to Sri Thayumanaswamy Temple. On the demand of replacing the polluted water in the tank, he said that the quality of the water would be studied. Based on the ground situation, a decision would be taken shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-begins-to-remove-dead-fish-from-teppakulam/article36009044.ece
20 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries varsity launches online application process for UG admissions||The Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU) on Thursday launched the online application process for undergraduate admissions for the current academic year. TNJFU, Nagapattinam, established to impart professional fisheries education, conduct research and training for enhancing fish production and productivity, offers 10 undergraduate courses, including six professional and four paraprofessional courses, through its 12 constituent colleges. Its flagship programme, Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F.Sc.), is offered in three colleges located at Thoothukudi, Ponneri and Thalainayeru. The university offers B.Tech in four disciplines. The College of Fisheries Engineering, Nagapattinam, offers an AICTE approved, state-funded B.Tech. (Fisheries Engineering) and a self-supporting programme on B.Tech. (Energy and Environmental Engineering). The varsity’s OMR campus in Chennai offers B.Tech. (Biotechnology) and B.B.A. (Fisheries Enterprises Management). B.Tech. (Food Technology) is offered at the College of Fish Nutrition and Food Technology, Madhavaram, Chennai. B.Voc programmes are being offered in Industrial Fish Processing Technology, Industrial Aquaculture, Industrial Fishing Technology and Aquatic Animal Health Management at the para-professional institute located at Madhavaram, Muttukadu and Mandapam campuses. This academic year, 349 seats will be filled by students of Tamil Nadu. Twenty-one seats would be for other State students, 14 seats for NRI students and five seats are for foreign nationals. Additionally, six seats in B.F.Sc and one seat in B.Tech. (Fisheries Engineering) have been allotted under “Fisherman wards – Special Category”. The fees for students admitted under this fishermen category will be sponsored by T.N. Fishermen Welfare Board. Application guidelines and prospectus can be downloaded from the website:www.tnjfu.ac.inand the last date for submission of the online application is September 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisheries-varsity-launches-online-application-process-for-ug-admissions/article36009041.ece
20 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||328 fresh cases recorded||The central region reported 328 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. Six more people, three each from Tiruchi and Tiruvarur districts, succumbed to the infection, according to the bulletin issued by the Department of Health. Thanjavur continued to remain the only district to report more than 100 cases a day among the nine districts in the region. On Thursday, 112 persons tested positive for the virus and 55 fresh cases were reported in neighbouring Tiruchi. Nagapattinam district reported 38 fresh cases and Tiruvarur was close behind with 35 new patients. Thirty-one persons tested positive in Pudukottai, 18 in Ariyalur and 16 each in Karur and Mayiladuthurai. Perambalur continued to report the least number of cases in the region adding only seven more positive cases on Thursday. Thanjavur also had the most number of active cases with 1,102 patients under treatment, including those under home treatment, in the district as on Thursday, according to the bulletin. Tiruchi had 683 actives cases, Tiruvarur 474, Pudukottai 401, Nagapattinam 374, Mayiladuthurai 271, Ariyalur 209, Karur 197 and Perambalur 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/328-fresh-cases-recorded/article36009051.ece
20 August 2021||Tirumala,TAMIL NADU||Centre will assist help in curbing red sanders smuggling: Kishen Reddy||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture G. Kishen Reddy said the Centre would extend help to the Andhra Pradesh government in ending the red sanders smuggling menace. Mr. Reddy, on his maiden visit to the town after his new posting, offered prayers at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-assist-help-in-curbing-red-sanders-smuggling-kishen-reddy/article36008757.ece
20 August 2021||Tirumala,TAMIL NADU||Centre will assist help in curbing red sanders smuggling: Kishen Reddy||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture G. Kishen Reddy said the Centre would extend help to the Andhra Pradesh government in ending the red sanders smuggling menace. Mr. Reddy, on his maiden visit to the town after his new posting, offered prayers at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-assist-help-in-curbing-red-sanders-smuggling-kishen-reddy/article36008787.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachment eviction drive resumes in Palayamkottai||After a brief lull, the Highways Department resumed their encroachment eviction drive in Palayamkottai on Thursday. Following complaints from the public on encroachments along all arterial roads in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai, Corporation and Highways officials launched an anti-encroachment drive recently along S.N. High Road and Tiruchendur Road. Though the drive was not intense, several illegal structures along the busy roads were removed. After a gap, the encroachment eviction resumed on Thursday between Melapalayam and new bus stand. One of the encroachments demolished during the drive was a permanent structure built on Pon Bharani Complex of District Rural Development Agency near new bus stand at Vaeinthaankulam where self-help groupshad their sale outlet. SHG eatery evicted The permanent structure removed on Thursday was being used by a self-help group to run an eatery. “Since the eatery was built on land belonging to the Department of Highways, it was removed,” the officials said. The team, led by Assistant Divisional Engineer, Department of Highways, Krishnasamy also removed a bakery, two-wheeler repair shop and teashop, all situated near Pon Bharani Complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachment-eviction-drive-resumes-in-palayamkottai/article36009485.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||After KNPP, Kani tribal youth visit VOC Port||After visiting the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project a week ago, the Kani tribal youth, who are being trained by the Department of Employment for competitive examinations, had the opportunity to visit VOC Port in Thoothukudi on Thursday as part of their exposure visit. For some of the 32 Kani youth, including 23 girls, the sea and its rejuvenating breeze were first-time experiences as they landed in the port on Thursday morning along with Assistant Director of Employment Antony. On reaching the port, they were taken to two tug boats in which they sailed up to the entry point of the seaport to understand the entry/exit of ships. The group were then taken to the information centre where they were briefed about the operations of the port through a video presentation. “The Kani youth raised several questions to clarify doubts about the operations of the port, cargo handling, export and import of cargo via VOC Port, to which the officials responded,” said Mr. Antony. “They show a high degree of enthusiasm in understanding new ideas during the exposure visits and work really hard to crack the competitive examinations. We can expect a good number of Kani youth to join government services in the near future,” the senior official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-knpp-kani-tribal-youth-visit-voc-port/article36009487.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Move to popularise traditional food and snacks in Tirunelveli||Collector V. Vishnu on Thursday flagged off a vehicle carrying traditional food and snacks for sale to the general public. The vehicle, operated by a local private hotel, would sell items such asdosa, puttu , kozhukattai, paniyaaram and bholi prepared with pulses and a range of green soups. “While the elders, who once enjoyed traditional food, have accepted modern eating due to compulsion, the present generation have no idea about the vintage items. Hence, this effort is being taken to popularise traditional food items among the public. Besides giving elders a rare opportunity to enjoy traditional food again, it will be a treat to the younger generation, who will certainly love the dishes,” said Mr. Vishnu after flagging off the vehicle in the presence of B. Vishnu Chandran, Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner. The cooking oil used for preparing the items would be sent to make bio-diesel and not used again, the Collector said. Designated Officer for Food Safety Sashi Deepa and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-popularise-traditional-food-and-snacks-in-tirunelveli/article36009489.ece
20 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||COVID care centre inaugurated||A newly-constructed COVID care facility was inaugurated by the Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya recently at Yedapalli in Coonoor. It was set up at the Yedapalli Primary Health Centre, a press release said. The facility was constructed with the help of individuals at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. The Collector said that people in the surrounding villages will be greatly benefited by the new facility. The district administration appealed to the people to assist in providing educational aids to children from tribal communities who were studying from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-care-centre-inaugurated/article36008944.ece
20 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Parking of seized vehicles a cause for concern||Using the footpath along the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway’s (NH-48) service lane in Vellore continues to be risky for pedestrians, especially along the area in front of the Sathuvachari police station, as seized and mangled vehicles line the pathway. Relocation of seized vehicles to a fenced area such as the Superintendent of Police’s (SP) office adjacent to the Collectorate, off the national highway, will not only ensure the safety of the seized vehicles that are court properties, but also ensure a safe space for pedestrians on the service lane, said officials. At present, service lanes on either sides of the highway are two-way routes, with vehicles, including local buses, lorries, cars and two-wheelers, negotiating the narrow lanes to reach Vellore town via the Green Circle on the Vellore-Katpadi intersection. The service lane on the highway is the key link, connecting the central parts of the town with the areas on its outskirts like Sathuvachari, Rangapuram, Kagithapattarai and Katpadi. “As the service lane is congested, the footpath is a safe space for pedestrians to get to nearby markets and shops. The dumping of seized vehicles along the footpath terrifies us and prevents us from using the facility, especially during the night, as there is also thick undergrowth around the dumped vehicles,” said S. Parasuraman, a resident. Pedestrians said the dumping of seized vehicles for long along the footpath had led to thick undergrowth, turning the space into a shelter for snakes and other reptiles. During the night, people, including senior citizens and women, prefer to walk on the risky service lane rather than using the footpath due to fear of snakes. The use of narrow service lanes by motorists and pedestrians has resulted in accidents in the recent months, especially after the easing of lockdown restrictions, the locals said. Established in June 1991, the Sathuvachari police station is one of the 23 stations in the district, which also has two all-women, four traffic and two excise police stations within its limits. The existing police building was built a decade ago in 2010, with a sanctioned strength of 59 personnel. Areas like Rangapuram, Sathuvachari, Sampanginallore, A.M. Puram, Perumugai, Puduvasur, Eriyur, Venkatapuram, Pillayarkuppam and Chenganatham come under the limits of the station on the highway. The last inspection of the Sathuvachari police station by the SP was held four years ago, in 2017, whereas the DIG inspected the station a decade and a half ago in 2005, said sources. During the pandemic last year, each station in the district was managed by a lone personnel, with a box to receive petitions or complaints. The complaints were immediately conveyed to the control room and the official concerned was intimated to initiate action. “Steps will be taken to relocate the seized vehicles at the station soon,” said a senior police officer.  As the service lane is congested, the footpath is a safe space for pedestrians to get to nearby markets. The dumping of seized vehicles along it prevents us from using the facility S. Parasuraman Resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parking-of-seized-vehicles-a-cause-for-concern/article36009496.ece
20 August 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Follow measures to contain FAW attack: Collector||The Department of Agriculture has come up with a series of measures to contain Fall Army Worm (FAW) attack in maize including summer ploughing and simultaneous sowing. In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said coverage of maize in the district was expected to be around 35,000 acres of rain-fed farm. The Fall Army Worm attack had affected yield in the crop in the last three years. Hence, farmers had been asked to take up summer ploughing along with mixing of 100 kg of neem cake with the soil in each acre of land. The statement said the life cycle of the Fall Army Worm pest was 30 days with six stages. The mother worm would lay 100 to 200 eggs, mostly on the backside of leaves. The worms that came out of the eggs would damage the leaves thus making them turn white. The farmers had been asked to take up sowing at the same time. The seeds should be treated with Chloratraniliprole 19.8% with Thiamethoxon 19.8% FS. The mixture should be used 4 ml for each kg of seed before sowing. One solar-powered trap and 12 pheromone trap should be laid for every hectare, the Collector said. Crops such as black gram and green gram should be raised as inter-crop and sorghum should be raised as border crop. Farmers should place five pheromone traps in each acre of land. If the pests were found in crops aged 15 to 20 days, Chloratraniliprole 18.5 SC or Flubendiamide 20SG or azadirachtin mixture should be sprayed on the crop. If the pest attack was found in crops aged 35 to 40 days, Emamectin Benzoate 5 SG, Navaluron 10 EC or Spinetoram 11.7 SC could be sprayed. Famers had been asked to take part in special camps on FAW containment to be held at village level and follow the advice to get maximum yield, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-measures-to-contain-faw-attack-collector/article36009069.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 200 cr. for addressing learning losses||Mr. Rajan explained that the Department of School Education would implement the programme in the next six months with the help of teachers, graduate students, volunteers and non-governmental organisations. “Though efforts have been made to reach out to them by distributing QR-coded textbooks and by developing and disseminating audio-visual content on Kalvi TV, AIR as well as on social media channels like YouTube, they are not comprehensive or all-inclusive, as many students attending government schools do not have a personal mobile device or laptop to access the content in a consistent and organised manner,” he said. Mr. Rajan said educationists had stressed the need to bridge the gap in learning and address mental stress and other changes in daily life since students were out of campus for over 15 months. “There will be classrooms in streets and classes under the moon. The project will reach out to the children in every nook and corner of the State,” he said. Government sources said over 65% of the students remained outside the ambit of interventions, and almost all of them had not had the benefit of a structured online classroom transaction process on a par with private school students. The government has prepared refresher content for all classes and it will be used for the first 45-50 days after schools are re-opened. Textbook pedagogy will be taken up only after this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-200-cr-for-addressing-learning-losses/article36008907.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 198 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 198 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The district had 2,303 active cases of the disease and 246 persons recovered. The Health Department said that five more persons from Coimbatore died of COVID-19, taking the death toll in the district to 2,232. Tiruppur district reported 86 new cases. A total of 92 persons recovered from the disease. The district had 889 active cases. Tiruppur district’s death toll increased to 903 after three more persons died of COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, 31 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,374. The number of deaths stood at 190, while 449 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-198-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article36008942.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Patients recover after being on ECMO support||Two patients, who were diagnosed with COVID-19 and suffered lung complications, recovered after being on ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) support for several days in private hospitals. A 32-year-old man, who was admitted to MGM Healthcare with 100% involvement of the lungs on July 13, was on ECMO (a procedure that oxygenates a patient’s blood outside the body) for 72 days. The patient suffered from numerous other health issues after contracting COVID-19, including disseminated intravascular coagulation and episodes of seizure, and was treated for all health issues, a release issued by the hospital said. In another case, a 56-year-old man was under treatment for COVID-19 for 109 days at Rela Hospital. He recovered without lung transplant after being put on ECMO support for 62 days, according to a release. He was kept on minimal ventilator support with tracheotomy for another two weeks, and weaned off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-covid-19-patients-recover-after-being-on-ecmo-support/article36008901.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 147 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 147 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total cases to 96,868. While 163 persons were discharged, 1,820 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 94 cases were reported of which 64 were indigenous. In Namakkal, 51 cases were reported. As per the bulletin, one death each was reported in Salem and Namakkal. A total of 198 persons tested positive in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The Health Department said that five more persons died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,232.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-147-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36009098.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Jansons Institute of Technology: Industry readiness course by Mechanical Engineering Department, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article36008936.ece
20 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE convocation held||The 11th convocation of KLE Academy of Higher Education and Research (deemed to be university) was held in Belagavi on Thursday. Nageshwar Reddy, chairman of Asian Institute of Gastroenterology, Hyderabad, who delivered the convocation address, called upon young medical graduates to remain humble, display empathy, and demonstrate great respect to patients. If these qualities are not there, no amount of technology and medical equipment will help the patients, he said. A medical graduate will transform into a great doctor if he develops skills, attitude, and has the quest for knowledge. Ultimate success is derived from sweat, determination and hard work, he said. “Your convincing and caring words and your gentle touch will act as a super pain reliever to patients.” He also asked them to develop communication skills to counsel and explain complex medical terminologies in simple language to patients and their relatives. He urged young graduates to visit their alma mater regularly and continue to respect teachers all their life. Dr. Reddy observed that girls had outperformed boys in winning medals at the convocation (girls got 27 out of the 35 gold medals). “This proves girls are setting a very high standards in all walks of life,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kle-convocation-held/article36009122.ece
20 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three killed as car hits motorcycles||A car mowed down two motorcycles killing three people near Gokak in Belagavi district on Thursday. Neelavva Talwar (44), Ramanna Maggeppagol (40) and Gopal Mutnal (35) were killed on the spot. Neelavva Talwar was riding pillion in one of the motorcycles. They were returning from a Moharram event in Makkalageri village. The car hit their motorcycles at Sangankeri Cross on Gokak-Lolasar Road. The police said that the car driver might have been drunk. A case has been registered in Ghataprabha village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-killed-as-car-hits-motorcycles/article36009115.ece
20 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two dead in road accident||Two men died in a road accident in Tikota in Vijayapura district on Thursday. Parashuramappa Lamani (60) of Atalatti Tanda and Bandu Rathod of Hubanur Tanda were the deceased. Their vehicle hit a van near Ratnapur Cross. A case has been registered in the Tikota Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-dead-in-road-accident/article36009116.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police for pre-paid auto kiosk at metro stations||With the aim of easing congestion around the metro stations and providing last-mile connectivity to passengers, the Bengaluru traffic police have asked the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) to facilitate pre-paid auto stands at all operational stations. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda said: “In the absence of a designated auto stand near the metro station, auto drivers haphazardly park their vehicles on the road. Some metro passengers book an auto five or 10 minutes in advance before reaching the metro station, and the auto loiters around the station till the passenger comes to the pick-up point. A pre-paid auto station will help both drivers and passengers.” Pay at kiosk He said BMRCL has been asked to provide space at all operational metro stations to park 10 to 12 autos and as per a pre-fixed rate, the passenger can make the payment at the kiosk and board the auto. A pre-fixed auto booth was operational at M.G. Road metro station. However, auto drivers say after the outbreak of the pandemic, the taxi stand became non-operational. Murugan, a driver, said: “The pre-paid stand has been non-operational for more than a year now. Earlier, the kiosk was managed by a policeman, and we used to ferry passengers to the destination after they made an entry.” Auto drivers say providing a designated stand at the metro stations will help them too. Some metro passengers too feel that prepaid stands will be helpful. “Though booking autos on an app is an easy option, I see that auto drivers accept booking if passengers only pay cash, or else they cancel the trip. Prepaid auto stands will be helpful provided the police manage the kiosk,” said Sahana, a regular metro traveller. 49 stations operational BMRCL Managing Director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that BMRCL is examining the feasibility of providing space for an auto stand. As of now, 49 metro stations are operational. BMRCL is gearing up to open the extended metro line from Mysuru Road station to Kengeri. Once the line opens, the number of operational metro stations will touch 55.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-for-pre-paid-auto-kiosk-at-metro-stations/article36008829.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai’s call to opt out of zero traffic leaves police anxious||Breaking from tradition, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed police not to block traffic and give him ‘zero traffic’ movement in the city. While many citizens have welcomed this, those responsible for his security are anxious about the risks it exposes the Chief Minister to. “There are misconceptions about the practice of zero traffic in public partly that it smacks of ‘VIP culture’. This prompts politicians to reject it. But essentially, we block traffic to ensure the person must keep moving and not be still for any potential threats,” explained a senior officer, with long experience in providing security to Chief Ministers. A senior officer explained that the Chief Minister may not have specific threats from any particular group, but given his position, he always faces threats from unknown sources who may harbour real or perceived grievances, a senior official said. “A person who harboured a grievance that he was not let in and allowed to meet Satish Reddy, MLA, torched two of his cars. We have seen similar attacks on Lokayukta P. Vishwanath Shetty and former Minister Tanveer Sait. There was also a similar attack on Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy,” a senior official expressed his apprehensions. “As a Chief Minister, he is bound to take decisions that may aggrieve certain sections. This may result in gherao of his vehicle, pelting stones, or showing black flags. Managing the situation or preventing such events when the Chief Minister is moving in a normal traffic situation is challenging,” he said. However, retired senior police officers Gopal Hosur and S.T. Ramesh welcomed the Chief Minister’s decision and said there were subtler and less intrusive ways to handle security. “We need not employ a blanket rule. Security must be proportional to the threat perception which is dynamic,” Mr. Ramesh said. “Security establishment must get more innovative and gear up for the challenge,” said Mr. Hosur. The city police are presently synchronising traffic signals to ensure a smooth ride for the Chief Minister through the city. “This will minimise the time he will be still in traffic which also addresses the main security concern. However, apprehensions still remain,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommais-call-to-opt-out-of-zero-traffic-leaves-police-anxious/article36008856.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet approves Karnataka State Mental Healthcare Rules||The State Cabinet has approved the Karnataka State Mental Healthcare Rules, 2021, to implement the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, of the Centre, to provide healthcare and services for persons with mental illness and to protect, promote, and fulfil the rights of such persons. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told mediapersons on Thursday that under the rules, a State Mental Health Authority would be set up. The government has constituted a committee headed by the director of NIMHANS, Bengaluru, for drafting rules for the authority. The authority would maintain a register of clinical psychologists, mental health nurses, and psychiatric social workers registered to work as mental health professionals, and publish the list. As per the Central Act of 2017, the Secretary/Principal Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare would be the chairperson of the State authority. The Commissioner and the Joint Secretary of the department and the Director of Medical Education would be members of the authority. The State authority should meet not less than four times in a year. Issues related to mental health came into special focus during the COVID-19 pandemic. Social and economic causes such as loss of jobs, loss of income, death of family members, and fear have triggered mental health conditions among many. With mental health services falling under Goal 3 of the Sustainable Development Goals, the government focused on mental health issues during the pandemic. Counsellors manning the free ‘104’ helplines were trained to handle the needs of distressed persons during the pandemic, official sources said. Sanitary napkins Mr. Madhuswamy said the Cabinet decided to distribute sanitary napkins to girl students of government and aided schools and colleges in Karnataka at a cost of Rs. 47 crore under the ‘Suchi’ programme of the Health and Family Welfare Department. A decision was taken to provide basic infrastructure and staff to 2,859 sub-centres of the Health Department at a cost of Rs. 478.91 crore. A sum of Rs. 12.48 crore had been approved for construction of a Mini- Vidhana Soudha in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district. The Cabinet approved a Rs. 73.73-crore plan for solid waste management at Pachanady in Mangaluru City Corporation limits, the Minister said. Sub-committees The Cabinet authorised Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to reconstitute 14 Cabinet sub-committees, dissolved after the exit of the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-approves-karnataka-state-mental-healthcare-rules/article36008870.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Prioritise pedestrian needs along metro line’||After missing several deadlines in the past, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) is gearing up to start commercial operations of the extended metro line on Mysuru Road to Kengeri. Residents in the area, who have been waiting for years for metro services on the 7.53-km stretch to commence, however, have raised concern over poor accessibility to some of the stations. The absence of footpaths near entry/exit points, uncleared debris on pedestrian pathways, and garbage dumped on pavements are some of the concerns. BMRCL has estimated that around 75,000 passengers will benefit every day once the line is operational. The extended metro line has six stations: Nayanadahalli, R.R. Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal, and Kengeri. But, before it is thrown open to the public, residents have demanded that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and BMRCL fix the problems. Debris on road Near Jnanabharathi station for instance, debris can be seen dumped on the footpath blocking access to the station. On the other side, in the absence of pavements, people have no option but to walk on the busy road. This will add to congestion once commuters start using the extended line. “Civic agencies must make sure that we have easy access to the stations. Though there are footpaths along either side of Mysuru Road, the big question is whether we can walk on them. There is garbage on some stretches, and at others shopkeepers have encroached on pavements,” said Raghavendra M., who resides at BDA Residential Apartments. He also suggested that the authorities install streetlights for pedestrian safety. Rail enthusiast Abhishek R. also recommended that agencies concentrate on providing easy access and connectivity to other modes of transport. “The Jnanabharathi railway halt station is a few metres away from the metro station. If BMRCL takes measures to provide good access, the general public will benefit.” Need for an FoB The newly built Kengeri Bus Terminal metro station is located close to the TTMC of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). However, people coming from the Kengeri side after getting down at the bus stop have to cross the busy road risking their lives. BMRCL had in the past maintained that a Foot-over-Bridge (FoB) will be built for commuters, but work on this is yet to begin. BMRCL Managing Director Anjum Parwez said: “During my inspection, instructions were given to fix issues related to access to the metro stations. Prior to opening the line, measures will be taken on clearing debris and repairing the footpath near the stations.” To build the metro line, the BMRCL spent Rs. 1,560 crore on the infrastructure and Rs. 360 crore on land acquisition.  Though there are footpaths on either side of Mysuru Road, the question is whether we can use them. Raghavendra M. Resident, BDA Residential Apartments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prioritise-pedestrian-needs-along-metro-line/article36008843.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Third wave will depend on vaccine coverage’||Although the ICMR’s sero survey has shown a seroprevalence of 69.8% in Karnataka, experts are of the view that the third wave in the State will primarily depend on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and emergence of new variants. World Health Organisation chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan has said there is no way to predict with certainty about the third wave. It might not be as bad as the second, she has said. However, V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said that it is not scientifically correct to say that the third wave will be mild. “We do not know how the virus will behave. We cannot become complacent as over 50% of the population is yet to be vaccinated. The third way can be postponed if there is no emergence of another new infectious variant and if we double the speed of vaccination coverage,” he said. He said people should not let their guard down and must cautiously follow COVID-19 protocols. “The next four-six months are crucial, especially with festivals approaching,” he said. Concurring with Ms. Swaminathan, M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s technical advisory committee (TAC), said severe cases and consequent deaths are less likely as there is progress of vaccination in adults. “The health system is now being readied and ramped up to face the challenge of the third wave. In general the surveillance (testing, tracking and treating) has vastly improved,” he said. TAC member Giridhar R. Babu, who also heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said areas with low seroprevalence and poor vaccination coverage will be the worst hit during the third wave. “While there is a need to conduct another sero-prevalence study now, States have to prioritise ramping up hospital beds, oxygen supply and ensure timely referrals are done in these areas to prevent fatalities. Increasing the speed and vaccination of the vulnerable in these areas can be beneficial,” he said. Asserting that people’s behaviour in the next four weeks will decide the timing of the third wave, C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the third wave is at the doorstep. “The only way to keep it away is to avoid crowding in public areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/third-wave-will-depend-on-vaccine-coverage/article36008851.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Crowding at Janashirvada Yatra across State causes concern||The BJP’s ongoing Janashirvada Yatra, a series of public meetings across the State by the newly appointed Ministers, has been resulting in crowding in some instances violating COVID-19 guidelines. Ministers A. Narayanaswamy, Bhagwant Khuba, Shobha Karandlaje, and Rajeev Chandrasekhar have been touring the State as part of the Janashirvada Yatra, a programme chalked out by the national unit of the party across the country. Since the State government has barred large public gatherings, most Ministers have taken to holding roadshows, but people are thronging them with scant regard for social distancing and mask rule. Minister’s appeal For instance, on Thursday, Mr. Narayanaswamy’s roadshow in Haveri saw thousands gather and shower flowers on him with an earthmover, violating COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Incidentally, Mr. Narayanaswamy himself appealed to those gathered to wear masks at the Chitradurga rally two days ago. “Please wear masks and maintain social distancing. COVID-19 is not something we should neglect. I have faced its impact personally. Nothing is more precious than your lives,” he appealed through the programme, but the crowds were in no mood to listen. In Kalaburagi, which has strict guidelines including a night curfew and weekend lockdown since it borders Maharashtra, the district administration has filed a FIR against organisers of a rally held on Tuesday night to welcome Mr. Khuba. Another roadshow by Mr. Khuba turned controversial in Yadgir, when large crowds gathered and workers even fired in the air to celebrate the occasion. Meanwhile, Ms. Karandlaje and Mr. Chandrashekhar have been mostly holding indoor meetings abjuring roadshows. However, there were large crowds outside the Town Hall in Mangaluru where Ms. Karandlaje addressed party workers. N. Ravikumar, general secretary, BJP-Karnataka, said the party had given clear instructions to hold the meetings strictly adhering to COVID-19 protocols, but it was unfortunate that large crowds have been gathering. Alert over polls “The Congress has also held some meetings. We politicians need to introspect and send a right message to the people. If they see us flouting norms, they will develop complacency and that is dangerous,” he said, adding that holding elections to three city corporations, including those in the border districts, would only lead to more such events. “We need to rethink on holding civic polls now,” he said.  (With inputs from Kalaburagi, Hubballi, and Mangaluru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-crowding-at-janashirvada-yatra-across-state-causes-concern/article36008854.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic experts slam proposal for separate authority to oversee road maintenance||The government’s proposal to constitute a separate authority for the maintenance of 860-km of arterial and sub-arterial roads in the city has not gone down well with citizens’ groups and civic experts. The proposal was one of the main talking points at a meeting on city development chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on August 10. The State government has already divested the civic body of solid waste management and constituted a separate body to handle it. There were also conversations about divesting the BBMP of health and education. However, those proposals never came to fruition especially after the onset of COVID-19. Since then, the civic body’s role in public health has become even more important. Srikanth Viswanathan, chief executive officer of Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, labelled the government’s proposal for a separate authority to oversee as regressive. “While not perfect, the BBMP Act showed some positive elements, such as functional devolution of powers. However, such proposals further weaken it. Ideally, the government should strengthen the BBMP, which is open to public scrutiny because of the elected body,” he said, and added that even if a separate body is created, it should be accountable to the local elected body. Concurring, Srikanth Narasimhan, co-founder and general secretary of the Bengaluru NavaNirmana Party (BNP), pointed out that there were many “non-performing agencies” in the city, such as Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Bangalore Development Authority etc. “Instead of identifying the problem and strengthening the civic body, the government is looking to create new power centres and newer problems,” he said, and added that the solution to what ails the city lies in bringing all civic agencies under the BBMP’s control. The government’s proposal shows that it had no faith in the third tier of governance, said V. Ravichandar, member of the BBMP Restructuring Committee. “Now, it is the turn of arterial and sub-arterial roads. Will it be the turn of the projects division next?” he said, and added that the government doesn’t seem to have followed subsidiary principles, where activities are housed in areas that are handled efficiently. “While I can agree that it is a dysfunctional set up, efforts must be made to make the civic body function better. Constituting authority after authority is a distraction technique.” Mr. Narasimhan sought to know if the government would hand over poor performing State agencies to the Centre. “This is the same logic as constituting parastatals to handle functions that are primarily the responsibilities of the BBMP,” he said. A former councillor pointed out that the proposal was against the spirit of the 74th Amendment of the Constitution of India that sought to empower local bodies and take governance closer to the people. “This shows the double standards of the government,” he added.  Instead of identifying the problem and strengthening the civic body, the government is looking to create new power centres and newer problems. Srikanth Narasimhan Co-founder and general secretary of BNP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-experts-slam-proposal-for-separate-authority-to-oversee-road-maintenance/article36008860.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anchepalya residents demand station||Residents of Anchepalya village on the outskirts of the city staged a protest on Thursday demanding the construction of a metro station close to the village. They accused the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) of not fulfilling their demand. Protesters blocked traffic and some of them even climbed on to a metro pillar to display banners. “When the metro project was sanctioned, initially a station was proposed near our village, but it was cancelled to favour a real estate project near Chikkabidarakallu, which is 1.5 km away from the village. After choosing a new location to construct the station, BMRCL assured us that they would build a road from our village to the station. But now we have learnt they are not providing the roads as the builder has not agreed to provide the land,” said Akash Gowda, one of the protesters. Under phase II of Namma Metro, BMRCL is extending the Green Line from Nagasandra metro station to BIEC on Tumakuru Road. On the line, three stations are under construction at Manjunathanagar, Chikkabidarakallu, and Madavara (BIEC). Villagers said that by not constructing the metro station as per the original alignment, around 30,000 people in the area will be affected.  Chief PRO B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan said as per the plan, land acquisition process is under way for the link road, but there are legal hurdles. “We are hopeful of clearing the hurdles and providing road access as planned.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anchepalya-residents-demand-station/article36008837.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need micro-level interventions to combat climate change’||Bengaluru city will face acute drinking water shortage in the coming years, warned experts while discussing the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report. At a webinar, ‘Responding to Climate Change: What should Karnataka and India do’, organised by the Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC) on Thursday, Krishna Raj, professor, Centre of Economic Studies and Policy, ISEC, highlighted the issue of high carbon economy that has resulted in rise of temperature by 1°C, which he said in turn costed around 5% of the GDP. “Bengaluru city will face acute drinking water shortage in the coming years with reduction in water availability in the Cauvery river basin mainly due to variation in precipitation levels. As per the Climate Policy Initiative’s on Global Climate Finance 2019, 44% and 56% respectively constitute public and private finances. The main concern is that about 93% of the total public and private finances flow to mitigation activities and adaptation activities receive less than 7%. While India wants to increase the forest cover aimed at reducing CO2 levels by 2030, deficient climate finances may limit realising the climate targets,” he said. The IPCC report had concluded that the earth’s climate is getting so warm that temperatures in about a decade will probably go past the warning level.  Vulnerable population Balasubramaniam, assistant professor, Centre for Ecological Economics and Natural Resources, ISEC, said the current and future global mean temperature impacts vulnerable populations such as Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, elderly population, women, and children. “In Karnataka, 65% of households are highly vulnerable, 30% of households are less vulnerable, only 5% moderately vulnerable,” he said, emphasising on the urgent need for mitigation and adaptation to climate change to reduce climate extreme events in the State and the vulnerability of households. But is urbanisation leading to climate change in India? Kala S. Sridhar, professor, Centre for Research in Urban Affairs, ISEC, using time series data from World Development Indicators, presented evidence on the causes of carbon emissions, and said urbanisation has no effect at the country level. “At the district level, climate change indicators such as rainfall, extreme temperature differences, and urbanisation do not affect agricultural income. In some specifications, urbanisation actually led to increased agricultural income. Coastal districts experienced decreased agricultural income,” she said, adding that as a way forward, there was a need to depend on renewable sources of energy and reducing vehicle emissions in cities by encouraging public transport. Sunil Nautiyal, professor, Centre for Ecological Economics and Natural Resources at ISEC, also said keeping India as a whole, macro-level study will not support policy formulations due to diversified ecology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-micro-level-interventions-to-combat-climate-change/article36008861.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Legislature session from Sept. 13||A 10-day session of the Karnataka State legislature will be held from September 13 to 24 in Bengaluru. As the State legislature has to meet within six months of the previous one being held, as a constitutional requirement, both the Houses of the legislature would hold the session starting from September 13, Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy told mediapersons after the Cabinet meeting in Bengaluru on August 19. The State legislature’s Budget session ended in March. The principal Opposition Congress has been demanding a session of the State legislature to discuss issues related to handling of COVID-19 and floods by the government. Approval In his maiden Independence Day speech, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced 11 new schemes. Of these, the Cabinet approved funds for seven. The Cabinet approved Rs. 75 crore for implementation of the Amrith Gram Panchayats scheme under which 750 gram panchayats would be taken up for development. It approved Rs. 225 crore for implementation of the Amrith Farmer Production Centres Scheme in which 750 production and marketing centres would be set up to help farmers, fishermen, and weavers. Implementation period would be three years. The Amrith Nirmala Nagara programme would be implemented in 75 urban local bodies (ULBs) for overall cleanliness and beautification at a cost of Rs. 1 crore per ULB. A total of Rs. 75 crore had been approved for the scheme. Under the Amrith School Infrastructure Programme, Rs. 75 crore would be spent on providing basic infrastructure. Amrith Self-Help Micro-Enterprises Scheme would give a boost to 7,500 SHGs in Karnataka by allocating Rs. 75 crore to set up micro-enterprises. Development of schools A total of 750 government schools would be identified under the Amrith Community Development Programme, and each school would be given Rs. 10 lakh. Under the Amrith Health Infrastructure Upgradation Programme, 750 primary health centres would be upgraded at an estimated cost of Rs. 20 lakh each, Mr. Madhuswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislature-session-from-sept-13/article36008873.ece
20 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BSY goes on a family trip to Maldives||B.S. Yediyurappa, who is playing his cards close to his chest ever since he stepped down as Chief Minister, has left for Maldives along with his family members. Sources close to him said it was a long-pending holiday for the veteran leader who seldom takes leave from public life. However, the visit has attracted public attention as there is curiosity in political circles about the future moves of Mr. Yediyurappa who had to relinquish his post abruptly. Interestingly, Mr. Yediyurappa had gone abroad soon after stepping down in 2012 too. The timing of Mr. Yediyurappa’s trip is also crucial as there is a sense of dissatisfaction among a section of legislators and Ministers about the recent ministerial expansion as well as distribution of portfolios. Particularly, Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh has publicly expressed displeasure over not getting a plum portfolio and he even skipped the Cabinet meeting on Thursday. Similarly, BJP MLA M.P. Kumaraswamy staged a dharna alleging that his constituency had not received a fair quantum of compensation towards flood losses. Both the leaders are said to be very close to Mr. Yediyurappa. In fact, the former Chief Minister had held consultations with Mr. Singh when he had recently hinted that he may think of resigning. However, sources close to Mr. Yediyurappa played down the trip and its implications and said he was not inclined towards rebellion unlike in his previous stint when he had floated a new political outfit. “Perhaps this is the first time that the veteran leader is spending time with his family without any political tension or responsibilities in his entire political career,” observed a party functionary. Mr. Yediyurappa’s followers say he may embark on either a State tour or visit to some prominent areas sometime after his return from abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-goes-on-a-family-trip-to-maldives/article36008875.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks govt. to pay relief to kin of boy electrocuted on I-Day||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to consider paying appropriate compensation to the parents of 16-year-old Chandan, who was electrocuted while trying to erect the flagpole on Independence Day at a government school in Karikere village of Tumakuru district. The court also directed the government and the Deputy Commissioner, Tumakuru, to ensure that proper treatment is provided to two others, Shashank and Pawan, who suffered burns in the incident. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition suo motu initiated by the court in 2019 following a similar incident in which five boys at Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Pre-metric Boys hostel at Bannikatti in Koppal district were electrocuted on August 18 when the flagpole came in contact with a live wire. The Bench had posted the petition for hearing as advocate B.V. Vidyulatha, who is the amicus curiae appointed in the petition, had filed an application bringing the Tumakuru incident to the court’s notice while pointing out how children were allowed to come to the school for flag hoisting when the schools are closed. Report to be submitted While directing the Deputy Commissioner ensure that both injured boys get proper medical treatment, the Bench also directed the government to consider bearing the cost of their treatment. The Bench also directed the government to submit a report of the incident while adjourning further hearing till September 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-govt-to-pay-relief-to-kin-of-boy-electrocuted-on-i-day/article36008834.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||II PU exam begins: 314 sit for optional Kannada, maths papers||The second-year pre-university (PU) examination commenced on Thursday with no major hiccups. Of the 333 candidates who had registered for optional Kannada and mathematics, 314 reported to their centres. The Department of Pre-University Education, in a press release, stated that all COVID-19 safety protocols were in place at exam centres across the State. This year, considering the spike in COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, the department had cancelled all exams and declared freshers and repeaters as pass. Rejected scores However, around 946 candidates — 593 freshers and 353 repeaters — rejected the scores allocated to them and registered for the board exam. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh said no grace marks would be allotted to private candidates as they had enough time to prepare for the examination. Meanwhile, students of classes IX and X will have revision classes for the first 15 days after schools reopen on August 23. The Minister said the decision on reopening offline classes for students from Classes I to VIII would be taken after August 30 based on feedback on how classes IX and X function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-exam-begins-314-sit-for-optional-kannada-m-aths-papers/article36008846.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL signs loan agreement with ADB||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) on Thursday announced that it has signed a loan agreement with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for USD 500 million (about Rs. 3,643 crore) for the Outer Ring Road-Airport line. With this, financial arrangements have been made for Phase 2A and Phase 2B of the metro project, said BMRCL in a press release. The 58.19-km Namma Metro stretch was approved by the Centre earlier this year at a cost of Rs. 14,788 crore. The Union and State governments will contribute Rs. 3,973 crore by way of equity and subordinate debt. Land acquisition costs, estimated at Rs. 2,762 crore, will be funded by the Government of Karnataka. The BMRCL will raise the remaining amount of Rs. 5,960 crores through loans. In March, it had entered into a loan agreement with JICA for USD 318 million (Rs. 2,317 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-signs-loan-agreement-with-adb/article36008838.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramaiah Evolute to incubate 24 startups||Ramaiah Evolute, the cross-disciplinary startup initiative, which was launched in March this year, by the Ramaiah Group of Institutions, has selected 24 entrepreneurial ventures that it will help incubate. They have been chosen to participate in the Star Startup Award and Ramaiah Evolute programme from applicants from across the country. “The selection process was based on high technology and innovation, where the product or process would bring about a strong, significant impact on society,” said Samartha Nagabhushanam, advisor on board and chief strategist, in a press release. The selected startups will receive their Star Startup Award on August 23, and some will be part of the Ramaiah Evolute programme on M.S. Ramaiah campus. Strong mentors The startups will have the support of a strong mentoring team with expertise in multiple domains such as automotive, communications, computing systems, networking, medical technologies, storage, bioinformatics, etc. On the idea behind Ramaiah Evolute, M.R. Seetharam, vice-chairman of Ramaiah Group said: “If we need to see a leap in India’s GDP along with remarkable advancements in technology, the route is through active nurture of innovative entrepreneurship and this nurturing should begin at the institutional level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramaiah-evolute-to-incubate-24-startups/article36008839.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Identify ‘unsung heroes’ in the force, says Pant||City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has instructed senior officials to identify and list ‘unsung heroes’ among personnel at the station level. This is aimed at encouraging deserving police personnel and motivating them to continue doing good work. Cases are cracked through team effort, and many work harder than the investigating officer to solve a case. However, when it comes to rewards, it is the investigating officer who gets the credit. Contributions by the rest of the team are often unnoticed. Such personnel who contribute majorly towards cracking cases are unsung heroes who should get their due recognition, said Mr. Pant. He added: “A mechanism must be put in place at the station level to identify such personnel. Senior police officers have been instructed to get details of officers who played a role in cracking important and sensational cases as well as long-pending cases.” He also asked officials to identify citizens who have helped the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/identify-unsung-heroes-in-the-force-says-pant/article36008847.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two, including minor, held for stabbing mechanic||A 40-year-old car mechanic who was stabbed by his neighbours during a row on August 17 succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. The police have arrested two people, Arbaz Pasha, aged around 20, and his brother, a 16-year-old minor. Fazil worked in a car garage on R.P. Road in Hampi Nagar, while Arbaz was a medicine delivery boy. They were neighbours in Padarayanapura. According to the police, the two got into a fight after Fazil took umbrage over the way Arbaz reportedly harassed his wife. On Tuesday morning, Arbaz and his brother went to the victim’s garage in Hampi Nagar and allegedly stabbed him multiple times. Fazil succumbed the next day. At the time of the incident, the police had registered an attempt to murder case. “We will re-register it as murder,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-including-minor-held-for-stabbing-mechanic/article36008835.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jalaspandana programme||BWSSB will hold Jalaspandana phone-in programme on August 21 between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. at 16 places across the city. The programme is being organised to receive and solve the issues relating to water and sewerage. For details, visitwww.bwssb.gov.in. The public can also call helpline no. 1916 or WhatsApp on 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jalaspandana-programme/article36008831.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Saturday between 10 a.m. and 3 pm. in the areas serviced from 66/11KV Devarabisanahalli sub-station for half yearly maintenance works. According to a release from BESCOM, Koramangala division, the areas that will be affected are: Belandur, RMZ, Devarabisanahalli, Kariyamanapalya, and surrounding places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article36008832.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TKM opens Centre of Excellence||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has set up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) at Vemana Institute of Technology (VIT) for training students. The CoE featured Toyota engine, transmission, and powertrain as cut section and do-it-yourself models to provide hands-on experience of automotive mechanisms to students, the company said in a statement. TKM said it had established 12 CoEs at various colleges to help students become industry-ready and more such centres would come up in the future. S. Jayaram Reddy, president, KRJS, the supporting entity of VIT, said the CoE will serve as a great learning resource and a practical tool. Sudeep S. Dalvi, senior V-P, director and COO, TKM, said the focus was on helping plug the skills gap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tkm-opens-centre-of-excellence/article36008857.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Telephone exchange racket unearthed||The Central Crime Branch police officials on Tuesday raided an illegal telephone exchange that was operating in Malleswaram 8th Cross and recovered SIM boxes, routers, and other electronic equipment. According to the police, the office had been shut as the accused had not paid rent for a few months. The police called the owner and along with the witnesses recovered the equipment which had been packed in a box. “The company is owned by Mohammed Rasul and Mohammed Nishad, who rented the office premises in March. They were running the racket to divert international calls to domestic calls,” said a police official. The Anti-Terror Cell of the Bengaluru police had also recently unearthed an telephone exchange racket in Electronics City and arrested a 52-year-old man who was allegedly running it under the guise of an IT firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/telephone-exchange-racket-unearthed/article36008859.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police seize 20 kg of ganja||The Banaswadi police arrested an autorickshaw driver for allegedly peddling drugs, and seized 20 kg of ganja from him. The accused, a resident of Islampura, was arrested after the police received a tip-off that a person was selling drugs near Horamavu Junction Cross in HRBR Layout. Nasir was found with 20 kg of ganja stuffed in two bags. The value of the seized contraband is around Rs. 6 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-seize-20-kg-of-ganja/article36008864.ece
20 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Anand Singh skips meeting||Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh, who is upset over not getting a plum portfolio, skipped the Cabinet meeting on Thursday. It may be noted that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had recently held consultations with Mr. Singh, when he had hinted at resigning, and assured him of taking his request for a change in portfolio with the party high command. To hold talks? Some party top leaders, including national general secretary C.T. Ravi, might soon talk to Mr. Singh to convince him to fall in line in the interest of the party’s image. They are hoping that the party high command would intervene and resolve the issue at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anand-singh-skips-meeting/article36008876.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Devaraj Urs Award to be presented today||The State government has selected Basavaprabhu Lakhangowda Patil of Athani in Belagavi district, S.G. Susheelamma of Sumangali Seva Ashrama, Bengaluru, and K. Bhaskar Das of Yekkaru in Dakshina Kannada for D. Devaraj Urs Award for 2019–20, 2020–21, and 2021–22, respectively. The award would be presented by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday, birth anniversary of the former Chief Minister Devaraj Urs, at a function to be held at Banquet Hall of the State Secretariat, said Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Kota Srinivas Poojari. Free legal service Mr. Patil, 75, advocate by profession, has been providing free legal service to the deprived sections of society. He started a special school for 50 child labourers and worked for eradication of the Devadasi system. Ms. Susheelamma, 82, has been running Sumangali Seva Ashrama and providing education for 600 children. She has also set up a healthcare centre for the poor and slum-dwellers in Bengaluru. Mr. Das, 64, has been appointed as a member of the National Development and Welfare Board for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities, under the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/devaraj-urs-award-to-be-presented-today/article36008877.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,432 COVID-19 cases reported||Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,432 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,34,624. Of these, 318 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 27 deaths, the toll rose to 37,088. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,538 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 28,76,377. The State now has 21,133 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.8%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.88%. As many as 1,76,977 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-1432-cases-27-deaths/article36008858.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KMF launches five sugar-free products||Karnataka Co-operative Milk Producers Federation, as part of festival season offer, introduced five sugar-free products on Thursday, besides a slew of schemes. The sugar-free sweets are: milk peda, kesar peda, besan laddu, coconut burfi, and chocolate burfi. KMF is celebrating Sihi Utsav by offering 10% discount on all Nandini sweets, natural ice-creams, and shrikhand for 15 days starting Thursday. Eleven more varieties of ice-creams with natural fruits have been added. They also have ‘ayurvedic ice-creams’ in turmeric, chyawanprash and ginger& honey flavours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmf-launches-five-sugar-free-products/article36008830.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Motorists attack towing staff||Motorists physically assaulted towing staff at Indiranagar on Thursday and chased them when they came to tow vehicles parked near the metro station. Sensing trouble, the staff jumped out of the vehicle and began to flee but they were chased and assaulted. A traffic police officer alerted the control room following which a Hoysala patrolling vehicle arrived at the spot. The staff filed a complaint with the Indiranagar police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/motorists-attack-towing-staff/article36008848.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||30-year-old murdered while herding goats||A 30-year-old woman who was herding goats was found brutally murdered at Thyamagondlu on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday. According to the police, the unidentified assailants had bludgeoned her with stones. A 35-gm gold chain she was wearing was missing. “We suspect that she may have been assaulted, and are waiting for the post mortem report,” said the police, adding that the victim’s husband is an autorickshaw driver, and they have two sons. On Tuesday morning, after her husband, Chennigappa, left for work, she took the goats out to graze. The murder came to light when villagers noticed the goats had strayed on the railway track. They found the body near a water trench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-year-old-murdered-while-herding-goats/article36008849.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will act soon on Wakf land encroachments’||Religious Endowments, Wakf and Haj Minister Shashikala Jolle on Thursday said the department would take steps for early disposal of cases related to the encroachment of 8,480 acres of Wakf land in the State. Addressing presspersons after chairing a meeting with officials of her department, Ms. Jolle said 1,05,885 acres of Wakf land had been identified in the State, of which about 8,480 acres had been encroached upon. The matter was being heard in court, she said, and added that steps would be taken to get the cases disposed of at the earliest. A gazette notification had also been issued about Wakf properties in 149 taluks of the State, she said. She clarified that she had not gone through the former chairman of the Karnataka State Minority Commission Anwar Manippady’s report on Wakf property encroachment. She said due to COVID-19, no one could take up Haj pilgrimage in the last two years and the Haj Bhavan was converted into COVID care centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-act-soon-on-wakf-land-encroachments/article36008878.ece
20 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nine file nomination papers for HDMC polls||Even as the two major national parties, the BJP and the Congress, are still busy finalising party ticket for the election to the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation, nine candidates, including four from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), filed their nomination papers on Thursday. The process of filing nomination papers began on Monday, the day the election notification was issued by Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Election Officer Nitesh Patil. On the first two days none filed nomination papers and the first nomination paper was filed by an independent candidate on Wednesday. On Thursday, apart from the four official candidates of AAP, five others filed their nomination papers. Among them, two are from the BJP, one each from the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) and one, an Independent candidate. Both the BJP and the Congress are yet to issue B forms. These nomination papers have been filed for elections to ward numbers 3, 4, 7, 8, 46, 52 and 54. The first set of nomination papers for the elections was filed by Bibi Ayesha Yaragatti, wife of the former councillor Maqtumsab Yaragatti, in ward number 75 on Wednesday. Mr. Maqtumsab, who won as an Independent candidate in the last municipal council poll, has fielded his wife this time because of change in reservation. Due to delimitation, Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Council has a total of 82 wards now. Earlier, it was 67. For the last two terms, the BJP has been in power and is hoping to return to power for the third time. Meanwhile, the AAP has released its second list of candidates. While the first list had 10 candidates, the second list announced on Wednesday had 10 more. AAP State office-bearer Shantala Damle and district unit president Santosh Naragund have said that BJP leaders, including Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, were making baseless statements against the AAP as they were afraid of its growth in the twin cities. Competition While Congress observers and office-bearers began the process for selection of candidates on Thursday with leaders Dhruvnarayan, Satish Jarkiholi and others beginning consultations with local office-bearers, Bharatiya Janata Party, which began the process on Monday, is yet to complete the process. Insiders said that as there was more number of candidates seeking party ticket for each ward, the selection process has been delayed. The BJP had 34 members, while the Congress had 22 members in the last council. Meanwhile, Janata Dal(Secular), which had nine members in the last council, is also in the process of finalising candidates. New district president of the JD(S) Gururaj Hunasimarad has begun the process with a new set of office-bearers recently appointed. The other parties, including Prajakiya, AIMIM and RPI, are scouting for candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-file-nomination-papers-for-hdmc-polls/article36009121.ece
20 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Comprehensive caste census needed: Minister||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayana Swamy has said that there is a need for a comprehensive caste census in the country to facilitate implementation of a comprehensive reservation system. Speaking to presspersons in Haveri during his visit to the city as part of the Janashirvada Yatre on Thursday, Mr. Narayana Swamy said that after 1931, no caste census has been carried out in the country. “A comprehensive caste census will help in providing requisite reservation to all eligible communities, including the backward classes, on the basis of social justice,” he said. Regarding the Justice A.J. Sadashiva Commission’s report on internal reservation, he said that there are arguments both in favour of and against the implementation of the report and there is a need for a larger debate on the issue and a majority approval cutting across party lines. “There are over 3,000 castes; there is a need for taking a decision ensuring justice to all castes. The issue will be discussed with an open mind with the Chief Minister,” he said. Elaborating on the objective of the Janashirvada Yatre, the Minister said that the programme is aimed at sensitising the public on the government schemes and programmes. What is required is providing solution to problems rather than taking sensitive issues to the voters during elections, he said. On the soaring fuel prices, he said that the Union government has plans to restrict usage of petrol and diesel and priority is being given to use of electric vehicles. He said that during the pandemic, fuel prices have increased and the government is thinking of bringing the prices down. Member of Parliament Shivakumar Udasi, Members of Legislative Assembly Nehru Olekar, Virabhadrappa Ballari, Arunkumar Guttur, the former MLA U.B. Banakar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comprehensive-caste-census-needed-minister/article36009120.ece
20 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Venkaiah Naidu to visit Tungabhadra Reservoir||Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and his family will visit Tungabhadra Reservoir and UNESCO World Heritage Site Hampi on Friday and Saturday. As per the travel programme released by the government, Mr. Naidu will leave HAL Bengaluru Airport by an Indian Air Force special aircraft at 3.15 p.m. on Friday and reach Hubballi Airport by 4.15 p.m. He will then take an Indian Air Force special helicopter to reach Hosapete by 5.20 p.m. He will then travel by road and visit Tungabhadra Dam for 30 minutes between 5.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. He will stay at Mayura Bhuvaneshwari guesthouse near Hampi-Kamalapur. On Saturday, Mr. Naidu is scheduled to visit Hampi between 10 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. He will then return to Mayura Bhuvaneshwari guesthouse and stay there. He will fly by Indian Air Force special helicopter to Hubballi. After staying for some time at Hotel Ananth Grand in the city, he will then take an Indian Air Force special aircraft from Hubballi Airport and reach Delhi by 12.55 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/venkaiah-naidu-to-visit-tungabhadra-reservoir/article36009117.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Centre to promote export clusters of farm produce||Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Thursday that the Union government will give priority to promoting export clusters of farm produce in the State. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, she said that at present the State had export clusters for coffee, pepper and rose onion. There is scope for setting up export clusters for turmeric, fruits, jaggery, millets and other farm products. The Minister said that the State can cultivate millets in huge quantities and export them as there are vast tracts of dry land. At present, Uttarkhand is leading in the export of millets in the country. South Indian weather suits well for millet cultivation. The United Nations, on a request by India, has declared 2023 as the International Year of Millets. The Union government will work with the State government on promoting more export clusters, she said. Ms. Karandlaje, who is a Member of Parliament from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru constituency, said that many North Eastern States traditionally cultivated organic crops. Such crops and their by-products are in great demand from farm companies that exported them. Such exports also helped boost the income of farmers. And, farmers in the State too should take up cultivation of crops in large quantities using the organic method. The Minister said that the Union government through the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is laying stress on establishing more farmer producer organisations (FPOs), especially by organising small and medium farmers. Ms. Karandlaje said that the country is yet to emerge self-sufficient in the production of oil seeds, cereals and pulses. About 70% edible oil is being imported. Hence, the government has begun providing free mini kits of oil seeds to farmers to encourage production. It is also investing on research and development on making oil seed cultivation profitable in the dry land belt and on developing advanced processing technologies. Ms. Karandlaje said that the Union Cabinet recently decided to lift the ban on export of coconut and its products. It will help many farmers and coconut prices will stabilise after a year. The government has also decided to nominate a coconut grower as the chairperson of the Coconut Development Board instead of appointing an IAS officer to the post. The Union Minister said that some youth, hit by the COVID-19 impact, returning to farming appears to have contributed to increased farm production in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-to-promote-export-clusters-of-farm-produce/article36009364.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Political parties protest against hike in travel fares on private buses||Political parties, barring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and several organisations jointly staged a protest in the city on Thursday opposing the hike in travel fares on private buses and also, the decision by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) to allow it without conducting a public hearing. The Communist Party of India (Marxists), the Communist Party of India, the Congress, the Janata Dal (Secular), the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and Dalit organisations took part in the protest near the Clock Tower. The protesters urged Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra to keep the fares thus hiked in abeyance and conduct a public hearing immediately. They said that the RTA has taken a unilateral decision in the matter. Speaking on the occasion, secretary of Dakshina Kannada unit of the CPI(M) Vasantha Achari said that the common people have been hit hard by inflation, especially increasing fuel prices and prices of essential commodities. Many people have been hit hard due to COVID-19, while others have lost jobs. And, salaries of many people have been reduced. In such a situation, he said, the district administration has, without conducting a public hearing, behaved like an “agent” of private bus operators insofar as fare hike is concerned. The parties condemned it, he said. Spokesperson of the District Congress Committee Abhishek Ullal said that the district administration has given scope for private operators to collect fares as per their wishes without consulting people. Secretary of Mangaluru City South unit of the CPI (M) Sunil Kumar Bajal questioned the MLAs and the MP for remaining silent. If fares are not slashed, they will intensify the protest all over Dakshina Kannada, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/political-parties-protest-against-hike-in-travel-fares-on-private-buses/article36009368.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLA meets Chief Minister seeking NIA office in city||Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath has appealed to the government to open a unit of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mangaluru. The MLA, who met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in Bengaluru, submitted to them a memorandum on Thursday, a release from the MLA’s office said. Mr. Kamath told the Chief Minister and the Home Minister that cases of terrorist activities having links to the State’s coastal belt have been reported. Those involved in terrorist activities are found to have a base in the coastal belt. A fear atmosphere is being created in the coastal belt. It is a cause of concern. It said that the Home Minister will visit Mangaluru shortly to examine the need for opening a unit of the NIA in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-meets-chief-minister-seeking-nia-office-in-city/article36009362.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four FPOs being formed in Udupi||Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Thursday that four farmer producer organisations (FPOs) are being established in Udupi district and their registration is in the final stages. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, the Union Minister said that the FPOs will come up in Udupi, Kaup, Karkala and Kundapur taluks. She said that she has suggested to Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat to convert the Kedarottana Trust, which is headed by the MLA and which has promoted paddy cultivation on about 1,500 acres of fallow land under Udupi Assembly constituency this year, as an FPO. With this, the FPO can get government facilities, she added. Earlier, she participated in a programme organised by the trust to remove weeds from a converted paddy land in Kadekar in Udupi. Speaking on the occasion, she congratulated the trust for taking such an initiative. The Minister said that many a youth have drifted away from agriculture in search of greener pastures in urban areas as they thought that agriculture is not profitable. The Union government has implemented various programmes to attract youth to agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-fpos-being-formed-in-udupi/article36009365.ece
20 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police Commissioner to meet Afghan students||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar will meet on Saturday students hailing from Afghanistan who are studying in Mangalore University. In view of the political turmoil in Afghanistan, the police got in touch with 50 Afghanistan students and shared the contact numbers of officials they can get assistance from. On Thursday, two of these students called on Mr. Kumar and shared with him anxiety the students were going through because of the situation in their country. “Hence, I called them and other students for a meeting on Saturday,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-commissioner-to-meet-afghan-students/article36009369.ece
20 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Truck terminal to come up in Baikampady’||A well-equipped truck terminal will come up on land belonging to the New Mangalore Port Trust in Baikampady, said D.S. Veeraiah, chairman of D. Devaraj Urs Truck Terminal Ltd., here on Thursday. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and other district officials, Mr. Veeraiah said the lack of land had delayed the establishment of the terminal in Mangaluru. There was a proposal to have the terminal on private land, but it was shelved as it was cost-intensive. “We have now decided to have the terminal on NMPT land,” he said.   Mr. Veeraiah said it was proposed to have truck terminals in all district headquarters. These terminals will not just provide space for parking of trucks, but will also have a host of facilities, including medical, residential, and spare parts. A well-equipped truck terminal will help in preventing drivers from parking trucks by the side of highways, and thus stop accidents. Dr. Rajendra said the DPR on theterminal at Baikampady would be submitted in a month. It can be built under PPP mode or by a special purpose vehicle, hesaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truck-terminal-to-come-up-in-baikampady/article36009373.ece
20 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Manasagangotri to witness a slew of launches today||Manasagangotri campus in Mysuru will be witnessing a slew of launches of projects of the University of Mysore on Friday, including the School of Engineering. Also listed is a career hub constructed with funds from the Centre under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), aimed at making students employable by developing their skills. It is expected to help nearly 1,28,000 students in the university and its constituent colleges, said Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar. Minister for Higher Education, IT and BT C.N. Ashwath Narayan will be inaugurating the new initiatives at a function to be held at the newly-built Career Hub at 2.30 p.m. At a press conference here, Prof. Kumar said an exclusive hostel built for students pursuing research is being inaugurated on the campus. The 78-room three-storey building has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. The Centre of Excellence is being launched on the premises of Department of Studies in Computer Science. Besides the students from computer science, the students from other departments can make use of the new centre which has collaborated with IBM and SAP. The first batch of 100 students would be trained there. The University of Mysore has also entered into a strategic partnership with Google Cloud. The Centre of Excellence provides students access to technology and services for learning more about Google Cloud. The centre will run two programmes — ‘Google Cloud Career Readiness’ and ‘Google Cloud Computing Foundations’. The Minister will also be inaugurating from Mysuru the new academic block of the PG campus at Hemagangotri in Hassan. It has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. New classrooms of the Kuvempu Institute of Kannada Studies (KIKS) and, under RUSA 2.0, four new classrooms constructed at the Yuvaraja’s College Mysuruwill also be inaugurated. The government first grade colleges at Hettur, Terakanambi and Halli Mysuru have been handed over to the University which will be running these colleges from the academic year of 2021-22. The Minister will formally launch the initiative of the University taking over the colleges. The School of Engineering is one of the ambitious initiatives of the University under the National Education Programme, 2020. From 2021-22 onwards, the University will offer five new engineering courses, including Civil Environmental Engineering, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Computer Science and Design, and Biomedical and Robotic Engineering. The AICTE has given its approval for running the courses. While 50 per cent of seats will be allotted through the Karnataka Examination Authority, the other 50 per cent will be allotted by the University, said Prof. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manasagangotri-to-witness-a-slew-of-launches-today/article36009412.ece
20 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Gardeners League floated||The Mysuru Gardeners League has come into being not only to connect with nature but ensure nutrition that is organic and chemical-free and can be practised by anyone. Deepak Mangesh, convenor, said the concept was driven by the desire to build an eco-conscious community and bring in awareness on sustainable lifestyle. “During the second wave of COVID-19 it became obvious that immunity and community were important and the most effective way of dealing with a pandemic was to connect with nature for which a nutrition garden in one’s house could be a small step forward. The League will help participants to be a grower by giving them access to free virtual gardening and composting sessions besides a platform for exchanging knowledge on gardening’’, he said. The League was inaugurated recently by Trishika Wadiyar of the erstwhile royal family and she called for one nutrition garden for each home to help build up immunity and fight the pandemic. This would also help make Namma Mysuru greener and healthier, she said. On the occasion Seeta Ashoka tree and Mysore Fig tree were planted on the palace premises.  To know more about the MGL – which has been supported by Mysuru Volunteer Forum, Keeday Makuday Foundation and others, call 9986623073.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-gardeners-league-floated/article36009410.ece
20 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mobile is restored, and she is all smiles||The long and restless wait for Hrithiksha, a school-going girl from Kushalnagar in Kodagu, finally ended on Thursday after she received her deceased mother’s mobile phone that went missing at the District COVID-19 Hospital in Madikeri in May this year. Her mother, Prabha, succumbed to COVID-19 three months ago. On knowing that her mother’s phone is missing, the girl’s heart-wrenching appeal for tracing the phone had gone viral in social media platforms, prompting the district administration to intervene. The girl said the phone had photographs of her and her mother, and the only means to recollect her memories. Despite all efforts, the phone could not be traced, leaving the girl disappointed. Along with her mother and her father, Hrithiksha, a Class 5 student of Gummanakolli village, had also tested positive for COVID-19. She and her father, Naveen Kumar T.R., a daily wage worker, were home isolated but her mother had to be shifted to the ICU ward at the District COVID-19 Hospital, Madikeri, for treatment. However, she succumbed to the infection on May 16. Prabha’s phone went missing after her death. The girl immediately wrote a letter to the Deputy Commissioner, Kodagu, local legislators, and the hospital authorities seeking their help to trace it As her appeal went viral, the district administration intervened, asking the police and the Health Department to trace the phone. The girl’s father had lodged a complaint with the Kushalnagar police stating that his wife’s mobile phone along with the SIM card was lost in the hospital and requested them to locate it. The hospital authorities had also lodged the complaint with the Madikeri police for tracing the phone. Three months after the phone went missing, the Medical Superintendent of the hospital under Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) went to the Madikeri Police Station and handed over a smartphone, saying that it was found in the hospital’s store room. In a letter to the police, the official said the phone had pictures of Prabha and her daughter. The IMEI number of the phone and the phone that went missing were the same. On confirming the phone belonged to Prabha, the police contacted her family and told about tracing the phone, much to the delight of Hrithiksha. Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra gave away the phone to Hrithiksha at her office in Madikeri on Thursday. “My daughter is happy to find her mother’s phone, at last,” Mr. Naveen Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-is-restored-and-she-is-all-smiles/article36008866.ece
20 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Organ donation by two benefits 14 patients||As many as 14 patients benefited from organs harvested from two donors who were declared brain dead, in a city hospital on Thursday. Lawrence from Hunsur and Shobha from Kushalnagar were wheeled into Apollo BGS Hospitals in the city from two other private hospitals, in a critical condition on Monday. Lawrence had met with an accident and was on life support system for two days after which he was declared brain dead due to brain stem failure, according to N.G. Bharateesha Reddy, Vice-President and Unit Head, Apollo BGS Hospitals, Mysuru. Shobha had suffered from a brain haemorrhage and was also declared brain dead. Both were assessed as per the hospital protocol stipulated by the Transplant of Human Organs Act 1994 by panellists at the hospital. As both Lawrence and Shobha were healthy before the incident, and tests confirmed their eligibility for organ donation, their attendees were consulted for organ donation and their consent was secured and the family members came forward to donate the organs, said Mr.R eddy. Officials from Jeevasarthakathe, the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, initiated the process and the organs were harvested at the Apollo BGS Hospitals out of which two kidneys and two livers were transplanted to the waitlisted patients while the rest of the organs were sent to the needy patients at different hospitals, according to Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/organ-donation-by-two-benefits-14-patients/article36009415.ece
20 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||NEP launch at UoM today||The University of Mysore will be implementing the National Education Policy-2020 from this academic year onwards. It has organised a launching programme at the Crawford Hall here on Friday at 3.30 p.m. to formally announce the unveiling of the policy and its vision of the policy. Minister for Higher Education and IT and BT C.N. Ashwath Narayan will be the chief guest at the programme. Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, and MLA L. Nagendra said Vice-Chancellor G. Hemanth Kumar. The policy recognises, identifies and fosters the unique capabilities of students by incorporating flexibility in the learning process. NEP offers multi-disciplinary and a holistic education with curriculur and extra-curricular activities between vocational and academic streams. The multidisciplinary UG programmes come with multiple entry and exit options, and the emphasis is on outcome based education (OBE) practices besides extensive use of technology in teaching and learning, said the University in its NEP note. The V-C said the University is launching a four-year UG programme in which the student would get Bachelor’s degree with honors. The honors degree holders with research component are eligible to enter doctoral or PhD programme or can continue two-semester Master degree programme with project work. The curriculum encompasses both theoretical and conceptual knowledge with specialisation under discipline areas. The language and skill enhancement courses will help students with effective communication and self-employment prospects. The candidate gets a certificate after completion of one year, diploma after second year, bachelor’s degree after the third year and BSc honors after the completion of the fourth year. Prof. Kumar said a workshop has also been organised on Friday in connection with the launch of NEP-2020, for teachers, at the Crawford Hall at 11 a.m. Pradeep P., Commissioner, Higher Education, will inaugurate it. Thimme Gowda B., Vice-Chairman, Karnataka State Higher Education Council is the resource person. Registrar R. Shivappa was present during the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-launch-at-uom-today/article36009414.ece
20 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Radio Manasa launch on Sept. 5||The community radio station of University of Mysore, an initiative of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, will be formally launched on September 5. The logo of the 89.6 mhz radio station which has a reach of 15 km will be unveiled on Friday. This is perhaps the first community radio station project taken up by the State university although the agricultural universities have launched such an initiative for fulfilling their objectives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/radio-manasa-launch-on-sept-5/article36009413.ece
20 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Mantralayam Aradhana from tomorrow||The 350th Aradhana Mahotsav of Sri Raghavendra Swami will be held at the mutt in Mantralayam in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh from August 21 to 27, 2021, Sri Subudhendra Tirtha Swami, Peethadhipathi of Sri Mutt, has said. Addressing a press conference in the mutt at Mantralayam on Thursday, Subudhendra Tirtha said that annual religious and cultural programmes for seven days will be held in the mutt while ensuring adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. He said that all arrangements, including shelter and food, have been made for devotees coming from various parts of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. He also said that a master plan has been drawn up for Mantralayam at a cost of Rs. 2,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mantralayam-aradhana-from-tomorrow/article36009118.ece
20 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Three police constables kept under suspension||Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has placed three police constables under suspension on the charge of dereliction of duty on Thursday. Talking to The Hindu , Dr. Vedamurthy said that those who were kept under suspension were on duty at Yargol village in Yadgir district when some people opened fire in the air using single barrel muzzle loading (SBML) guns while welcoming Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers, New and Renewable Energy Bhagawanth Khuba on the district border on Wednesday. Dr. Vedamurthy gave the names of suspended policemen as Veeresh, Santosh and Mahaboob, all attached to the Yadgir Rural Police Station. On Wednesday, in a swift action, the police took four persons, Sharanappa, Monappa, Ningappa and Devindra, into custody in connection with the firing incident and booked them under Section 25 of the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-police-constables-kept-under-suspension/article36009119.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Homegrown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/homegrown/article36008863.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating the Goddess||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-the-goddess/article36009371.ece
20 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Selling vegetables to buy ambulance||They are steadfast in their determination to buy an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) ambulance for public use. After conducting a ‘cake challenge’ in connection with Christmas last year, Team Prahladaa, under the aegis of Thuravoor-based Prahladaa Social Service Trust, is back again this Onam to raise money for the cause. The group, consisting mostly of youngsters and students, has opened an Onam vegetable market at Thuravoor, with the entire proceeds going towards purchasing an ambulance. “Like the cake challenge, we are selling vegetables this Onam with the single purpose of raising money for the ambulance. The initiative has been receiving good response. Besides opening the temporary veggie store, we are conducting home delivery within a 5-km radius without additional charges,” says Bharath Jagadeesh, secretary, Prahladaa Social Service Trust. Critical care facilities According to the members, though a lot of ambulances are available in the area, none has critical care facilities. The decision to buy an ICU ambulance was taken after a couple of people lost their lives last year that could have been saved if an ambulance with such facilities was available. The Trust launched the 'Ambulance challenge' in July 2020 by urging people to donate Rs. 150 or more for the cause. They need to raise about Rs. 30 lakh in total to purchase the vehicle. “We have so far raised Rs. 4,30,131, including Rs. 3,85,453 through donations, and Rs. 44,678 from the cake challenge. All the details are available on our website. Selling vegetables is a continuation of the previous challenges,” says Mr. Jagadeesh. The Trust, which opened the Onam market on August 12, plans to run it till August 23. On average, they are selling 200 kg of vegetables a day. With most of its members being employed, they take turns to run the shop and doorstep delivery. While the cake challenge and selling vegetables are helping them raise a few bucks, it will not be enough to meet the target and they are looking at securing CSR funds as well. The cake challenge was conducted by the team in December by setting up a temporary cake sales counter by the side of National Highway 66 opposite the Thuravoor taluk hospital.  Besides the veggie store, the group is carrying out home delivery without additional charges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selling-vegetables-to-buy-ambulance/article36009276.ece
20 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha holds vaccine campaigns||The Health Department and the Alappuzha district administration have jointly launched special COVID-19 vaccination drives in Kuttanad taluk along with the coastal wards of the Alappuzha municipality and grama panchayats in the district. The campaign, which began on August 17, will go on till September 13. In Kuttanad, the drive is being conducted in Kainakary, Kavalam, Neelamperoor, Pulinkunnu, Veliyanad, Nedumudi, Champakulam, Ramankary, Muttar, Edathua, Thalavadi and Thakazhi grama panchayats. In the municipality, the inoculation campaign is being held in Beach, Railway Station, Vadakkal, Seaview Vadacanal, Kanjiramchira, Mangalam, and Thumpoly wards. Residents of the coastal parts of Kuthiathode, Thuravoor, Pattanakkad, Kadakkarappally, Cherthala South, Mararikulam North, Mararikulam South, Punnapra North, Punnapra South, Ambalapuzha North, Ambalapuzha South, Purakkad, Thrikkunnapuzha and Arattupuzha grama panchayats can also receive COVID-19 vaccines as part of the campaign. 1,319 cases in Alappuzha Alappuzha district reported 1,319 COVID-19 cases and 821 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 15.19%. Of the fresh cases, 1,289 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 28 others remains unknown. Two health staff also tested positive for the disease. The active COVID-19 caseload in Alappuzha district stands at 9,952. Cases on the rise In Kottayam district, the number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise, with 925 persons testing positive for the disease on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 918 persons, including a health-care worker, contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day stood at 11.87%. With 98 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappally, which recorded 47 cases. As many as 144 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,230. Meanwhile, 41,809 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. TPR at 11.9% In Pathanamthitta district, 818 persons tested positive for the disease on the day. Of this, 817 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of six cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day in the district was 11.9%. With 35 cases, Konni reported the highest number of cases. The disease claimed four more lives in the district. With 809 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 7,161 active cases.  (with inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-holds-vaccine-campaigns/article36009287.ece
20 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Case against YouTuber for letting boy drive car||The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has registered a case against an Alappuzha-based YouTuber for allowing a boy to drive his vehicle. The accused has been identified as Saju T.S. of Kommady in Alappuzha. MVD officials said a report was submitted to Juvenile Justice Board recommending not to issue driving licence to the boy, also a YouTuber, until he turned 25. The incident happened in November 2020 on the Alappuzha Beach road. The duo recorded the video and posted it on their YouTube channels. “The boy, hailing from Kannur, who was 16 years old then, came to Alappuzha to attend a function. Saju, who knew the boy was underage, deliberately allowed him to drive his car for the purpose of recording a video. In the video, which is available on YouTube, he also mentions the age of the boy,” said Jinson Xavier Paul, inspector, MVD. Complaint received An investigation was launched based on a complaint received by Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajithkumar. The commissioner has directed MVD officials to initiate stringent action against those indulging in traffic violations and stunts for the purpose of recording videos for posting on social media accounts.  The video, in which the boy’s age was mentioned, was posted on channels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-youtuber-for-letting-boy-drive-car/article36009196.ece
20 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Revenue staff arrested for taking bribe||The officials of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Wednesday arrested a Revenue Department official at the Kattappana municipality for accepting bribe from a farmer. The arrested was revenue inspector Shiju Azis who took Rs. 13,000 from Joshy Valliyamthadathil, a resident of Vettikavala. The latter had approached the official for transferring the ownership of a plot to his mother. He submitted the application in February. Shiju visited the land and told Joshy that for an amount of 20,000, he would start the process. The amount was later reduced to Rs. 13,000. Joshy approached the VACB and the official was arrested from his office while accepting the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-staff-arrested-for-taking-bribe/article36009277.ece
20 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Bribe: probe ordered||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has ordered an inquiry into a complaint that Forest Department officials are extorting money from cardamom planters. The money was collected in the guise of meeting Onam expenses. The Minister said he had sought a report from the Forest Vigilance Department chief. Suspended Meanwhile, section forest officer Cherian V. Cherian and beat officer M. Raju were suspended in Kumily for collecting money from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bribe-probe-ordered/article36009308.ece
20 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Cassava farmers gain from KAU initiatives||The timely intervention of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) by offering to bring out value-added products from cassava has offered a ray of hope to farmers reeling under crisis during the pandemic. After traders abruptly stopped procuring cassava owing to huge availability and low demand for the produce in the market, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Ambalavayal, under the varsity, made the intervention along with the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) by using a demonstration dryer unit at the Kendra, Allan Thomas of KVK told The Hindu . “The unit can dry 60 kg of cassava in a shift, but we operated the unit in two shifts a day to help farmers,” Dr. Thomas said. Long shelf life Horticorp collects the produce from farmers and returns it to them after drying. The dried product has long shelf life and good demand in the market. Horticorp will provide Rs. 11.50 a kg to KVK as processing charge, he added. Apart from cassava, the centre also brought out nearly 300 kg of value-added products made from jackfruit such as jackfruit halwa, toffee, and dried jackfruit as well as 500 kg of jackfruit seed powder with the support of the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam. The varsity has directed all KVKs to take all possible measures to help the farming community during the pandemic, KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu said. Job potential The diverse initiatives of KVK also provide job opportunities to nearly 40 women of five self-help groups. “We have requested the Wayanad district administration to set up a dryer unit with a capacity of one tonne a day at KVK to cater to the needs of farmers in the district, and it has agreed in principle,” he informed.  Horticorp collects the produce from farmers and returns it to them after drying||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-offers-a-hand-of-help-to-cassava-farmers-in-distress/article36009191.ece
20 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Squads to check unlawful activities||The Wayanad district administration has constituted special squads to check unlawful activities such as filling paddy fields, granite and earth mining, bulldozing hillocks, encroachment on public property, and felling of trees during the Onam season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squads-to-check-unlawful-activities/article36009179.ece
20 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Case registered for provocative statements||The Kannur Cyber Police on Wednesday registered a case against those who posted provocative comments on social media following the arrest of E Bull Jet brothers. The case under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered for the alleged posting of videos threatening the police and the government. Incidentally, vlogger brothers Ebin and Libin accused the police of attempting to trap them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-registered-for-provocative-statements/article36009178.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Potholed, ill-lit arterial roads, bridges dampen Kochi’s Onam||There is no let-up in travel woes of commuters and pedestrians in Kochi despite the Onam festive season, thanks to potholed and heavily encroached upon roads, bridges and footpaths in the city. The worst is the plight of Thammanam-Pullepady road, which was improperly restored after being trenched by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). The Kochi Corporation has done little to restore the stretch, although the KWA says it had remitted the necessary funds for the restoration work. The result is that it is next to impossible to use one side of the notoriously narrow road, prompting motorists to use the wrong side. The corporation owns the crucial corridor and is responsible for its upkeep, although the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) is expected to develop it into a four-lane stretch. Onam shoppers and regular commuters are having a nightmarish ride through the stretch that provides connectivity between the NH bypass and M.G. Road, while pedestrians have to risk their life and walk. Another corridor that is perennially in bad shape is the trio of Goshree bridges that link the city with Goshree Islands, Cherai, and North Paravur. The heavily undulated bridges and their approach spans develop potholes at frequent intervals, causing accidents and slowing down traffic. Goshree Action Council and Nerkazhcha Vedi, both NGOs, have been in the forefront of agitations demanding that the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) ensure safe commuting through the bridges and their approach roads. “Innumerable accidents, including fatal ones, have occurred after two-wheeler riders and others were caught unawares by potholes. The GIDA must wake up from its slumber and ensure that repair and resurfacing are done on a war footing, rather than cite lame excuses,” said Majnu Komath, chairman of the council. Referring to a ‘machua’ accident in the backwaters off Bolghatty Island many decades ago that claimed seven lives, Mr. Komath spoke of how then government reintroduced a proper boat that had been pulled out of service earlier, within 24 hours of the accident. “Likewise, GIDA must not wait for fatal accidents to happen, before it gets its act together. Rather, they must be prevented, by ensuring safe commuting.” It is sad that civic and other agencies have failed to ensure pothole-free roads, despite Onam, said Abhijit K. John, president of Nerkazhcha. “Lack of street lights has worsened the risk posed by potholes,” he said. Sources in GIDA said potholes on two bridges were repaired during the past week. A huge pothole on the second bridge will be repaired within a day. Efforts are under way to install LED street lights on all three bridges, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/potholed-ill-lit-arterial-roads-bridges-dampen-kochis-onam/article36009222.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LPG consumption on revival path in State||Commercial cooking gas consumption in the State is on a revival path, with the sector registering 44% growth between April and July this year compared to the slump of around 30% in sales during the same period in 2020. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation, and Hindustan Petroleum account for over 95% of commercial LPG sales in the State. They account for the sale of around 20,000 (19 kg) cylinders per day. The growth in LPG business has been backed by a range of new products from the Indane brand of IOC, which includes Indane Chhotu (5-kg cylinders), Indane Xtra TeJ, and Indane Nanocut. They were launched to encouraging response from consumers, said IOC sources. They added that there were around one crore LPG consumers in the State, with IOC accounting for 51 lakh consumers and the other oil companies serving the rest. Around 2.20 lakh cylinders for domestic use are supplied in the State daily, of which, IOC accounts for approximately 1.10 lakh cylinders. Domestic cylinders weigh 14.2 kg each. COVID-19 curbs and work-from-home system have triggered a rise in demand for cooking gas in households in 2020. The growth continued into the initial months of the current financial year. April-July 2021 saw a growth of 4.5% in domestic gas demand compared to the pre-COVID days. Indane Xtra TeJ and Indane Nanocut are normal LPG dozed with nano additives, which serve as catalysts. Xtra TeJ is developed by the research and development division of IOC and ensures a higher flame temperature of up to 80 degrees Celsius compared to normal LPG. It also reduces LPG consumption by 5% to 7% and cooking time by round 14%, IOC claimed. The products come in 19-kg, 47.5-kg and 425-kg cylinders. IOC has a market share of 75% for its Chhotu cylinders in the State, and nearly 35,000 cylinders are being sold a month now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-consumption-on-revival-path-in-state/article36009192.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Dressing up pets for Onam||Pets in Kochi can celebrate Onam this time by wearing ‘Onakkodis’. In support of the handloom challenge announced by the State government, looms in Balaramapuram are rolling out handloom dresses for pet dogs and cats. Male dogs and cats can have kasavu shirts with golden borders in the typical Kerala style, while ‘girls’ will get tops with a kasavu bow tie. These are on show at a pet shop at Panampilly Nagar, ‘Just Dogs’. Other dresses too are available at the shop, including bandhanas and bow ties. The price is in the range between Rs. 399 to Rs. 2,299. Abe Sam Thomas, a partner of the shop, said that the extraordinary bonding created between pets and humans during the COVID-19 days prompted them to roll out Onakkodis for pets. “Our bonding with pets has now become stronger. Pets wearing cute dresses is not anything new, but Onakkodi for them is here for the first time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dressing-up-pets-for-onam/article36009217.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cooperative targets record sales during festival season||Despite the setbacks suffered by dairy farmers owing to the first and second waves of COVID-19 during the past two years, the Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union (ERCMPU) targets selling a record 13 lakh litres of milk, 80,000 kg of curd and 172 tonnes of clarified butter during the Onam season. ERCMPU chairman John Theruvath claimed here on Thursday that products under the Kerala Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) brand had achieved widespread acceptability for their quality. The reason for the considerable increase in the sale of Milma products was their wide acceptability and reliability, he added. Milma has also contributed clarified butter to the 80 lakh food kits containing essentials being distributed by the State government as part of Onam celebrations. Besides, the milk cooperative is also offering a combine of dairy products worth Rs. 385 at Rs. 300 as part of Onam season concessions being extended to people, he added. The milk cooperative had increased the production of Freedom Peda (milk pedas) for the Independence Day celebrations after their demand saw a considerable increase. Over eight lakh Freedom Pedas are being made available in the Ernakulam region, Mr. Theruvath said. There are around 46,000 farmers under 930 primary dairy production cooperatives under the Ernakulam region of the milk cooperative, which comprises Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Idukki districts. The daily milk supply was around four lakh litres by farmers. The sales had touched around 3.65 lakh litres per day even as the cooperative converted excess into milk powder and value-added products from milk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cooperative-targets-record-sales-during-festival-season/article36009219.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Smuggled IMFL flows to Ernakulam||The pandemic-induced intermittent lockdowns and local shutdowns in micro-containment zones leading to prolonged periods of closure of liquor outlets and bars seem to have spurred a thriving business of smuggling of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) into Ernakulam district from outside Kerala. Trains have emerged as the preferred mode of smuggling. The special squads of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) alone seized 155 bottles of IMFL in less than a month ago. On July 23, the RPF seized 73 bottles of IMFL worth nearly Rs. 19,000 from a passenger from Puducherry. This was followed by successive seizures of another 32 and 50 bottles of IMFL in two separate incidents from as many passengers from Goa. “Puducherry and Goa have emerged as hot destinations for the smuggling in of IMFL to Kerala on account of the low liquor prices, which guarantee considerable profit on selling them in the black market. The flow of liquor is considerably higher ahead of the festival season in view of the surge in consumption,” said RPF sources. The two special squads operated by the RPF in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam have proved quite effective in foiling liquor smuggling through trains. Excise officials have also seized over 94 litres of IMFL through combined operations with the RPF. Frequent breaks in availability of liquor even after the lockdown on account of restrictions in micro-containment zones seem to have driven the market for smuggled liquor. “There are places where liquor outlets have not opened for months even after the lockdown. Liquor is being smuggled in from Karnataka as well on account of the steep difference in prices between the two States,” a senior Excise official said. While the smuggling in of liquor driven by profit motive thrives, there are also instances where people ignorant of rules bring in liquor from outside the State during the festive season. In the absence of check-posts, detection of liquor smuggling remains a tough job for Excise officials who focus on inter-State buses and trains as the most potent smuggling modes, said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frequent-shutdowns-pave-way-for-imfl-smuggling-into-district/article36009228.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Councillors object to ‘Onam payment’||The ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) council in Thrikkakara Municipality appears to have landed itself in another trouble after a group of 18 councillors, including Opposition leader M. K. Chandrababu of the CPI(M) and Independent councillor M.C. Manoop, now with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), demanded a Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) investigation into what they alleged was an attempt by the ruling front to pay Rs. 10,000 each to the municipal councillors as an Onam gift. The complaint sent by the councillors claimed they were given the money along with the ‘Onakkodi’ packets for the elderly in their wards. Onakkodi is a typical Onam gift that is part of the festive season. However, on finding that the gift included envelopes with Rs. 10,000 each, the money was returned to the municipal chairperson, the councillors said. They demanded an inquiry into whether the money was part of illegal payments received by the municipality’s ruling council. But the municipal chairperson, Ajitha Thankappan, denied the allegations. “These allegations are part of a conspiracy to frame me and the ruling council,” she said on Thursday. There is no truth in the allegations being raised, she added. “The Opposition is working to bring down the UDF-led ruling council at any cost, and the allegations of payment of money to councillors is one of the fresh attempts being made in this direction,” she added. Money returned The 18 councillors, who signed the petition demanding VACB inquiry, and a group of ruling councillors are learnt to have returned the money to the municipal chairperson even as the Opposition alleged that the payment was part of the money received by the ruling council through corrupt practices. P.T. Thomas, MLA, did not comment on the allegations. He said he was not aware of any wrongdoing by the corporation. The allegations come close on the heels of the municipality being accused in July of illegally killing stray dogs to contain their population. The Infopark police arrested four persons in connection with the incident in which 25 dog carcasses were recovered from a municipal dumping yard. Animal rights activists accused the municipality of illegally killing the dogs. The municipal authorities, however, denied the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/councillors-object-to-onam-payment/article36009223.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Trains rescheduled, cancellation withdrawn||Train no. 03352 Alappuzha–Dhanbad Junction daily special scheduled to leave Alappuzha at 6 a.m. on Sunday will be rescheduled to leave Alappuzha at 11.45 a.m. since East Coast Railway has notified train traffic regulation in Waltair Division for Limited Height Subway (LHS) construction works on August 23. Consequently, the following special trains will be rescheduled. Train no. 05906 Dibrugarh–Kanniyakumari weekly special scheduled to leave Dibrugarh at 7.25 p.m. on August 21 will be rescheduled to leave Dibrugarh at 12.55 a.m. on August 22, says a Railway release. The partial cancellation of following trains is withdrawn due to the cancellation of track maintenance scheduled for Friday. Train no. 06306 Kannur–Ernakulam Junction daily special train will run as per schedule between Kannur and Ernakulam Jn. and 06307 Alappuzha–Kannur daily special will run as per schedule between Alappuzha and Kannur on Friday, says the release. Special trains The South Western Railway has notified introduction of fully reserved weekly special trains between Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi railway station and Kochuveli as detailed below. Train no. 07359 SSS Hubballi–Kochuveli weekly superfast special will leave SSS Hubballi at 7 a.m. on Wednesdays and reach Kochuveli at 6.35 a.m., the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-rescheduled-cancellation-withdrawn/article36009231.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PG admission at Maharaja’s||Registration for admission to P.G. courses at Maharaja's College, Ernakulam, has started. Candidates may visitwww.maharajas.ac.infor details, according to a communication from the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-admission-at-maharajas/article36009225.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Consultations at cancer centre postponed||The consultations scheduled for August 21 at the Early Cancer Detection Centre, Kaloor, will be held on August 28, according to a communication from the centre. Patients can get further details on contacting 0484 2347531 or 8281798531 between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consultations-at-cancer-centre-postponed/article36009226.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man held on charge of sexual abuse, blackmail||The Central police have arrested a man on the charge of sexually abusing a woman, capturing her video and then threatening her of releasing it online. The arrested was identified as Sanish, 43, of Thodupuzha. The victim was an employee of the accused who runs a textile firm at Vytilla. The accused reportedly sexually abused the victim by promising to marry her. The accused took her to a hotel at South and then sexually abused her and captured the video. The victim was then blackmailed and subjected to sexual abuse based on the video, the police said. The accused also allegedly usurped her of Rs. 50,000 and a gold ring. The victim later realised that the accused was allegedly a womaniser and confronted him demanding to return her money. The accused then allegedly sent the videos he had captured to the victim as a blackmailing ploy and threatened her of releasing them on the Internet. Following this, the victim petitioned the police. The accused went into hiding on knowing about this. He was then traced to Thodupuzha and arrested.  The accused was produced in court and remanded. The probe was ordered by Ernakulam Central Assistant Commissioner K. Lalji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-sexual-abuse-blackmail/article36009195.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,527 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||A total of 2,527 persons were reported as having contracted COVID-19 on Thursday in Ernakulam. A communication from the district administration said 11 persons among the newly-infected had come from outside the State, while there were 2,456 cases of local spread. Seven health workers were among those infected, and the source of infection among 53 people was not known. The test positivity rate stood at 13.9% in the district. Thrikkakara recorded 125 cases, Kottuvally 96 cases, Kalamassery, 73, and Thripunithura 53 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2527-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article36009218.ece
20 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||LSGIs ensuring support of traders||Various local self-government institutions (LSGIs) in Kollam district have ensured the representation of traders in COVID-19 containment activities during the festival season. While all shops and business centres have been put under surveillance, joint meetings of police and merchants will be held regularly to discuss preventive measures.  While 6,290 people in the local body were administered both doses of the vaccine, 12,524 have received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-ensuring-support-of-traders/article36009290.ece
20 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Coop. dept. plans more development works||The Cooperation Department could support the commoner during the pandemic-induced crisis, Minister K.K. Vasavan said here on Thursday. Inaugurating the auditorium of Service Cooperative Bank, Chithara, he added the department would undertake more development works in future. “During COVID-19, the department made available medicines and pulse oximeters at reasonable rates through Neethi medical stores. Apart from that, interest-free loans were provided to the department’s employees for buying mobile phones for the children’s education,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coop-dept-plans-more-development-works/article36009288.ece
20 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||IRHD invites applications for courses||Institute of Human Resources Development (IHRD) Kundara extension centre has invited applications for various courses, including Data Entry Technique and Office Automation and Computer Applications (PGDCA and DCA). For details, contact 0474-2580462 or 8547005090.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/irhd-invites-applications-for-courses/article36009289.ece
20 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Tussle for Pala continues||The political rivalry triggered by the back-to-back wins of Mani C. Kappan or rather the successive defeats of the Kerala Congress(M) continues to rage in Pala even months after the Assembly elections. In yet another round of direct battle between the two sides, Mr. Kappan on Thursday announced that he would observe a satyagraha on Thiruvonam day to protest against an alleged attempt by the KC(M) to fabricate criminal cases against its detractors. Alongside the satyagraha, the legislator will also stage a sit-in at the Llalam bridge junction from 9 a.m to 3 p.m on the day. Setting the stage for this latest round of battle is a case booked against Sanjay Sakariyas, grandson of the late Congress leader K.M. Chandy, for allegedly defaming Mr.Mani and his party using the social media. “The case, booked under non-bailable provisions, is being framed with complete support of the State government. The protest on Thiruvonam day is an attempt to line up people against such fascist tendencies,” said Mr. Kappan. Social media The legislator is also expected to be joined by United Democratic Front leaders in the district. “If there is any politician in Kerala who is abusing the social media to defame rivals, it is Jose K. Mani,” said Saji Manjakadambil, convener of the UDF district committee. The other day, the Pala police booked a case against Mr. Sakkariyas and others under various IPC provisions and Sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act. The case followed a complaint by KC(M) general secretary Stephen George. Meanwhile, observers regard the development as an extension of the rivalry between Mr. Kappan and Mr. Mani, which began boiling over much before a direct battle between the two during the recent Assembly elections. Earlier, the sparring leaders were also seen vying with each other to hog the credit for various schemes, including the Neloor drinking water project, allocation of ration card to Christian convents, and raising the support price for natural rubber.  Kappan to protest against alleged attempt by KC(M) to fabricate cases against detractors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tussle-for-pala-continues/article36009232.ece
20 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||SEWA outlet in Kottayam||Kottayam MP Thomas Chazhikadan here on Thursday inaugurated the first outlet of the Shop-SEWA Livelihood in Kottayam. According to Sonia George, SEWA union secretary, the outlet will sell a host of products ranging from ethnic food to handicrafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sewa-outlet-in-kottayam/article36009281.ece
20 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Ire over cancellation of Calicut varsity courses in Lakshadweep||Academics and students’ organisations have objected to Calicut University’s decision to discontinue postgraduate courses and B.A. (Arabic) now being offered at its study centres in Lakshadweep. The Syndicate of the university on Wednesday decided to stop the courses available at the centres on Kavaratti, Androth and Kadamath islands on the orders of the Lakshadweep Administration. The island authorities are reportedly not happy with the academic quality of students. The courses to be discontinued are M.A. in Arabic, English, and Politics respectively and M.Sc. in Aquaculture and Maths respectively. Though the administration primarily wanted to discontinue postgraduate courses, it wants undergraduate course in Arabic too cancelled. Other undergraduate courses will continue. The administration reportedly wants students to study in Kerala. Ajas, a functionary of the Lakshadweep unit of the National Students Union of India, the students’ wing of the Congress, told The Hindu on Thursday that there was a plan to launch tourism-based and job-oriented courses. A paramedical centre too is being set up. “We learn that the courses will be affiliated to a Gujarat-based university. However, all those steps are shrouded in secrecy. Only the Administrator and the Assistant Collector are privy to information,” he said. Anees of the Lakshadweep Students’ Association said the organisation was collecting details about the decision. Meanwhile, two Syndicate members urged the Vice Chancellor to revoke the move. In a letter, N.V. Abdurahiman and P. Rasheed Ahammed pointed out that the university had been providing facilities for higher education to students of the islands for the past 15 years, as there were no avenues for poor and backward students there. Though there has been no shortage of applicants for B.A. Arabic course, the administration wants to suspend the programme. It claimed that the suspension of courses was undemocratic and unilateral and against the interests of residents and students. Similarly, PG courses should not be seen in terms of student strength but as part of providing to meritorious students, especially poor girls, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ire-over-cancellation-of-calicut-varsity-courses-in-lakshadweep/article36009176.ece
20 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Concern among NRIs in Gulf||The U.S. exit from Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover of the country is causing concern among Non Resident Indians (NRIs) in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations. These developments emerge against the backdrop of Qatar and Turkey locking in a regional rivalry with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Major concerns “Investments in the region will be impacted. Worries over violence and refugees also loom. Even Afghans in the UAE dread to think what will happen to their country after recollecting the Taliban running a brutal form of Islamist government between 1996 and 2001," Mujeeb Rehman, working in Saudi Arabia, said. Expats from Kerala are also confused after Qatar provided a diplomatic haven for Taliban during peace talks with the vanquished Afghanistan government even though UAE and Saudi Arabia now feel unsettled by the developments. “There may be people sympathising with the Taliban form of Sharia-enforced rule even though they do not view the Taliban as real Muslims,” UAE-based Keralite Mohammed Hashim, an observer of global politics, said. On the political front, he felt that all should be scared of what religious fanaticism can bring about. “The callous indifference of liberal nations and the UN is obvious on how the cry for help has been overlooked,” Mr. Hashim said. Already, Saudi Arabia has called on the Taliban to protect lives and property after the insurgents seized Kabul. The Saudi government has said that it stands with the choices that the Afghan people make without any interference. “But all NRIs are as concerned as everyone in India. We feel bad for the horrific situation the Afghans are facing. The main concern for me is that they may use it as a base for all future terrorist activities as they have done before and we have to be worried as it is backed by Pakistan and they may increase the terrorist activities in Kashmir,” Anil Gopinath, an entrepreneur in Saudi Arabia, said. Others such as Harrison Albert are worried about the impact on the global economy. The turmoil in Afghanistan was likely to jolt bilateral trade and also result in negative sentiments in stock markets, he said. Bahrain’s initiative Meanwhile, Bahrain has taken the initiative to hold consultations with other Gulf Arab monarchies in its capacity as current chair of the GCC. At present, only Qatar, which is playing an important role in the Afghan dispute, has called for a peaceful transition of power and a comprehensive solution. Saudi Arabia and the UAE have distanced themselves from the Afghan dispute. Now, both the countries are threatened by religious extremism of the Taliban, NRIs feel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taliban-takeover-causes-concern-among-nris-in-gulf/article36009187.ece
20 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A village narrates stories for kids||Children of today often miss the experience of listening to stories narrated by their grandparents. ‘Oru Gramam Katha Parayunnu’, an initiative by Jinarajadas A.L.P School in Marad, aims at giving children this special gift, especially in the time of the pandemic and online classes. Under the initiative, teachers of the school identify elderly persons in their locality and make them narrate a story for kids. Stories from mythology, history, the Panchatantra, western fables or even folklore such as Vadakkan Pattu will be presented to children. Story tellers are mostly commoners who have a flair to tell stories in the way children like them. The programme kicked off recently with P.M. Gangadharan, a retired teacher, and Mohammed Perambra, a theatre and film personality, narrating stories. Special sessions “Story telling is recorded by teachers and sent to students’ WhatsApp groups. We have identified separate days for students of each class for the story-telling session,” said E.M. Pushparajan, Headmaster of the school. Folk song Besides the two stories, a folk song by Lakshimi Chettiyankandi, an elderly farmer, was also presented for children. Many such sessions can be expected soon, the Headmaster said. Around 400 children of lower primary classes in the school are beneficiaries of this unique programme. “We could see that children were getting tired of online classes. It was necessary to provide them some form of entertainment other than cartoons on TV to cheer them up. That is how this programme was conceived,” Mr. Pushparaj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-village-narrates-stories-for-kids/article36009183.ece
20 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varsity accused of hiding information||The University of Calicut has been accused of withholding information related to the interview held for the post of Assistant Professor in one of its departments, in which wives of CPI(M) leaders were in the rank list. It has been claimed that the university disobeyed a directive of Vishwas Mehta, State Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). The interview for the post of Assistant Professor in the Department of Education was held on January 19, and a rank list of five persons was published later. M.P. Bindu, who petitioned the Information Commissioner, was also one of the applicants. She had sought details of marks given to each selected person during the interview. Ms. Bindu told The Hindu on Wednesday that though the university had been asked to furnish information by August 10, the authorities did not oblige. “When I again approached the Vice Chancellor and the Registrar, I was told to file an appeal again and furnish documents afresh,” she claimed. The apparent reason for not providing the score-sheet is that it would pose a threat to the lives of the selection committee members. Ms. Bindu said she had again written to the CIC highlighting the university’s response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-accused-of-hiding-information/article36009177.ece
20 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||2,401 COVID cases in Kozhikode||As many as 2,401 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Thursday. According to the district medical officer, the daily TPR was 19.85% when 12,352 samples were tested. Of the new cases, 2,377 were due to local transmission of infection and the source of 16 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 396 locally acquired infections, Koduvally 65, Unnikulam 61, Kizhakkoth 56, Chorod, Ulliyeri, Mukkom and Kodiyathur 53 each, Thamarassery 51, and Feroke, Peruvayal, Omassery, and Kunnamangalam 50 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2401-covid-cases-in-kozhikode/article36009184.ece
20 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chemmangad Inspector to probe case||Inspector Anita Kumari attached to the Chemmangad police station in Kozhikode city will probe the case against Muslim Students Federation ( MSF) leaders who are accused of making sexually explicit remarks against leaders of Haritha, its women’s wing. The case, registered against MSF State president P.K. Navas and Malappuram district general secretary Abdul Wahab, at Vellayil station would be investigated by Ms. Kumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chemmangad-inspector-to-probe-case/article36009307.ece
20 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Land to be acquired for Basheer memorial||Efforts to construct a memorial for late writer Vaikom Mohammed Basheer at Beypore is progressing with the Kozhikode Corporation deciding to acquire some private land for the purpose. The demand for a memorial for Basheer in the port town, where he had settled, has been pending for long. The corporation had assigned Kozhikode-based Space Art the job of preparing a detailed project report (DPR). According to sources, a community hall on B.C. Road in Beypore will be demolished for the project. The 60 cents on which the hall is located, another around 80 cents on its southern side – both under the corporation - and over 16 cents owned by a private individual on the south-western side will be utilised. The corporation council recently passed a proposal to take over the private land. The blueprint for the project is titled ‘Akashamittayi’, the name Saramma and Keshavan Nair proposed for their child in Premalekhanam , one of the classic novels by Basheer. There will be a walkway from the entrance. A reclining chair and a gramophone, things that the writer came to be identified with, may be placed in the front yard. A library, research hall, amphitheatre, park, auditorium and cultural centre along with a ‘Garden of Letters’ will come up there. A statue of the writer in the frontyard, a hall showcasing his works, and information on the history of Beypore could also find their space there. The State government had earlier allocated Rs. 50 lakh for the project. The sum was hiked to Rs. 68 lakh later. The government, however, took back the money in 2018 as land could not be identified for the purpose. The new project is part of the State government’s proposal to have cultural complexes in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-acquire-land-for-basheer-memorial/article36009181.ece
20 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Thiruvonathoni to cruise as scheduled||After some uncertainty, protests, and parleys, the staging of the Thiruvonathoni procession in Aranmula, a crucial annual event in the region, is finally back on track. According to the Palliyoda Seva Sangam (PSS), a directive issued by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday has reversed a last-minute decision by the State government to scale down the event and follow the guidelines set last year. Confirming the receipt of the order, PSS members said the preparations had once again gathered momentum. “After a day’s uncertainty, we were given an oral assurance that the government decision will be reversed. We received the formal order by Thursday afternoon,” said a spokesperson of the PSS.  Three Palliyodams In view of the COVID-19 situation, a meeting convened by Health Minister Veena George decided last month to permit only three Palliyodams to accompany the Thiruvonathoni during its 10-hour journey. These snake-boats, representing three different zones of Palliyoda committees, were permitted to take on board a maximum of 40 persons. The PSS members, however, were in for a shock on August 18 when they received a directive from the DDMA seeking to scale down the event to a customary note. Besides limiting the number of participating snake-boats to just one, it also brought down the number of persons on board to 24. By the time the order was received, the preparatory works for official launch of the three snake-boats at Maramon, Keezhvanmazhi, and Kozhancherry, including the vaccination of its crew had been completed. The PSS took up the issue with the State government through different channels. The issue, which triggered wide-spread protests throughout the day, was finally settled with an oral assurance from the authorities to reverse the order. Meanwhile, M.R. Raveendrababu Bhattathiri, the eldest member of the Mangattu Illam at Kumaranallur, Kottayam, has set sail for the Sree Parthasarathy temple at Aranmula, carrying offerings to be presented before the deity on Thiruvonam. On Thiruvonam eve The Churulan Vallom carrying Mr. Bhattathiri and three oarsmen will reach Kattoor in Pathanamthitta on the eve of Thiruvonam. During the voyage, the boat traverses the rivers of Meenachil, Manimala, and Pampa to reach the Mahavishnu temple near Cherukol. From there, Mr. Bhattathiri is slated to embark on the Thiruvonathoni carrying provisions for the feast on Onam day at the Aranmula temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvonathoni-to-cruise-as-scheduled/article36009280.ece
20 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Priests selected||S. Gireesh Kumar, priest attached to the Thevalakkara Devaswom under the Karunagappally group of the Travancore Devaswom Board, has been appointed the new keezhsanthi of the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. He was selected from six aspirants by draw of lots at a function held here on Thursday. Sreekumar P.K. of Kurungazhakkavu Devaswom and S.S. Narayanan Potti of Aniyoor Devaswom have been selected as the melsanthis at the two temples in Pampa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priests-selected/article36009310.ece
20 August 2021||Staff Reporter,KERALA||Govt. shunning fishers: Bindhu||The fishers are in distress and the government has been neglecting them, said DCC president Bindhu Krishna here on Thursday. She was inaugurating a protest by Matsyathozhilali Congress district committee demanding kerosene quota for fishers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-shunning-fishers-bindhu/article36009278.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tourism yet to pick up at Varkala||Thick blue tarpaulin stretched out across shop facade, to protect the metal shutters from getting rusted in the sea winds, is one of the common features of many of the shops lining Varkala Cliff now, as they have been remaining closed for an extended period. Inside the restaurants that have not opened even for delivery services, the chairs once tastefully arranged are all put up in a pile. The cliff, which once used to be buzzing with tourists, now has the appearance of a ghost town, with only a few domestic tourists seen roaming about. Even a week after the Tourism Department allowed tourists spots including Varkala to open up, and allow visitors by following COVID-19 protocols, only a handful of shops and restaurants have opened. A majority are choosing to play the waiting game until things improve, and inflow of tourists hit normal levels. “Domestic tourists are turning up in smaller numbers, but it will take time for the situation to become normal. Unless foreign tourists and those from other States start coming, business will not improve. Ours is one of the few hotels which did not close down during this whole period, because we have some foreigners who have not returned home staying here,” says Nadirsha, who runs Cafe Del Mar at Varkala Cliff. According to K.R.Sajeev, who runs Elixir Cliff Beach Resort, there has been a spike in booking for the Onam weekend in most locations. However it is not clear whether this will sustain beyond the season. “In normal times, 80% of our guests are from outside Kerala. However, now most bookings are coming from within the State. Though this is a crowd with a good paying capacity, it remains to be seen whether it will sustain after Onam. Generally, things are dull at Varkala,” he says. In the past two years since the pandemic struck, many have looked at other options for livelihood. While some of those who were running medium-priced restaurants here have opened shops closer to the town areas, the workers here have shifted to painting, plumbing and fish vending. The handicrafts shops run by Kashmiri families have not opened up as the high-priced products are usually bought only by foreign tourists, who have not started arriving. Fearing a lockdown “The shops started opening only by Friday, as we had a micro-containment zone in these areas. We expect 30-40% shops to open by Onam, but many are waiting as they fear another lockdown. Most of them have to carry out major maintenance work to re-open, so they want to make sure that business will remain steady, before they take it up,” says Baiju Puthooram, Secretary of the Varkala Tourism Development Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-yet-to-pick-up-at-varkala/article36009473.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Virtual Onam festival to showcase traditional art forms||The near-extinct traditional art forms in the State will be showcased on the global arena through different platforms as part of the virtual Onam celebrations this year. Kerala Tourism is presenting video programmes of the art forms through television channels and social media platforms over a five- day period, from Thursday. 53 art forms As many as 53 folk and traditional art forms from across the State are being shown on Malayalam TV channels from 6.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. The programmes can be accessed on YouTube and Facebook also. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said the initiative was launched to support the folk and traditional artistes who were facing financial difficulties owing to the pandemic-induced shutdown and inactivity. “It will also help the art forms to reach audiences across the world,” he said. Those on the list The art forms featured in the programme include Vilpattu, Nangiarkoothu, Pakkanar Thullal, Othara Padayani, Garudan Thookkam, Arjuna Nritham, Margam Kali, Aranyam Mannan Koothu, Sopana Sangeetham, Kudukka Veena, Seethankan Thullal, Kanyarkali, Arbana Muttu, Korambakkali, Kotha Mooriyattam Alamikkali and Yakshagana. Another highlight of the programme is the ‘Viswa Manavikathayude Loka Ona Pookkalam’, the virtual Global Floral Carpet design competition organized by the Department in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic that has forced Malayalis to remain indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-onam-to-showcase-traditional-art-forms/article36009197.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Delta: time for micro-level data analysis||Kerala has entered an uncertain phase of the pandemic, with the Delta virus variant sweeping across the State, undeterred by the prior immunity in the population derived from infection due to the original virus (before it mutated to Delta) or the immunity rendered through vaccination. The State continues to report 20,000-22,000 new COVID-19 cases daily, though it has delivered over two crore first dose vaccines to those above 18 years. Delta has been the single driver of disease transmission in the State since mid-May. With reinfections and breakthrough infections adding to the daily caseload, it is becoming clear that vaccinating our way out of the pandemic may not be an option. “We thought that the herd immunity achieved through vaccination will keep us safe. But with Delta forcing us to shift the vaccination thresholds constantly, herd immunity is elusive. Because Delta virus is an immune escape variant, despite vaccination, we will continue to have a certain level of disease transmission and a steady caseload for a long period. The options are to concentrate on reducing hospitalisations and deaths,” says E. Sreekumar, senior scientist at RGCB. Case of Israel Israel, which has one of the highest levels of vaccination in the world, is now administering a third booster dose to all above 50 years as the surge in Delta has resulted in high levels of hospitalisations. “Every person who has had exposure to the earlier virus and those who have been vaccinated, continue to be susceptible to this new virus. Delta transmission will be maintained at a low level in the community till the virus has run through the entire population,” Dr. Sreekumar says. Kerala’s current situation of rising cases and high test positivity rate, in comparison to the rest of India, can be assessed only by studying the granular data from every district – what is the proportion of the population getting reinfections or the infection after taking the first dose/second dose of vaccine? What is the proportion of people who developed serious disease after reinfections/the first/second dose of vaccine? Are deaths happening among the fully vaccinated and most importantly, are there avoidable deaths? According to the government, reinfections are less in Kerala. So does that mean that those infected by the original strain of the virus have more immunity than the vaccinated population? ‘Experts need data’ “The government has not been willing to open up this data to its own experts’ committee. At this point, it is important that this data is analysed so that science-based strategies can be adopted,” a member of the committee says. It is important to know how far reinfections and breakthrough infections are contributing to the State’s caseload. While vaccination will not prevent individuals from getting infected, it will protect them from serious disease, studies show. Breakthrough infections should be expected but it is more important to track whether any new variants are emerging. Reassessing strategies Kerala should be taking stock of the current situation and reassessing its strategies. While containment strategies cannot be given up, mitigation has to go hand in hand as lives and livelihood have to be saved. The process of unlock will have to go forward but increased social interactions can open up new chains of disease transmission, about which the community has to be made aware.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delta-time-for-micro-level-data-analysis/article36009328.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Topographical surveys to expand sewerage network||As part of efforts to build and expand sewerage networks in urban local bodies, topographical surveys will be carried out in municipalities and Corporations that lack coverage or have it only on a limited scale. The Planning and Economic Affairs Department has accorded administrative sanction for a proposal submitted by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to carry out the surveys in 28 urban local bodies for building sewerage networks. Two municipalities each have been identified in the 14 districts based on Swachh Bharat Mission guidelines, as per the proposal prepared by WASCON, the consultancy wing of the KWA. In Thrissur district, the Thrissur Corporation is one of the two selected civic bodies. Additionally, topographical surveys and the preparation of detailed engineering reports (DER) for the Kochi, Kozhikode, Kollam and Kannur corporations form the second component of the proposal. Differential global positioning system (DGPS) technology will be employed for conducting the survey in selected stretches of the municipalities and the corporations. A total of Rs. 6 crore has been earmarked for the work. Cutting pollution “This work is proposed as part of the project of implementation of sewerage system in these areas, by which, it is expected to abate the pollution in water resources abutting these places, and also to comply with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to implement sewerage system in whole of the State in a time-bound manner,” the Planning and Economic Affairs Department noted in the August 16 order according administrative sanction for the WASCON proposal. NGT directive The NGT had directed the States and the Union Territories to establish proper sewerage facilities since poor sewage management has resulted in large-scale pollution of water resources. At present, the sewerage coverage of the KWA in the State is inadequate. A separate sewerage vertical was formed in the KWA in 2020 as part of addressing the shortcomings in this area and expanding the networks in various parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/topographical-surveys-to-expand-sewerage-network/article36009325.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Efforts to relocate cupola trigger tension in Vizhinjam||Tension prevailed near Vizhinjam on Thursday after the district administration thwarted the attempts made by devotees of the Latin Catholic Church to repair an offertory box in front of a cupola that is located within the area earmarked for the international seaport project. The issue cropped up at Karimpalikkara where a cupola, which the government maintained has been constructed on ‘puramboke’ land, has been a bone of contention of late. The church authorities were purportedly prevented from renovating the offertory box a day ago by officials who reminded them that the area has been assigned for the port project and the planned activity could not be undertaken there. An attempt made by the district authorities led by the Sub Collector to broker peace turned futile on Thursday with devotees threatening to launch a demonstration. Sources said that the government had earlier reached an agreement with church officials to relocate the cupola to facilitate the port development. However, the delay in identifying the alternative land is believed to have led to the stand-off. With the presence of the sizeable police deployment infuriating the devotees, a large number of local residents marched to the disputed area. While this paved way for the possibility of a full-blown confrontation, peace was restored after church officials held talks with District Collector Navjot Khosa, M. Vincent, MLA, and senior police officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-to-relocate-cupola-trigger-tension-in-vizhinjam/article36009476.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||955 new cases in capital, 1,416 recover||The district recorded 955 COVID-19 cases and 1,416 recoveries as the active case load slid to 9,697 on Thursday. Nonetheless, the district’s test positivity rate remained as high as 9.6%. Among those newly-diagnosed with the disease, 908 cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Two health workers have also tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 32,226 people in quarantine as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. The district’s death toll stood at 3,454 with its case fatality ratio remaining at 0.98. As many as 18 recent deaths were attributed to the disease on the day, according to official statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/955-new-cases-in-capital-1416-recover/article36009479.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR rises to 16.15%||The State reported 21,116 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,30,768 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) rose again from 15% to 16.15% on the day. ICU occupancy is stable and showed a slight dip at 2,058, while the number of those requiring ventilator support remained unchanged at 818. The State’s active case pool has 1,79,303 patients, with 19,296 recoveries on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 fatality stands at 19,246 with the State adding 197 recent deaths to the list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 2,283. District-wise Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases with 2,873 cases, Malappuram 2,824, Ernakulam 2,527, Kozhikode 2,401, Palakkad 1,948, Kollam 1,418, Kannur 1,370, Alappuzha 1,319, Thiruvananthapuram 955, Kottayam 925, Pathanamthitta 818, Wayanad 729, Kasaragod 509 and Idukki 500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-rises-to-1615/article36009312.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Uphold gender equality, IUML told||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Thursday said the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) should adhere to principles of gender equality or perish as a political entity. Gender bias, entrenched misogyny and relegating women to a subaltern role did not augur well for any political party. Mr. Balakrishnan was speaking to reporters against the backdrop of reports that several Muslim Students Federation (MSF) units had expressed solidarity with women activists who had protested against the alleged “sexist” behaviour of the MSF’s State leadership. Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) State secretary A. A. Rahim also sought to weaponise the dissension in the MSF. He said the DYFI would open the door for MSF workers who opposed the IUML’s misogynist attitude. On August 9, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan sought to make political capital out of the purported differences between Moeenali Thangal, son of IUML supremo Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, and party national general secretary P. K. Kunhalikutty. The Congress stayed clear of commenting on the issues in the IUML. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan had said UDF partners did not interfere in the internal affairs of coalition partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uphold-gender-equality-iuml-told/article36009315.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food kit distribution extended beyond Onam||The Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department has decided to extend the supply of Onam special food kits to ration card holders, probably until August end or even beyond. The decision was taken as the department was unable to meet the distribution targets. While the department had planned to wind up the programme by August 16, only 58.41 lakh of the registered 91.02 lakh ration card holders in the State could be provided with the kits by 5 p.m. on Thursday. Picked up pace While the distribution has picked up pace during the days leading to Onam, it appeared unlikely that the Supplyco will be able to meet its target of supplying the kits to around 90% of the ration card holders in time. Under the circumstances, the government has been left with little option but to permit beneficiaries to receive the kits after Onam. Explaining the rationale behind the move, official sources said many ration outlets held considerable stock of the kits. Besides, the food items that were apportioned for the kits could not be redistributed among Supplyco outlets for quality control concerns. The paucity of certain items initially lined up for distribution also posed a hurdle during the drive. Besides cashew nuts, the difficulty in sourcing cardamom, banana chips and ‘sarkara varatti’ (jaggery-coated banana chips) is being cited as a reason. Supplyco had decided to source banana chips through Kudumbasree units, but many self-help groups, especially those in the northern districts, were unable to meet the target. This led the department to substitute such items with more sugar or other items. Despite this, the government can be credited with ensuring close to 85% coverage among the priority ration groups. Over 31.8 lakh out of the 38.31 lakh Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority House Hold (PHH) card holders have received the kits so far. Conspiracy Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil told media persons that attempts were being made by certain quarters to malign the government’s distribution programme. Accusing that a section of ration dealers were denying kits to the public despite the availability of stocks, he said Civil Supplies and Supplyco officials have been undertaking inspections to prevent such foul play.  Close to 85% among priority ration groups given Onam special food kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kit-distribution-extended-beyond-onam/article36009316.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ill-treating fish vendor: staff suspended||The Attingal Municipality has placed on suspension two employees for allegedly misbehaving with an elderly fish vendor and destroying the fish she had on sale on August 10. Junior health inspector Mubarak Ismail and contingent worker Shibu were suspended after the municipal authorities examined their explanations and concluded that they should have shown restraint. The incident had taken place at the Avanavanchery Junction where the vendor, Alphonsa, was selling fish by the roadside. The municipality employees had allegedly used force to confiscate the fish and dump it into a garbage truck. Visuals of the elderly vendor pleading with the men and lying down on the road to protest had gone viral, sparking outrage. After the incident snowballed into a controversy, the LDF-ruled municipality issued memos to Mr. Ismail and Mr. Shibu on Monday, demanding an explanation within 48 hours. The explanations were filed on Wednesday. ‘Shown restraint’ “The municipality feels that they should have shown restraint,” S. Kumari, chairperson of the municipality said. She, however, denied that the men had assaulted the vendor as was being alleged. Ms. Kumari pointed out that the municipality has been receiving numerous complaints from the public about the unauthorised roadside sale of fish. Fish vendors have the choice of utilising the space at any of the seven markets in the municipality limits, the chairperson pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-attingal-municipal-employees-suspended/article36009284.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Coast Guard rescues 11 fishers off Kannur||The Indian Coast Guard has rescued 11 crew members on board a fishing boat adrift in the sea off the coast of Kannur following damage to the propeller. Distress call On receiving a distress call, a Coast Guard ship was immediately deployed from Beypore for the rescue operation. The damaged boat was towed to the Puthiyappa harbour with the help of two fishing vessels which joined the operation, a pressnote issued by the Coast Guard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-rescues-11-fishers/article36009285.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCTIMST launches kit||A multiplex RT-PCR kit for COVID-19 detection, which gives test results within two hours, developed by the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, was launched formally on a virtual platform on Tuesday by president of the Institute V.K. Saraswat. The kit has been validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The validation shows that the kit has 97.3% sensitivity and 100% specificity in COVID-19 detection. The SCTIMST has already signed a technology transfer agreement with Huwel Lifesciences, Hyderabad. The kit developed by the SCTIMST targets two SARS CoV2 genes: RdRp and ORFb-nsp14, and the human RNAse P gene as the internal control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sctimst-launches-kit/article36009224.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in district on Aug. 21, 22||The district has been put on yellow alert on August 21 and August 22, given the likelihood of isolated heavy rainfall. The district administration said the district could receive rainfall ranging from 6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in a 24-hour period. While it is safe to carry out fishing along the Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep coasts, fishermen have been advised to avoid the southwest and west-central Arabian Sea on August 21 as strong winds are likely in the two regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-district-on-aug-21-22/article36009480.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Post-COVID clinic in UAE||The Santhigiri Holistic Health Centre has launched an Ayurveda post-COVID care clinic in the UAE to help those suffering from long-term post-COVID health problems. The health centre and the post-COVID clinic were inaugurated by Indian Consul General in Dubai Aman Puri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-covid-clinic-in-uae/article36009478.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child marriages: officials told to take action||The Women and Child Development Department has directed all child marriage prohibition officers to take action if they get information from authorities or owners of wedding halls or mandapams that a child marriage is taking place. This comes in the wake of a 2019 Kerala State Commission for Protection for Child Rights direction that before marriages are solemnised in wedding halls or mandapams, the authorities of these facilities should ask for age proof of the bride and the groom. If the bride or the groom are found to be underage, the hall authorities should inform the officials concerned before the marriages take place so that these can be prevented in time. The commission had asked the Women and Child Development Director to issue an order that all child marriage prohibition officers should act immediately on receiving such information to prevent such marriages. The circular from the Women and Child Development Director also directs District Women and Child Development Officers to ensure that child marriage prohibition officers were taking action on such information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-marriages-officials-told-to-take-action/article36009186.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KGMOA: avoid vaccination on Onam day||The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has asked the government to restrict the COVID-19 vaccination drive during Onam holidays to major hospitals with adequate human resources and to completely avoid vaccination on Thiruvonam day. In a statement here, the KGMOA pointed out that health-care workers who had been working under constant stress over the past 20 months, helping the fight against the pandemic, needed sufficient relaxation and should be given at least a day’s recovery time. Arrangements The situation was such that the vaccination drive needed to be carried on for a long time. Hence it was the responsibility of local self-governments to make special arrangements for COVID-19 vaccination, ensuring that the regular functioning of hospitals and daily activities like patient care and other routine immunisation activities were not disrupted. The KGMOA said such arrangements should be immediately put in place so that the functioning of government hospitals and other public health activities were not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kgmoa-avoid-vaccination-on-onam-day/article36009329.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||52.69% of population vaccinated||Kerala has so far administered COVID-19 vaccines, including first and second doses, to over 2.5 crore ( 2,55,20,478) people, Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. Of this, 1,86,82,463 people received the first dose, while 68,38,015 people have received both doses. This means that 52.69% of the State’s population has received the first dose and 19.31%, the second dose. As a proportion of the population above 18 years, who are currently eligible for vaccination, 64.98% have received at least one dose of vaccine, while 23.82 % have received both doses. On Thursday, 2,71,578 people were administered the vaccine through 1,443 vaccination sites, both public and private, across the State, sources said. Vaccines arrive Kerala received 5,79,390 more doses of vaccine on Thursday, including 4,80,000 dose Covshield and 99,390 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5269-of-population-vaccinated/article36009185.ece
20 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mill employees gherao manager||The employees of the Vijayamohini Mills, under the aegis of various trade unions, gheraoed the general manager, factory manager and HR manager on Wednesday in protest against the denial of bonus and constant delays in payment of salaries to the employees. The move followed a communication on Wednesday from the Southernl office of National Textile Corporation, which runs the mill, that it was unable to generate the funds required for payment of Onam bonus to staff..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mill-employees-gherao-manager/article36009474.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Performances elevate the tale by another notch||Changing with the times is not something which comes naturally to everyone. Oliver Twist (Indrans), the protagonist of #Home , is someone who has gone through that struggle more than once in his life. In a short flashback, the script tells us how he once used to run one of the most sought-after video cassette lending libraries in town. The era of video cassettes passed, and he was left behind, longingly looking at the old cassettes stacked up in his attic. In the present day, Oliver finds an almost unbridgeable gap between him and his sons, who are lost in their smartphones and drowned in social media, a world alien to him. Yet, the gap is more than one of technology. He yearns especially for the approval and care of his elder son Antony (Sreenath Bhasi), a writer-director caught in a rut after his successful debut film. Oliver’s wife Kuttiyamma (Manju Pillai) seems to understand the workings of his mind, but there is only so much she can do, while getting caught in her own daily struggles in the household. Rojin Thomas, who had a promising directorial debut with Philips and the Monkey Pen , and had a forgettable second film, seems to have recaptured some of the magic of his debut in #Home . More than a part of that magic is owing to the presence of Indrans, who has delivered a nuanced, heartfelt performance. From the scenes depicting his struggles with the smartphone, to the ones of him hiding his feelings from the eyes of his family, Indrans makes Oliver relatable and endearing. Even without the ‘extraordinary’ back story. Oliver is made extraordinary by Indrans’s portrayal of the ordinary man. The mood is kept light all through, with Oliver’s friend Suryan (Johny Antony) and younger son Charles (Naslan K.Gafoor) injecting some dose of humour. Where the film falters a little is in trying to say too many things, from mental health to smartphone addiction, which contributes to the runtime of 160 minutes. Some more work at the editing table would have made it a much better film. Not to forget the fact that the script says the same things about the nature of Oliver and his son’s relationship in different ways, though it works at times in capturing the ever-changing shades of that relationship. The script also treats the relationship between Antony and his girlfriend Priya, which is toxic both ways, as somewhat normal. Despite the avoidable flab, #Home is a relatable, light-hearted tale that stands on the strength of its performances. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/performances-elevate-the-tale-by-another-notch/article36009194.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Countdown on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/countdown-on/article36009189.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caught unawares||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caught-unawares/article36009199.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Perennial problem||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/perennial-problem/article36009215.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Going bananas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/going-bananas/article36009283.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Many hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-hues/article36009482.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Crisp and tender||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crisp-and-tender/article36009477.ece
20 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DTC begins probe into unauthorised transfer of vehicles in Anantapur||The Department of Road Transport has begun a deeper probe into how 28 vehicles in the State could be transferred to a third party while the original owner was dead or transferred under the “Death TO” category on the Citizen Portal, even while the owner was alive, following the expose made by The Hindu in these columns in one such case pertaining to Anantapur. Anantapur Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad told The Hindu that their commissionerate had sent a letter to them to probe further into some doubtful transactions.. Transfer of a vehicle owned by a person, who is dead, can be done only by a legal heir by uploading a death certificate of the owner, legal heir certificate, and an NOC of the financier. The buyer, the legal heir and the financier need to give their thumb impression or “biometrics”. “But when you choose the option of transferring a vehicle under the “Death” category, it seems to be not asking for biometrics, which led to such a transfer and we are probing into it and shall correct it,” Mr. Sivaram Prasad said. Meanwhile, he said a criminal case would be filed against the persons involved in the transfer of the maxi cab of one K. Madhavi Latha, who died in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dtc-begins-probe-into-unauthorised-transfer-of-vehicles-in-anantapur/article36008803.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court issues guidelines on child surrender by parents||Filling a vacuum in the law on protection of children, the High Court Karnataka on Thursday issued guidelines on how the Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) will have to proceed to hold inquiry and counselling when parents or guardians want to surrender children on being unable to look after them for physical, emotional, and social factors beyond their control, as per the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The court issued the guidelines while hearing a PIL petition related to an “unfortunate” incident of abandoning of a two-week-old child in June this year by parents, a couple in their early twenties who were in a live-in relationship in Mysuru. They had left the child at a house of one of their friends, who subsequently intimated the incident to the police. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda passed the order on the petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru, which had through the PIL petition brought to the court’s notice the need of protecting the newborn child, based on reports in newspapers. The unmarried parents declined to take care of the baby boy even after the Bench, headed by the Chief Justice, along with additional government advocate Vijayakumar A. Patil and amicus curiae B.V. Vidyulatha made attempts to convince them during in-camera proceedings earlier. The child is now being taken care of in an NGO and the CWC, after completion of the process of surrender, has also issued a certificate that the child can now be adopted. During the hearing of the petition, the Bench found it necessary to issue guidelines for the CWCs on how to conduct inquiry and counselling under Section 35 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, as the State government had failed to frame the rules. Stating that the guidelines would be in force in the absence of the rules, the Bench directed the government to frame the rules within three months. As it was brought to the court’s notice that there are unscrupulous agencies indulging in illegal process of adoption to take benefit from such situations, the Bench said the CWCs would have to ensure that application for parents surrender of child was genuine and not intended to benefit the specialised adoption agencies. The Bench also said the petition would remain pending till the child was validly adopted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-issues-guidelines-on-child-surrender-by-parents/article36008752.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six engineering colleges to be closed from this academic year||Six engineering colleges in Karnataka will remain closed during the current (2021-22) academic year. Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) put up a public notice on Wednesday stating that the affiliation of these colleges had been withdrawn and students enrolled with them would be re-allotted to other colleges affiliated to it. While three of the colleges are located in Bengaluru, the others are located in Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, and KGF. The notification for the re-allotment process will be notified separately. “Aspiring students seeking fresh admission to these colleges are advised to take note of the same. If any student proceeds further with admission to these institutes, the university will not be responsible for it,” the notice from the university said. The three colleges in Bengaluru are Alpha College of Engineering, Islamiah Institute of Technology, and BTL Institute of Technology and Management. The others identified by VTU are Shaikh College of Engineering, Belagavi, Ekalavya Institute of Technology, Chamarajanagar, and Sri Vinayaka Institute of Technology, KGF. Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of VTU said that three of the six colleges had not even applied for their affiliation to be renewed and therefore members of the local inquiry committees had not visited them. “Some colleges had applied for affiliation, but did not have the necessary infrastructure and teaching staff,” he said. Prof. Karisiddappa added that a few did not have an adequate number of students. According to A.S. Desphande, Registrar (Administration) of VTU, two college managements — Alpha College of Engineering, Bengaluru, and Shaikh College of Engineering, Belagavi — had requested closure for financial reasons. The principal of an engineering college in Bengaluru said that while colleges offering professional courses had been finding it difficult to sustain their finances over the past few years because of the mushrooming of engineering colleges, many had been badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-engineering-colleges-to-be-closed-from-this-academic-year/article36008761.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 200 crore to address learning losses in T.N.||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan has announced a ‘Mission Mode Project’ for addressing learning losses among government school students, caused by COVID-19, and allocated Rs. 200 crore. “There has been a great difficulty in learning since March 2020,” he said. Mr. Rajan explained that the Department of School Education would implement the programme in the next six months with the help of teachers, graduate students, volunteers and non-governmental organisations. “Though efforts have been made to reach out to them by distributing QR-coded textbooks and by developing and disseminating audio-visual content on Kalvi TV, AIR as well as on social media channels like YouTube, they are not comprehensive or all-inclusive, as many students attending government schools do not have a personal mobile device or laptop to access the content in a consistent and organised manner,” he said. Mr. Rajan said educationists had stressed the need to bridge the gap in learning and address mental stress and other changes in daily life since students were out of campus for over 15 months. “There will be classrooms in streets and classes under the moon. The project will reach out to the children in every nook and corner of the State,” he said. Government sources said over 65% of the students remained outside the ambit of interventions, and almost all of them had not had the benefit of a structured online classroom transaction process on a par with private school students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-200-crore-for-addressing-learning-losses-in-tn/article36008868.ece
20 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 Chirala youth held for online fraud||The Crime Branch police of Chittoor on Thursday arrested four youth belonging of Chirala of Praskasam district on charges of online fraud, allegedly luring and targeting gullible customers into betting app, and reportedly cheating them of huge amounts. Cirlce-Inspector (Crime branch) K. Ramesh told the media that at the height of COVID pandemic last year, Bobbili Navakishore of Tadikonda of Guntur district, studying medicine at a university in the Philippines, reportedly befriended some potential clientele through social media platforms. Later, he formed a network with Chirala youth identified as Shiva Kesav, (who is also pursuing a pilot training course in the Philippines), Krishna Chaitanya, Bachu Kiran and Siva Prasad. The four had reportedly opened several bank accounts on the names of their relatives in some private banks to facilitate online transfer of amounts by the gullible clientele to these accounts. Navakishore was also provided with new SIM cards used for opening bank accounts by the four-member gang to help him make transactions with access to OTPs. Ironically, the crime police received complaints from three young women, all software professionals currently working from home, located in various places of Chittoor district. “At first, the accused used to lure them with small amounts and allowing them to withdraw immediately on the betting. After convincing them to bet larger amounts, the withdrawal facility was blocked, which ran into several lakhs of rupees. In the name of allowing them withdrawal facility, the network members allegedly collected more money from them online,” the police officer said. The crime branch had been investigating the complaints since six months pertaining to this case. Technology helps With the help of technology, Shiva Kesav, who is currently in India, was nabbed, and the arrest of three others followed in gap of 24 hours. “The three women software professionals of Chittoor district alone had lost about Rs. 5 lakh. We have issued a lookout notice for Navakishore. We are investigating whether the betting fraud had extended to other States also,” Mr Ramesh said. The accused were sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-chirala-youth-held-for-online-fraud/article36008804.ece
20 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild tusker electrocuted||A wild elephant was electrocuted in the fields at Buvanamantha village, located at a forest enclosure, in Somala mandal of Punganur range, 70 km from here, on Thursday. The adult tusker, aged around 25 years, was among a three-member herd of Palamaner range which had strayed into the Somala forests, close to the Seshachalam hills a week ago. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said the “young adult” elephant was on the prowl in a paddy field at the enclosure area when it came in contact with a power line that was dangling, leading to its instantaneous death. “As per preliminary inquiry, due to the recent rains an electric pole had bent at the enclosure zone leading to the dangling of the power line across the field. The farmer of the field informed us that he had approached the electricity staff concerned to rectify the problem, but in vain. We are further looking into the matter,” the DFO said. Farmers of Buvanamantha and surrounding villages, who rushed to the spot, deplored that in spite of losing their crops in the jumbo raids, they were very much concerned about their safety in view of the precariously dangling power lines across the fields. “Three wild elephants have been on prowl in our area for the last one week. If the power department staff can’t act now, more jumbos would be at peril,” a farmer observed. Meanwhile, the latest jumbo death comes as the 10th casualty in a span of two years in Chittoor district, all due to electrocution in agricultural fields. A team of veterinarians and senior forest officials from Punganur and Chittoor visited the village. The officials performed post-mortem and buried the carcass in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-tusker-electrocuted-in-chittoor/article36008753.ece
20 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested, red sanders logs seized near Chittoor||The police arrested five persons on charge of smuggling red sanders logs and seized the precious wood worth Rs. 25 lakh, five motorcycles and a car at the Kanakaneri checkpost in Gudipala mandal close to the Tamil Nadu border on Thursday. The police have been maintaining a special vigil on the smuggling activities in the recent months. Acting on a tip-off about the transportation of red sanders logs from the Seshachalam Hills near Tirupati towards Tamil Nadu, a special party led by the Chittoor Rural (west circle) police rushed to the checkpost. Seeing them, the accused on board a car and some riding motorcycles tried to flee by taking a U-turn. However, five of them were nabbed, while others managed to escape, the police said. “The accused used to fell red sanders trees in Talakona forests of the Seshachalam Ranges between Chittoor and Kadapa districts. They used to transport the logs to a group operating out of Vellore in Tamil Nadu,” Deputy SP (law and order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told the media here. Of the five accused, three hailing from Chittoor town are in the age group of 20 to 22, while the others, aged between 19 and 40, are from Vellore. The Deputy SP said special teams had been formed to track who fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-arrested-red-sanders-logs-seized-near-chittoor/article36009423.ece
20 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Target is to settle over 2,000 cases in National Lok Adalat’||Principal District Judge and District Legal Services Authority (DLSA-Chittoor) Chairman A.V. Ravindra Babu said the DLSA was proposed to reach a target of settling more than 2,000 cases in the ensuing second National Lok Adalat, scheduled on September 11, with special benches all over Chittoor district, including 13 in mandal headquarters. Addressing a press conference at District Court Complex here, the Principal District Judge said the prime objective of the National Lok Adalat was to solve a maximum number of litigations in a harmonious manner by covering cases pertaining to civil, Motor Vehicles Act, Revenue, divorce and maintenance, disputes between consumers and utility services. The judge observed that in the first National Lok Adalat in Chittoor district held on July 17, close to 1,800 cases were settled, which involved an amount of more than Rs. 15 crore, which included over 100 cases under MV Act disputes. Terming this a record, Mr. Raviandra Babu said cooperation and involvement of the public would be right key to the success of Lok Adalats. “The number of cases which we could solve in a single day during mega National Lok Adalat would take more than two months if settled normally,” he said. “In view of the pandemic, we are conducting the September 11 National Lok Adalat sessions through hybrid mode. Two weeks prior to the date, we will commence the reconciliation process by involving the services of police, advocates, insurance companies and banks,” Mr. Ravindra Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/target-is-to-settle-over-2000-cases-in-national-lok-adalat/article36009420.ece
20 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel sought for social work education||The executive council of the Andhra Pradesh Professional Social Workers’ Association (APPSWA) on Thursday submitted a memorandum to Union Minister for Tourism G. Kishan Reddy, urging him to expedite the process for establishing the National Council for Social Work Education in India. A delegation led by the APPSWA panel members P. Dhananjay, P. Manikanta and Mahendranath Chowdary met the Union Minster in Tirupati on Thursday. In the memorandum, they said that social development and service sectors were highly recognised in more than 148 countries, and most of them had established the national level councils to promote social work education. In India, the social work education programmes were offered in Central, State and deemed universities, with more than six lakh professional social workers working with the government, NGOs, corporate bodies and United Nations agencies. The APSWA felt the urgent need for setting of the National Council for Social Work Education in India and that the social sector division of the NITI Aayog had also convened a meeting of social work educators on the subject. The issue was also represented to Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. The forum urged Mr. Kishan Reddy to impress upon the parliamentarians on establishing the proposed council and to pass the bill accordingly. This would be a landmark bill in the annals of social work education and service sector, the memorandum added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-sought-for-social-work-education/article36009421.ece
20 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karvy chairman held for bank fraud||Chairman and Managing Director of Karvy Stock Broking Private Limited, C Parthasarathy, 67, was arrested by the Hyderabad police for allegedly cheating Induslnd Bank by availing credit facilities of Rs. 137 crore. The accused pledged securities/shares on a personal guarantee by suppressing the facts that he pledged the securities of his clients without their consent by misusing the power of attorney. Based on the complaint lodged by vice-president of IndusInd Bank, Hyderabad, the Central Crime Police registered a case against the accused company and arrested Parthasarathy on Thursday from his residence in Jubilee Hills. “The securities were transferred into the demat account of Karvy stock Broking Pvt. Ltd., and pledged before the complainant for margin and short-term requirement in the business of KSBL from March 1, 2013,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Karvy became a defaulter by diverting the funds into own and connected business entities and on November 22, 2019, the SEBI revoked the pledge of securities with banks/NBFCs and returned the securities/accounts, he said. The complainant bank was left with no collateral and thereby KSBL defaulted on repayments of about Rs. 137 crore as of March 31. Further investigation by the city police has revealed that the accused also diverted Rs. 720 crore of clients funds which are lying in the bank accounts linked to their trading account. “The company is also learnt to have taken credit facilities from several other banks/NBFCs to the tune of about Rs. 680 crore by pledging client securities without their consent and defaulted further repayment,” Mr. Mohanty said, adding that as a result of their financial frauds, SEBI banned Karvy in 2020. Several criminal cases were registered at CCS DD Hyderabad against the accused company and others and two cases were registered against KSBL and Karvy commodities Pvt Ltd. pertaining to loan frauds amounting to Rs. 340 crore and Rs. 7 crore. Parthasarathy was arrested and produced before the XII ACMM Court for judicial remand and the case is under investigation, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karvy-chairman-held-for-bank-fraud/article36008754.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana staff to get electric two-wheelers||The State government is working out plans to arrange electric two wheelers to one lakh of its employees with an EMI deductable from their salary. The Expression of Interest to participate in tendering will be invited shortly from empanelled manufacturers of electric vehicles (EVs), according to Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation (TSREDC) Project Director (Projects and Business Development) D.V. Ramakrishna Kumar. He told The Hindu that the government was planning several initiatives to promote the use of EVs as a substitute to conventional fuel operated vehicles because not only the maintenance cost of the former was less they did not have engine parts and ran with just electric motors. Mr. Kumar also said it was decided to invite tenders to hire electric cars for use in all public sector undertakings on rental basis. The vehicles would be hired with or without drivers for up to 2,500 kms per month. Through another initiative, the government proposes to distribute subsidised electric cars to unemployed SC and ST youth under its T-Pride scheme. About 500 youth involved in activities of industries and commerce were targeted to access the cars at 60 % subsidy in the first phase. They will also get road tax and registration fee exemption. The TSREDC has already been asked by the government to make arrangements for programme. A retrofitment of 5,000 autorickshaws in the State from diesel to EVs was planend with a subsidy of Rs. 15,000 to the owners, Mr. Ramakrishna Kumar said. The TSREDC addressed letters last month to municipalities, municipal corporations, power distribution companies, road transport corporation, railways and airports authority to identify ideal locations for setting up the stations. There are currently 70 stations in GHMC limits. The Centre has also conceded 138 charging stations in the State under its Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles scheme. Of them, 118 will be in GHMC alone while 10 each were proposed in Karimnagar and Warangal towns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-staff-to-get-electric-two-wheelers/article36008748.ece
20 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gandhi hospital gang rape complaint false: police||After analysing the video footage of over 500 CCTV cameras (800 hours footage), Hyderabad city police on Thursday said that the “gang rape” of a woman at Gandhi hospital was false and it turned out that the victim had misguided them. Alcohol withdrawal syndrome is said to be the reason for the false complaint.  Speaking to The Hindu , a police officer associated with the investigation said that in order to make her family believe where she was for over four days of her 'missing', the woman from Mahabubnagar weaved the story of having been confined and gang-raped by security guards at the hospital, where her brother-in-law was undergoing treatment. Her sister, who was missing for the past 4 days too was found at Narayanaguda. Even she was victim of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. ‘Consensual act’ The officer said that on Aug. 11 and Aug. 14, the woman had consensual intercourse with one of the security guards, Kishore, and later on Monday she along with her family members approached Chilkalguda police alleging that the guards gave sedatives and repeatedly sexually assaulted her for over 4 days by confining her in a room in the hospital. “After verifying the video footages, questioning the alleged suspects, staff at Gandhi, recording the statement and medical examination of the woman, we came to a conclusion that it is a false case,” he said.  Another ‘false’ case Further, the officer said that the alleged rape case at Santosh Nagar PS limits which was registered on Wednesday was also false. “The woman approached police and lodged a case stating that she was raped by her boyfriend, in order to take revenge on him,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gandhi-hospital-gang-rape-complaint-false/article36009147.ece
20 August 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Destitute home in Kannur turns COVID-19 hotspot||Five people died of COVID-19 and over 90 tested positive for the infection in the past few days at a home for the destitute run by a charitable trust at Peravoor in Kannur. For several homeless and people with psychiatric problems, the Kripa Charitable Trust has been a solace. However, M.V. Santhosh and his wife, Nirmala, running Kripa Bhavan for 17 years, are helpless in the situation. There are over 290 residents. The first COVID-19 case was reported on August 6. Mr. Santhosh told The Hindu though 90 had tested positive, the others too were susceptible to the disease as they stayed in the same building. “Many patients have severe psychiatric problems and it is difficult to confine them,” he said. “Even if they are hospitalised, caregivers are needed to look after them. Though we have four nurses, things are now being managed with the help of just one,” he said. Mr. Santhosh said his wife was just out of the ICU and his two children had not recovered from COVID-19. Lack of funds Ever since the pandemic outbreak, they had been finding it difficult to raise funds to run the institution. He said Rs. 25,000 was needed for medicines a month and now Rs. 2.37 lakh was due to a pharma company. “People need not pay us but can help get medicines by paying directly to the company,” he said. Mr. Santhosh claimed that government help was not forthcoming. District Medical Officer Narayanan Nayak said the Health Department had taken all necessary steps. All residents had been vaccinated and necessary medicines provided to them. A special medical team would check the residents and submit a report. The report would be handed over to the District Collector, he said adding that the Social Justice Department was providing food and other requirements to the institution. District Collector T.V. Subhash said steps had been initiated to take over the institution and contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/destitute-home-in-kannur-turns-covid-19-hotspot/article36008755.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tough legal battle awaits wives of slain IS men post extradition||Freedom may remain a distant dream for widows of Islamic State (IS) members, including Nimisha Fathima, a Keralite, as a long-drawn battle awaits them in India, if extradited from Afghanistan. She has been accused of joining the IS, a banned terrorist organisation, an offence under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). There were reports that Nimisha was among those released from jail after the Taliban took over the reins of the country. She and three others had accompanied their husbands to join the IS in the Khorasan province. Bexen Vincent, her husband and an IS activist, is believed to have been killed in Afghanistan. K. Bindu, Nimisha’s mother, had recently approached the authorities to bring back her daughter and five-year-old granddaughter, Ummu Kulsu. Incidentally, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has included Nimisha on the list of most wanted persons in the IS case. She has also been accused of associating with the IS to furthering and supporting its activities. She will have to face trial for waging war against Afghanistan. All the charges levelled against Nimisha are non-bailable. In UAPA cases, the court may grant bail only if it is satisfied that the charges are baseless and prima facie appear to be untrue, judicial sources indicated. The challenge before the NIA is to gather evidence to link Nimisha to the offences allegedly committed in Afghanistan. Obtaining witnesses and evidence from there to depose against her will be an uphill task. It may have to bank heavily on digital evidence and witnesses in India to prove the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tough-legal-battle-awaits-wives-of-slain-is-men-post-extradition/article36008760.ece
20 August 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested in Kochi for carrying MDMA drug||The extra vigil by the Excise Department in view of the festive season paid rich dividends when five persons, including a woman, was arrested in Kochi with 90 gm of MDMA, a premium party drug, worth Rs. 1 crore in the open market in the early morning hours on Thursday. The raid was conducted jointly by the Excise Anti-Narcotic Special Squad, the State Excise Enforcement Squad and Customs Preventive Unit, Kochi. Though two more persons, including a woman, were apprehended their arrests were yet to be recorded. The seizure was made from a rented apartment in Vazhakala. The arrested were identified as Sreemon, Mohammad Fabas and Shamna of Kozhikode, Aju alias Amal of Kasaragod and Mohammad Afsal of Ernakulam. Though a man and woman from Kasaragod and Ernakulam were taken into the custody, their arrests were yet to be recorded as their involvement in the case was yet to be confirmed. Novel modus operandi The gang adopted a novel modus operandi, said excise officials. They used to travel as family along with ferocious dog breeds such as Rottweiler and Doberman ostensibly to evade inspection by law enforcement agencies at check points. Three dogs were also detained during the search operation and the car they used to travel was confiscated as well. A tip-off received by the Excise and Customs Departments that huge quantity of high quality synthetic drugs is being smuggled in from Chennai for sale in Kerala led to the operation. This sparked off joint search operations by the Customs and State Excise Special Enforcement Squad. “The gang is suspected to be involved in the distribution of MDMA in not only Kochi but also Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, Wayanad and Kasargod. They travelled in groups pretending to be a family,” said N. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-arrested-in-kochi-for-carrying-mdma-drug/article36008789.ece
20 August 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mappila riots a sign of Taliban mindset’||Terming the Malabar rebellion of 1921 as the first manifestation of the Taliban mindset, Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) national executive member Ram Madhav has accused the Left Democratic Front government of whitewashing the Mappila riots as a Communist movement against the bourgeois and zamindars. Inaugurating the ‘Mappila Riots Martyrs Remembrance Year’ organised by the Vishwa Samvada Kendram here on Thursday, Mr. Madhav said the first society subjected to violent mindset of the Taliban was in Kerala. This mindset, born out of certain fundamentalist and radical Islamist ideas, also led to the Partition of India in 1947, he said. At the same time, he said the Communist government wanted to celebrate the Mappila riots in a totally different form, with films released on its heroism. “The Leftist liberal cabal wants to whitewash it. But then the Left is known for distortion of history, not only here but the world over,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mappila-riots-a-sign-of-taliban-mindset/article36008750.ece
20 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia for Hazira’s kin||The Communist Party of India State secretary K. Ramakrishna has demanded that the State government grant Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia for the parents of Hazira Bi, who was murdered last year and the culprits were yet to be traced. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishna alleged that the police knew who were the perpetrators of the crime but did not arrest them. The accused must be immediately arrested and a trial completed within the specified 21 days to punish them as per the Disha Act, he observed. The murder of B.Tech student Ramya was unfortunate, he said, and appreciated the police for immediately nabbing the accused. He wanted Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia given to the parents of Ramya also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-seeks-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-for-haziras-kin/article36008802.ece
20 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims two more lives in Nellore||The single-day coronavirus infections count rose marginally by more than 50 in the last 24 hours when compared to the previous 24 hours even as recoveries improved further in south coastal Andhra Pradesh during the period. Two patients succumbed in Nellore district in the 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Thursday, taking the toll in the region to 2,015. Prakasam district recorded zero deaths , according to a health bulletin released by the State government. So far, 1,029 patients in Prakasam and 986 more in Nellore have died . As many as 349 persons in the region, includiing 242 in Nellore , got infected in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-two-more-lives-in-nellore/article36009424.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat crew seek share; SC stays ex gratia||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the disbursement of Rs. 2 crore to the owner of a fishing boat shot at by two Italian marines aboard Italian flagship Enrica Lexie in 2012, after 10 crew members demanded their share from his compensation. The crew of the boatSt. Antonysaid they have every right to get a cut of the compensation from the boat owner and that they too had suffered “moral harm” and trauma after escaping death by hair’s breadth. Issuing notice to the boat owner, a Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and V. Ramasubramanian asked the Kerala High Court not to disburse the Rs. 2 crore to the boat owner for the time being. The court will take up the case again after two weeks. Justice Banerjee, however, indicated that once the owner comes aboard after receiving notice, the top court may ask the Kerala High Court to take a call on the crew’s demand for their share. SG’s suggestion Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, had earlier in the hearing suggested that the crew could directly approach the High Court with their plea for a portion of the owner’s compensation. He said the Bench, instead of taking up the matter directly, ought to ask the High Court to implead the boat owner and the 10 crew members and decide their case there. Though Justice Banerjee considered Mr. Mehta’s advice initially, the Bench finally decided to have the boat owner appear in the apex court first before taking any further steps. During the court hearing, advocate Manish Dembla, for the crew members, said two of their friends on the boat were killed in the shooting. They said not a penny from the Rs. 10 crore compensation paid by the Republic of Italy had reached them. They were not even made parties in the case. On June 15, the Supreme Court agreed to close criminal proceedings against marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone after Italy paid Rs. 10 crore. Of this, Rs. 4 crore each was allotted to the families of the two dead fishermen. The remaining Rs. 2 crore was set aside for the boat owner. The 10 survivors said the bullets damaged the outer body of the boat. They said the boat was worth only Rs. 10 lakh. A payment of Rs. 2 crore exclusively for the boat owner was “not justified”. They urged the court to permit them equal share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boat-crew-seek-share-sc-stays-ex-gratia/article36008762.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC lets Reddy visit Ballari, Kadapa||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed former Karnataka Minister and mining baron Gali Janardhana Reddy to visit the districts of Ballari in Karnataka and Kadapa and Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh for eight weeks, provided he informs the district police chiefs beforehand. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari agreed to modify the bail conditions of Mr. Reddy after noting that the trial had not commenced in the illegal mining case against him. The CBI had objected, saying Mr. Reddy was at the centre of “one of the most notorious mining scams” of the country and his return to Ballari would spell disaster for the trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-lets-reddy-visit-ballari-kadapa/article36008746.ece
20 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam farmers seek full quota of Krishna water for tail-end areas||The rainfall deficit in August has put paid to the hopes of farmers to grow crops in the drought-prone Prakasam district. However, thanks to comfortable storage in the reservoirs across the Krishna river, farmers hope for cultivating paddy and dry crops in maximum extent both under the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Canal (NRBC) and Krishna Western Delta at least this year. Ahead of the Krishna River Management Board meeting slated for August 27, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao demanded that a minimum of 56 tmcft of water be provided to Prakasam district for irrigation purpose under the NRBC, after accounting for evaporation losses. Farmers in the tail-end areas suffer moisture stress for crops in over 40,000 hectares of the total 1.78 lakh hectare ayacut, he said. Rainfall deficit Aided by pre-monsoon showers under the influence of cyclonic storm Yaas, farmers began cultivation of rain-fed crops in June itself. After a 27.1% rainfall deficit in June, the district received excess rainfall 130.7 mm (14%) in July that helped farmers to take up sowing operations of kharif crops in a brisk pace. However, the rainfall deficit of 35.4% in August so far has put a spoke in the farm operations. As a result, the crop acreage was restricted to over 73,000 hectares when compared to the average of 2.12 lakh hectares, says Agriculture Joint Director S. Srinivasa Rao. “However, all is not last. We hope that the crop acreage will improve in September after a good wet spell,” he says. Exhorting the farmers not to go for paddy in the areas dependent on borewells for irrigation, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the transplantation of seedlings just started. “The paddy acreage can be expected to be in the normal sown area of over 26,000 hectares as transplantation of seedlings is yet to pick up both in the NRBC and the KWD ayacuts,” he says. He urges the farmers not to go for BPT paddy varieties for they are susceptible to blast disease. Nellore varieties are best suited for mid-Kharif season, he suggests. The oilseed crops have been cultivated in about 6,700 hectares (73% of the normal area) and cotton in 17188 hectares (52% of normal area). Area under chilli, which has been sown in 5673 hectares (21% of normal area) could go up to over 29,000 hectares this year as those who could not grow cotton are expected to switch over to the spice crop. Alternative crops Red gram acreage has been hit in view of the dry spell, with the crop grown only in 32576 hectares as against the normal sown area of 86,000 hectares. Those who missed cultivation of red gram, the principal pulse crop cultivation during kharif, can go for grow cow pea and horse gram as an alternative, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-farmers-seek-full-quota-of-krishna-water-for-tail-end-areas/article36009426.ece
20 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiger count goes up in NSTR as conservation effort pays off||The population of big cats in the expansive Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve(NSTR) has increased by 16 in a year, thanks to the sustained conservation efforts by the forest staff by roping in the indigenous Chenchu people under the ambitious Project Tiger. Following the restrictions imposed on the movement of people to combat COVID-19, the majestic Royal Bengal tiger and other wild animals now move more freely in the NSTR, says NSTR Field Director Y. Srinivasa Reddy, after examining the recordings of the camera traps set up in the Nallamalla hill ranges, offshoot of the Eastern Ghats, and having a look at the Monitoring System for Tigers- Intensive protection and Ecological Status (M-StrIPES) mobile app introduced to oversee the patrolling effort by the staff at the grassroot level. “The tiger count was 47 in the previous fiscal. Now it is 63,” he explains with a sense of satisfaction over the “save our stripes” campaign yielding positive results. “We expect the numbers to go up further in the NSTR this year,” Mr. Reddy expressed confidence during a conversation with The Hindu . This was at a time when their numbers were dwindling elsewhere. Phase IV monitoring for 2020-21 has been completed in May this year.\ Camera traps As many 1,000 camera traps have been installed per 100 sq. km to constantly monitor the movement of wild animals in their natural habitat and prevent any illegal activities through the 63 anti-poaching camps, six strike forces, 14 check-posts, four wildlife protection and rescue parties and three river parties, in the 3727.82 square km NSTR comprising the Rajiv Gandhi Wildlife Sanctuary and Gundla Brahmeswaram Wildlife Sanctuary. “Big cats and other wild animals can be sighted more often in the wild now in the wake of restrictions in movement of people imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 from humans to wild animals,” he adds referring to sighting of the wild animals even on the Srisailam-Dornala highway. As many as 26 solar pumpsets were set up in the interior areas where conventional electricity connections were ruled out to ensure water for the wild animals, especially during summer. “Mana NSTR — Clean and Green NSTR” taken up by the NSTR in collaboration with Rapidue Technologies P L from this June to collect, segregate and recycle plastic waste had made the NSTR more environment-friendly. As much as 350 kg of plastic litters were collected so far so that the animals do not consume them, Mr. Reddy adds. During the peak of COVID-19, eco-tourism centres and sanctuaries were closed down to prevent the spread of pandemic, says Markapur Divisional Forest Officer A. Vignesh. Saucer pits Frontline staff and outsourced persons were vaccinated and medical camps held in the Chenchu habitations and fringe villages. As many as 135 saucer pits were constructed to ensure water for wild animals in the division during dry spell, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiger-count-goes-up-in-nstr-as-conservation-effort-pays-off/article36008801.ece
20 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed in accident||A 65-year-old farmer died after a car hit the bicycle he was riding near the Nagupalem crossroad at Parchur near Chirala in Prakasam district on Thursday. The car driver lost control on the wheels and the vehicle plunged into a canal, the police said. The cyclist died on the spot, while the car sustained minor injuries. The Parchur police rushed to the spot and rescued the car driver. The deceased has been identified as Ch. Yalamandha. The police have shifted the body to the Government Area Hospital at Chirala for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-in-accident/article36009459.ece
20 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lensmen felicitated||Ongole Mayor Gangada Sujatha on Thursday exhorted photographers to keep pace with the fast-changing technology in photography. Taking part in the World Photography Day celebrations organised by the Photographers’ and Videographers’ Development Association here, the Mayor felicitated senior lensmen M. Prasad, Mastan Naidu, Brahmam, Srinivas and K. Prasad for their contributions to the field. Association secretary Suresh Babu urged the Mayor to use her good offices with the State government to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 per month to each lensmen to tide over the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lensmen-felicitated/article36009460.ece
20 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Financial irregularities alleged in Nannaya university Sports Board||The Sports Board of Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU - Rajamahendravaram) has come under the scanner of the State government for allegedly adopting fraudulent means to claim funds during the period 2010 to 2018. The board had allegedly claimed funds by submitting forged bills with forged signatures of scores of Physical Education Directors (PDs) of the university-affiliated colleges in East and West Godavari districts. The financial irregularities in the Sports Board had come to light after the university’s former Officer on Special Duty, A.S.V.S. Samkrutyayan, lodged a written complaint on Tuesday with the government and the Chairman of the A.P. State Higher Education Council, seeking a detailed investigation into the fraud. A copy of the written complaint is with The Hindu . The whistleblower had also submitted to the government the evidence gathered by invoking the RTI Act. “Many bills claimed (between 2010 and 2018) by former Sports Board Secretary A. Satyanarayana in the name of scores of Physical Education Directors of the affiliated colleges have been forged. The PDs concerned have revealed this in their RTI replies, and they have been enclosed in the complaint,” Mr. Samkrutyayan said. The PDs of Kandukuri Veeresalingam Theistic College and Andhra Kesari Degree College in Rajamahendravaram had also revealed that their signatures were forged, he said. “The modus operandi was to submit the bills with the forged signatures of the PDs, claiming their financial entitlements and allowances for attending the sports events. The university had also given him the cheque power, which was against the existing finance guidelines in the case of an ‘ad hoc’ employee,” he said in his complaint. “We did not receive any written complaint. However, we will investigate if any complaint, or directive from the higher authorities is received,” Registrar T. Ashok told The Hindu . He said Mr. Satyanarayana had been serving as PD in Kakinada campus since his transfer in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/financial-irregularities-alleged-in-nannaya-university-sports-board/article36009437.ece
20 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual tour for devotees on anvil||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is planning to develop a software application that will provide necessary information for devotees arriving on a pilgrimage to the abode of Lord Venkateswara here through a virtual tour. The content will include the history of the shrine, places to visit, including the other temples under the TTD’s fold, amenities, functioning of the administration and trusts and developmental activities. A direction to this effect was given by the Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy to the IT officials on Thursday while presiding over a high-level meeting at Gokulam office here. Internship He also told the officials to initiate steps to enable IT students do their internship in TTD. The employees working in the IT department should be imparted further training with technical experts and given incentives, if necessary, he said. Delayed refunds Steps should be taken for faster refund of caution deposit to devotees’ bank accounts. Though the process in the TTD accounts was happening within 12 hours of devotees vacating their accommodation, depositing the amounts into pilgrims’ accounts was consuming around three days which, he said, was not tolerable. The issue should be taken up with bank officials and the duration brought down to the minimum level possible, he said. User-friendly An exclusive software application should be developed detailing the availability of cottages for the benefit of devotees, which should be subjected to security audit periodically. The software application used by the Donor Cell officials should be made more user-friendly, Mr. Dharma Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-tour-for-devotees-on-anvil/article36008806.ece
20 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD defers release of online tickets||The TTD has temporarily deferred the release of online quota of Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets for September. The customary release was scheduled on August 20 (Friday). It was postponed for certain administrative reasons, the TTD said and appealed to the devout to bear with the inconvenience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-defers-release-of-online-tickets/article36008807.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two minors among five held for cybercrime||The Tirupati Urban police have arrested five persons, including two minors, for allegedly circulating morphed content in a bid to enhance their views and likes. The police received complaint from a famed TikToker under the Alipiri police limits on circulation of her morphed video with abusive content on social media, with an intention to make money. The cyber crime wing swung into action and nabbed the accused, who were geographically spread across different locations. The complainant decried the manner in which her videos were deliberately morphed and circulated on various platforms, which she said had caused humiliation and mental agony to her and her family members. The cyber sleuths not only zeroed in on the questionable content and removed it from the site, but also got the accounts of the accused removed from the respective platforms. Gurram Aravind (26) of Hyderabad, Pooravarasan Nagaraju (26) of Kuppam, Challa Naresh (20) of Anantapur and two minors were found to be allegedly involved in the crime. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu said any form of crime such as cyber bullying, eve teasing, sexual or mental harassment against women would not be tolerated. He urged people not to be discouraged and lodge a complaint at their nearest police station and added their confidentiality would be maintained. The cyber wing had identified 25 fake links floated by imposters based out of China and Hong Kong and involved in cyber frauds and online cheating on social media platforms. “They seek deposits and repay them promptly for the first time, but take the customers for a ride from then onwards”, Mr. Naidu observed. He cautioned the public, especially the cyber novices, not to click on links received from unknown persons or unreliable sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-including-two-minors-held-for-cyber-crime-in-tirupati/article36008808.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP bats for ‘virtual visit’ of science centre by students||Member of Parliament M. Gurumoorthy has suggested to the Regional Science Centre (RSC) authorities to consider the possibility of allowing ‘virtual visits’ by students. During his surprise visit to the Alipiri campus of the science centre on Thursday, Mr. Gurumoorthy said that students and school managements could be encouraged to take up virtual visits to keep the embers of scientific temper burning. The MP said the science centre could ensure more footfalls by organising collaborative programmes with the Education Department in strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. While visiting the gallery on non-conventional energy sources, the MP discussed the State’s potential in tapping the solar and wind energy. He sought more information about the ongoing research in bio-fuel and the availability and efficiency of the hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. RSC project coordinator M.M.K. Balaji explained the MP the features of the ‘mobile science exhibition’ meant to visit school campuses in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-bats-for-virtual-visit-of-science-centre-by-students/article36009427.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Yuvatha to highlight govt.’s ‘failure’||Alleging that the YSRCP government has failed on all fronts, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has announced to take this message strongly to the young voters across the State. The party will use its youth wing ‘Telugu Yuvatha’ as a tool to connect with the youth of the State, said party’s Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav. Mr. Yadav, along with TDP general secretary Venati Satish Reddy, Rayalaseema media coordinator Sridhar Varma, Telugu Yuvatha president A. Ravi Naidu and State general secretary Anand Goud, announced the new body for the youth wing, which would take on the State government on the unemployment scenario, job calendarand reach out to the beneficiaries to create awareness. Hailing the young cadre as the TDP’s backbone, Mr. Narasimha Yadav invited them to take up the mammoth task of ‘exposing’ the government’s failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-yuvatha-to-highlight-govts-failure/article36009428.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUPATI / TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No development happening in A.P., says Kishan Reddy||The YSRCP government has done nothing except affixing its labels to the schemes sanctioned by the Central government, Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy has alleged. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Kishan Reddy said the Union government was particular on equitable distribution of development projects, and had been sanctioning funds and schemes in a rational manner. Expressing displeasure over the State claiming credit for such projects and trying to hoodwink the people, he said, “There is no development happening in Andhra Pradesh, except for the schemes offered by the Centre.” “In fact, several Central schemes sanctioned long ago have been delayed as the State government could not come up with its share of funds,” he said. Apart from the required number of vaccine doses, the Centre had also supplied 4,500 ventilators to Andhra Pradesh when COVID-19 was at its peak, Mr. Kishan Reddy said. On the tourism front, he said ‘Dekho Apna Desh’, a scheme to promote domestic tourism among the locals, would be launched soon. Tributes to martyrs Earlier, accompanied by Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh, BJP State president Somu Veerraju, and general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, the Union Minister paid tributes to the martyrs at the ‘Amar Jawan’ memorial near Kapila Theertham. He also felicitated ex-servicemen and the family members of the deceased, and announced that the Centre would extend all help and stay committed to their welfare. He also visited a COVID-19 vaccination centre at SVIMS super-specialty hospital and enquired with its Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma about the prevailing situation. Red sanders’ smuggling In Tirumala, after offering prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara, Mr. Kishan Reddy told the media that the Centre would extend all help to the State in wiping out the menace of red sanders smuggling. Mr. Kishan Reddy said the State government should hold deliberations with the Centre as well as the neighbouring States to check the smuggling. “The issue is no longer confined to Andhra Pradesh. People belonging to various States as well as countries are involved in the illegal transportation of the wood,” he said. He expressed satisfaction over the TTD’s decision to rebuild the Vakulamatha temple on the outskirts of Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-development-happening-in-ap-says-kishan-reddy/article36009439.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not rush to Aadhaar centres for e-KYC, says Civil Supplies official||Civil Supplies Commissioner Kona Sasidhar has said that Aadhaar e-KYC can be done using biometric devices available at the ration shops and ward and village volunteers, and there is no need to rush to the Aadhaar enrolment centres. The Aadhaar enrolment centres across the State have been witnessing heavy rush after the Union government has made it mandatory for all the members of rice cards to undergo the e-KYC. There are also rumours that the rice cards will be cancelled if e-KYC is not done. In a release on Thursday, Mr. Sasidhar clarified that e-KYC was only to personally verify the identity of the rice card-holders and members and not to cancel the cards. Mr. Sasidhar said the Centre made e-KYC mandatory for every member in every card so that ration could be availed at any place in the country. “However, there is no need to rush to the Aadhaar centres as the same can be processed by the ward and village volunteers, and ration dealers locally,” he said. “People have to go the Aadhaar centres only if they are unable to complete the process with the volunteers or ration dealers,” he said. “E-KYC is not required for children aged below 5. Those in the 5-15 age group can get it done before September-end. People of other age groups have time till the end of August.” Mr. Sasidhar said The government would consider an extension of the last date based on the situation, he added. Mr. Sasidhar said the government had asked the Centre to recognise ward and village secretariats as Aadhaar centres. “There are 2,102 Aadhaar centres in State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-rush-to-aadhaar-centres-for-e-kyc-says-civil-supplies-official/article36009432.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for third wave, Minister asks officials||Minister for Transport and I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah has asked officials to be gear themselves up to face the third wave of COVID-19 and make arrangements to ensure that patients who approach the government hospitals with symptoms are admitted within 15 minutes of their arrival. In a review meeting at Machilipatnam on Thursday, Mr. Venkataramaiah asked the officials to put to use the Primary Health Centres and the Area Hospitals, and set up Village Isolation Centres to treat the patients locally. He said that no patient should be turned away citing shortage of oxygen, medicines, or beds at the government facilities. Doctors’ wish list He sought to know from the Health Department officials if the ongoing fever survey in Machilipatnam was being conducted properly to identify all persons with COVID-19 symptoms. The doctors brought to the notice of the Minister the issue of shortage of gloves and masks. They also told the Minister that the budget allocated for them had been reduced. They also stressed the need for a mobile X-ray facility. Responding to the issues raised, the Minister asked the doctors to submit a list of required equipment and material that were not available in the hospitals for treatment of COVID-19. Machilipatnam Mayor M. Venkateswaramma, Deputy Mayor L. Suribabu, Municipal Commissioner S. Sivarama Krishna, RDO Sk. Khajavali, DSP Imam Basha, tahsildar Sunil Babu, and District Hospital Superintendent Jaya Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-third-wave-minister-asks-officials/article36009430.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s COVID-19 tally inches closer to 20 lakh||The State reported 10 deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,501 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. It was the lowest daily toll in the past 128 days. Meanwhile, at 19,98,603 the cumulative infection tally inched close to 20 lakh. The first COVID case was reported 526 days ago on March 12, 2020, in the State. The active cases tally came down to 15,738 with 1,697 recoveries in the past day. The number of recoveries and recovery rate stand at 19,69,169 and 98.53% respectively. The death toll and death rate stand at 13,696 and 0.69% respectively. The daily positivity rate has been increasing as the number of samples tested increased. During the past day, 67,716 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 2.22%. The overall positivity rate of the 2.59 crore samples tested was 7.72%. Krishna district reported three new deaths in the past day while Chittoor, East Godavari and Nellore reported two deaths each. Visakhapatnam reported one death and nine districts reported no death in the past day. East Godavari reported 315 new infections. It was followed by Nellore (242), Chittoor (174), West Godavari (150), Krishna (147), Guntur (141), Visakhapatnam (109), Prakasam (107), Kadapa (49), Srikakulam (30), Anantapur (21), Kurnool (10) and Vizianagaram (6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-covid-19-tally-inches-closer-to-20-lakh/article36009434.ece
20 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Abrogation of Article 370 a dream come true’||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture and Development of North Eastern Region G. Kishan Reddy said on Thursday that he was happy that Article 370 had been done away with during his stint in the Home Ministry as an assistant to Home Minister Amit Shah. “It was a dream realised for me. What more do I want as a committed worker of the BJP?” Mr. Kishan Reddy wondered while addressing a public meeting as part of his ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ here. The special status enjoyed by Jammu & Kashmir under Article 370, which was brought in by Mohammad Ali Jinnah, had been revoked in a historic move that facilitated the adoption of the Constitution in what had since become a Union Territory, Mr. Kishan Reddy said. He pointed out that Syama Prasad Mukherjee, the founder of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, had opposed Article 370 tooth and nail, and the BJP made its abrogation a part of its election manifesto. ‘Credit goes to Modi’ “The credit of repealing Article 370 goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But for his courage, it would not have become a reality,” Mr. Kishan Reddy said. Mr. Kishan Reddy said the BJP-led NDA Government succeeded in eradicating corruption to a large extent, which was evident from the absence of lobbyists, who used to swarm the corridors of power in the Capital during the Congress term. The Prime Minister’s initiatives made India a global hub for manufacturing of vaccines, and the government was able to contain the spread of coronavirus amidst heavy odds, Mr. Kishan Reddy said, and advised the people to inculcate COVID-appropriate behaviour to prevent the resurgence of the pandemic. BJP State president Somu Veerraju and his predecessor Kanna Lakshminarayana, MP C.M. Ramesh, and MLCs P.V.N. Madhav and Vakati Narayana Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abrogation-of-article-370-a-dream-come-true/article36009435.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh seeks government aid for private school teachers in State||The TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Thursday said teachers working in private educational institutions were in the throes of a serious financial crisis and urged the government to provide succour to the fraternity. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Lokesh cited the suicide by a private school correspondent and his wife at Koilkuntla of Kurnool district due to mounting debts, and said it reflected the intensity of the problem being faced by private schools. Pointing to the fact that financial distress drove the couple to resort to the extreme step on the day when schools were reopened after a long gap, he said the over 12,000 private schools in the State provided employment to nearly 1.25 lakh teachers. “The government should wake up to the problem before more such suicides happen,” he said. Even now, he said, many teachers were receiving only 60-70% of their salaries and there was no clarity on when the retrenched teachers would be reinstated. Teachers were not paid salaries since March last year due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic that necessitated lockdown. In the last five months, the impact of the economic recession resulting from the pandemic had been showing a telling effect on nearly 5 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff in schools, colleges and universities, he said. Contract staff He said the plight of the contract teachers in government junior colleges was worse. Reports appearing in the media suggested that unable to suffer pangs of hunger, many of them had turned vegetable vendors, construction labourers or taken to other menial jobs. The TDP leader specifically mentioned the case of a Telugu lecturer in Kadapa district with a Ph.D who had started working as a farm labour to support his family. Referring to the neighbouring States like Telangana and Karnataka which had been helping private school teachers in the form of cash and kind, Mr. Lokesh urged the State government to announce a relief package for them and prevent further suicides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-seeks-government-aid-for-private-school-teachers-in-state/article36009442.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT CET-21 on September 26||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) will conduct RGUKT CET-21, a common entrance test for admission to six-year integrated B.Tech programme, for the academic year 2021-22 in its four campuses at Nuzvid, R.K. Valley, Ongole and Srikakulam, on September 26. The results will be announced on October 4. A detailed notification released by the university authorities said the question paper would consist of 100 objective type (multiple choice) questions – Mathematics (40), Physical Sciences (40) and Biological Sciences (20). There would not be any negative marks. The question paper would be printed in both English and Telugu. Students can pay fee through the payment gateway and submit online applications from August 20 (from 10 a.m. onwards) to September 6 (up to 5 p.m.). Online submission of applications with a fine of Rs. 1,000 can be done from September 7 to 11, and students can download their hall-ticket on September 18. The initial key will be released on September 26, and objections on the key will be received up to September 30. The final key will be published on October 2. Applications should be submitted online only through the university’s official websitewww.rgukt.in. Eligibility criteria For admission to the university, the students should have passed SSC (Class 10), or any other equivalent examination recognised by the governments of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana (State / CBSE / ICSE) conducted in 2021, in the first attempt. They should have completed 15 years of age as on December 31, 2021, and should not have completed 18 years as on December 31, 2021. The test will be conducted in every mandal of the State and in 10 identified centres in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-cet-21-on-september-26/article36009443.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Businessman found dead in car in city||A businessman was found dead under suspicious conditions in a locked SUV parked on the roadside in a colony near Tikkle Road in the city on Thursday. On Thursday morning, locals found the man identified as Karanam Rahul of Tadigadapa in the driver's seat while upper part of the body was leaned back through the gap between the front seats. The police who inspected the spot found that the car was locked. Rahul was the managing director of Zixin Cylinders Pvt. Ltd., manufacturer and exporter of LPG cylinders, located at Cheruvu Madhavaram village of G. Konduru mandal in the district. According to police, Rahul left home on Wednesday evening and told his parents that he was going to meet some persons and would return in an hour. As he did not return till late at night and failed to answer calls, his parents complained to the Penamaluru police. Police, who found a rope and pillow lying next to the body in the car, suspected murder. However, other possible causes were not ruled out. Based on the postmortem report and circumstantial evidence the cause of death will be concluded. Five teams were formed to investigate the case. A case of suspicious death under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. has been registered by the Penamaluru police where the first missing person's complaint was lodged by parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/businessman-found-dead-in-car-in-city/article36009577.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Winds of change visible in J&K, says GVL||Bharatiya Janata Party MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said the winds of change were visible in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) after the abrogation of Article 370 and that corrupt regimes, which deprived the people of development for decades, were a thing of the past. In a message through Twitter upon his completion of a three-day tour of J&K as a member of a Parliamentary delegation, Mr. Narasimha Rao said the MPs had interactions with the common people and the present situation bodes well for peaceful and prosperous J&K. He stated that there could be no better vindication of the Modi government’s J&K policy than its peaceful march towards progress after the repeal of the Article 370. “The Kashmiris’ general disenchantment with the local political class is very strong and they are welcoming the positive changes”, he commented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/winds-of-change-visible-in-jk-says-gvl/article36009573.ece
20 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials asked to expedite land resurvey project||Ajeya Kallam, Principal Adviser to the CM and Chairman of the State-level Steering and Implementation Committee on Land Resurvey, has ordered the officials concerned to expedite the project. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is paying special attention to it,” Mr. Kallam said at a review meeting on the project. Mr. Kallam said the government was prepared to give clearances, and efforts should be made to stick to the deadlines, an official release said. It was decided by the committee to invite tenders for purchasing equipment and to deploy drones and rovers wherever required to capture the land data. The urban land survey pilot project at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari was nearing completion, and steps were being taken to replicate it to other towns. Commissioner of Survey, Settlements and Land Records Siddharth Jain, Chief Commissioner of Land Administration Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Principal Secretary (finance) S.S. Rawat, Panchayat Raj Commissioner M. Girija Shankar and Director of Town and Country Planning V. Ramudu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-asked-to-expedite-land-resurvey-project/article36009576.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP is anti-BC’||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday accused the YSR Congress Party government of depriving the Backward Classes (BCs) of benefits under over 35 government programmes. Addressing a meeting attended by the BC leaders in the party, Mr. Naidu said in the TDP rule, a strong foundation was laid for overall development of the BCs, but the biased policies of the Jagan government had reduced them to a mere vote-bank. Mr. Naidu said the YSRCP was trying to sabotage the interests of BCs and added, “but the TDP will not allow that to happen.” He claimed that his party had never neglected the BCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-is-anti-bc/article36009574.ece
20 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTRUHS exam postponed||In view of the holiday on August 20 due to Muharram, Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences (NTRUHS) has postponed the IInd MBBS supplementary examination in forensic medicine to August 21. In a statement on Thursday, the university said all other terms and conditions remained unchanged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntruhs-exam-postponed/article36008809.ece
20 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister meets Jagan||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy and his wife Kavya called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Thursday. The Chief Minister’s wife Bharathi and Endowments Minister V. Srinivas were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-minister-meets-jagan/article36009436.ece
20 August 2021||VISAHKAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL bags energy-saving certificates||Visakhapatnam Steel Plant received the highest number of energy-saving certificates in the iron and steel sector in the country. D.K. Mohanty, CMD (additional charge), RINL, received 1,29,907 Energy Saving Certificates (EScerts) from Alok Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of Power, through virtual mode, here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-bags-energy-saving-certificates/article36009585.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Houses will be given to all eligible poor’||Housing Minister Ch. Sri Ranganadha Raju has said that houses will be sanctioned to all eligible poor in the State under the ‘Navaratnalu – Pedalandariki illu’ scheme. The Minister inspected the housing works taken up in Y.S. Jagananna colonies in the housing layouts being developed in Narsipatnam Division on Thursday. At Darlapudi of S. Rayavaram mandal, the Minister interacted with the beneficiaries and inquired about their problems. They told him that shortage of water was hindering the construction of the houses. Mr. Ranganadha Raju directed the Rural Water Supply (RWS) officials to initiate immediate action for supply of water. He also directed the officials concerned to supply sand to the beneficiaries at their site through tractors. Later, addressing a meeting organised on the occasion, the Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy was keen on the progress of the poor and weaker sections and was giving top priority for their welfare. All eligible poor people, who do not own a house, would be given a house under the scheme. Sand, cement and iron would be supplied to the beneficiaries and there was no cause for worry. He said that 31 lakh house site pattas were sanctioned under Phase – I and Phase – II in the State as nowhere else in the country. Payakaraopeta MLA G. Babu Rao said that houses were sanctioned to 236 beneficiaries in YSR Jagananna Colony layout at Darlapudi of S. Rayavaram mandal and 1,233 beneficiaries would be provided houses in 42 acres at PL Puram Layout of Payakaraopeta mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/houses-will-be-given-to-all-eligible-poor/article36009581.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health staff going the extra mile to vaccinate tribals||Healthcare workers have been going the extra mile to administer COVID-19 vaccine to tribals in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. With most of the tribal habitations lacking proper road connectivity, the health staff have been trekking across hills and crossing streams to organise vaccination camps in the hamlets. The health staff have also been organising camps at times, as tribals are not coming forward to get vaccinated due to lack of awareness and apprehensions surrounding the safety of the vaccine. Recently, six health workers from Devarapalle mandal had travelled around 40 km through thick forests to reach a tribal village called Bongija in Ananthagiri mandal. Though there are 90 eligible tribals for vaccination in the village, none of the tribals came forward to get the jab out of fear. “We had to conduct a door-to-door campaign to inform them that vaccines are safe and are the need of the hour. After one-and-a-half-hour wait, 10 women, some of them mothers with children below five years of age from the village, came forward. We vaccinated them and appealed to them to inform the rest of the villagers that they are absolutely fine after taking the jab. A week later, some more villagers came forward. Slowly, eligible tribals from neighbouring villages like Tangellabanda, Jagadalamamidi and a few others came forward to take the vaccine. It took several weeks to vaccinate six villages,” said Multi-purpose Health Assistant of Devarapalle, K. Govinda Rao. The same team had trekked for about two-and-half-hours in a forest to reach Nakkalamamidi village, where they vaccinated 40 eligible persons a few weeks ago. Similarly, two days ago, health supervisor K. Subrahmanyam and his team from Paderu had trekked 16 km to several interior villages of Kinchuru panchayat. However, they found that the villagers had gone to the agricultural fields and would not return till evening. The staff then proceeded to the farmlands and took up the vaccination drive in the fields itself. A total of 80 villagers were vaccinated. According to the health department staff and ANMs, there are plenty of occasions when their teams had to trek for hours and return in vain without organising camps, after finding that the tribals had left for their daily work, despite appealing them to stay in the village for the programme. In several habitations, the health staff have been convincing and vaccinating the village heads or community leaders to motivate others. Challenges Additional District Medical & Health Officer, Paderu, Dr. P. Leela Prasad, said that almost 67% of tribal habitations in the Agency do not have road connectivity. But still, the staff with the support of ANMs and others are taking up drives including door-to-door vaccination drives. He also said that several issues like lack of Aadhaar cards and internet connectivity are adding to their woes. In most of the cases, they are noting down the details and uploading them into the COWiN website after reaching the plains where there is internet connectivity. Dr. Leela Prasad also said that the department has almost completed vaccination for the given target in the category of pregnant women and mothers with children below five years, and also health care workers and frontline workers. But the problem is with the people aged above 45 years, especially those from the PVTG (particularly vulnerable tribal group) category. “Still, around 30% of people above 45 to 59 years of age need to be vaccinated. Due to lack of awareness, the PVTGs do not cooperate with us and refuse to take the jab despite several appeals,” he said. Dr. Leela Prasad also said that they have listed the names of eligible persons who are yet to be vaccinated, and have instructed the staff to complete the vaccination at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-staff-going-the-extra-mile-to-vaccinate-tribals/article36009596.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Young shutterbug on a roll||A budding photographer from the city who likes to take pictures of food is becoming popular on social media, with his photographs being featured by several brands on their official pages. Chandrahaas Neelamsetty, who is barely 18 years old, caught the attention of reputed food brands and some star hotels in the city after his photographs went viral on social media. “I was attracted to photography after seeing my cousins take pictures on their mobile phones at family gatherings. I picked up the hobby two years ago when I was in junior Intermediate. Since then, it has become my passion,” says Chandrahaas, who is in his first year of B.Tech at GITAM Engineering College. His photograph of a cookie dunked in a cup of tea was featured on the Instagram page of the cookie brand on the occasion of World Photography Day on Thursday (August 19). “They sought my permission to use the picture and I readily agreed, as it gives me wide recognition. I am also into clicking pictures of automobiles and after seeing them on social media, the owner of a supercar in Vizag invited me to his home to click pictures of his car. I have also done a photo shoot for a superbike,” says Chandrahaas. His food photography has caught the fancy of some star hotels and they invite him to shoot pictures for their food festivals. “I went as a guest and took pictures of the dishes on display at a couple of star hotels. They saw the pictures and subsequently started inviting me for photo shoots ahead of their food festivals,” he says. This is not all, as Chandrahaas is also into modelling as a hobby and modelled for a few textile brands including a couple of international clothing brands. “I could not participate in fashion shows and contests as I was barely 18,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/young-shutterbug-on-a-roll/article36009591.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains cancelled, rescheduled||As many as 10 special trains have been cancelled and four rescheduled to facilitate safety-related modernisation works for insertion of Limited Height Subways (LHS) in Vizianagaram-Korukonda and Dusi-Ponduru sections of Waltair Division. The trains cancelled are: 08522 Visakhapatnam-Gunupur special, leaving Visakhapatnam on August 23, 08521 Gunupur-Visakhapatnam special, leaving Gunupur on August 23, 08570 Visakhapatnam-Bhubaneswar special, leaving Visakhapatnam on August 23, 08569 Bhubaneswar-Visakhapatnam special, leaving Bhubaneswar on August 23, 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur special, leaving Visakhapatnam on August 23 and 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam special, leaving Raipur on August 23. Similarly, the 02085 Sambalpur-Nanaded special, leaving Sambalpur on August 23, 07015 Bhubaneswar-Secunderabad special, leaving Bhubaneswar on Augst 23, the 07243 Guntur-Rayagada special, leaving Guntur on August 22, and 07244 Rayagada-Guntur special, leaving Rayagada on August 23 are all cancelled. The following trains are rescheduled: 03352 Alleppey-Dhanbad special train, scheduled to leave Alleppey at 6 a.m. on August 22, will leave at 11.45 a.m. on the same day, 01019 CST Mumbai- Bhubaneswar special train, leaving CST Mumbai at 2 p.m. on August 22, will leave at 5.30 p.m. on the same day, 02510 Guwahati-KSR Banguluru, leaving Guwahati at 6.20 a.m. on August 22, will leave at 12.20 hours on the same day. The.05906 Dibrugarh-Kanyakumari special, leaving Dibrugarh at 7.25 p.m. on August 21, will leave at 00.55 hours on August 22. Due to the safety works in connection with the commissioning of double line between Jujomura-Charmal-Rairakhol in Sambalpur Division, 08127 Rourkela-Gunupur special train, leaving Rourkela on August 22, will be cancelled. In the return direction, 08128 Gunupur-Rourkela special, leaving Gunupur on August 23, will be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trains-cancelled-rescheduled/article36009580.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA gets new chairperson||YSR Congress Party leader Akramani Vijaya Nirmala took charge as the new chairperson of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) on Thursday. Ms. Vijaya Nirmala signed her appointment letter in the presence of Tourism Minster Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and VMRDA Commissioner K. Venkata Ramana Reddy. The post of VMRDA Chairperson was lying vacant since October 2020, after the demise of former chairperson Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao. Ms. Vijaya Nirmala thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for appointing her to the post. A large number of YSRCP supporters, followers and other political representatives attended the programme. Ms. Vijaya Nirmala had contested as MLA from Visakhapatnam (East) Constituency in the 2019 elections. She lost to V. Ramakrishna Babu of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). She had played an active role in the recent civic body elections. After taking charge, she promised to improve the functioning of the VMRDA. In another programme, K.K. Raju took oath as chairman of New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of AP (NREDCAP). Minister for Housing Ranganadha Raju, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari, MLCs, MLAs, NREDCAP MD S.V. Ramana Reddy and a large number of party workers participated in the oath-taking ceremony. Minister Ranganadha Raju described Vizag as a ‘political hub’ with the maximum number of corporation chairpersons coming from the city. Referring to the ‘Navaratnalu’ being implemented by the government, he said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on meeting the people directly but the pandemic has come in the way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmrda-gets-new-chairperson/article36009589.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six agriculture labs ready in district, says Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao asked the District Agriculture Advisory Committee to ensure that farmers at the village, mandal and district-levels are benefited by the measures being taken by the government for their welfare. Speaking to reporters, the Minister said that nine agriculture labs were sanctioned to Visakhapatnam district, of which six were completed and the remaining would be completed by September-end. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on making agriculture profitable to provide security to farmers, the Minister said. He said that 627 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) were sanctioned to the district and the construction of 88 buildings has been completed so far. He suggested that fertilizers be given to farmers through RBKs to avoid fleecing by middlemen. He asked the Advisory Committee Chairman Ch. Rama Rao and members to hold meetings at the village, mandal and district-levels to educate the farmers on the schemes being implemented for their welfare. Training programmes should be conducted to train farmers on use of fertilizers, quality seed, agriculture implements and methods to get higher yield. Earlier, at the Advisory Committee meet, the Minister asked the officials to strive to make farmers insure their crops. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy, MLAs Gudivada Amarnath, Karanam Dharmasri, Adeep Raj, Joint Director of Agriculture Leelavathi and officials of Sericulture, Horticulture, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-agriculture-labs-ready-in-district-says-muttamsetti/article36009593.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila Chetana allege police inaction in domestic violence case||Members of Mahila Chetana accused the city police of negligence in taking action against the accused in a case of domestic violence. Addressing a press conference in the city on Thursday, K. Padma of Mahila Chethana said that a 25-year old woman was married to a man named Rajesh from Peddagadali area in October 2020. The family members of the woman had given Rs. 5 lakh dowry and other valuables. However, after the wedding, Rajesh and his family began harassing the woman for more dowry, she alleged. She also stated that on January 14, the woman lodged a complaint with the Disha police. After counselling, the police registered an FIR against Rajesh and his parents. However, no action was taken in the case. Since then, there were two incidents when Rajesh and his mother assaulted the woman threatening her to withdraw the complaint. Though the issue was brought before Arilova police, no action was taken, Ms. Padma alleged. She also alleged that Rajesh and his parents were close to several YSRCP leaders and are using political influence to escape legal action. The women activists demanded strict action against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-chetana-allege-police-inaction-in-domestic-violence-case/article36009583.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel workers protest NITI Aayog CEO’s visit||A massive protest was organised by steel plant workers under the aegis of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, at the Hill Top Guest House of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on receiving information that NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kanth was scheduled to visit it on Thursday. The NITI Aayog CEO came to visit the industries in the A.P. Medtech Zone. The workers gathered in a large numbers and squatted on the route to be taken by the CEO in a bid to foil his visit. They stopped the general shift workers from reporting to their duties and raised slogans of ‘Visakha Ukku, Andhrula Hakku’, against the Centre and against privatisation of VSP. The Porata Committee had announced that anyone coming from the Centre would be preventing from entering the steel plant, until the Centre revoked its decision. The workers raised slogans asking the CEO to go back. The situation was prevented from going out of control by the police. Committee leaders alleged that after coming to power, the NDA government had appointed NITI Aayog in place of the Planning Commission, with the idea of handing over public assets to corporate groups. They said the steel plant was established after 32 persons sacrificed their lives. Committee chairman D. Adinarayana, co-convener Gandham Venkata Rao, members J. Simhachalam, Y.T. Das, Rama Rao, Murali Raju were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-workers-oppose-visit-of-niti-aayog-ceo/article36009571.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID arrack destroyed by police in Agency||Mahila police teams have raided several interior villages and destroyed huge quantities of Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor on Thursday. With the support of Araku police, Mahila police teams raided the habitations at Sunkarimetta, Pujariguda and Pandurangini on Thursday morning, and destroyed arrack. The Mahila police teams also created awareness among the locals that brewing arrack was a punishable offence and may invite a six-year jail term, apart from a fine of Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-arrack-destroyed-by-police-in-agency/article36009597.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Audio clip a conspiracy’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao denied any involvement in the reported ‘scandalous’ audio clip that has gone viral in social media, here on Thursday night. Addressing a press conference late in the night, he said that the audio clip, where he was allegedly heard amorously speaking to a woman, reportedly a party worker, over phone and asking her to come to his house for a brief period, was fake and that it was a conspiracy against him. He also informed that a complaint has been lodged with the Commissioner of Police and an FIR has been registered. The investigation will bring out the facts in the case, he said. When asked whether the phone had gone from his cell phone and the voice was his, he said that it was fabricated and investigation will give a logical conclusion. On whether it was done by some of his party colleagues, he said that he was friendly with all and respected all women colleagues. “But who has done it – whether it was an inside job or from the Opposition – the police will bring it out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/audio-clip-fake-a-conspiracy-says-muttamsetti/article36009575.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Won’t allow oxygen shortage, vows Collector||The administration is leaving no stone unturned to ensure a sufficient stock of liquid medical oxygen at hospitals in the district, be it in the city or in remote Agency areas, Collector A. Mallikarjuna said on Thursday. The Collector’s remarks assume significance as fears of an imminent third wave of COVID-19 are yet to die down. The health machinery in the district was brought to its knees during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19 earlier this year with dozens of deaths being reported on a daily basis. “This time, there will be no shortage of oxygen as was faced during the second wave,” Mr. Mallikarjuna said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Mallikarjuna said that around 3,000 beds at government hospitals including about 800 ICU beds will have oxygen supply. And this apart about 5,000 beds in private sector will be ready with oxygen lines. “All hospitals have been told to be ready with enough stock of both B- and D-type cylinders and oxygen concentrators. This apart, we are ready with two Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, one each at the government hospitals in Araku and Paderu,” he said. Anticipating that the third wave might affect children, Mr. Mallikarjuna said that 800 paediatric beds have been kept ready, including 300 with oxygen supply. “We also have eight paediatric ventilators on standby,” he said. 90% vaccination Stating that the progress of vaccination has been good over the last couple of weeks, the Collector said that by Thursday night, 90% of the population in the district above 45 years of age would have received at least one dose of the vaccine. In this category, there are 11.49 lakh people and 10.24 lakh have already been given either one or both of the doses. Our target is to vaccinate at least 10.35 lakh people by Thursday to achieve the 90% mark, he said. As per the government’s decision, the focus would now shift towards other groups, especially the 18-44 year age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wont-allow-oxygen-shortage-vows-collector/article36009599.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP to appoint ‘mukhya nayaks’ in city||The ‘mandal vistarak’ meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was held at the party office at Lawson’s Bay Colony on Wednesday. MLC P.V.N. Madhav, who participated as chief guest at the meeting, said that the wards in GVMC would be divided into mandals and ‘mukhya nayaks’ (main leaders) would be appointed in each mandal, on August 20 and 21. The idea is to strengthen the party from the booth-level through the ‘mukhya nayaks’, he said. BJP Parliamentary district president Raveendra Medapati presided. BJP Anakapalle district in-charge S.V.S. Prakash Reddy and BJP State executive member N. Vijayananda Reddy were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-to-appoint-mukhya-nayaks-in-city/article36009579.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu bazaars to be closed once a week||The district administration has decided to give weekly offs to rythu bazaars in the city from August 24. Authorities said that during the off days, sanitation and other maintenance activities would be taken up at the rythu bazaars. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy said that rythu bazaars at Gopalapatnam, Kancharapalem, Seethammadhara, Peda Waltair, Peda Gantyada and Mulagada will be closed on Tuesdays. Meanwhile, rythu bazaars at MVP Colony, Narasimha Nagar, Marripalem, Gajuwaka, Pendurthy, Steel Plant and Madhurawada will be closed on Wednesdays. He appealed to the citizens to make note of the changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rythu-bazaars-to-be-closed-once-a-week/article36009582.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for alleged rape||Pendurthi police on Thursday arrested a 21-year old youth for reportedly cheating an 18-year old girl after impregnating her. The accused was identified as B. Vamsi (21), an auto-rickshaw driver from Pendurthi. Police said that the accused Vamsi allegedly befriended the girl a year ago when she was a minor. He also reportedly impregnated her. When she asked him to marry her, the youth reportedly began avoiding her. Based on a complaint, police arrested him. The case was forwarded to the Disha police station for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-held-for-alleged-rape/article36009584.ece
20 August 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||109 COVID-19 cases reported||The district recorded 109 new COVID-19 positive cases as of Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally of to 1,54,584. The district also recorded one more death taking the total death count to 1,068. During the same period, 55 people suffering from the virus were discharged, taking the total discharges to 1,52,214. The active cases also have dropped to 1,302.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/109-covid-19-cases-reported/article36009588.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postal cover on Alluri to be released soon||A postal cover will be released in honour of revolutionary freedom fighter Alluri Seetarama Raju, who had attacked the Krishnadevi Peta police station in Visakhapatnam district on August 23, 1922, as part of his goal to drive away the British from India. The programme is being organised under the aegis of National Alluri Seetarama Raju Yuvajana Sangham at the Alluri Memorial Park at Krishnadevi Peta on August 23. Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi, Narsipatnam MLA P. Uma Shankar Ganesh, Chief Post Master General of Andhra Pradesh M. Venkateswarlu, and Sangham national president Padala Veerabhadra Rao will take part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postal-cover-on-alluri-to-be-released-soon/article36009592.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC bags ISO 9001:2015 certification||Andhra Medical College (AMC) has bagged the ISO 9001:2015 certification of HYM International Certifications Pvt. Ltd. It is the only government medical college in both the Telugu-speaking States to be bestowed with this certificate, which is awarded for administrative excellence and good practices. The organisation, represented by A. Sivayya, presented the certificate to P.V. Sudhakar, Principal of AMC, in the presence of District Collector A. Mallikarjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-bags-iso-90012015-certification/article36009572.ece
20 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tries to end life with two children||A man allegedly tried to end his life in a suicide pact with his two children at Yarada in Visakhapatnam city on Thursday morning. New Port police said the man, identified only as Srinu, was having a troubled marriage for a long time. On Thursday morning, after his wife left for work, Srinu allegedly mixed pesticide in badam milk and consumed it. He also gave some of it to his two sons aged 14 and 11 years. After noticing the children vomiting continuously, neighbours shifted the trio to the hospital, where they underwent treatment. Doctors said that the condition of the three is stable, police said. A case was registered. People struggling with depression or battling suicidal thoughts are urged to call 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-tries-to-end-life-with-two-children/article36009598.ece
20 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram Collector plans to hold meet on Kotia villages||Collector A. Suryakumari has assured an all-party delegation of holding a meeting very soon over the issues of Kotia group of villages near the Odisha border. She said that the government had information about the current situation and would ensure all welfare schemes for the people living in those villages. Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji, Congress party district president Saragada Ramesh Kumar, Bahujan Samaj Party leader Pandranki Venkata Ramana and others told the Collector that Odisha officials were causing lot of ‘disturbance’ in those villages although they were under Andhra Pradesh’s territorial jurisdiction. The local residents had been facing hardships after A.P. conducted panchayat elections in the 21 Kotia group of villages. Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) district secretary Tammineni Suryanarayana and CPI leader P. Kameswara Rao and others said they would visit the villages and instil confidence among the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-plans-to-hold-meet-on-kotia-villages/article36009457.ece
20 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activists oppose withdrawal of G.O.s from the web||Activists of the Right to Information Act have appealed to the State government to put all G.O.s in the public domain as keeping them offline was against the guidelines of the RTI Act-2005. They said that the government’s recent decision to not post the G.O.s online would lead to large-scale corruption and denial of the people’s right to have access to information. According to them, the government started keeping the G.O.s on the websites of the respective departments since 2008 when Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy was the Chief Minister of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. The system ensured transparency in administration although the government put some of them in confidential category. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s State convener for Right to Information (RTI) wing Vengamamba Srinivas said that the RTI Act was enacted to enable people to express their views after obtaining information from the respective departments. ‘Transparency will be lost’ “People can express their view points on the administration when they have access to government orders. The A.P. government’s latest decision leads to many doubts over its intention. We have no other option except approaching the High Court over the issue,” said Mr. Srinivas. Samachara Hakku Ikya Vedika Srikakulam district convener Jhadtheela Srinivasa Rao said that transparency should be maintained in government orders as they were under public documents category. “Good governance is possible only when there is no secrecy in administration. Public has the right to know the government’s decisions. Offline method will lead to suspicion of every decision taken by the government,” said APCO retired manager and RTI activist N.L. Narayana. There was no guarantee that the government would provide data even if applications were filed under the RTI Act. “Society has the right to know each and every step of the government. Offline is nothing but a dark line. We will fight till the government cancels its decision,” said Mr. Narayana, who has been holding awareness programmes in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts for the last 15 years on RTI Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/activists-oppose-withdrawal-of-gos-from-the-web/article36009455.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brisk business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brisk-business/article36008811.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan for close watch on financial transactions||Mr. Jagan said the officials should be on the constant lookout for the corrupt elements within the government and outside with the help of the Intelligence Department to ensure that public money was not siphoned off. He directed the authorities to set up dedicated phone numbers in all the government offices to enable the aggrieved public to raise an alarm when someone tried to exploit them. Revenue sources Mr. Jagan said efforts should be made to garner additional revenues and focus laid on recovering monies due to the government. He exhorted the officials to increase the GST collections and scout for other sources of revenue, and wanted the Collectors and Joint Collectors to draw up strategies required to replenish the coffers. The Chief Minister insisted that provision of better services would help the departments in fetching additional revenues and ordered the officials to devise standard operating procedures thereof. He ordered that the smuggling of alcohol and its adulteration should be curbed, and stringent action taken against the culprits. The officials should think of bringing in more reforms that would facilitate the shoring up of revenues, the Chief Minister added. Special Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma (Planning) and Rajat Bhargava (Revenue) were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-for-close-watch-on-financial-transactions/article36009440.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-rush/article36009587.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A shot during a short visit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-shot-during-a-short-visit/article36008764.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID or dengue, avoid self medication’||Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao urged people to avoid self medication if diagnosed with COVID or any other disease. By now, people have become aware of the symptoms of COVID-19. And since fever is one of the common symptoms of COVID, there is a possibility of people confusing it with mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria and starting treatment for that without getting tested. If anyone starts medication to treat COVID after having symptoms like fever, and if it turns out to be dengue or malaria, that could lead to loss of life for late diagnosis, he said. The DPH cited an example of a 41-year-old nephrologist from Andhra Pradesh, who had similar symptoms and self-treated for COVID. By the time she was taken to hospital, she died of dengue haemorrhagic fever. “If you have symptoms like fever, go to the nearest government health centre or consult a doctor, and get tested before starting treatment,” Dr. Srinivasa said. Medicines, blood component separation kits to collect platelets, and other facilities are available free of cost at government hospitals, the Director of Public Health added. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases Dr. K. Shankar said that typical symptoms of dengue are severe headache, body ache, pre-orbital pain, rashes on body, severe weakness, and fever that sometimes does not subside even after taking medicines. Dengue is also called a bone-break disease as people experience excruciating pain. Since dengue and malaria cases are on the rise in Telangana, he advised people having such symptoms to get tested first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-or-dengue-avoid-self-medication/article36009133.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kaushik Reddy’s nomination to Council yet to get approval||The nomination of TRS leader P. Kaushik Reddy to the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota was shrouded in uncertainty 20 days after the Cabinet cleared his name and sent the file to Raj Bhavan. Sources said Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had not yet given her consent to Mr. Reddy’s nomination apparently because there were some criminal cases pending against him. One of them was over a fight with a relative of actor couple Rajasekhar and Jeevitha at a parking space. A case was booked subsequently against Mr. Reddy at Jubilee Hills police station. When three others — Goreti Venkanna, Basavaraju Saraiah and Dayanand — were proposed by the government for nomination under the Governor’s quota a few months back, sources recalled that the formalities were completed quickly. Therefore, sources argued that there could be no other reason than cases to delay the nomination of Mr. Reddy. Mr. Reddy was rewarded with nomination as MLC within 10 days of joining the TRS. He was a Congress leader before joining the party and had announced that he would be its candidate in the byelection to Huzurabad Assembly constituency. An audio of his pledging money to a supporter for his candidature also went viral on the social media which invited disciplinary action against him him by the Congress. Mr. Reddy had secured 61,000 votes to former Minister Eatala Rajender’s 1.04 lakh votes in the last Assembly elections from Huzurabad. So, he was strongly reckoned to be the Congress candidate in the bypoll but his meeting with TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao at a social gathering and the social media post put him off the Congress radar in the choice of candidates for poll. Mr. Reddy was a cricketer who organised social service in the name of a trust after his mother Pushpamala Devi in Huzurabad constituency. There were cases registered against him at police stations in the constituency. Generally, the candidates nominated under the Governor’s quota were people of eminence in the fields of literature, science, art and culture, social service and cooperative movement. Mr. Reddy fitted in the category of social service but his antecedents of committing offences ran him into trouble, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kaushik-reddys-nomination-to-council-yet-to-get-approval/article36009165.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stagnant water breeding ground for mosquitoes||As dengue and malaria cases keep rising in Telangana, Health officials advise people to keep their surroundings clean and make sure water does not collect and stay stagnant anywhere. In 208 days (January 1-July 27), only 459 dengue and 429 malaria cases were detected across the State of Telangana. But, in 20 days thereafter (July 28 to August 16), Telangana recorded 747 dengue and 80 malaria cases, which is quite alarming. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that more than 50% of dengue cases were reported in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) that includes Hyderabad and some parts of Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri. Out of the 1,206 dengue cases recorded across the State this year till August 16, the highest of 447 were from Hyderabad, followed by 122 in Khammam, 115 in Rangareddy, 89 in Medchal, and 68 in Adilabad. In case of malaria, the highest of 220 cases were from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 129 from Mulugu, and 41 from Jayashankar Bhupalapally. Review meetings The DPH said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had held review meetings on these seasonal diseases, and measures to contain them were being taken. However, he asked people to co-operate. Stagnant water in empty containers, bottles, broken vessels, coconut shells, tyres, or other containers lying in and around houses, are breeding ground for mosquitoes. Some people keep plates under pots to grow plants. If water gets collected in these plates and are not cleared regularly, mosquitoes breed in it. ‘Cover yourself’ Since a lot of people are working from home, wearing full sleeve clothes to avoid mosquito bites are highly recommended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/static-water-breeds-mosquitoes/article36009131.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Food delivery vans for Akshaya Patra||Gemini Edibles and Fats India Ltd (GEF India), marketers of Freedom Cooking Oils, as a part of their CSR initiative, partnered with Akshaya Patra Foundation (APF) and pledged to support three customised food delivery vehicles at Kandi kitchen, Sangareddy, on Thursday. This gesture will help in reaching more than 20,000 rural mid-day meal beneficiaries and ensure that children from government schools get nutritious and hot cooked meals every day. Each vehicle can reach out to over 4,000 beneficiaries for distributing meals and will also help in taking care of COVID food relief work. GEF India is extending the support to provide six such vehicles across Telangana, AP, Odisha and Karnataka. “We are pleased to partner with Akshaya Patra and support them in providing nutritious hot cooked meals to school children,” said VP of sales and marketing P. Chandra Shekhara Reddy. “Hunger is a crime against humanity and school children have been severely impacted by malnutrition and COVID in recent times. We are serving mid-day meals to 1.8 million children every day, thanks to donors like GEF India,” informed APF CEO Shridhar Venkat. His colleagues VP Yagneshwara Prabhu, State head Rajini Sinha and national director Rohit Choudhary were present, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/food-delivery-vans-for-apf/article36009137.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Taliban takeover to benefit Pak the most, says Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi said that the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan would benefit Pakistan the most, as it is controlled by that country’s intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence. Mr. Owaisi was speaking late on Friday night at the Jalsa-e-Shahadat-e-Imam Hussain, an event coinciding with the martyrdom of Prophet Muhammad’s grandson Hazrat Imam Hussain. “Pakistan has got the biggest advantage of this (takeover),” Mr Owaisi said. He added, “Security experts are now saying that Al Qaeda and Daesh (Islamic State), have reached large areas in Afghanistan where there is nothing for 300 km or 400 km, no governance at all. Jaish-e-Muhammad, which indulges in acts of terrorism in the name of the Prophet, including those at Parliament, and the hijacking of the aircraft, they are now in Helmand. ISI fully controls the Taliban. ISI is India’s enemy, and uses Taliban as a puppet,” he said. Mr Owaisi said that the takeover would benefit China as well. He touched upon the agreement between China and Iran and said that the former intends to have access by road through Kabul to Iran. “What are you (PM) doing to stop this? Russia, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, by means of Quad agreement with America, will not have transportation through Tajikistan, Uzbekistan Turkmenistan to Kabul. America has done this. And you are busy hugging Trump,” Mr. Owaisi said. Mr Owaisi criticised those terming Taliban chief Akhundzada as ‘ amir-ul-mumineen ’ (leader of the faithful). “What amir-ul-mumineen are you?” He criticised the Centre for not heeding to his three speeches made since 2013 in Parliament, in which he urged entering into talks with Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/taliban-takeover-to-benefit-pak-the-most-says-owaisi/article36009151.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress sure to win 72 seats in next elections: Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy has asserted that the Congress is sure to win at least 72 of the 119 constituencies in the elections to Assembly whenever they are held. Political situation in the State was turning in favour of the Congress as the TRS government failed to fulfil a majority of promises it had made to the people. The TRS government had put an end to the fee reimbursement, Arogya Sri and other schemes introduced by the Congress and the government had not taken any steps to fill vacant posts in the government departments. Mr. Revanth Reddy was speaking at a meeting of constituency-level coordiantors of Congress at Gandhi Bhavan on Thursday. All India Congress Committee in-charge Manickam Tagore who attended the meeting interacted with the party leaders to enquire about the political situation in the State. The TPCC president said the previous Congress governments had initiated several programmes in the interests of dalits and tribes but the TRS government had stalled the implementation of these programmes since it took over the reins. Stoppage of schemes like Arogya Sri imposed undue burden on the poorer sections, dalits and tribes in particular and the retrograde policies of the government ensured that these sections were distanced from education. The government failed to focus on filling backlog vacancies in these categories and was focused on Dalit Bandhu scheme in a single constituency with an eye on the election gains. The Congress being the main Opposition in the State should gear up to question the government on this aspect as the TRS was known to give several promises before elections and ignore them later. This could be seen from the fact that the government had assured Rs. 10,000 compensation for all families affected by floods in the city last year. “How can the Chief Minister allot funds to 30 lakh dalit families when the government failed to release Rs. 10,000 assured to the families hit by floods in the city?” he asked. Mr. Revanth Reddy asked the district Congress committees to ensure success of the Atma Gourava Dandora (movement for self-pride) started from August 9, the day marking the launch of Quit India movement to September 17, Hyderabad Liberation Day. The performance of the leaders would ensure that they get due recognition in the due course. Mr. Manickam Tagore stressed the need for intensifying efforts in terms of strengthening the party’s organizational structure and said the party leadership was firmly against those who neglect their responsibilities. Steps should be taken to build up the organization from the polling booth level and appointment of booth level agents should be completed at the earliest. The party should continue its struggle against the “anti-people” policies of the government to the grass root level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-sure-to-win-72-seats-in-next-elections-revanth/article36009163.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea on import duty on oilpalm seedlings||The State government had requested the Centre not to burden farmers willing to take up oilpalm plantation due to increase in the import duty on oilpalm nursery (seedlings) so that the plantation crop could be taken up on a large scale and help the country achieve self-reliance in edible oil production. In a letter addressed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated that lands in Telangana are suitable for oilpalm cultivation and increasing irrigation facility and 24×7 free power to agriculture would make the plantation raising more feasible. As part of encouraging cropping pattern change and go for alternative long-duration and plantation crops, the State government had decided to promote oilpalm farming in about 20 lakh acres, including 3 lakh acres during the next two years. Stating that there are no oilpalm nurseries in the country to meet the demand, the Minister said the seedlings had to be imported from countries like Malaysia, Thailand and Costa Rica. The requirement of seedlings for the 8 lakh oilplam plantation raising plans already made is 14.4 crore, including the requirement of 2.16 crore seedlings next year. Under the National Food Security Mission guidelines, the requirement of oilpalm seedlings would be of Rs. 12,000 value per hectare with each seedling cost standing at Rs. 99. With the provision of 85% subsidy, farmers would be paid Rs. 84 per seedling. However, the recent increase in the import duty on seedlings to 30% would increase the cost of each seedling to Rs. 240 to Rs. 250, Mr. Niranjan Reddy said in his letter to the Union Finance Minister. He stated that the cost of oilpalm seedlings import had gone up since the Centre had changed the head of import from fruit plantations from 1991-92 to 2019-20 to palm nuts head leaving additional burden on the farmers interested on raising oilplam plantations. He stated that the import of seedlings is for raising nurseries first and for extracting oil for commercial purpose and requested the Union Minister to keep the import of oilpalm seedlings under the fruit plantations head and save farmers from suffering additional burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-on-import-duty-on-oilpalm-seedlings/article36009470.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP will take up SC cases to NCSC: Bandi Sanjay||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday instructed the party cadre to complain to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) whenever any incident of atrocities against the SCs come to their notice. Addressing a meeting of the SC Morcha at the party office, he claimed that there have been rising number of cases of SCs being attacks in various parts of Telangana State in recent times and held the government responsible for this. “We are not going to keep quiet. We will not only bring such cases to the notice of the SC Commission but will also force the government to take action against the culprits responsible,” he said. Earlier, addressing the volunteers chosen to participate in his proposed ‘mahapadayatra’ next week, the BJP chief said the main objective to is enthuse the people to rise against the current ruling dispensation as it has failed to fulfil the reasons for which the separate State was formed. Dedicated time “We need to free Telangana Talli from this corrupt family regime which is not at all concerned with people’s issues. I need two years of your time for public service for doing this. We have to take the failures of the government to the people at every booth level and understand the people’s concerns which would help during our manifesto preparation. We need to be focused on our goal of bringing the party to power in 2023 elections following the Karnataka model,” he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government has been ruling making false promises and hitting out at the Opposition by foisting false cases using the police force. “How long can we tolerate this kind of governance? Our party faced the same situation in Karnataka but came to power after much struggle and sacrifices,” he said. BJP yatra Meanwhile, top BJP leaders participated in the ongoing ‘Jana Asirvada Yatra’ of Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy from Vijayawada and welcomed him at various public meetings. Senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy held a meeting with party workers to make the Ministers tour in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district a ‘tremendous’ success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-will-take-up-sc-cases-to-ncsc-bandi-sanjay/article36009159.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genome Foundation signs pact with FABA||City-based Genome Foundation signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ‘The Federation of Asian Biotech Associations (FABA) here to provide training to students, scientists, clinicians and medical graduates by sharing the available expertise and facilities on Thursday. Genome Foundation CMD K.P.C Gandhi said that the pact was to mutually supplement, support and strengthen their sources to provide structured modules of training through collaborative efforts with FABA. Dr. Gandhi stressed the importance of the availability and accessibility of latest equipment, rich expertise of eminent scientists in promoting the bio-entrepreneurship while welcoming the students, researchers, and enthusiastic start-ups to make use of these facilities for their professional development and career growth. FABA’s executive president and professor, University of Hyderabad, P. Reddanna pointed out that the organisation has been holding the annual ‘BioAsia’ for the past 16 years to help flourish the biotechnology industry worldwide. Dr. Gandhi welcomed the FABA officials headed by Dr. Reddanna to visit the state-of-the-art facilities for genetic diagnostics, research, training and counselling and introduced his scientists. He explained that the Genome Foundation was established with the aim of diagnosing genetic disorders among the Indian population to find solutions through preventive counselling, management, research and development, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genome-foundation-signs-pact-with-faba/article36009136.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Iran ready to help TS translate old Persian books, documents||Ambassador of Iran Ali Chegeni on Thursday mooted a programme in association with the Telangana government of translating old manuscripts in Persian available in the State. Stating that “millions of [old] documents and books written in Persian” are available in Telangana, he sought to underscore the significance of reviving them and passing the knowledge to future generations. “We are ready to work with Telangana Archives in translating them,” the Ambassador said on Thursday, adding that he has written a letter in this regard to the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Chegeni, who was addressing members of the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) here, said that this would offer a potential for collaboration and strengthening ties between Iran and Telangana. Tourism, healthcare, trade and education were among the areas that can contribute to building ties. He stressed the need for direct flights between Hyderabad and Iran as well as businessmen aware of the available opportunities. Suggesting that Iran and India should consider barter trade, the Ambassador called upon the business community in the two countries to increase their interaction. He said that the chambers of commerce in both the countries ought to focus on expansion of trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iran-to-help-telangana-translate-persian-books/article36009149.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to make most of coal demand from economic revival||With the coal demand back on track along with the economic activity, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) is planning to achieve the targets set for itself this financial year by scaling up production in the existing mines and going for extraction in new mines such as JVR-OC-2 (expansion), for which it has secured environmental clearance recently. As part of achieving targets and crossing them, the company has also taken to promotion of indigenous coal against imported one. The company could not reach targets of production and dispatch of coal during the last two financial years – 2019-20 and 2020-21 due to the Covid-19 pandemic impact on the economic activity. It has set targets of 70 million tonnes (MT) of coal production and dispatches this fiscal. “Achieving a growth of 82% in term of coal dispatches (sales) during the April-July period of the current financial year compared to the same period last year is an indication of good prospects. Against coal sales of Rs. 3,816 crore achieved during the four-month period of 2020-21, we could scale up to Rs. 6,949 crore during the same period this fiscal”, a senior executive of the company said. Environmental nod He told The Hindu that the prospects of launching production in GDK-OC-5 and Naini (Odisha) during the current financial year were also high as the process for securing environmental clearance was in advanced stages. The company has plans to mine about 5 million tonnes from JVR-OC-2 near Sattupalli in Khammam district. Against the target to mine 21.75 million tonnes of coal during the April-July period this year, the company has extracted 20.44 million tonnes. In terms of coal dispatches during the period, it was 21.73 million tonnes this year against the target of 21.85 million tonnes. Last year, the coal production during the period was 12.35 million tonnes. Similarly, coal dispatches were 11.38 million tonnes. “In July, the production achieved was nearly 4.87 million tonnes against the target of about 4.76 million tonnes”, the senior executive said adding that production in July last was only 2.85 million tonnes. At a recent meeting, it was stated that Tamil Nadu energy department, which already has a linkage of 5.9 million tonnes from Singareni, has sought another 2.5 million tonnes. Similarly, NTPC was also seeking coal for its thermal plant in U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-make-most-of-rising-coal-demand/article36009153.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SC Commission demands arrest of Malkajgiri MLA, followers||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has directed the police to arrest Malkajgiri MLA M. Hanumantha Rao and his followers responsible for the attack on SC women during a protest demonstration on the Independence Day, within 24 hours under the SC/ST Atrocities Act on Wednesday. Commission Vice-Chairman Arun Halder, who rushed from New Delhi to probe into the episode, found fault with the police for not arresting the culprits till date and questioned how the attacked women were kept in the police station till wee hours and why it took them two days to file a case against those responsible for the violence. During a review meeting held with top police and district administration officials, he called for a detailed report to be filed within 48 hours on the entire incident. If the administration and the police had acted in time incidents like the present one could have been avoided, he pointed out and accused the police personnel of bringing disrepute to the entire force by not acting against the perpetrators responsible for the attack. The Commission had taken a serious view of the incident and would not hesitate to take action against officials concerned if they have been found to be lax in their handling their responsibilities, he warned, in a press release. Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat was ordered not to spare anyone found guilty, however, high and mighty. The Vice Chairperson was also cut up with the DCP for not visiting the injured victims and feigning ignorance of the hospital in which they were being treated. Mr. Halder also directed the Medchal Collector to also probe into the incidents and also provide necessary compensation to the injured persons as per law. The violent incidents of August 15 was brought to the Commission’s notice on the very day and he was asked to enquire into the matter, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-commission-demands-arrest-of-malkajgiri-mla-followers/article36009155.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS takes strong objection to language used by Revanth Reddy||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi took strong exceptions to the intemperate language used by Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy against the State government and alleged that the TPCC president was known for making false propaganda. TRS Legislature Party members, including Government whip G. Balaraju, Public Undertakings Committee chairman A. Jeevan Reddy and others, alleged that not just the people, senior Congress leaders were expressing dismay at the language that was being used by Mr. Revanth Reddy. They dared the Congress party to ensure that its security deposit was not forfeited in the upcoming bypolls to Huzurabad constituency to prove its existence in the State. Senior leaders like K. Jana Reddy and N. Uttam Kumar Reddy claimed that Congress president Sonia Gandhi was instrumental in carving out separate Telangana State. But people did not believe the claims. They wondered as to why the Congress and the BJP were afraid of the Dalit Bandhu scheme, a brainchild of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “Have the previous Congress government’s even thought of such a scheme for financial empowerment of dalits?” Mr. Jeevan Reddy questioned adding the TPCC president should refrain from using such language against the government. “Mr. Revanth Reddy is sure to land in jail very soon,” he said. The Congress was known for ‘looting’ the country for decades together and the party has no locus standi on criticizing the TRS government that was implementing a spree of welfare and developmental programmes. Mr. Balaraju wondered how Mr. Revanth Reddy who was engaged in small profession earned huge properties and alleged that the Congress was trying to obstruct the developmental schemes launched by the government for the welfare of all sections. The TRS would continue to remain in power for the next two decades. Questioning the Congress leaders for not rejecting the benefits provided under schemes like Rythu Bandhu, the TRS legislators warned Mr. Revanth Reddy that he would not be in a position to enter Gajwel constituency if the TRS was inclined to oppose his entry. Asked about the criticism of retired IPS officer R.S. Praveen Kumar, they alleged that the senior official joined the BSP with a special agenda and was hence, criticizing the government and the TRS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-takes-strong-objection-to-language-used-by-revanth-reddy/article36009161.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All arrangements in place, say mutawallis||With the ashura, which marks the martyrdom of Prophet Muhammad’s grandson Hazrat Imam Hussain, scheduled to be observed on Friday, mutawallis of ashoorkhanas say that all measures are in place to ensure the procession passes off smoothly, and the convergence of the devout at places of worship is unhindered. “As compared to last year, we are seeing a large number of people at ashoorkhanas. This is primarily because of the fact that several COVID-19 restrictions in our State have been relaxed,” says Mir Abbas Ali Moosvi, president of Anjuman-e-Mutawalliyaan-e-Ashoorkhaanajaat Telangana, an organisation of managers of ashoorkhanas . “We have coordinated with the police, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and other departments to ensure the movement of people is smooth.” Mr Moosvi, who is also the mutawalli of the Badshahi Ashoorkhana, a place of worship which was constructed in the early 17th century, says that everyday around 5,000 people come visiting. “Most people arrive here in the evening. It would be no exaggeration to state that people from all denominations – Shia or Sunni – and all religions, including a large number of Hindus, come to this ashoorkhana, and other ashoorkhanas as well. In fact, we have observed that this year our Hindu brothers and sisters are coming in larger numbers,” Mr Moosvi says, adding that the langar at the Badshahi Ashoorkhana produces around five quintals of the Hyderabadi dish bagara khaana – daalcha. Meanwhile, preparations are in full swing for the famed Moharram procession which will be taken out on Friday. As was the case in previous years, the procession is scheduled to begin at the famous Bibi-Ka-Alawa in Dabeerpura around 11 a.m. It is to travel from here to Shaikh Faiz Kamaan, Etebar Chowk, Kotla Alijah, Charminar, Gulzar Houz, Panje Shah, Mandi Miralam, Purani Haveli and reach Chaderghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-arrangements-in-place-say-mutawallis/article36009148.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City firm raises $1.3 million||Electric vehicle infrastructure company RACEnergy on Thursday said that it has raised $1.3 million. A seed plus round, the funding was led by Micelio Fund and growX ventures along with investments from Huddle, Prophetic Ventures, BITSian Angels and other angel investment firms. The Hyderabad-based firm, which primarily designs and manufactures battery swapping stations and swappable batteries, said that it intends to utilise the fund to enhance research and development activities, scale its swapping technology and infrastructure and fulfil the pre-orders received in Hyderabad and surrounding tier-II cities. “The funds will enable us to make more ergonomic and customised batteries, further our connected cloud system, deploy the first-of-its-kind cooling system inside a battery pack and accelerate our production process. This will help scale our pilot programmes to meet the growing EV demand,” CEO and co-founder Arun Sreyas said in a release. Last year, RACE had raised $500,000 during a seed round from growX ventures, early-stage investor Prophetic Ventures and other angels as part of Huddle, India’s first EV accelerator. The company showcased its first prototype in 2019 and aims to set up a network of battery swapping infrastructure across various cities, starting with Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-firm-raises-13-million/article36009462.ece
20 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three killed in road accidents||Three persons were killed and a three others suffered severe injuries in four separate road accidents in the city on Thursday. At Hayatnagar, a 45-year-old woman was killed after a speeding car hit her near Pedda Amberpet on the Vijayawada-Hyderabad national highway. In another accident on the Vijayawada highway, a woman riding pillion was killed and her husband escaped with minor injuries when a lorry hit their moped. The accident took place near HP Petrol bunk at Batasngaram when Aleti Swamy (45) along with his wife Gangamma (40) were proceeding towards Lakkaram village from Hayatnagar. A 22-year-old youngster who was going to appear ICET exam at Hayatnagar was killed in a road accident at Keesara. The victim, Pagadala Balachander along with his friend/pillion rider, Srujan, were going on his bike and when they reached near ORR exit 8 service road around 8.45 a.m., the rider lost control, fell in the small canal on the road side, as a result, he suffered bleeding injures and died on the spot. Meanwhile, at Malakpet, an 18-year-old girl suffered severe injuries and is battling for life at a corporate hospital in the area, after the bike on which she was riding pillion hit a pedestrian. The accident took place around 1.40 p.m. near Metro pillar No. 1469 at Moosarambagh when the bike rider, Kiran Dayakar (19) from Nadergul hit one Kiran Upadhaya (57) from Saleem Nagar, who was crossing the road. The injured, Dommakonda Ashwitha from Badangpet, who was riding a pillion on Kiran Dayakar’s bike was thrown on the road and suffered severe injuries. Her condition is said to be critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-in-road-accidents/article36009142.ece
20 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four held for extortion||Four persons who were extorting money from businessmen in the guise of members of CPI (ML) and Rythu Coolie Sangam were arrested by Chaitanyapuri police here on Thursday. The accused have been identified as 45-year-old Kodumuri Srinivas alias M. Janardhan Reddy, a daily finance business from Vijayawada who earlier worked in CPI-ML, 42-year-old Allutla Uppalaiah alias Upender, a painter from Kothapet who worked in PDSU and CPI-ML, 40-year-old Thatikayala Surender alias Suryam, a daily wager from Dilawarpur Village in Motakonduru Mandal of Yadadri, who earlier worked as PDSU Nalgonda District Committee member and 21-year-old Allutla Ganesh, an auto driver from Epuru Village in Athmakuru Mandal of Suryapet district. One Venkanna is still at large. They were nabbed by the police at Mohannagar crossroads, Kothapet who also seized a car, a laptop, eight mobile phones, 11 SIM cards, two CPI ML party visiting cards (which were on the name of Srinivas and Uppalaiah), pocket diary and some papers having details of business persons they would target for extortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-held-for-extortion/article36009160.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||409 more test positive in Telangana||Telangana recorded 409 COVID cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,54,035. While 88,308 samples were examined, results of 1,184 were awaited. Three more COVID patients died. The new 409 cases include 71 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 45 from Karimnagar, 31 from Nalgonda, 28 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 27 from Warangal Urban. No case was recorded in Nirmal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/409-more-test-covid-positive-in-telangana/article36009135.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Residential project launched||Sumadhura Group in collaboration with Vasavi Group has announced the launch of its latest residential project ‘The Olympus’ in Gachibowli/Nanakramguda spread across 5.06 acres offering 854 luxury units. “This project is specially designed to cater to the needs of individuals and families seeking to maintain work-life balance,” said chairman of Sumadhura group Madhusudhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/residential-project-launched/article36009467.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five held for printing counterfeit currency||With the arrest of five persons, including a constable with Border Security Force and two students, Hyderabad police claim to have busted a counterfeit currency printing and circulating gang and seized counterfeit currency with a face value of Rs. 16 lakh. The arrested are Chukkapuram Santosh Kumar (29), a photographer, Janaki Sai Kumar (24), who is into courier business, Dharmaji Neeraj Kumar alias Pintu (19), Jaligam Raju (20), both students of B.Com I year, and Sunkari Srinivas (31), a BSF constable, all residents of Siddipet. The gang which was believed to be operating for the past two months from Siddipet town was busted by the sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force, West Zone. They seized 1,400 fake notes of Rs. 500 denomination (with a face value of Rs. 7 lakh), 1,800 partial fake Rs. 500 denomination notes (with a face value of Rs. 9 lakh), and 50 partial fake Rs. 200 denomination notes (with a face value of Rs. 10,000).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-held-for-printing-counterfeit-currency/article36009146.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Career progress platform for women raises $400,000||The Star In Me (TSIM), a global career advancement platform for women and a diversity partner for organisations, has secured $400,000 seed fund from US-based MN2P Holdings and ISB Dlabs in collaboration with the Centre’s Department of Science and Technology (DST). This investment will be leveraged to increase the platform’s reach and strengthen the core team. Beyond the funding, ISB Dlabs is closely associated with crafting the growth strategy of TSIM through its ecosystem of faculty, domain experts and partners. One of the TSIM founders Mahua Mukherjee is an alumna of the Indian School of Business, ISB said in a release. “The Star In Me offers curated leadership programmes, mentor labs, networking avenues and coaching engagements, which are leveraged by professionals to chart their leadership journeys. The platform’s tools enable habit-formation to facilitate mindset shifts and strengthen the core skills of members,” co-founders Uma Kasoji and Ms. Mukherjee said. TSIM has members from over 65 countries and also works with several MNCs such as Infosys, Intel, JPMC and Cognizant on diversity and leadership initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/career-progress-platform-for-women-raises-400000/article36009463.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regional Passport Office cuts down working hours||Given the COVID situation in the State of Telangana and the new variant being discovered, the Regional Passport Office (RPO) has informed that appointments have been slashed by about 25%. This will be effective at Passport Seva Kendras, Passport Seva Laghu Kendras and Post Office Passport Seva Kendras, which are operating under the RPO, Hyderabad. The working hours at Public Grievance Redressal counters at the Regional Passport Office in Secunderabad office, too have been cut down. Instead of the office working from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m., now these counters will be operational from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/regional-passport-office-cuts-down-working-hours/article36009465.ece
20 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Postpone rationalisation of teacher posts and staff’||Even as the school education authorities embarked on an exercise to take up rationalisation of teacher posts and staff in the State-run schools, the Telangana State United Teachers Federation (TS-UTF) has reiterated its demand for postponement of the exercise until the resumption of physical classes and completion of the process of admissions in the government/local body schools. In a statement, the TS-UTF district president G V Nagamalleswara Rao said there was no clarity in the G.O. Ms. No. 25, dated 12.08.2021, on how the exercise would be taken up based on the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) information, 2020-21, the data of which is yet to be finalised. There is an ambiguity as to whether the rationalisation process would be based on UDISE 2019-20 or the UDISE 2020-21 data as both were mentioned in the G.O., he pointed out. The views of teachers’ unions on the crucial exercise were not elicited and the GO was issued in a hurried manner without taking up the long due transfers and promotions of teachers in the State-run schools, he said. Meanwhile, in a separate statement the CPI (M) district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao alleged that there was no rationale in the State government’s decision to take up the exercise of rationalisation of teacher posts in the government/local body schools amid a lot of uncertainties triggered by COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postpone-rationalisation-of-teacher-posts-and-staff/article36009468.ece
20 August 2021||Khammam,TELANGANA||Dalit ryot attempts suicide, survives||A 35-year-old Dalit woman, K Mariyamma, of Kondakodima village in Wyra mandal allegedly attempted suicide by swallowing some poisonous substance over an “unresolved” agricultural land dispute with her relatives on the premises of the police station building in Wyra town late on Wednesday afternoon. She was immediately rushed to the District Headquarters Hospital in Khammam soon after the incident. Her condition is stated to be stable. Her husband has been living separately in some other village due to “strained relations” with her for the past few years, sources said. Meanwhile, sources close to Mariyamma’s family said she allegedly attempted suicide unable to bear “delay” in redressal of her grievance related to agricultural land dispute.  Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-ryot-attempts-suicide-survives/article36009166.ece
20 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Three murder accused nabbed in Nalgonda||Nalgonda I Town police on Thursday nabbed three persons of a family who have allegedly murdered one Avula Ramaswamy, their relative, over agriculture land boundary dispute earlier this month at Gandhamvarigudem in the town. The same evening of August 18, the accused family’s patriarch Avula Kashaiah, who the police describe as accused three, who is also the elder brother of victim Ramaswamy, was found murdered, reportedly in revenge. Nalgonda DSP Venkateswara Reddy said brothers Avula Ramaswamy and Kashaiah had been in a field border dispute for some years and elders in the community and the village had also attempted resolution. He explained that eldest Kashaiah along with his family members – wife Rathnamma and sons Mahesh and Mallesh, had conspired to kill Ramaswamy as a permanent solution to the land dispute. It was thought that Ramaswamy’s sons who are pursuing their education and employment far away would not be a hindrance to settling the border dispute later. As part of the investigation, the police had recovered a boundary stone that was used to bludgeon Ramaswamy to death near his fields. And on Thursday, accused one and two, sons of Kashaiah and Rathnamma were nabbed near Munugode. The three of them were booked for criminal conspiracy, abetment to offence with common intention to murder. Mr. Reddy said Avula Kiran and others, who allegedly murdered Kashaiah in revenge, are still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-murder-accused-nabbed-in-nalgonda/article36009466.ece
20 August 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘Credit to PM Modi for COVID-19 management’||Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and Development of North-Eastern Region G. Kishan Reddy on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi deserves all credit for effective management of the COVID-19 pandemic. Allaying apprehensions and doubts by several countries and experts, that India, a populous country would be badly affected by the pandemic, several frontline warriors under the leadership of Mr. Modi controlled the effect, he said. Mr. Reddy, who is on a three-day tour ‘Jana Ashirvad Yatra’ to the Telugu States starting Thursday, addressed a meeting in Kodad town. The purpose of the Yatra, he said, was to take blessings from people, and also request them to bless Mr. Modi. The Member of Parliament from Secunderabad said it was Mr. Modi’s decisive part in the pandemic response that the country not only produced four types of vaccines, of which two are from Telangana, but they were also widely exported. But the Opposition only restricted itself to its random criticism, he said. “Through PM Modi, Rs. 20 lakh to every thrift groups, the kisan urea plant at Ramagundam, Rs. 6000 Kisan Samman Nidhi, and free rice to about 80 crore people and Railways logistic support for State’s vegetables and fruits during the pandemic, were possible,” he pointed out. Mr. Reddy was emphatic that PM Modi practised equality of States, irrespective of the political party in power, for development. He said the country, in contrast with the past governments, did not witness terrorist attacks, has repealed Article 370 and implemented the Constitution in Kashmir, introduced several welfare programmes and leaders from all communities and sections too were made ministers, he listed out, seeking blessings for Mr. Modi. On the affairs in Telangana, the Minister took potshots at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, for “stooping in order to save his family rule.” “Are the sacrifices of Telangana martyrs for KCR’s family? It is time that KCR is administered shock treatment,” he said, adding BJP would stand with senior leader Eatala Rajender in Huzurabad for the bypoll victory. Earlier, Mr. Reddy felicitated Munagala mandal’s Bandaru Venkateswarlu who is recipient of ICAR’s Haldhar Organic Farmer Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credit-to-pm-modi-for-covid-19-management/article36009152.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Raja Raja Chora’ movie review: Haishth Goli makes a confident directorial debut with this quirky crime comedy starring Sree Vishnu||The smartness in Raja Raja Chora , in which the protagonist plays a small-time thief, does not lie in his modus operandi. Writer and debut director Hasith Goli turns the tables to show the criss-crossing of a morally ambiguous set of people and the precarious situations they find themselves in. The result is a quirky comedy with laugh aloud segments and an emotional tale of punishment and redemption. At first impression, Raja Raja Chora’s milieu seems like a spin off of the ‘ Brochevarevarura cinematic universe’. Hasith worked with director Vivek Athreya before writing and directing this film. The familiarity also arises from the presence of a few actors and crew members from Brochevarevarura in this film. The story introduces us to characters we are likely to come across in the city, but may not pause to take a closer look. Bhaskar (Sree Vishnu) is a thief by night and works at a photocopy centre by the day, is unhappy with his marriage to law student Vidya (Sunaina) and pretends to be a software engineer to date Sanjana (Megha Akash). What’s common between the three is the aspiration for a better life — well-paying jobs that give them better dignity, and a roof of their own. Slowly, we understand why Bhaskar resorts to thieving and the shaky terrain on which his marriage is built. But thankfully, the story doesn’t justify his actions. It lets the grey shades define him. Hasith explores the moral compass through a multitude of characters. If Bhaskar is on the wrong side of the law, who punishes him and what is their moral standing? The film shifts to top gear when Bhaskar crosses paths with police officer William Reddy (Ravi Babu). The pre-interval segment plays on for a good 20 to 30 minutes like a comedy of errors that exposes the flaws of a bunch of characters. Accelerating the fun is Anjamma (Gangavva) who prods Bhaskar to commit a crime dressed like a king — because she believes the crown has a destiny-defining significance. The crescendo of fun gets expectedly tempered by Vidya’s emotional travail that shows Bhaskar his true place. He might be dressed like a king, but it’s she who is in the driver’s seat of their married life, doing the heavy lifting. Ajay Ghosh as the photocopy store owner and Gangavva become catalysts to Bhaskar looking to redeem himself. Ravi Babu who looks to make the thief a scapegoat, and Srikanth Iyengar as the doctor who is keener on the lucrative real estate business are among the morally corrupt characters.  Raja Raja Chora is a richly detailed story that benefits from Vedaraman Shankaran’s cinematography, Vivek Sagar’s multi-hued music that shifts seamlessly from Carnatic classical to fusion and western, and Viplav Nyshadam’s editing. Sree Vishnu is effortless as the man next door and is convincing in the comic and the emotional sequences where he wants to turn a new leaf. Sunaina and Megha Akash get well-written characters with ample room to assert themselves and they do justice to it. Giving this story added gravitas is its timeline, from Mahashivaratri to Rama Navami, which becomes a tool to use the story of Valmiki for redemption and beginning of a new journey. Tanikella Bharani makes a brief appearance as the priest.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Raja Raja Chora  Cast: Sree Vishnu, Megha Akash, Sunaina  Direction: Hasith Goli  Music: Vivek Sagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/raja-raja-chora-movie-review-haishth-goli-makes-a-confident-directorial-debut-with-this-quirky-crime-comedy-starring-sree-vishnu/article36009141.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Snap’shot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/snapshot/article36009139.ece
20 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Private varsity brought under RTI purview||The State Information Commission (SIC) in Odisha has declared Kalinga Institute of Industrial Training (KIIT), a deemed to be university and one of State’s largest private institutions, as a public authority, which means the university has to furnish information under the Right To Information Act. Despite KIIT’s reluctance to come under the purview of the RTI Act during the past four years of hearing, the SIC, in a 92-page judgment, observed that since the institute received significant benefits from the State government, without which it would have struggled to carry on, it should respond to the RTI queries. This is for the first time that a major private university in Odisha has been declared a public authority under the RTI Act. “The commission is of the considered view that the KIIT is a public authority within the meaning of Section 2(h)(d)(ii) of the RTI Act, 2005 and is directed to furnish the required information to the appellant, as per his application in Form-A, within 30 days from the date of receipt of this order,” State Chief Information Commissioner Sunil Kumar Misra said in a judgment. Pradip Pradhan, an RTI activist, had knocked on the doors of the SIC after he was denied information by the institution in 2017. KIIT submision KIIT secretary Rabindra Nath Das had submitted that the institution did not come under the RTI Act as it was a society of private persons registered under the Societies’ Registration Act, 1860, and it was neither set up under the Constitution nor was it established by an Act of Parliament or the State Assembly. Mr. Pradhan had argued that KIIT was a big beneficiary of government’s “largesse”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/private-varsity-brought-under-rti-purview/article36009004.ece
20 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha child rights panel for reopening of classes||The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) has recommended reopening of Classes VI to VIII in a phased manner. “We have held multi-stakeholder discussion over the past several weeks. Teachers, parents and students have strongly advocated for gradual reopening of schools as it was necessity for students’ cognitive and academic development,” said Sandhyabati Pradhan, OSCPCR chairperson. Health issues Ms. Pradhan said, “long absence of students from schools start to affect their physical and mental health. The online education cannot replace the school education.” “While appreciating the reopening of Classes X and XII, students and teachers voiced in support of reopening of elementary classes. The commission also recommends reopening of Classes VI, VII and VIII in a phased manner,” says the commission order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-child-rights-panel-for-reopening-of-classes/article36009001.ece
20 August 2021||Jaipur,||‘Rajasthan Cong. leaders fighting for the chair’||Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav on Thursday targeted the ruling Congress in Rajasthan for the “power tussle” between rival factions, while leading a “Jan Ashirwad Yatra” for highlighting the achievements of the NDA government at the Centre. Mr. Yadav said the top leaders of the Congress were fighting for the chair. The three-day yatra, which began from Bhiwadi in Alwar district, will cover a distance of 417 km and hold public dialogues at 40 places. The march will pass through the rural areas and the towns in Alwar and Jaipur districts and finish in Ajmer on Saturday. Mr. Yadav, a Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan, has made his maiden entry into the State after his recent induction in the Union Cabinet. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, BJP State president Satish Poonia and other leaders accompanied Mr. Yadav in a specially-designed vehicle, painted in saffron colour, during the yatra. Mr. Yadav alleged that the fight between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot had pushed back the development agenda and resulted in lack of governance and a poor law and order situation. “This is a meaningless tussle for power... It will cause a great harm to the rights of citizens and impede the State’s progress,” he said. “Atmanirbhar Bharat” The Union Minister, who also addressed a meeting of BJP workers at B.M. Birla Auditorium in Jaipur, said the opposition party would win the next State Assembly election and form the government in the State. He said the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken several decisions to improve people’s lives and was transforming India into “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. BJP workers escorted the yatra on motorcycles and cars fitted with loudspeakers and raised slogans in support of Mr. Yadav and the party. The march passed through Tapukara, Tijara, Kishangarh Bas, Khairthal, Bansur, Kotputli, Shahpura, Chandwaji and Achrol before entering the State Capital late in the evening. Political observers said the yatra was being used for bringing Mr. Yadav, belonging to an Other Backward Class (OBC) community, into the mainstream politics in the State, where the BJP was ridden with factionalism. Mr. Yadav had planned former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje’s Swaraj Sankalp Yatra in 2013, which played a significant role in her victory in the Assembly polls. Public dialogues The public dialogues during the yatra will also be used for reaching out to the farmers’ groups in the rural areas in an attempt to convince them to end their agitation against the agriculture sector laws. Besides, the appearance of Ms. Raje’s picture in the banners and posters put up for the march was seen as a strategy to end the rift between different camps in the party’s State unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-cong-leaders-fighting-for-the-chair/article36009008.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records maximum temperature of 36.5°C; moderate rain likely today||The national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday, three notches above season’s average, the India Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature in the city settled at 27.5 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, it said. The relative humidity recorded at 5.30 p.m. was 56%. The weatherman has predicted “generally cloudy sky with moderate rain” for Delhi on Friday. According to weather experts, good rainfall in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the national capital. Normally, the Capital gauges 247.7 mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-records-maximum-temperature-of-365c-moderate-rain-likely-today/article36008998.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||Narayan Rane claims BJP will sweep Mumbai civic body polls||In what could be construed as the beginning of a political slugfest ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, Narayan Rane, Union Minister for Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises, on Thursday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would win the civic body which is presently ruled by the Shiv Sena. Mr. Rane kick-started his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Mumbai after paying respects at the memorial of Sena founder late Bal Thackeray at Shivaji Park in Dadar, despite the party MP, Vinayak Raut, earlier opposing him as he was involved in breaking  the Sena. Mr. Rane also visited Hindutva ideologue V.D. Savarkar’s memorial located nearby. Mr. Rane, during his stint with the Sena, was the Chief Minister of Maharashtra. He later exited the party to join the Congress. He again quit to form his own outfit and finally switched to the BJP in 2019. “The BJP will win the BMC polls and end the sins committed over 32 years. The job to ensure victory is with all the BJP leaders, including myself,” he said. When asked about Mr. Raut’s opposition to him visiting the memorial, Mr. Rane said people’s sentiments must be respected when it came to paying tributes. Referring to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s comments about avoiding political gatherings in the times of pandemic, Mr. Rane said, “Those who have come to power through the back door shouldn’t preach to us. Seeing the response to the Jan Ashirwad Yatra, one must understand their days are numbered.” Meanwhile, in the evening, Sena workers visited the Thackeray memorial and conducted a purification ceremony with milk and cow urine, claiming that the site was contaminated following the visit by Mr. Rane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/narayan-rane-claims-bjp-will-sweep-mumbai-civic-body-polls/article36009009.ece
20 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Kamothe youth with Covishield vials held||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested a 20-year-old Kamothe resident for allegedly selling vials of Covishield, a COVID-19 vaccine, in the black market. Acting on information, a Crime Branch team along with Food and Drug Administration officials approached the accused, identified as Kishore Khet Kumar, via a ‘fake customer’ and asked for delivery of the vaccine under Rajiv Gandhi flyover in Sector 8, Nerul. He took Rs. 60,000 for 15 doses. “At the time of his arrest, he was in possession of two vials and 15 syringes. While one vial had 10 doses, the other contained five doses. Both the vials have been seized,” assistant police inspector Vaibhav Ronge from Unit II, Crime Branch, said. According to the police, Mr. Kumar used to work as a helper with a pharmacist in Kamothe and would visit various hospitals for delivering medicines. “We suspect he might have procured the vials from one of those hospitals with the help of someone. We are still investigating,” senior police inspector Giridhar Gore from Unit II of Crime Branch said. While the government is currently providing free vaccines against COVID-19 and the private hospitals charge Rs. 800 per dose, the accused was selling each dose for Rs. 4,000. A case was registered against the accused with the Nerul police. Mr. Kumar, a Class X passout, has been remanded in police custody till August 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kamothe-youth-with-covishield-vials-held/article36009011.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre for CBI inquiry into ‘DTC low-floor bus scam’||The Home Ministry has recommended a preliminary enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the purchase of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi government. In a letter to the Chief Secretary of the Delhi government, the Home Ministry took note of a report submitted by a three-member committee set up on Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal’s order, for a detailed inquiry. The Ministry said after examining the matter, and with the approval of the competent authority, it had requested the Department of Personnel and Training to take necessary action for undertaking a preliminary enquiry by the CBI. The BJP and the Congress that had raised the issue demanded that Transport Minister and DTC chairman Kailash Gahlot and all those officials involved must be removed from their post with immediate effect and free and fair probe must be ensured. Reacting, the Delhi government said: “There is absolutely no truth to these allegations. A committee was already set up to investigate the matter thoroughly, which gave a clean chit. It is a politically motivated conspiracy against the AAP.” A Delhi government spokesperson said that the BJP wants to prevent the residents from getting new buses and that, in the past as well, the Central government has tried to harass the Delhi government using the CBI, but not even once has their attempt been successful because there has never been any truth to any of their allegations. “The Delhi government does not believe in the politics of slander, it only believes in good governance and is committed to delivering upon its promise of good governance,” the spokesperson said. Former State BJP president and Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta said that the matter was raised in the Delhi Assembly in March 2021 and complaint filed in the Anti Corruption Branch but the Delhi government instead of answering, tried every trick in the book to suppress the matter altogether. “The Ministry of Home Affairs took cognisance of the report submitted by the committee and found the findings to be a sufficient ground to order a CBI probe. The Rs. 5,000-crore scam has dented the carefully crafted image of Mr. Kejriwal of being a crusader against corruption. Instead, it is evident that he has been standing and shielding the corrupt since Day 1,” Mr. Gupta said. Delhi Congress president Ch. Anil Kumar said that the committee constituted by the L-G to go into the corruption complaint, under pressure from the BJP leaders, tried to narrow down the probe to the maintenance contract, whereas the Congress demanded probe into the purchase contract as well, which has been accepted by the CBI. “Ever since the AAP came to power, it has bled the DTC to virtual death, and the corporation needs a massive overhaul to bring it back into the level of efficiency it had attained under the Congress rule to provide affordable transport to the common people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-for-cbi-inquiry-into-dtc-low-floor-bus-scam/article36008995.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 25 new COVID-19 infections, two deaths; positivity rate at 0.04%||The Capital reported only 25 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,37,217, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government. There were two new deaths reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,079. A total of 69,160 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.04%. Of the total cases, 14,11,690 people have recovered and there are only 448 active cases. The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city on Thursday morning would last for three days, as per another bulletin. Number of vaccinations A total of 1,37,938 vaccinations were done on Wednesday and till now, 1,19,71,576 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city, the bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/city-reports-25-fresh-infections-two-deaths/article36008976.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Foreign national held with heroin||A 30-year-old national of Ivory Coast was arrested for allegedly selling heroin in the national capital, the police said on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Kassi Francis, a resident of Ivory Coast in Africa, they said. On Saturday, the police received information that a foreign national will come to metro pillar number 894B and was suspected to sell heroin, Dwarka Sector-15, the police said. The police laid a trap and apprehended Francis who came on a scooter. Search conducted A search was conducted and a polythene bag was found in his pocket, they said. When it was opened, 101 gram heroin, worth over Rs. 1 crore in international market, was found in it, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/foreign-national-held-with-heroin/article36008996.ece
20 August 2021||Kabul,||Several killed in protest against Taliban||Afghan protesters defied the Taliban for a second day on Thursday, waving their national flag in scattered demonstrations, and the fighters again responded violently as they faced down growing challenges to their rule. A UN official warned of dire food shortages and experts said the country was severely in need of cash while noting that the Taliban are unlikely to enjoy the generous international aid that the civilian government they dethroned did. In light of these challenges, the Taliban have moved quickly to suppress any dissent, despite their promises that they have become more moderate since they last ruled Afghanistan with draconian laws. Many fear they will succeed in erasing two decades of efforts to expand women’s and human rights, and remake the country. On Thursday, a procession of cars and people near Kabul’s airport carried long black, red and green banners in honour of the Afghan flag — a banner that is becoming a symbol of defiance. At another protest in Nangarhar province, video posted online showed a bleeding demonstrator with a gunshot wound. Onlookers tried to carry him away. Curfew after protest In Khost province, Taliban authorities instituted a 24-hour curfew on Thursday after violently breaking up another protest, according to information obtained by journalists monitoring from abroad. The authorities did not immediately acknowledge the demonstration or the curfew. In Asadabad, capital of the eastern province of Kunar, several people were killed during a rally, but it was not clear if the casualties resulted from Taliban firing or from a stampede that it triggered, witness Mohammed Salim said. “Hundreds of people came out on the streets,” Mr. Salim said. “At first I was scared and didn’t want to go but when I saw one of my neighbours had joined in, I took out the flag I have at home. Several people were killed and injured in the stampede and firing by the Taliban.” Independence Day The demonstrations — which come as Afghans mark the Independence Day holiday that commemorates the 1919 treaty that ended British rule — were a remarkable show of defiance after Taliban fighters violently dispersed a protest on Wednesday. At that rally, in the eastern city of Jalalabad, demonstrators lowered the Taliban’s flag and replaces it with Afghanistan’s tricolour. At least one person was killed. Meanwhile, Opposition figures gathering in the last area of the country not under Taliban rule talked of launching an armed resistance under the banner of the Northern Alliance, which allied with the U.S. during the 2001 invasion. It was not clear how serious a threat they posed given that Taliban fighters overran nearly the entire country in a matter of days with little resistance from Afghan forces. The Taliban so far have offered no specifics on how they will lead, other than to say they will be guided by Sharia, or Islamic, law. They are in talks with senior officials of the previous Afghan governments. But they face an increasingly precarious situation. “A humanitarian crisis of incredible proportions is unfolding before our eyes,” warned Mary Ellen McGroarty, the head of the UN’s World Food Programme in Afghanistan. Beyond the difficulties of bringing in food to the landlocked nation dependent on imports, she said that drought had seen over 40% of the country’s crop lost. Many who fled the Taliban advance now live in parks and open spaces in Kabul. Hafiz Ahmad, a shopkeeper in Kabul, said some food has flowed into the capital, but prices have gone up. He hesitated to pass those costs onto his customers but said he had to. “It is better to have it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/several-killed-in-protest-against-taliban/article36008531.ece
20 August 2021||Washington,||Man surrenders after ‘bomb threat’||The man who claimed to have a bomb in a pickup truck near the U.S. Capitol has surrendered to law enforcement, ending an hours-long standoff on Thursday. The man, identified by law enforcement officials as Floyd Ray Roseberry, 49, of North Carolina, was taken into custody. He had pulled up outside the library earlier in the day and told police he had a bomb in his truck. The man had been negotiating with police during a standoff that lasted around five hours. Officials evacuated a number of buildings around the Capitol and sent snipers to the area after officers saw a man holding what looked like a detonator inside the pickup, which had no license plates. Congress is in recess this week, but staffers were seen calmly walking out of the area at the direction of authorities. Earlier, police negotiators were communicating with Roseberry as he wrote notes and showed them to authorities from inside the truck, according to sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. While police continued negotiations, video surfaced of Roseberry on Facebook Live inside the truck, which was stuffed with coins and boxes. He was threatening explosions, making anti-government threats and talking about what he believes are the ills of the country, including the U.S. position on Afghanistan, health care and the military. He said Democrats needed to step down, then also said he loved the President, Democrat Joe Biden. Facebook removed the videos a few hours after they were apparently filmed. Roseberry did not appear to have a specific demand for law enforcement other than to speak with Mr. Biden. Roseberry’s ex-wife, Crystal Roseberry, said she had seen images of the man in the standoff at the Capitol and confirmed to The Associated Press that it was her ex-husband. The nation's capital has been tense since the January 6 insurrection at the Capitol by supporters of then-President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-probing-capitol-bomb-threat/article36008540.ece
20 August 2021||Beijing,||China for adoption of cultural symbols, language in Tibet||A top Chinese official said on Thursday that “all-round efforts” are needed to ensure Tibetans speak standard spoken and written Chinese and share the “cultural symbols and images of the Chinese nation.” Wang Yang made the remarks before a handpicked audience in front of the Potala Palace in Lhasa, the home of Tibet’s traditional Buddhist leaders, at a ceremony marking the 70th anniversary of the Chinese invasion of the vast Himalayan region. China’s ruling Communist Party says it “peacefully liberated” Tibetan peasants from an oppressive theocracy and restored Chinese rule over a region under threat from outside powers. Critics say such moves toward cultural assimilation spell the demise of Tibet’s traditional Buddhist culture and that Tibet was effectively independent for most of its history. China has highlighted its efforts to boost the economy in the region and condemned the exiled Dalai Lama as a separatist. Mr. Wang, who is a member of the Politburo Standing Committee — the apex of party power — and who oversees policy toward ethnic minorities, said “separatist and sabotage activities committed by the Dalai (Lama) group and hostile external forces have been crushed.” Mr. Wang said Tibetans had been included in representative bodies. The region hosted close to 160 million tourists last year, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. “Only by following the CPC leadership and pursuing the path of socialism, can Tibet achieve development and prosperity,” Mr. Wang was quoted by Xinhua as saying. “Judging by developments in Tibet over the past 70 years, the Tibetan people have no cause for jubilation, as Chinese policies have turned Tibet itself into an open-air prison with restrictions on all aspects of Tibetan life,” the U.S.-based International Campaign for Tibet said in a statement. “After 70 years of oppression, the only thing the Tibetan people need ‘peaceful liberation’ from today is China’s brutality,” the group said. As China tightens its hold over Tibet, questions are arising over the future of its diaspora community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-for-adoption-of-cultural-symbols-language-in-tibet/article36008534.ece
20 August 2021||Washington,||‘Troops may stay beyond August 31 for evacuations’||President Joe Biden said on Wednesday that he is committed to keeping U.S. troops in Afghanistan until every American is evacuated, even if that means maintaining a military presence there beyond his August 31 deadline for withdrawal. He also pushed back against criticism that the U.S. should have done more to plan for the evacuation and withdrawal, which has been marked by scenes of violence and chaos as thousands attempted to flee while the Taliban advanced. When asked if the administration would help Americans left in the nation after August 31, Mr. Biden said, “If there’s American citizens left, we’re gonna stay till we get them all out.” On Thursday, Mr. Biden said even with the Taliban in power in Afghanistan, he sees a greater threat from outposts of al-Qaeda and its affiliated groups in other countries, and that it was no longer “rational” to continue to focus U.S. military power there. ‘Greater threats’ “We should be focusing on where the threat is the greatest,” Mr. Biden said in an interview that aired on ABC’s “Good Morning America”. “And the idea we can continue to spend a trillion dollars, and have tens of thousands of American forces in Afghanistan, when we have North Africa and Western Africa — the idea we can do that and ignore those looming problems, growing problems, is not rational.” Mr. Biden has said repeatedly that America will not send significantly more forces to fight in Afghanistan. The U.S. has not had tens of thousands there for several years and had 2,500 to 3,000 deployed there when Biden took office. Mr. Biden named Syria and East Africa as places where the Islamic State group poses a “significantly greater threat” than in Afghanistan and said that ISIS has “metastasised.” He said while the U.S. doesn’t have a sizable military presence in a place like Syria, it does have an “over the horizon capability to take them out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/troops-may-stay-beyond-august-31-for-evacuations/article36008532.ece
20 August 2021||Kathmandu,||Nepal’s main Opposition party CPN-UML officially splits||Nepal’s main opposition CPN-UML, the largest communist party of the country, has officially split, with one of its factions, led by dissident leader Madhav Kumar Nepal, applying for registering a new political party, after the government backed a controversial ordinance to make it easier for political parties to split. Nepal on Wednesday submitted an application at the Election Commission (EC), for registering a new political party named CPN-UML (Socialist). Earlier on Wednesday, on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, President Bidya Devi Bhandari issued an ordinance to amend the Political Parties Act 2071, aimed at easing the procedure for political parties to split. The amendment ordinance stipulates that 20% or more members of the parliamentary party and the central committee of a political party can split their mother party. Before the amendment, provisions of the Political Party Act required dissidents to have the support of 40% of members in the parliamentary party and the central committee to split their mother party. The ordinance introduced by the Sher Bahadur Deuba government has led to splits in at least two parties, marking what observers say an unprecedented political event, The Kathmandu Post reported. The ordinance was introduced by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government on Tuesday, to make it easy for the dissidents to split their mother parties, The Himalayan Times reported. The ordinance is likely to help Madhav Kumar Nepal-Jhalanath Khanal faction of the CPN-UML faction that has been playing a crucial role in the formation of the current coalition government, and is vital to ensure its continuity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepals-main-opposition-cpn-uml-officially-splits/article36008537.ece
20 August 2021||Beirut,||Hezbollah says Iranian fuel tanker to sail to Lebanon soon||The leader of the Iran-backed Hezbollah militant group said on Thursday that an Iranian fuel tanker will sail toward Lebanon “within hours,” warning Israel and the U.S. not to intercept it. The delivery organized by Lebanon-based Hezbollah, would be an apparent violation of U.S. sanctions imposed on Tehran after former U.S. President Donald Trump pulled his country out of a nuclear deal between Iran and world powers three years ago. Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said in a televised speech that the tanker, carrying diesel fuel, will be followed by others to help ease Lebanon’s crippling fuel shortage that has paralysed the country for weeks. “I would like to say that at the moment the tanker sails — within hours — and moves in the sea, it will be considered in Lebanese territory,” he said. He said the West was imposing an undeclared siege on Lebanon, causing the current crisis. “I tell the Americans and the Israelis that this is Lebanese territory,” Nasrallah said, without elaborating on what his group will do if it is intercepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hezbollah-says-iranian-fuel-tanker-to-sail-to-lebanon-soon/article36008535.ece
20 August 2021||Nairobi,||‘COVID-19 booster shots make mockery of equity’||Rich countries’ decisions to roll out COVID-19 booster shots while so many people across Africa remain unvaccinated “threaten the promise of a brighter tomorrow” for the continent, the Africa director for the World Health Organization said on Thursday, warning that “as some richer countries hoard vaccines, they make a mockery of vaccine equity.” Matshidiso Moeti and other African health officials, including the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, had warned against booster shots in recent weeks as less than 2% of the population on the continent of 1.3 billion people is fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Ms. Moeti noted that the latest resurgence in cases across Africa is levelling off and more vaccine doses are finally arriving on the continent, but “Africa is encountering headwinds” as rich countries like the United States decide to roll out booster shots. ‘Fragile’ situation The situation in Africa remains “very fragile” as the more infectious delta variant is now dominant in most of the continent’s 54 countries, she said. More than 7.3 million cases, including more than 1,86,000 deaths, have been confirmed across the continent and health systems are straining to provide medical oxygen and other care. U.S. health officials on Wednesday announced plans to dispense COVID-19 booster shots to all Americans amid the surging delta variant and signs that vaccines’ effectiveness is slipping. Ms. Moeti told reporters she couldn’t say with any accuracy whether the doses the U.S. plans to use for booster shots will come from stocks that had been planned for Africa, but “hopefully not.” The State Department did not immediately respond to questions. Ms. Moeti noted the “already highly inequitable situation” globally in vaccine supply and urged that the emphasis instead be placed on making progress in vaccinating people in Africa, whose countries lag far behind much of the world in access and coverage. Ms. Moeti pointed out that rich countries have on average administered more than 103 vaccine doses per 100 people, while in Africa it’s just six. Earlier this week the WHO director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, called it “unconscionable” that some countries are now offering booster shots “while so many people remain unprotected.” She added, after the revelation this week that some COVID-19 vaccine doses now being manufactured in Africa are being shipped to Europe, “I think no better example can follow this than vaccines that are actually being produced on the African continent.” She called on those countries to consider donating some of the South Africa-produced vaccines to African nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-booster-shots-make-mockery-of-equity/article36008545.ece
20 August 2021||London,||‘Pfizer jab’s effect wanes faster than AstraZeneca’s’||The effectiveness of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19 declines faster than that of the AstraZeneca jab, according to a new study published on Thursday. “Two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech have greater initial effectiveness against new COVID-19 infections, but this declines faster compared with two doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca,” researchers at Oxford University said. The study, which has not been peer reviewed, is based on the results of a survey by Britain’s Office for National Statistics on randomly selected households from December last year to this month. Pfizer had “greater initial effectiveness” but saw “faster declines in protection against high viral burden and symptomatic infection”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-jabs-effect-wanes-faster-than-astrazenecas/article36008538.ece
20 August 2021||Kabul,||F federation||An Afghan footballer who played for the national youth team fell to his death after trying to cling to a U.S. plane airlifting people out of Taliban-controlled Kabul, a sports federation said on Thursday. The General Directorate of Physical Education and Sports of Afghanistan confirmed the death of Zaki Anwari in the mayhem that erupted at the airport in the capital this week.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/f-federation/article36008782.ece
20 August 2021||JERUSALEM,||ML--Israel-Blood-Donation||Israel has lifted restrictions on blood donations by gay men, saying the long-standing limitation was discriminatory and denigrating, Israel’s Health Minister said on Thursday. Earlier this year, the U.K. eased restrictions on blood donations from gay and bisexual men, following a similar decision by the U.S. last year because of a drop in the blood supply. “There’s no difference between one blood and the other,” Nitzan Horowitz said.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ml-israel-blood-donation/article36008536.ece
20 August 2021||Moscow,||Russia fines Google for not removing illegal content||A Moscow court on Thursday again fined Google for failing to remove banned content. In recent months, Russia has been taking legal action against foreign tech companies for not deleting content banned by the authorities, including pornographic material and posts deemed extremist. On Thursday, the Tagansky district court slapped Google with three fines totalling six million rubles ($80,850) for the violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-fines-google-for-not-removing-illegal-content/article36008542.ece
20 August 2021||Lahore,||Three dead, 50 wounded in bomb targeting Shiites in Pakistan||At least three people were killed and 50 others wounded when a bomb explosion ripped through a Shia Muslim procession in Pakistan’s Punjab province on Thursday, officials said. Security was on high alert as the religious minority marked Ashura during the holy month of Muharram, a flashpoint for sectarian violence in previous years. “We have confirmation of three dead and 50 injured,” said a senior government official. Social media videos showed bleeding victims lying on a road being assisted by members of the public.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/three-dead-50-wounded-in-bomb-targeting-shiites-in-pakistan/article36008543.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Is a caste census desirable?||At the recently concluded Parliament session, there was a demand to lift the 50% cap on reservation imposed by the Supreme Court through the legislative route. With the 2021 Census coming up, several political parties have demanded a nation-wide caste census. They argue that a Socio-Economic Caste Census is the only way to make a case to breach the 50% cap on reservation and rationalise the reservation matrix in the country. Is a caste census desirable? Satish Deshpande and Valerian Rodrigues discuss the question in a conversation moderated by K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj. Edited excerpts: There is a vocal demand to breach the 50% cap on reservation. Some States like Tamil Nadu have already done this. Do you think it is desirable to breach this cap? Satish Deshpande:The 50% cap, as introduced by the court, has not really been argued through. Reservation in our country has been caught in ideological misgivings. It is constructed as though it is the only departure or the main departure from fair competition, but that is simply not true. The absence of reservation does not mean that the playing field is level. Reservation is one among many considerations which affect competition among candidates. Therefore, I think there is nothing sacrosanct about the 50% limit − it can be exceeded, if necessary, but a clear argument should be given for why this is being done. Valerian Rodrigues:While I agree that there is nothing sacrosanct about the 50% cap, I still feel that it is a prudent rule. The reservation policy is one of the elements of the larger structure of democratic constitutionalism in India that by definition subscribes to the argument of equality of citizens. Reservation, no matter how extensive, is going to cater only to a small proportion of those who are entitled to it. Exceptionally, however, reservation can be accepted, extended, but we do need to know very well that the rule is 50% and if there is an extension, it is an exception. I also want to say a couple of more things regarding reservation in India — the way it is practised has invariably led to [the growth of] elites among castes and communities. These elites within the castes have tended to exercise their dominance over their very communities and not let them exercise the kind of freedoms, or search for equality, which any democratic polity deserves. Eventually, the bent in a good society should not be to preserve caste but to strengthen democracy. Therefore, we need to see where the convergence lies. The more you actually begin to dole out reservation, the more the tendency to preserve caste, protect it, precisely because that becomes the bastion for the dole. Many have argued that a Socio-Economic Caste Census would be the best way to rationalise reservation based on data and make a strong case for breaching this gap. Earlier governments argued that counting caste will perpetuate it. Do you think a caste census is actually desirable at the national level today? VR:I feel that a caste census is absolutely desirable in India today. And the purpose of a caste census is not merely geared to the reservation issue; a caste census would actually bring to the fore the large number of issues that any democratic country needs to attend to, particularly the number of people who are at the margins, or who are deprived, or the kind of occupations they pursue, or the kind of hold that institutions like caste have on them. This information is absolutely necessary for any democratic policymaking. The courts in India have often emphatically said that it is important to have adequate data with regard to reservation. Very often, States have shied away from gathering this data. Now, data gathering itself is a big problem because it can become very, very invasive. But we need to actually balance it with enabling people and asserting citizen equality. SD:We have got locked into a mindset where we think only those communities which want welfare benefits from the state must be enumerated. We should not be associating enumeration of communities only with welfare programmes, that is to say only with communities that are, in some sense, needy. Caste is not only a source of disadvantage; it is also a very important source of privilege and advantage in our society. Caste enumeration is also required to document, as far as possible, this privilege. We have to stop thinking of caste as being applicable to only disadvantaged people, poor people, people who are somehow lacking. The opposite is even more true: caste has produced advantages for certain communities, and these also need to be recorded. In my opinion, when everyone’s caste is counted, we will finally come out of the unhelpful mindset of thinking of caste as an exception meant only for those who are supplicants of the state. The state has helped privileged communities far more, even though this help has not taken the explicit form of programmes like reservation. The naming and counting of caste is a difficult thing that we have to pass through in order to bring about a future when it will not matter as much as it matters today. It is actually many of the OBC [Other Backward Classes] leaders and parties that have been demanding the enumeration of castes. But the somewhat unsaid opposition to it seems to be coming from the upper castes. VR:I don’t think that counting of caste necessarily perpetuates caste or the caste system. However, under certain conditions, enumeration of caste for cultivating elitism can be a backward step to hold on to caste. But that is concerning the elites. Overall, the democratic dividends of enumeration of caste are much higher. There are a lot of myths which actually deprive a large number of people, particularly on the margins. Let’s take the case of Karnataka. For a long time, there were claims that among the castes, the Lingayats are the most numerous.  But a lot of other studies have brought out that this may not be true. And these kinds of myths lead to the argument that given that this is a caste which is numerous, it has to be constantly placated. This is true of Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and several places across India. These myths can be debunked through a caste census. There is a vested interest among Backward Class leaders demanding that caste be enumerated. There is a section of people in India who relish claiming that they are casteless while utilising all the benefits that a democratic dispensation provides to them. This can be debunked by saying, look, you have benefited so much across the years, while there are people in this country who have either not benefited at all or if they have benefited, it is nothing in comparison to what you have and most of these benefits that have accrued to you are precisely because you belong to a certain caste. We have had two exercises of a caste census — one carried out by the Union government in 2011 and another by the Karnataka government in 2015. Data from both censuses have not been made public and the governments have also disputed the data. Why is a caste census always controversial? SD:Yes, this is a demonstration of the principle that those in power control data and information. We have had instances where this data has been collected but has not been made public. I have to also emphasise that a caste census is a necessity, it is not a happy thing, it is not a great achievement, it is just something that we have to do. It will also, I think, increase friction, to some extent harden caste identities in the short term. But not counting caste is much worse. And one of the major things we will have to fight against in this journey is the vested interests of particular governments. You see, we say that democracy is rule by the people, but it is not. It is rule by a particular party or parties which have won an election. And once they have won an election, they have their own vested interests. So, this is a larger issue with democracy that has to be countered. Governments shying away from releasing the data of a caste census seems to be a bipartisan issue. How do we find the political intent and capital to carry out this exercise? SD:I am actually quite pessimistic. I don’t think a caste census will happen unless something extraordinary happens in our polity. As you said, this seems to be a bipartisan issue. And in my opinion, the main need is that of exposing privilege. There are also important questions of demands coming up because of mismatches between the numbers that we come out with and the share in resources that different communities have. This is a kind of nightmare that all governments fear. So, they would much rather leave things vague. VR:I make a slightly different assessment. I think the ruling dispensation is seriously feeling that it needs to reach out to the Backward Classes. The Backward Classes are more than 50% of the population. And this dispensation knows that it cannot afford to lose the support of the Backward Classes. So, there has recently been a tendency within the dispensation to bring the Backward Class elite to the forefront. Therefore, I am not negative that this dispensation, or the UPA government, would be wholly denying a caste census. However, like the UPA government escaped by saying that a caste census would be different from the general census and called for only certain issues to be enumerated, this dispensation also might actually play the same game and begin to disconnect the caste census from the general census. What is required is to bring the caste census alongside the general census. Only then will we know the situation. SD:Yes, this is a very important issue. I agree completely. We cannot separate the caste census from the general census. Only if we don’t will the exercise make sense. But what really worries me about this particular government given its record in the past few years is the integrity of data. A caste census is badly needed, but a caste census without data integrity would be much worse. A suspect caste census would be much worse than no census at all. The data of caste censuses have always been disputed, probably due to the contest of several vested interests in accepting the data. While Hindutva forces seem to be trying to co-opt subaltern communities that are demanding a caste census, how do they handle the paradox of the caste question? SD:I think this is the central issue. The problem is that the core support for the ruling party is upper caste, at least in mentality, if not always strictly in terms of caste identity. But the upper castes are a minority; hence the unavoidable electoral necessity of bringing in the middle castes, and the Dalits who provide large numbers. This is a political balancing act, where you invite the lower castes promising to give them the place denied to them for so long. At the same time, you have to keep your core supporters happy. The core supporters are extremely uncomfortable when the social distance between them and the castes that they believe are lower than them appears to shrink. They get very upset. All over the country, the conflict between Dalits and OBCs is bitter and violent. How do we square this circle? This is the main challenge for Hindutva politics.  A caste census is badly needed, but a caste census without data integrity would be much worse. A suspect caste census would be much worse than no census at all. Satish Deshpande||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-a-caste-census-desirable/article36008529.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from India’s all-cause mortality data||The scale of devastation caused by India’s COVID-19 epidemic is gradually becoming clearer. This is thanks to the efforts of journalists, The Hindu included, who have been gathering all-cause mortality data from around the country. The mortality data, from State and city civil registration systems, paint a grim picture of a major increase in deaths across the country during the novel coronavirus pandemic. Very few of these additional deaths have been recorded as COVID-19 deaths. Cautious estimate We can try to understand the scale of the tragedy via a simple question. How many extra deaths have occurred, over and above those expected in normal times? The data suggest an approximate answer: during 15 months from April 2020 to June 2021, there were 3.5 million-3.7 million “excess deaths” nationwide. This amounts to 35% more deaths than expected. This estimate is cautious, and likely to increase as more data come in. Data for June and beyond are very limited, and so the story is incomplete. Before we examine the numbers it is important to understand the context. There are several reasons why estimating a surge in mortality is difficult. We need to know how many deaths have occurred during the pandemic, and how many to “expect” in normal times. The idea is to carefully reconstruct these numbers from death registrations and survey-based estimates of pre-pandemic mortality. Data in the pandemic period But death registration data for the pandemic period are limited. It is unavailable for some States, and incomplete in others, for example coming from online systems which do not log all death registrations. Some data are organised according to date of death, and some by date of registration. Moreover, there are uncertainties about death registration prior to the pandemic. In some States, official estimates of levels of registration, which we use, appear to be overestimated. Compounding the difficulties, registered deaths show complex trends in some States — for example, gradually increasing prior to the pandemic, but dropping sharply around the time of the national lockdown before the pandemic deaths start to show. To arrive at the estimates here, we examined data from 12 States where partial or complete civil registration data are available for at least January 2018 to May 2021: Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. These States comprise roughly 60% of the national population. During April 2020-May 2021 we found six million death registrations in the data; that is 1.3 million more than expected from 2019 data. If we assume — perhaps optimistically — that the deaths which were not captured in these registration systems, including unregistered deaths, rose proportionately, we arrive at an estimate of around 1.7 million excess deaths in these States up to May. If these 12 States reflect the national picture, then India saw around 2.8 million excess deaths nationwide during April 2020-May 2021. This is 8.5 times the official COVID-19 death toll of 3,32,000 over the same period. Global comparison Using limited data for June (currently available only for Andhra Pradesh and Punjab), or assuming that the ratio of excess deaths to official COVID-19 deaths does not change rapidly, we estimate 3.5 million-3.7 million excess deaths nationwide by the end of June. Over a 15 month period, for every three expected deaths, there was a further “pandemic death”. This places India among the harder hit countries in the world. It would mean that relative to baseline, India’s surge in mortality is lower than that of Mexico, similar to that of Brazil and South Africa, and considerably higher than in the United States, the United Kingdom and most of western Europe. Moreover, the estimates here are conservative. More up-to-date data will push up the numbers. There are also hints that disruption may have prevented — and not merely delayed — many death registrations. For instance, we see significant drops in birth registrations during 2020 in some States where this data are available, most noticeably in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Moreover, there are good reasons to believe the mortality surge may have been greatest in marginalised communities where death registration is weaker. We cannot be sure how many of India’s excess deaths were from COVID-19. According to the latest national serosurvey, around 60%-70% of people in India may have been infected with the virus by June. If so, international data on fatality rates suggest we should expect two million to four million COVID-19 deaths. So, it is quite plausible that the majority of India’s excess deaths have been from COVID-19. But we cannot rule out a significant surge in non-COVID deaths too. Individual States In individual States, all-cause mortality data paint diverse pictures. Kerala, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh stand out for having somewhat lower excess mortality than expected, even after we adjust for possible disruptions to registration. Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, on the other hand, saw considerably more deaths than expected. Overall, around two-thirds of the excess deaths took place during a shocking mortality spike around May 2021. But the time-course varies in different States. Madhya Pradesh’s explosive second wave accounted for 80-90% of its excess deaths. By contrast, Maharashtra saw more even surges, with over 40% of its excess deaths during its first wave. There are striking variations in the ratio of excess deaths to recorded COVID-19 deaths. In Maharashtra excess deaths up to May 2021 are roughly four times recorded COVID-19 deaths, or less if we factor in reconciliations of COVID-19 deaths during June and July. By contrast, in Madhya Pradesh, excess deaths are an astonishing 25-30 times recorded COVID-19 deaths. Exploring the stories behind these variations is important for understanding the pandemic and disease surveillance in India. Considerable gaps remain. Some civil registration data are available for Uttar Pradesh up to April 2021, and these appear to show a major surge in mortality; but there are huge fluctuations in registrations, and unexplained discrepancies with historical data which make it hard to use this data with any confidence. Where civil registration data are of poor quality or unavailable, large-scale mortality surveying could help to fill the gaps. A perspective Could the sharp rise in death registrations reflect not a surge in mortality but improvements in death registration? This claim has been made, but is not credible for several reasons. If we accept the estimate that 92% of deaths were registered in 2019, higher registration coverage could not cause a 35% surge in death registrations. In fact there is little evidence for improving death registration during the pandemic. During the relatively quiet period between the two COVID-19 waves (January-March 2021), we see death registrations return close to 2019 baseline levels. And throughout the pandemic period, we see a very strong association between monthly excess deaths and official COVID-19 deaths, strongly suggesting these are pandemic-related excess deaths, and not a reflection of underlying trends in registration. There are no easy ways to explain away or deny the scale of the catastrophe. Yes, there are uncertainties, and details will change as more data become available. Most likely, the numbers will increase. One thing is clear: during the COVID-19 pandemic, India has witnessed a surge in mortality on a scale not seen since Independence. Murad Banaji is a mathematician at Middlesex University London. Aashish Gupta is a demographer, and a research fellow at the research institute for compassionate economics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lessons-from-indias-all-cause-mortality-data/article36008519.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The Abraham Accords as India’s West Asia bridge||The recent visit by the Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal R.K. Bhadauria, to Israel offers a window to study how New Delhi is taking advantage of the Abraham Accords deal signed between Israel and a consortium of Arab States led by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in 2020 (https://bit.ly/3yWH0HY). According to reports, an Indian contingent of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will now visit Israel in October to take part in multilateral military exercises. Deepening cooperation In the same week as ACM Bhadauria’s visit, India also conducted the ‘Zayed Talwar’ naval exercises with the UAE off the coast of Abu Dhabi, further deepening the fast-developing strategic cooperation between the two countries. In December 2020, Indian Army chief, General M.M. Naravane, visited the UAE and Saudi Arabia, becoming the first chief of the Indian Army to do so. The foundation for these visits was set by the (now former) chief of the Indian Navy, Admiral Sunil Lanba, in 2017, who visited the UAE and Oman, the latter being home to Duqm Port where New Delhi signed a deal with Muscat for access to the facility, including dry dock use by the Indian Navy. The above examples show the pacey developments on the defence front between India and the West Asian region. The signing of the Accords has removed a significant strategic obstacle for New Delhi — that of a trapeze wire delicate balancing act India has had to play out between the Arab Gulf and Israel over the decades. This status quo is now witnessing a change, with Israel inaugurating its first diplomatic mission in Abu Dhabi and direct flights, business and tourism picking up between the two countries over the past few months. New Delhi had welcomed the Accords, highlighting its support for mechanisms that offer peace and stability in the region. The thread India’s trajectory towards an increased strategic footprint in West Asia has been in development for some time now. Starting from the relatively low-key staging visit to Saudi Arabia conducted by the IAF in 2015, to hosting visiting Iranian naval warships in 2018, defence of the critical waterways in and around the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea and the extended Indian Ocean Region (IOR) has taken a driving seat in Indian strategic thinking. Recently, as tensions between Iran, Israel and the United States flared up in the Persian Gulf, the Indian Navy orchestrated Operation Sankalp, which saw Indian warships escort on an average 16 Indian-flagged vessels a day. This comes as covert attacks on merchant vessels in the region expand, with tensions between Iran and Israel spilling across the region. Till a certain extent, the Accords, from the UAE’s perspective, were to make sure the emirate along with its international centres of trade such as Dubai and Abu Dhabi do not become targets between Jerusalem and Tehran. However, not all Arab States have been on board with the geopolitical shifts the Accords have pushed through. Despite a lot of effort from Israel, under the (now former) Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Saudi Arabia has maintained a distance from this arrangement. More recently, Riyadh has praised the Accords, but said that the resolution of the Palestinian State remains at the forefront of its requirements. It is imperative to remember here that despite India’s rare but arguable successes in a ‘non-alignment’ approach in West Asia, it has taken one-sided decisions in the past, such as training Iraqi Air Force cadets on MiG aircraft in Tikrit between 1958 and 1989, while also maintaining good relations with former President Saddam Hussein, seen as a critical part of India’s energy security thinking. The rationale behind such thinking back then has not changed even in 2021, as India still imports more than 80% of its annual oil requirements, much of which still comes from suppliers such as Iraq and Saudi Arabia. The Iran link Iran, as part of India’s ‘West Asia’ construct, will also play a significant part in India’s outreach in the months to come as the crisis in Afghanistan deepens. The fact that New Delhi used Iranian airspace and facilities when evacuating its diplomatic staff from Kandahar in July showcases a level of strategic commonality, interest and play on certain issues in the region. Keeping this in mind, connectivity projects such as Chabahar Port and Chabahar-Zahedan rail project (project discussions are still on) amongst others remain critical. Recent multiple visits by India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh followed by Iranian Defence Minister Brigadier General Amir Hatami’s visit to India highlight a revitalised strategic cooperation between the two countries despite multiple obstacles in the bilateral relations, led by U.S. sanctions against Tehran and the general tensions between Israel, the Gulf and Iran via proxy battles in theatres such as Yemen, Syria and beyond. India’s strategic play in West Asia will be reflective of its economic growth, and by association, an increasingly important place in the global order. From the UN Security Council to the Indo-Pacific, New Delhi will be expected to be more assertive, diplomatically and militarily, in its posturing and shed the cloaks of its foreign and strategic policies being conducted from a stage balanced on a fence. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-abraham-accords-as-indias-west-asia-bridge/article36008522.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to basics||A preliminary report of a nationwide survey conducted by Lego Foundation in Denmark stated that students give importance to peer interactions, good teachers, fun learning content and knowledge gained from experimental approaches. The UNICEF says that children want to go back to school. We can reasonably assume that these aspirations hold true for Indian children but how prepared are we to send them back to school? According to various estimates, the pandemic and lockdowns have led to an alarming drop-out rate from schools, migration of children from private to government schools due to inability to pay fees, increased abuse at home, inadequate nutrition, etc. Industry experts will agree with the claim that for adults to unlearn and relearn is a very expensive and time-consuming process. Thus, if the foundation of education is weak, any effort at a later stage to strengthen it will only yield sub-optimal results. Issues to be addressed So, what are the major factors that need to be addressed at the foundational level? UNICEF has raised the issue of nutrition. Children, depending on their age group and gender, need to consume 1,000-3,200 calories per day. How close do India’s mid-day meal schemes address their nutritional needs? The UNDP Human Development Report 2019 states that students who fall behind may struggle “if the level of classroom instruction (based on textbooks that follow ambitious curricular standards) is considerably above their learning level. These problems are exacerbated at higher grades, if students are automatically promoted to the next grade without having acquired foundational skills.” While the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 proposes pedagogical freedom to the teacher, content-heavy curriculum forces instructionist rather than constructivist engagements by default, as teachers are always short of time. As a result, students simply consume what they are taught; they don’t become creators. Supporting slower foundational development while focusing on the essentials will allow for deeper and more meaningful learning. Need for skilled teachers The National Curriculum Framework for Teacher Education 2009 quoted the NEP 1986 which said, “The status of the teacher reflects the socio-cultural ethos of the society; it is said that no people can rise above the level of its teachers”. NEP 2020 has entrusted the intellectual development of kindergarten children from underprivileged sections to matriculation-pass Anganwadi teachers and helpers whose monthly salary is about Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000, respectively. Anganwadi teachers will not be able to fulfil the task of developing underprivileged kindergarten students into creators simply because they lack the expertise to do so. The proposal to upgrade their skills using online methods is grossly inadequate. Working in rural areas If the sight is on the 2030 Sustainable Development Goal for Education, India needs to work on a war footing. It will have to acknowledge that EdTech is a resource of the privileged and learning higher-order cognitive skills requires time and personal support. One way is to mobilise students in higher education to contribute three to six months in government-sponsored programmes by working in the most remote and underdeveloped areas to educate children and teachers. Private companies could also sponsor mentorship programmes where employees spend about a month on the field. This will have a transformative effect on all the participants involved. Current solutions appear to be designed in the cloud without adequate exposure of the ground. The ability to successfully satisfy Sustainable Development Goal 4 will depend on the priority afforded to school education. And with budgetary allocations based on priority, the question that begs to be asked is, what is the priority of school education? Vikram Vincent has a Ph.D. in Educational Technology from IIT Bombay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-to-basics/article36008524.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Optimistic assessment||Less than a fortnight after the RBI announced its latest monetary policy, a team of its officials has provided an optimistic assessment of the ‘State of the Economy’ in the August issue of the central bank’s monthly bulletin. Pivoting from what the bank posited on August 6 when it said, “the outlook for aggregate demand is improving, but still weak and overcast by the pandemic”, the officials led by Deputy Governor Michael D. Patra asserted that aggregate demand conditions had been buoyed by pent-up demand released by unlocking and vaccination. And, evidence that the economy was gaining traction could be seen in “manufacturing activity gradually turning around even as the contraction in services had moderated”, they wrote. The authors of the article have arrayed several high-frequency indicators including E-way bills, toll collections, fuel consumption, automobile dispatches and registrations, and rail freight volumes to buttress their view that demand is regaining momentum. The team has also pointed to a private forecaster’s data showing a sizeable sequential decline in the unemployment rate last month — to 6.95% from 9.17% in June, and that with a pronounced rural bias — to posit that this reflects the “resilience of the rural sector on brightened agricultural prospects”. But the authors elide over the fact that the CMIE, whose survey-based unemployment rate they have cited, is far less sanguine about the addition of approximately 16 million jobs in July. CMIE MD Mahesh Vyas contends in an analysis that “all the additional employment provided by India in July was of poor quality” while better quality salaried jobs shrank by 3.2 million, noting that the bulk of the rural jobs added were of temporary farm labour linked to delayed kharif sowing. The RBI officials also throw no additional light on the concerns that earlier this month prompted the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to cut its own June forecast for GDP growth in the second, third and fourth fiscal quarters by between 0.5 and 0.9 percentage points. On inflation too, the article’s authors have pitched an upbeat prognosis citing July’s 70 basis points month-on-month deceleration in retail price gains to 5.6% as “reinforcing the view that the recent upsurge has peaked and the worst would be behind us”. However, official food price data for the August 1-12 period reveals an uptick in cereal prices, while edible oils continue to see price pressures after July’s 32.5% inflation rate for oils and fats, belying the authors’ optimism. The RBI Deputy Governor overseeing monetary policy admits the internal dilemma at the MPC observing that ultimately the policy decision was “a judgment call” as any move to tame inflation by one percentage point would mean ‘sacrificing’ 1.5-2 percentage points of GDP growth. In postulating an either-or trade-off, monetary authorities risk achieving neither goal and sending the economy into a harder to redress state of ‘stagflation’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/optimistic-assessment/article36008513.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Arms and the women||Women have been fighting a tough and uphill battle for equal opportunities in the Indian Army. In a landmark judgment in February 2020, the Supreme Court asked the Government to abide by its own policy and grant permanent commission to women in the Short Service Commission and give them command postings in all services other than combat. In The Secretary, Ministry of Defence vs Babita Puniya & Others , the top court pointed out that women had played a “significant role” in the army since their induction in 1992 and extending permanent commission to women SSC officers “is a step forward in recognising and realising the right of women to equality of opportunity in the Army”. Despite the stringent verdict, systemic issues remain in the Army, and women have gone back to court to sort out the issues. Another step towards ensuring that women get an equal opportunity, as laid down by the Constitution, has been taken on Wednesday, when the Court passed an interim order allowing women to appear for the National Defence Academy entrance exam on September 5. Till now, women could join the Army through the Indian Military Academy and the Officers Training Academy. The directive allows girls who clear the exam to study at the NDA and then at the IMA or the naval and air force academies and become commissioned officers. The directive is subject to further orders from the Court, and the case has been posted for hearing again on September 8. When Additional Solicitor-General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Government and the Indian Army, told the Court that it was a policy decision not to allow women to take the NDA exam, the Bench, of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy, said it was based on “gender discrimination”, directing the Centre and the Army to take a constructive view. The Bench pointed out that closing a route of entry for women to join the Army was discriminatory. The ruling came on a writ petition filed by Kush Kalra seeking permission for women to sit for the NDA entrance exam. Mr. Kalra argued that Articles 14, 15, 16 and 19 of the Constitution, which uphold the values of equality and allow equal, non-discriminatory opportunities at work, were being violated by denying eligible women the opportunity. Though the legal route has helped overcome some of the hurdles, it will be a long haul before gender parity is fully achieved in the Army. In that context, the Prime Minister’s Independence Day announcement that girls will be granted admission in the Sainik Schools is a welcome move towards preparing them for an equal role and life in the military.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/arms-and-the-women/article36008514.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The problem of plenty of food||The Centre has decided to take emergency steps to tackle the problems of storage and movements of foodgrains arising out of bumper crops in the country this year. Briefing pressmen here to-day [New Delhi, August 19] after a conference of State Food Ministers, which, perhaps for the first time in Independent India’s history, discussed the problem of plenty in agriculture, the Union Minister for Food and Agriculture, Mr. Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, said the State Food Ministers agreed that in view of the expected massive arrivals of foodgrains in the markets immediately after harvest, measures should be worked out to handle procurement and marketing. Mr. Ahmed, who had presided over the conference, said the State Food Ministers had unanimously agreed to evolve a co-ordinated approach by the Centre and the States to improve the storage and movement position following massive procurement of grain and the record wheat crop of over 23 million tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-problem-of-plenty-of-food/article36008523.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telcos knock on Centre’s door for relief||The telecom industry has yet again made a strong pitch to the government for “fundamental financial reforms” to ensure sustained and orderly growth of the sector. The Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), whose members include Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Jio, has written to the Department of Telecom seeking a cut in levies, a doubling of the tenure of all auctioned spectrum and a reduction in compliances to the bare minimum. The appeal comes in the backdrop of growing concerns over Vodafone Idea’s survival in the absence of policy support. In the letter dated August 17, which has also been marked to the Ministry of Finance, COAI asserts that the Indian telecom sector remains one of the most heavily taxed. “The government needs to recognise that the current revenue sharing regime of around 32% of revenue outgo as taxes and levies is unsustainable and will always be detrimental to the growth of the industry due to perennial lack of surplus cash to reinvest,” it said. COAI urged the government to “considerably reduce” the burden of regulatory taxes and levies by overhauling their structure . It suggests slashing licence fee from 3% to 1% of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) for all service providers to cover administrative and regulatory costs in line with international practices; reducing the present 5% of AGR USOF (Universal Service Obligation Fund) contribution for all providers to 1%; incentivising service providers with reduced USO levies for additional coverage of villages; and paring the weighted average Spectrum Usage Charge by 3% for all providers. COAI said that the past cycle of spectrum renewal along with the increased competition and technology upgradation had considerably impacted the sector’s finances. However, the industry was not yet done with spectrum acquisition, especially given the upcoming roll-out of 5G services. ‘Huge financial burden’ “Massive additional financial burden is yet to be incurred, therefore the government should reduce it [on] one hand by adopting a reasonable reserve price and also consider major reforms like increasing the tenure of existing and future spectrum holdings and providing a 7- to 10-year moratorium for both present and future payments,” the association said. COAI also sought a doubling of tenure for all auctioned spectrum, from the current 20 years to 40 years, “without seeking any additional amounts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telcos-knock-on-centres-door-for-relief/article36008504.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||Ind-Ra raises growth forecast to 9.4%, flags rising inequality||India Ratings & Research (Ind-Ra) on Thursday revised upwards its GDP growth forecast for 2021-22 to 9.4%, considering the ‘surprisingly faster recovery’ after the second wave of COVID-19, higher exports and sufficient rainfall. The ratings agency had earlier expected the economy to grow 9.1% in a scenario where vaccination of all adults gets pushed to March 2022; and 9.6% if the Centre achieved its target of rendering vaccine doses by December. On Thursday, Ind-Ra said the government was likely to miss its target, and vaccinating all adults would spill over to March, but revised the growth forecast upwards. The recovery in June and July from the after-effects of the second wave of the pandemic had been ‘surprisingly fast’, said Ind Ra’s principal economist and director of public finance, Sunil Kumar Sinha, calling it as one of the main reasons for the revision. Global markets are also ‘doing good’ as the COVID threat ebbs, leading to higher exports for India, while the southwest monsoon had revived, thus increasing prospects on the rural front, he said. He, however, pointed out that the high growth was driven by a low base. Mr. Sinha also flagged concerns over rising inequality, saying the pandemic had pushed a large number of people back into poverty. “Whatever recovery we talk about now will be a ‘k-shaped’ recovery,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ind-ra-raises-growth-forecast-to-94-flags-rising-inequality/article36008512.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Ministry floats draft rules for gencos’ power sale to third party||The Ministry of Power has proposed to amend rules for facilitating electricity producers to sell power to a third party, which it said can pare fixed costs and cut retail tariff for end consumers. The ministry on Thursday circulated the draft Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge) Amendment Rules, 2021, seeking comments for the same. The draft amendment rules are placed on the website of the Ministry of Power. The ministry said in a statement that it proposed to take one more step towards reducing the burden of the distribution licensee (discoms) in order to reduce the retail tariff for the electricity consumers. The ministry added that the power generating companies are being given an option to sell power to third parties and recover costs. To this extent, the fixed cost burden of the distribution licensee shall be reduced, the ministry stated. If a distribution licensee has any payment, including late payment surcharge, outstanding after the expiry of seven months from the due date as prescribed in the PPA (power purchase agreement), the generating company may sell power to any consumer or any other licensee or power exchanges, for the period of such default, the ministry said. The ministry added that the claim would be retained on payment of fixed charges or capacity charges from the distribution licensee, after giving a notice of at least 15 days to the distribution licensee. “The claim, if any, shall be reconciled on an annual basis and shall be limited to only underrecovery of the fixed charges or capacity charges,” the power ministry said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ministry-floats-draft-rules-for-gencos-power-sale-to-third-party/article36008508.ece
20 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Piaggio unveils special edition of Vespa scooter||Piaggio India, that makes Vespa brand of scooters, has introduced the 75th, a special edition of the two-wheeler to mark 75 years of the brand’s India presence. Vespa 75th will be offered in 125 and 150 cc engine options and are priced at Rs. 1,25,996 and Rs. 1,39,090 ex-showroom Pune respectively. They can be booked across all dealerships in India and through its website, the company said.  “As we are celebrating the value of independence through Vespa 75th, we are also embarking on a journey in India at a time when India is celebrating 75 years of Independence,” said Diego Graffi, CMD, Piaggio India. Stating that Vespa was a distinct brand in the market and known for its style statement, he said the company would continue to offer differentiated and technologically-superior products to Indian customers.  He said the company was developing an above-300 cc motorcycle for the India and export markets. The company was also expanding dealership network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piaggio-unveils-special-edition-of-vespa-scooter/article36008498.ece
20 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Danfoss eyes Rs. 2,000-cr. India sales in 2021||The Indian subsidiary of Denmark-based heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) major Danfoss is embarking on a two-pronged strategy to win a place among the group’s top five markets by sales in the next few years, according to a top official. “As per the plan, our team members are working towards occupying a place among the top five slots within the group in terms of sales by focusing on two key drivers: expanding the distribution network and improving indigenisation levels,” Ravichandran Purushothaman, president, Danfoss Industries Pvt. Ltd. told The Hindu.  “This would call for improving the local content to 90%, from the current 65%, hiring more people, focusing on distribution network, developing more India-centric products and moving into 35 more Indian cities.” Currently, Danfoss India is ranked among the top 10 within the group. It is planning to achieve a topline of Rs. 2,000 crore by the end of 2021. Danfoss is bullish on more than doubling turnover to about Rs. 5,000 crore on account of the strong demand for energy efficiency, energy storage and electrification products. “We are seeing over 20% growth due to strong demand for our products and services,” he added.  The company aims to find a place in the group’s top 5 in terms of topline||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/danfoss-eyes-rs-2000-cr-india-sales-in-2021/article36008499.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Jet staff move NCLAT for a stay on resolution plan||Jet Airways’ cabin crew and ground staff have challenged the Jalan Kalrock consortium’s resolution plan, which was approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June, flagging concerns about pending salaries and retirement benefits. In their petition filed before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), the Jet Airways Cabin Crew Association and Bhartiya Kamgar Sena have submitted that dues of all workmen of the airline were not included as part of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cost. In June, NCLT had approved the Jalan Kalrock Consortium’s resolution plan for the airline, which has remained grounded for more than two years now. The carrier shuttered operations in April 2019 due to financial woes. The two groups of employees have requested the NCLAT to “quash and set aside” the NCLT order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jet-staff-move-nclat-for-a-stay-on-resolution-plan/article36008506.ece
20 August 2021||new delhi,||Access network provider may get discrete licence||TRAI on Thursday suggested that a separate authorisation be created for access network provider, to offer network services on a wholesale basis, as the sector regulator spelt out its views on unbundling of various layers through differential licensing. The recommendations by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) aim to create a separate licence authorisation for access network provider and moot a broad framework for virtual network operators (VNOs) seeking and entering into pacts with the network providers. The implementation of these recommendations is expected to result in increased sharing of network resources and could also prove to be catalyst in proliferation of 5G services, TRAI said in a statement. Under the new authorisation, the access network provider would not be permitted to directly provide services to the end customer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/access-network-provider-may-get-discrete-licence/article36008510.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||N.K. Singh elected as IEG Society chief||Fifteenth Finance Commission chairperson N.K. Singh has been elected as the president of the Institute of Economic Growth ((IEG) Society after former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh stepped down from the post earlier this month. In a missive to IEG director Ajit Mishra, Dr. Manmohan Singh, who has been the president of the IEG since 1992, said he was withdrawing from several active duties in the light of his advanced age and ‘indifferent health’ and proposed Mr. N.K. Singh’s name. The IEG Society elected Mr. Singh as its president at a meeting on August 16, the institute said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nk-singh-elected-as-ieg-society-chief/article36008500.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||HDFC Bank raises $1 bn via foreign bonds||HDFC Bank on Thursday said it has raised $1 billion through overseas bonds. The dollar denominated, Basel III-compliant AT1 notes were priced at 3.70% or 42.5 bps (basis points) lower than the initial price guidance. This is one of the tightest pricings achieved by any bank from Asia with Ba3 rating, the bank said. “The bank was able to successfully price its $1 billion issuance of Additional Tier 1 (AT1) notes in the overseas markets, it said. “This is the largest U.S. Dollar AT1 offering by any bank from India,” it said. “This will shore up HDFC Bank’s already strong tier I capital base.” They will be listed on The India International Exchange Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-raises-1-bn-via-foreign-bonds/article36008496.ece
20 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||IPA pitches for pharma in RoDTEP||The Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA) has said that the exclusion of pharma exports from the RoDTEP scheme will adversely impact the pharma sector’s competitiveness. Secretary General Sudarshan Jain said in a release that the industry had presented the data, in support of inclusion, to the RoDTEP committee for consideration. “The exclusion deprives pharmaceutical exporters of the level-playing field vis-a-vis global manufacturers,” he said. “For sustaining export competitiveness, RoDTEP benefits should be extended to the pharmaceutical sector given the importance of the sector,” Mr. Jain added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ipa-pitches-for-pharma-in-rodtep/article36008492.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Honda unveils all-new CB200X bike in India||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) on Thursday introduced the all-new CB200X in India, priced at Rs. 1,44,500 (ex-showroom Gurugram). The motorcycle would be available in three colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/honda-unveils-all-new-cb200x-bike-in-india/article36008502.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,||OYO to hire over 300 techies in six months||OYO, a travel technology company, said it would hire more than 300 technology professionals, including software developers, engineering and product managers, designers and data scientists, across entry-level and senior-leadership roles over the next six months. OYO currently has more than 50 products and 500 microservices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oyo-to-hire-over-300-techies-in-six-months/article36008495.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Amazon to introduce Bachchan’s voice on Alexa||Amazon said Alexa, its virtual assistant AI technology, will now feature film star Amitabh Bachchan’s voice. Customers can choose to add Mr. Bachchan’s interactive voice to their Alexa experience on Echo devices or by pressing the mic icon on the Amazon shopping app (Android only) for an introductory price of Rs. 149 for one year, Amazon said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-to-introduce-bachchans-voice-on-alexa/article36008493.ece
20 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Honeywell to develop new tech for light drones||Honeywell said it was developing a new technology suite for light drones that would allow them three times longer flight capacity with minimum human intervention. Drones equipped with Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) technologies would fly farther, carry more weight and stream video of their progress anywhere in the world, Honeywell claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/honeywell-to-develop-new-tech-for-light-drones/article36008494.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,||Chandrasekar stars for Rovers||Left-arm spinner D.T. Chandrasekar bowled defending champions Jolly Rovers into the final of the TNCA I division league with a five-wicket haul in the semifinal clash on Thursday. Rovers, defending 372, bowled out Young Stars for just 180 with off-spinner Jalaj Saxena chipping in with four wickets. In the other semifinal, unbeaten centuries from K.B. Arun Karthick (104 n.o., 153b, 11x4, 1x6) and Pradosh Ranjan Paul (100 n.o., 71b, 15x4, 3x6) took Vijay CC into the summit clash helping their side take the lead against Globe Trotters with ease. The final between Vijay CC and Jolly Rovers CC will be played on August 22 and 23 at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium.  The scores:   At IC-Guru Nanak: Jolly Rovers 372 drew with Young Stars 180 in 49.5 overs (M. Kamalesh 47, Ankur Julka 26, D.T. Chandrasekar 5/47, Jalaj Saxena 4/57, B. Aparajith 1/20).   At SRMC-Turf: Globe Trotters 170 drew with Vijay 273/1 in 63.5 overs (K.B. Arun Karthick 104 n.o., L. Suryapprakash 65, Pradosh Ranjan Paul 100 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chandrasekar-stars-for-rovers/article36008883.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘I will be tested to the limit in Croatia’||Trusted for his leadership qualities by his new club HNK Sibenik, Indian centre-back Sandesh Jhingan feels he will be “tested to the limit” while enhancing his game outside his comfort zone at Croatian league Prva HNL. Jhingan will become the first India international footballer to play in the Croatian top-tier league after completing a move from ATK Mohun Bagan to HNK Sibenik. “This will enhance my game. This is where I would be tested to my limit. Challenges wise, if I can put in the work, if I stay disciplined enough then I can see if I can get into the starting XI. “It’s quite challenging but I trust myself and my work ethic, it’s always on me whether I will play or not,” Jhingan said during a virtual interaction on Thursday. The top central defender added, “It has been my personal desire to play in Europe and I have taken up this challenge upon myself.” Named India’s footballer of the year last month, the 28-year-old is already in Croatia and watched Sunday’s home win against Hrvatski Dragovoljac in the country of the 2018 World Cup finalists. He thanked his previous club ATK Mohun Bagan for backing him when he was down with an injury, even as some gave up on the player. “The move from ATK Mohun bagan to Sibilik was difficult because I have a lot of respect for their (ATK Mohun Bagan) management and owners. The Croatian club is owned by a Colombian company and its director Eduardo Zapata is delighted to have Jhingan on board, from a footballing point of view as well as its aim to promote multi-culturalism. Thrilled owner “We are thrilled about Sandesh coming here. I am Colombian owner in Croatian football. “We are very open to everything as we aim to become a big international club. This is a great step in that direction. “I don’t care if he is from India or Argentina. Sandesh is a good player and we all agree on it. The decision is made by the coach and we move forward.”  If I can put in the work, if I stay disciplined enough then I can see if I can get into the starting XI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-will-be-tested-to-the-limit-in-croatia/article36008818.ece
20 August 2021||London,||‘Test cricket means everything to Virat Kohli’||Virat Kohli’s enthusiasm and intensity on the field shows Test matches mean everything to him, according to former English cricketer Kevin Pietersen, who feels the Indian skipper’s passion for the format bodes well for red-ball cricket at a time when it needs “all the love it can get”. The 41-year-old feels Kohli pushes himself to follow in the footsteps of his heroes such as Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, who themselves are legends of the format. Huge impetus “Knowing Virat Kohli the way that I do, I know the huge impetus he puts on following in the footsteps of his heroes. His heroes are Tendulkar, Dravid and other legends of Test match cricket,” Pietersen wrote in his blog post for Betway. “Kohli knows that to be considered a legend of the game, he needs to deliver in this format as well as in T20. “That’s why he puts so much importance on this format, and at a time when Test cricket needs all the love it can get, how good is it to see a global superstar so passionate about it.” Under Kohli, India became the No. 1 Test team and earlier this week, the Indian team registered a memorable 151-run victory over England in the second Test at Lord’s. “He values his team producing in all conditions, and so to have watched his team win in Australia and then have gone one up in England with a victory at Lord’s will satisfy him hugely. You can see by his enthusiasm, intensity and the way he rallies his troops. Test cricket still means everything to him and it’s moments like these that will define his legacy,” Pietersen wrote. “It’s very difficult for subcontinental teams to come to England and perform, but they would probably be 2-0 up after two matches if it weren’t for the rain at Trent Bridge,” Pietersen said. “The way that Mohammed Siraj bowled on day five summed it up — intensity, heart and quality. It’s amazing for Test cricket that India — who are the number one brand in the game — are so vocal and so passionate about it. It all bodes well for the format,” he said. England in disarray About Joe Root’s side, Pietersen said, “I would make wholesale changes for the third Test. They cannot be worse than the line-up that batted like that on day five at Lord’s, which was absolutely atrocious. “Dawid Malan, Liam Livingstone and Harry Brook all need to play in that match at Headingley. “Yes, there is risk, because these guys might nick off while playing aggressive shots, but they can’t do any worse than the current lot.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/test-cricket-means-everything-to-kohli/article36008767.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Hurdler Rohan moves into the semifinals||After the opening day's high, there was a bit of a low for India at the World Athletics under-20 championships in Nairobi on Thursday with Amandeep Singh Dhaliwal finishing last in the men's shot put. Amandeep, whose personal best 19.15m came in the under-20 Federation Cup early this month, could manage only 17.08 in his lone legal throw (third) in the final. Cuban Juan Carley Gomez took the gold with a best of 19.73m. Botswana's Letsile Tebogo (10.19s) and Jamaica's Tina Clayton (11.09s) emerged as the fastest man and woman respectively. Heavy rain upset the day's schedule and delayed many events. And two finals, men's pole vault and women's discus throw, have been postponed to Friday. Meanwhile, Rohan Gautam Kamble took the last available semifinal berth in the men's 400m hurdles after finishing fourth in his heat in 55s while the other Indian Hardeep Kumar tripped over a barrier and failed to make the cut after finishing fifth in his group in 1:12.80s. And in the 800m, Anu Kumar (men's section, 1:50.26s, fourth in heat) and Pooja (women, 2:10.66s, sixth in heat) narrowly missed the semifinal. In other finals, Serbia's Adriana Vilagos with an under-20 world-leading 61.46m, won the women's javelin title while Kenya's Benson Kiplangat (men's 5000m, 13:20.37s) and Teresiah Gateri (women's 3000m, 8:57.78s) made it a happy double for the host. Vanninen wins Finland's Saga Vanninen, who led from start to finish, walked away with the women's heptathlon title with 5997 pts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tebego-and-clayton-emerge-the-fastest/article36008765.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,||Coach Nambiar passes away||O.M. Nambiar, the man who transformed a village girl P.T. Usha into Asia’s Golden Girl, passed away at Payyoli in Kozhikode on Thursday evening. He was 89 and is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter. One of India’s most famous coaches, Nambiar spotted Usha at a very young age in 1976 and soon began coaching her at the Kannur Sports Division. Under his guidance, Usha began winning medals at the Asian level but his best move was making the sprinter switch to the 400m hurdles before the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics. And Usha almost came very close to winning independent India’s first Olympic medal, missing it by one hundredth of a second. That transformed the sport in the country and inspired thousands of children to take up athletics. The wait for the Olympic medal only ended early this month with javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra’s gold in Tokyo. Usha conveyed the good news to Nambiar when she met him a few days ago. Father figure “He was a father figure for me, he spotted me as a little girl and took me to great heights as an athlete. He was with me through thick and thin,” Usha told The Hindu on Thursday night. “Nambiar sir was my personal coach and I think I was probably one of the first athletes to have a personal coach. Those days, having a personal coach was very rare. And he was always proud about wearing the Indian jersey. I will miss him very much” Usha went on to become one of Asia’s biggest names. Between 1983 and 1998, she won an astonishing 23 medals at the Asian Championships, including 14 gold and six silver. She also won five golds and a bronze at the 1985 Asian meet in Jakarta which is a sort of record. A year later, Usha won four golds and a silver at the Seoul Asian Games, a record for an Indian athlete. Nambiar, an athlete himself during his college and Air Force days, was honoured with the Padma Shri Award last year and the Dronacharya Award earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-nambiar-passes-away/article36008770.ece
20 August 2021||KOCHI,||‘This is your moment to shine’||He has been watching some of the major developments in Indian sport, including cricket’s Indian Premier League, over the years and Sebastian Coe is excited that the country is now excelling in athletics too. For India, its massive population offers immense potential for athletics to get bigger and more popular. “I love watching you guys perform and this is a country that is really making great progress,” said Coe, the president of World Athletics and a middle-distance legend, after meeting the Indian 4x400m mixed relay that won the bronze at the under-20 Worlds in Nairobi. “You had a great triumph in Tokyo (Olympics), so this is your moment to shine on the stage,” Coe said to the quartet. Working magic Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra’s stunning Olympic gold has already begun to work its magic on the Indian athletes and made them bolder. “Before Neeraj’s show, we used to think that Indians can’t do well (at the world level) but now we are confident of showing that we are a lot better than many other countries,” said Bharath Sridhar, the mixed team’s lead-leg runner from Villupuram in Tamil Nadu. Sridhar bounced back from a ligament injury on his left ankle to help the country produce a memorable performance. Bengaluru’s Priya H. Mohan, the country’s fastest quartermiler this year, felt Neeraj’s gold had inspired the athletes. “When Neeraj won, we also thought we have to follow in his steps and win many more medals so that athletics becomes a main sport in India,” said Priya, who has also entered the individual 400m final apart from sparkling in the bronze-medal show. According to AFI president Adille Sumariwalla, the last few weeks have shown the emergence of a new India. “What we are seeing now is a new, confident India and Neeraj has done the trick,” said Sumariwalla. “The (under-20 mixed relay team’s) 3:20.60s is nearly as fast as the seniors’ 3:19.93 in Tokyo. This goes to show the depth of our junior programme, inter-district programme, and that our juniors are capable of competing with the seniors. It’s just a matter of time before we get more and more medals,” he said. “Our job as a federation is to create bench-strength so that any point we can substitute runners. If someone gets injured, we can seamlessly replace them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-is-your-moment-to-shine/article36008779.ece
20 August 2021||BUDAPEST,||Manika overcomes Sreeja, but goes down to Abraamian||Elizabet Abraamian’s game belies her world rankings. The 18-year-old, the reigning European youth (u-19) champion, with a ranking of 415, played a wonderfully attacking game throughout to outplay India’s Manika Batra, the sixth seed, 12-10, 11-9, 12-10, 10-8 and move into the final of the World Table Tennis Contender Budapest here on Thursday. Abraamian will meet the top seed Xiaoxin Yang of Monaco for the title. It was not that Manika played badly. In fact, the Indian kept pace with the Russian using her long-pimpled rubber intelligently and attacked on her forehand with aplomb. However, at crucial points in all three games, Abraamian’s attacking strokes from both flanks elicited no response from Manika. In the first and third games, Manika was leading 10-9 only to see Abraamian make a comeback. Earlier, in the quarterfinals, Manika had to dig deep to outwit her country-mate Sreeja Akula 7-11, 11-1, 8-11, 13-11, 11-6. Players of similar styles with pimpled rubber on the backhand, Manika and Sreeja dished out an entertaining contest of top quality. India’s G. Sathiyan and Manika Batra outclassed the Belarusian pair of Aleksandr Khanin and Daria Trigolos, 11-6, 11-5, 11-4 to enter the mixed doubles final — the duo’s first ever at a global event.  The results:   Women: Semifinals: Elizabet Abraamian (Rus) bt Manika Batra 12-10, 11-9, 12-10, 11-8.   Quarterfinals: Manika bt Sreeja Akula 7-11, 11-1, 8-11, 13-11, 11-6.   Mixed doubles (semifinals): G. Sathiyan & Manika bt Aleksandr Khanin & Daria Trigolos (Blr) 11-6, 11-5, 11-4; Nandor Ecseki & Dora Madarasz (Hun) bt Kirill Skachkov & Olga Vorobeva (Rus) 11-5, 11-9, 11-8.   Men’s doubles (semifinals ): Harmeet Desai & Manav Thakkar lost to Vladimir Sidorenko & Kirill Skachkov of Russia 11-9, 6-11, 11-9, 11-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-surmounts-sreejas-challenge-enters-semifinals/article36008777.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,||Sodhi stuns Prasad||Unseeded Saheb Sodhi ofMaharashtra upset the seventh seed Daksh Prasad ofMadhya Pradesh to reachthe boys’ singles semifinalsof the Tennishub-MPTA National junior u-18 clay court tennis on Thursday.  The results:   Boys (quarterfinals): Chirag Duhan bt Aditya Nandal 6-2, 2-6, 6-1; Denim Yadav bt Dhruv Vikrambhai Hirpara 1-0 (retd.); Yogee Panwar bt Daksh Ashok Agarwal 1-6, 6-2, 6-4; Saheb Sodhi (Mah) bt Daksh Prasad (MP) 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(5).   Doubles (semifinals): Chirag & Sandesh Kurale bt Yuvan Nandal & Denim 6-2, 3-6 (conceded); Munim Deep & Athreya Dhananjay bt Aditya & Prasad 6-3, 4-6, [10-7].   Girls (quarterfinals): Reshma Maruri bt Tejasvi Dabas 6-1, 6-4; Lakshmi Prabha Arunkumar bt Riya Uboveja 6-1, 6-2; Suhitha Maruri bt Kaavya Palani 6-2, 6-3; Akanksha Nitture bt Veda Raju Prapurna 5-0 (retd.).   Doubles (semifinals): Reshma & Suhitha bt Janani Ramesh & Majgaive Kundali 6-4, 6-3; Akanksha & Kavya Khirwar bt Ruma Gaikaiwari & Riya 7-6(2), 3-6, [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sodhi-stuns-prasad/article36008884.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||Rahul Bheke joins Mumbai City FC||Reigning ISL champion Mumbai City FC on Thursday announced the arrival of defender Rahul Bheke, who joined the club on a two-year contract until the end of the 2022-23 season. Bheke is also a seasoned campaigner in the ISL having featured for sides like Kerala Blasters, FC Pune City and most recently Bengaluru FC, making 92 appearances over the last six seasons. “This is my hometown club and of course, the defending champions. The feeling of representing your city and your people is what makes this game more special for me, and I did not have to think twice when the opportunity to join Mumbai City came about,” Bheke was quoted as saying in a media release issued by the club. The 30-year-old, who can play across the back line, started his career through the youth sides of Mahindra United and went on to play for Air India, Mumbai Tigers and Mumbai FC before moving to East Bengal in 2015. Bheke has also scored five times in the ISL, including an extra-time winner in the 2018-19 ISL final leading Bengaluru FC to the title. Head coach Sergio Lobera described Bheke as an “experienced professional”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-bheke-joins-mumbai-city-fc/article36009383.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit returns to Champions Tour||Vidit Gujrathi will return to the Champions Chess Tour following an invitation to figure in the $100,000 Aimchess US Rapid online chess beginning on August 28. Vidit last played in the Goldmoney Asian Rapid, which ended on July 4, and finished ninth to narrowly miss a place in the quarterfinals. With the World No. 1 Magnus Carlsen leading the pack of 16 players, the event will be the last one of the season before the eight-man final next month. Carlsen leads the Tour standings, closely followed by Wesley So.  The players: Magnus Carlsen (Nor), Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra), Leinier Dominquez (USA). Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol). Wesley So (USA), Levon Aronian (Arm), Vladislav Artemiev (Rus), Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze). Anish Giri (Ned), Le Quang Liem (Vie). Alireza Firouzja (Fra). Daniel Norditsky (USA), Vidit Gujrathi. Eric Hansen (Can), Jorden van Foreest (Ned) and Awonder Liang (USA) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-returns-to-champions-tour/article36008954.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||A rare guide for prospective achievers||It is a unique venture, a book that will provide comprehensive guidance to the parents of aspiring champions. An engineer by profession, but an all-round sportsman, Sreekar Mothukuri, who has played badminton, cricket, tennis and table tennis at different levels in India and abroad, has interviewed the sports stars, their parents, the coaches, psychologists, nutritionists, doctors and fitness experts in putting together an invaluable book, Behind a Sports Champion , which is ready for global launch this month. First coaches “Parents are the first coaches of the child. If parents do not show commitment, the child will not show interest,” says P.V. Ramana, father of World Champion and double Olympic medallist P.V. Sindhu. “He started playing table tennis at the age of five. In juniors, he never achieved anything. If we had stopped my son in the 10th grade as he was not getting results, we would have missed one Padma Shri,” says Srinivas Rao, father of table tennis star Sharath Kamal. Sreekar wanted to be a cricketer, but could not pursue his goal despite being motivated and committed, owing to “lack of knowledge and guidance”. That is the prime reason for the emergence of the book, a guide to the parents with live examples and insights from a variety of sports. “Parents should focus on their child’s education and nutrition. They should not interfere in the child’s sports. The more they interfere, the more it will affect their child’s performance,” says Dinesh Lad, coach of Rohit Sharma and Shardul Thakur. Renowned chess coach R.B. Ramesh suggests that “parents should not spend beyond their means” as it would backfire if the child does not meet their expectations with results. “Children can start fitness training after 12, but only if they enjoy it,” says Shankar Basu, former strength and conditioning coach of the Indian cricket team. Treasure trove With more than 50 interviews, the book spanning 350-odd pages is a treasure trove of lively experience of many brilliant careers. The author, who has travelled across the country and abroad for the interviews, warns that there is no ready-made formula for success but points out that, “the chances of success increase if you follow the right steps suggested by the experts”. Sreekar beautifully sums up by saying that the idea was to help parents and the young champions, “navigate the rocky road of youth sports, enjoy sports and be the best they can be”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-rare-guide-for-prospective-achievers/article36008956.ece
20 August 2021||Mason,||Naomi Osaka survives a Gauff test||Two days after a thoughtful exchange with a local sports columnist, Naomi Osaka delivered a more relevant statement on the court.  Down a set and a break to 17-year-old Coco Gauff, the second-ranked Osaka fought back to pull out a 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 win at the Western and Southern Open on Wednesday, her first WTA Tour event since Roland Garros in late May. Osaka appreciated being tested so quickly. “It's definitely been a while since I played a tough opponent in a three-set match,” she said. “It was definitely really tough, but I feel really good right now. I'm super excited to play another match.” The 23-year-old Osaka is outspoken on many social issues and announced during Monday's pre-match media session that she would be donating her tournament prize money to earthquake-ravaged Haiti, her father's homeland.   I'm figuring it out at the same time as you are, I would sayOsakaon how she balances her discomfort with news conferences and her need to speak out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naomi-osaka-survives-a-gauff-test/article36009400.ece
20 August 2021||Cincinnati,||Sania loses early in doubles with Jabuer||Sania Mirza and Ons Jabeur of Tunisia lost 7-5, 6-2 to Veronika Kudermetova and Elena Rybakina in the doubles first round of the $2,114,989 WTA tennis here. Ankita-Gorgodze advance In the $115,000 event in Chicago, Ankita Raina and Ekaterina Gorgodze of Georgia knocked out the second seeds Renata Voraccova and Julia Wachaczyk 6-2, 2-6, [10-8] in the doubles pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   $2,114,989 WTA, Cincinnati: Doubles: First round: Veronika Kudermetova (Rus) & Elena Rybakina (Kaz) bt Ons Jabeur (Tun) & Sania Mirza 7-5, 6-2.   $115,000 WTA, Chicago: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Ekaterina Gorgodze (Geo) & Ankita Raina bt Renata Voracova (Cze) & Julia Wachaczyk (Ger) 6-2, 2-6, [10-8].   $25,000 ITF men, Ueberlingen, Germany: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Eduard Esteve Lobato & Oriol Roca Batalla (Esp) bt Thibaut Gadilhe (Fra) & Tarun Anirudh Chilakalapudi 6-4, 6-2.   $25,000 ITF women, Ourense, Spain: First round: Yvonne Cavalle-Reimers (Esp) bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-3, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir: First round: Chiraz Bechri (Tun) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-2, 6-0.   Ramu Ueda (Jpn) bt Humera Baharmus 6-0, 6-3; Saki Imamura (Jpn) bt Bhuvana Kalva 3-1 (retired).   $15,000 ITF women, Erwitte, Germany: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Lisa-Marie Rioux (Jpn) & Saumya Vig w/o Oana Gavrila (Rou) & Elizabeth Halbauer (US) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-loses-early-in-doubles/article36008823.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Gods Plan claims Rare And Gorgeous Handicap||CHENNAI: R. Ramanathan trained Gods Plan (P. Sai Kumar up) won the first division of the Rare And Gorgeous Handicap, the feature event of the races held here on Thursday (Aug. 19). The winner is the property of Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer B. Suresh saddled four winners on the day.  1. FEET OF FLAMES HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: RWANDA (A. Imran Khan) 1, Fun Lover (Farid Ansari) 2, Full Of Surprise (Zervan) 3 and Golden Streak (Yash Narredu) 4. 4-3/4, 2-1/4 and 1. 1m, 14.56s. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: B. Suresh.  2. FEET OF FLAMES PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: PROTEA (Akshay Kumar) 1, Glorious Sunlight (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Sirona (P. Vikram) 3 and Oberon (H.M. Akshay) 4. Lnk, 2-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 13.76s. Owner: Angad Singh. Trainer B. Suresh.  3. LIGHT PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): WIND SYMBOL (Yash Narredu) 1, Dashing Beauty (Azfar Syeed) 2, Reign Of Terror (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Turf Beauty (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1-1/4, 3 and 2. 1m, 14.59s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: Sebastian.  4. LOVEDALE CUP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: AMENDMENT (C. Brisson) 1, Beauty Of The Turf (Farid Ansari) 2, Mayflower (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Glorious Legend (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 4-1/4, 5-3/4 and 4. 1m, 12.28s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: B. Suresh.  5. RARE AND COURAGEOUS HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: GODS PLAN (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Emissary (Akshay Kumar) 2, Torbert (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Catelyn (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 1/2, 3-3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 12.86s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. RARE AND GORGEOUS HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: WAKEFUL (Surya Prakash) 1, Lordship (A, Imran Khan) 2, Octavian (Yash Narredu) 3 and Star Twist (Dhanu Singh) 4. 8, nk and 1-1/2. 1m, 12.02s. Owners: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing & Mr, Vikram Singh. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  7. PARTY ROYAL HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over: STAR WAVES (Akshay Kumar) 1, Rhiannon (Koshi Kumar) 2, My Kingdom (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Excellent Phoenix (H.M. Akshay) and Esteva (P. Vikram) deadheat 4. Owner: Mr. A.L Murugappan. Trainer: B. Suresh.  8. PARTY ROYAL HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over: BUTTERFLY (A. Imran Khan) 1, Royal Rules (Akshay Kumar) 2, Baller (A. Ayaz Khan) 3 and Texas Rose (R. Manish) 4. 1/2, 1-3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 0.46s. Owner: Mr. Deepak Kumar. Trainer: Fahad Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gods-plan-claims-rare-and-gorgeous-handicap/article36008887.ece
20 August 2021||Bhavnagar,||‘Everything that had unfolded in my life flashed in mind’||His entire life flashed before his eyes when he geared up to bowl on his international debut, says young pacer Chetan Sakariya, reflecting on his journey in India colours during the recent limited-overs tour of Sri Lanka. Meteoric rise The 23-year-old had a meteoric rise in the past six months as he first impressed in the IPL after being picked up by Rajasthan Royals and then went on to represent India, claiming three wickets in the two T20Is and one ODI against Sri Lanka. “When I was preparing to bowl that first ball, I had a couple of minutes to go through marking my run-up, warming up, etc., and in that moment, I could see a flashback of everything that had unfolded in my life — the good, the bad, the sacrifices, the support, the criticism — everything. “So, it was emotional but gave me a lot of motivation to do well and that was the thought in my mind,” the left-arm pacer from Saurashtra, who had lost his father to COVID-19 in May, said in a release issued by RR. “...to make it to the Indian team, it has been a dream come true,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/everything-that-had-unfolded-in-my-life-flashed-in-mind/article36009167.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,||Over 100 entries for INMRC||The first round of the 2021 MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship will commence on Friday with over 100 entries and 19 races to be held over the three-day weekend at the MMRT here. The event will be held behind closed doors, while strictly complying with the Covid-19 safety protocols. TVS, Honda, KTM and Yamaha will be competing in four categories of the National championships — the Pro-Stock 301-400cc, Pro-Stock 165cc, Novice (Stock 165cc) and Girls (Stock 165cc) — which also boasts of record 17 private teams. Also in the mix are the two One-Make Championships organised by MMSC for Honda and TVS. Honda, as part of its Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup, will again parade its Moto3-spec NSF 250R ridden by a clutch of talented teenagers, all under 19 years of age. TVS will be showcasing its popular Apache RR 310 in the highly competitive Open class besides the RTR 200 in the Rookie (restricted to those below 19 years of age) which was earlier known as Novice, Girls and Media categories. The Pro-Stock 301-400cc class will headline the weekend programme. In the fray are several international riders led by National champion K.Y. Ahamed, Jagan Kumar and Deepak Ravikumar (all TVS Racing), Anish Shetty (Race Concepts, KTM) and veteran Rajini Krishnan (RACR, Yamaha R3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/over-100-entries-for-inmrc/article36008819.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||Sajan, Srihari feel Tokyo experience would help||Top Indian swimmers Sajan Prakash and Srihari Nataraj may have had an underwhelming Tokyo Olympics but they feel that the experience gained would help them in future events as they train their sights on a podium finish at next year’s Commonwealth & Asian Games. Sajan wrote a new chapter in the history of Indian swimming by becoming the first swimmer from the country to qualify for the Olympics by breaching the A-standard time at a qualifying meet in Rome on June 26. A day later, Srihari replicated the feat to seal his berth for the Tokyo Games. Both swimmers consistently shaved off times to achieve the elusive A-mark in their respective events. However, they couldn’t repeat their performance in Tokyo, failing to qualify for the semifinals. Srihari clocked 54.31s to finish 27th overall in 100m backstroke, while Sajan managed 1:57.22 in the 200m butterfly to be ranked 24th. The two weren’t even able to match their personal bests, which they had clocked a few weeks earlier. “I didn’t have enough time to compete in the Olympics after Italy. We only had three weeks to start again. If I had had three months, the performance would have been better,” Sajan said. “I prepared my best, tried to return into training and re-peak within three weeks after Rome but it seemed quite hard,” Srihari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajan-and-srihari-feel-tokyo-experience-would-help-them/article36008821.ece
20 August 2021||Chennai,||It had to be earned every inch of the way, says physio Kannan Bose||Kannan Bose savours the moment. The fragrance of a hard-earned success swept through the air. The Indian hockey team was awash in a feeling of euphoria. This is why we play sports. A sense of being a part of history was unmistakable. After the Indian team was presented with the bronze medal at the Tokyo Games, the support staff, including physio Kannan Bose, got onto the podium with the team for a photo session. “The world looked different from there. Success never tasted sweeter, and it had to be earned every inch of the way,” said Bose in an exclusive conversation with The Hindu on Thursday. The 40-year-old Bose began his career in cricket — he worked in teams owned by Kalpathi Group and India Cements, continually served at the NCA and was the physio of the Tamil Nadu Ranji team in 2018. Pivotal moment He joined the Indian hockey team as its chief physio in Sept. 2020. It proved a pivotal moment in his career. Travelling right into the heart of the Olympics, Bose said, “It was hot and humid in Tokyo. Considering the weather, the effort and the level of alertness shown by Sreejesh, who was wearing the goal-keeper’s heavy attire, was phenomenal.” The Indian physio revealed, “We had devised a strategy, based on the oppressive weather, to have a substitution every two minutes. And before every quarter we would have a chart ready. It was so organised.” He called Mandeep Singh, Sumit Valmiki, Harmanpreet and Sreejesh super fit and added getting Birender Lakra, nursing a calf injury, ready for the Games was his most challenging task. Bose said, “Hockey is an explosive short-duration game played over four sessions. There is so much running up and down, particularly by the forwards and the midfielders, that it can make extreme demands on the body.” Bose said, “Every member of the Indian hockey team had a YoYo score of 22, way ahead of cricket, and as many as 10 players had reached 23.8 which is the maximum that can be scored in YoYo.”  Talking about the Olympic campaign, Bose said, “Even when we lost to Australia, we were not overly disappointed because we knew it was a day when everything went right for Australia.” He elaborated, “This team is mentally very tough which adds to its physical strength. It can come back from adversity.” Bose noted, “England is a team that plays very fast and comes extremely hard at you in the last session. We weathered the storm in the quarterfinals. And we showed belief against Germany in the bronze medal play-off.” Now Bose is part of a glittering page in Indian hockey. No wonder he is smiling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-had-to-be-earned-every-inch-of-the-way-says-physio-kannan-bose/article36008781.ece
20 August 2021||Ufa (Russia),||Bipasha gets India another silver medal||Bipasha got India another silver medal at the World junior wrestling championships on Thursday. The yellow metal proved beyond her reach as she lost to Kylie Renee Welker of the USA in the women’s 76kg final. Bipasha was outclassed by Kylie 10-0 in a minute and 25 seconds. Sanju Devi and Bhateri booked their berths in the final of the women’s 62kg and 65kg weight categories respectively. Sanju defeated Luisa Scheel of Germany (5-2), Iva Geric of Croatia (4-3) and Birgul Soltanova of Azerbaijan (8-5) to set up a title clash with Russian Alina Kasabieva. Bhateri beat Khadija Jlassi of Tunisia (2-1) and Amina Capezan of Romania (2-2, via criteria) to make the final where she will meet Irina Ringaci of Moldova. Simran (50kg) got the better of Belarusian Natalia Varakina (7-3), while Sito (55kg) outsmarted Melda Dernekci of Turkey (11-0) to claim bronze medals. In other bronze medal matches, Kusum (59kg) lost to Azerbaijani Zhala Aliyeva (3-1), while Arju (68kg) gave a walkover to Zsuzsanna Molnar of Belarus. Saneh (72kg), who lost to American Kennedy Alexis Blades (11-0) in the semifinals, will fight for bronze. Yash (74kg), Pruthviraj Patil (92kg) and Anirudh Kumar (125kg) beat Stambul Zhanybek Uulu of Kyrgyzstan (12-6), Ivan Kirillov of Russia (2-1) and Aydin Ahmadov of Azerbaijan (7-2) respectively to win bronze medals on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bipasha-gets-india-another-silver-medal/article36008775.ece
20 August 2021||Melbourne,||T20 WC: Smith, Warner and Cummins back||Steve Smith, David Warner and Pat Cummins were on Thursday recalled as Australia named a full-strength squad in search of an elusive ICC T20 World Cup title later this year. The trio had opted out of Australia’s limited-overs tour of the West Indies and Bangladesh recently. The 15-man Australia squad for the showpiece, to be held in Oman and UAE in October, is a mixture of pace, spin and hard-hitters keeping in mind the slow, spin-friendly conditions of the pitches in the UAE. In a major development, Australia has included uncapped Josh Inglis as a backup to wicketkeeper Matthew Wade. Inglis, who is yet to make his international debut, has been chosen ahead of Alex Carey and Josh Philippe. Australia’s chief selector George Bailey justified Inglis’ selection, saying the wicketkeeper-batsman has been knocking the door for a while now. “He (Inglis) offers the squad flexibility in the batting order with his adaptability, counter-attacking ability and power striking,” he said.  The squad: Aaron Finch (Capt.), Pat Cummins (vice-capt.), Ashton Agar, Josh Hazlewood, Josh Inglis, Mitchell Marsh, Glenn Maxwell, Kane Richardson, Steve Smith, Mitchell Starc, Marcus Stoinis, Mitchell Swepson, Matthew Wade, David Warner and Adam Zampa .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inglis-in-australia-squad-for-t20-world-cup/article36008773.ece
20 August 2021||Mumbai,||Three-year Olympic cycle will be tricky: Bindra||India's first individual Olympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra on Thursday said the road to the 2024 Paris Games will be difficult and "tricky" given the shorter three-year cycle. He also lauded the country's performance at the recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics. “It was a historic performance with the best-ever seven medals. There were moments of great triumph and heartbreaks, but that is what sport is all about. We have a good momentum now going forward," Bindra said. “The next Olympics will be tricky, primarily because of the shorter cycle. Normally athletes get a year post Olympics that allows them to rest and recover, but this time they need to get back pretty quickly,” he said at a webinar organised by ELMS Sports Foundation. The athletes will now be left with a challenge of having less qualification events and quotas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-year-olympic-cycle-will-be-tricky-bindra/article36008813.ece
20 August 2021||Karachi,||Afghanistan ODIs on: PCB||The Pakistan Cricket Board is confident that the political upheaval in Afghanistan will not affect its ODI series. A source in the PCB said that they had got positive signals from their counterparts in Afghanistan about the series. The Afghanistan Board will host the three-match series from September 1 to 5 in Hambantota, Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afghanistan-odis-on-pcb/article36008771.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Srikaran stars for Freyer International||Srikaran's five-wicket haul helped Freyer International defeat Little Hearts CA by 24 runs in the All India YSCA Trophy tournament on Thursday and reach the semifinals.  The scores: YSCA-B 64 in 23.1 overs (A.C. Prathiban 4/8, Ashwin Balaji 3/16) lost to AG’s Office 67/1 in 8.2 overs (Rajkumar 37 n.o., Nidhish Rajagopal 26 n.o.). Points: AG's office 4 (10); YSCA-B 0 (0).   Gurunanak College 173/6 in 30 overs (S. Aravind 44, Bharath Hariharan 38, Anirudh Seshadri 49 n.o.) bt IOB 171/9 in 30 overs (Gokul 35, Abhishek Hegde 44, Nirmal Kumar 26, Vaibhav 27, Seshan Muthu 4/19, Gurjapneet Singh 3/16). Gurunanak 4 (8); IOB 0 (6).   Indian Bank 133/9 in 30 overs (A. Jerome 50, Mitchell 37, Trilok Nag 3/23) lost to SRM IST 134/3 in 16.3 overs (Praveen Kumar 33, U. Mukilesh 35, Mokit Hariharan 33 n.o.). SRM IST 4 (12); Indian Bank 0 (4).   Freyer International 170/8 in 28 overs (Subramania Siva 42, Sasidev 42) bt Little Hearts CA 146 in 27.3 overs (Roop Prasad 32, Sujendran 39, Avinash 33, Srikaran 5/13). Freyer 4 (8); Little Hearts 0 (0) .      An all-round performance by Kanish Prabhu (78 & five for 23) was instrumental in Venugopal Club’s 69-run win over Avengers Penetron in a second division match of the KDCA cricket league held here recently.  The scores:   II div.:   Garnet 108/9 in 30 overs (Sukhin Saravanan 29, S. Sriramachandran 4/24, R. Srinivasan 3/20) lost to Seshadri Memorial 109/2 in 15.5 overs (S. Sujindran 59 n.o.); Venugopal Club 202/5 in 30 overs (B. Avinash 48 n.o., Kanish Prabhu 78, M. Surya 4/31) bt Avengers Penetron 133 in 29.4 overs (Bezaleel Paul 41, Kanish Prabhu 5/23, Girish Prabhu 3/31).      Aditya (C&Y) defeated Sriram (TNBSA) 2-1 in a third-round match of the SSA non-medallist snooker tournament being held here.  The results (third round ): Dinesh (GA) bt Zakir (QBG Shooters) 2-0; Mishal(QBC) bt Srinidhi (SOS) 2-0; Aditya (C&Y) bt Sriram (TNBSA) 2-1; Maha (Cuezone) bt Vicky (CQS) 2-0; Bacha (CQS) bt Sriram (Snookcity) 2-1; Navin (CQS) bt Jaffer (QBG Shooters) 2-1; Santhanam (QBG Tricks) bt Saif (SSA) 2-0; M. Abdul (SSA) bt Hemanth (Buddies) 2-0.       South Madras Cricket Academy will conduct the SMCA- JaiHind Trophy tournament open to all corporates, Institutions and private clubs from the first week of September 2021. Entries close on Aug. 25. For details contact, The Secretary, SMCA, 34/1, Sriram Colony, Tambaram Sanatorium, Chennai 600047. Ph: 98843 02787 / 22231215. Mail ID: vasusmca@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikaran-stars-for-freyer-international/article36008886.ece
20 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Aadithyan, Nanda win titles||S.D. Aadithyan won the boy’s under-19 title in the Thiruvananthapuram district selection trials badminton tournament here on Thursday. In the final, Aadithyan beat Aman Suresh 21-18, 21-14. Nanda Ghosh came back to defeat Meenakshi Vinu 19-21, 21-17, 21-15 to win the girl’s under-19 title.  The results (finals): Men: Doubles: R. Arryan Aji / U. Syam Prasad bt M. Shyam Prasad / Vishnu Rajendran 14-21, 21-17, 21-14.   Mixed doubles: Arryan / Manjari Roy bt V.M. Dhanush/ Dhwany Krishna 21-8, 21-16.   Under-19: S.D. Aadithyan bt Aman Suresh 21-18, 21-14.   Doubles: Arryan / Dhruv Manghat bt R. Nivedh / Vinayak Chandran 21-12, 21-17.   Mixed doubles: Arryan / Manjari bt Aman / Nanda Ghosh 21-18, 21-15.   Under-17: Aman bt A.V. Akshay 22-20, 21-13.   Doubles: Akshay / S. Alokdev bt Parthiv V. Nair / Sreeram S. Nair 21-19, 21-18.   Under-15: Arjun Rajasekhar bt Vishnu Viju 21-15, 21-6.   Doubles: Arjun / Vishnu bt Ayyappa Ram / Fahim Mohammed 21-18, 21-13.   Under-13: R.S. Abhineet bt Shaun Sony Cheruvathur 21-13, 21-17.   Doubles: Abhineet / V.A. Akash bt Manav Vinu / Shaun Sony 21-15, 21-17.   Under-11: S. Abhiram bt Manav 21-11, 18-21, 21-12.   Women: Doubles: Meenakshi Vinu / Nanda bt Dhwany / Manjari 21-19, 21-18.   Under-19: Nanda bt Meenakshi 19-21, 21-17, 21-15.   Doubles: Dhwany / Manjari bt Meenakshi / Nanda 21-11, 21-19.   Under-17: Meenakshi bt Neha Krishna 26-24, 21-14.   Under-15: S. Shimiyon bt Gayathri B. Kumar 21-11, 21-14.   Doubles: Shimiyon / S. Swetha bt Nidhi Krishna / Gayathri 23-21, 21-23, 21-9.   Under-13: Nidhi bt Aagamya Rajeshri Jayan 16-21, 21-17, 22-20.   Under-11: T.R. Diya Sree bt Rangana K. Renjith 21-9, 21-5 .      Varun Nayanar’s 125 was the highlight as KCA B crushed KCA C by 244 runs in the KCA Under-19 selections matches at the St. Xavier’s College ground here on Thursday. KCA piled up 311 for five in the allotted 50 overs and bundled out KCA C for a paltry 67. On Wednesday, KCA B scored a seven-wicket win over KCA A.  The scores: KCA B 311/5 in 50 overs (Varun Nayanar 125, Asif Ali 80, S.S. Sharon 64) bt KCA C 67 in 28.5 overs (Jaison Peter 5/7)   KCA A 166 in 46.2 overs (Niranjan V Dev 53, Pavan Sreedhar 34, Amal Raj 3/26) lost to KCA B 167/3 in 46.3 overs (S.S. Sharon 70 no, Riya Basheer 46).      Olympian Sajan Prakash was felicitated by SAI-LNCPE, Kariyavattom, here on Thursday. Sajan Prakash shared his Tokyo experience with the trainees and students of LNCPE. Dr. G. Kishore, principal and director SAI LNCPE, presented a memento to the ace swimmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aadithyan-nanda-win-titles/article36009172.ece
20 August 2021||TIRUCHI:,||Five-wkt. hauls for Parthiban and Shyam||S. Parthiban (five for 13) starred in Radiant's 79-run win over Manapparai in the Tiruchi DCA fourth division league. In another match, K. Shyam Sundar took five for 22 as XI Diamonds defeated Apollo by 22 runs.  The scores:   IV div.: Radiant 192/6 in 30 overs (M. Kirubanithy 41, C. Vigneshwaran 48, R. Parthiban 30, S. Senthil 49 n.o., R. Rajalingam 4/23) bt Manapparai 113 in 23.4 overs (R. Sevanthilingam 71, R. Nishanth Sakthivel 3/6, S. Parthiban 5/13).   XI Diamonds 106 in 27.4 overs (M. Paramananth 34, A. Charan Kumar 4/19, N. Vedeshwaran 3/14) bt Apollo 84 in 27 overs (N. Vedeshwaran 27, K. Shyam Sundar 5/22).   V div.: Krish 178/5 in 30 overs (V. Srinivasan 71, A. Mohamed Anas 26, M. Dinesh Kumar 50 n.o., R. Eswaran 3/36) bt Tough Guys-A 103 in 20.2 overs (A. Sugumar 34, M. Dinesh Kumar 4/21, A. Mohamed Anas 3/28) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-wkt-hauls-for-parthiban-and-shyam/article36009022.ece
20 August 2021||Mysuru:,||KSFA’s Rasheed Ahmed passes away||Rasheed Ahmed (74), vice-president Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA) and chairman MDFA, passed away at his residence here due to illness on Thursday evening. MDFA office-bearers and football players from Mysore district offered condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksfas-rasheed-ahmed-passes-away/article36008824.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 07:06 IST,||Sudoku — August 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-20-2021/article36009623.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The khakhi files||K.R. Shenai, in his trademark sunglasses, stands atop an open jeep surveying the crowds. The black-and-white picture taken in the years Shenai, from the Indian Police Service batch of 1947, was Commissioner of Madras (1971-75) exudes an air of power and responsibility. It is a frame that lends itself to the central theme of the Tamil Nadu Police Museum that is poised to open soon with a repository of exhibits that marks the passage of the enforcement agency from colonial India to a technologically advanced force. It is also the story of the Indo-Saracenic building in which the city’s Police Commissionerate was housed from 1856 to 2014, when it moved to its present location opposite the Kirk. “Conservation efforts began in October 2020 and the restoration of the building took nine months,” says A. Amalraj, IPS, Additional Director-General of Police, Tamil Nadu Commando Force, and the coordinator of the project, adding, “We are working on the ticketing and the visitors’ cafeteria and will be ready to open in a month.” While the former and the present State police chiefs — DGPs J.K. Tripathy and C. Sylendra Babu — oversaw the project, the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation, Reach Foundation and Conservation Mainstream explored the adaptive reuse of the building. With Steve Borgia, chairman, INDeco, as the honorary executive curator and a team of nine co-curators, the two-storied building that was on the verge of being demolished was restored. The once-white structure and its outlying grounds of 14 acres that belonged to Arunagiri Mudaliar were bought for Rs. 21,000 and became the headquarters of the first Police Commissioner of Madras, Lieutenant-Colonel John Carne Boulderson in 1856. Over time, to accommodate an expanding force, the building’s beauty was lost to temporary partitions. Today, it stands shielded from the road by trees and guarded by cannon. Doric columns hold up a grand portico where a blue Plymouth Belvedere, once the car that Commissioners such as FV Arul travelled to work in, is parked. Massive louvred doors open in from the deep verandah that runs around the building. Beyond the lone armed sentry is a parade of vehicles that marks the evolution of what the beat constable (penny farthing bicycle), the despatcher (Royal Enfield bike), and coastal security personnel (motorised speedboat) used as a means of transport. Lording over is late Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa’s bullet-proof SUV. At the far end is a series of brass bells used by firemen to signify different alarms. The first high ceiling hall with wooden beams showcases landmark cases dealt by the Chennai police — the 1965 anti-Hindi agitation, the 1975 LIC building fire, the surreal pistols-at-dawn moment when LTTE chief V Prabakaran and PLOTE leader Uma Maheswaran whipped out guns and shot at each other in Pondy Bazaar in 1982 leading to the arrest of the duo by a deputy inspector. A wall panel discusses the gory Auto Shankar case; alongside it is a sub-jail where visitors can enter and look at life from behind bars. Mannequins wear Sam Browne belts and sola topees, and uniforms of the various wings while a bandsman is surrounded by musical instruments. In an adjoining gallery are rare temple sculptures recovered by the Idol Wing. A red baize-lined wooden staircase rises from the flag-stone floor to the first storey, past a picture of Usha Rani, the first woman sub-inspector to join in 1973. A battery of guns — from the old faithful 303 to a Bren light-machine — shares space with Winchester and 12 bore bullets. In the ceremonial swords, array of cameras that have captured crime scenes, riot gear, detective kits, explosives, manacles, handcuffs and service medals is entwined the story of Chennai’s policemen. Downstairs, the Commissioner’s officeroom replete with a roll-top table, unusual paperweights, fobs and ink-wells, parade mascots and portraits of taciturn chiefs who stare down at visitors, has been recreated. Mounted on the wall is the revolver that former Commissioner W.I. Davaram was presented with for being the best IPS probationer of his batch. In the foyer, Bakelite switches turn on lights that focus on the honour roll of men and the lone woman — Letika Saran — who have occupied the hallowed office of the Commissioner of Police. Beside it on a brass plaque is written “Oh you men in khakhi, you face what others fear.”  The museum is at 483 Pantheon Road, Egmore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-khakhi-files/article36009234.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Rail Museum||Located near the Furnishing division of the Integral Coach Factory (ICF), the Rail Museum takes you on a journey through the rich history and heritage of the Indian Railways. It was opened in 2002 with a host of exhibits that promise to enthral children and adults alike. With galleries, miniatures, photographs, vintage models, paintings, toy-train ride and more, there’s much to explore and experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/rail-museum/article36009538.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Life in the fast lane||Lightning McQueen, a top race car, falls out of his trailer while travelling to California to race against The King and Chick Hicks for the Piston Cup Championship. He ends up in a rundown town called Radiator Springs where he befriends Sally, Doc Hudson and Mater. Despite being ordered to leave the next day, he earns himself a place in the village and learns that Radiator Springs used to be a hotspot along US Route 66. He also finds out that Sally hopes to revive the town. At the championship, McQueen allows Chick to win but wins a scholarship for his sportsmanship. He decides to return to Radiator Springs and Sally. When he sets up his racing headquarters in the town, Radiator Springs is back on the map. Set in world of anthropomorphic talking cars and other vehicles, this is a tale of how friendships and relationships are tested and forged.  Gear up!  The Pizza Planet delivery truck, which has shown up in every Pixar film except The Incredibles , appears before the final race. The 1952 Walt Disney Studios short, Susie, the Little Blue Coupe , sparked the idea for Cars . Luigi’s license plate reads 445-108, which is the latitude and longitude for the Ferrari factory in Modena, Italy. Most cars are based on real cars. Doc Hudson (1951 Hudson Hornet), Ramone the body paint specialist (1959 Chevy Impala), tire salesman Luigi (1959 Fiat 500), hippie Fillmore (1960 Volkswagen Microbus), military surplus store owner Sarge (1942 Willys Jeep), and Mack, the truck that drives Lightning around (Mack Superliner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/life-in-the-fast-lane/article36009499.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of a city||You know the worst thing about not going to school? The school comes to you! You sit at home and see your friends and teachers on a computer screen. And then the teacher asks a question that has no answer at all! “Where is Madras?” What did that mean? I had to give the answer by the next day. I asked my mother. “That’s what our city was called until 1996,” she said. “And then we became Chennai.” I was puzzled. “So where’s Madras?” She frowned. “In the history books.” So what should I tell the teacher? “Wrong question, Ma’am. There’s no Madras!” That’s the worst thing! She can ask you a question and disappear, and you can’t ask questions of your own! Pondering over the problem Dad and Mom were in the kitchen. After meetings and phone-calls, they were busy with food production. I had a problem! To clear my head, I decided to go for a short walk. I put on my mask and let myself out. They didn’t hear the door close. I was so lost in my thoughts that I kept walking. There were people on the road, masked and busy. I slipped into one of those tiny streets Mylapore is famous for and soon I felt I’d lose my way. I was turning to go back home when something caught my eye. It was an old building with stained walls, standing quietly between two bright shops. I went closer and saw a board with big letters: M4 . That was surprising because the house number was different. The thick, ancient door was open. I went closer to read the sign nailed on it: Mylapore Mami’s Madras Museum . It was the strangest thing. Here I was looking for Madras, and this fell right on my lap! Since it was a museum and not a house, I walked in. But it looked like a house! The front room had chairs and a sofa, and a girl in glasses watching TV. She was dressed in jeans and a white shirt. She looked up. “I’ve come to see the museum,” I said. “Er... Is Mylapore Mami here?” The girl stared at me, then nodded and got up and left the room leaving the TV on. I watched a herd of elephants slowly crossing a forest. By the time they reached the other side, the inner door opened and a lady came out. She wore a nine-yard sari and had flowers in her hair. She wore glasses and looked familiar. And then I saw it was the same girl dressed up as a Mylapore Mami! At the museum I was about to laugh when she said in a grown-up voice, “Yes? What can I do for you, young man? The museum? Come, then.” I followed her through the same door she’d emerged from. There was a corridor with many doors. She opened the last one on the left and walked in. I followed. It was a surprisingly large room, far bigger than anything you’d expect in a small house. She slammed the door shut behind us and asked, “Where are we now?” Starting point It was dark but I was surprised to feel wet sand between my toes. I heard the sound of waves crashing down. “It’s the Marina beach!” I sputtered. “We’ll begin our Madras journey here,” she said. It was as if my teacher had sent me this strange, fake Mami to help me answer her question! For the next half an hour, I was enveloped by the sounds of old Madras. I could barely see anything. When I was scared, she noticed it and held my hand. The girl watching TV had actually become Mylapore Mami. You can’t imagine how sound can make you see! In the darkness I saw images of sand, beach and red university buildings. I heard families laughing and fisherfolk calling. I climbed the steps in Fort St. George, knowing this was where Madras began. I was then in Central Station, hearing passengers, porters, and vendors selling their wares. The wonderful world of Moore Market opened up with thousands of little and big shops selling everything from books to animals and birds! I’d never been there before but, here it was before me! I went down old Madras streets, some paved a hundred years ago. Old temples, houses, shops. I heard roars, wails and chirps at the Madras Zoo, the steady hoof beats from horse carriages on the road. The Museum was awesome. The young-old girl-Mami took me from Marina to Mahabalipuram, letting only voices and sounds guide me. Later, in the front room, she nodded seriously at me. “No fee,” she said. “But don’t you ever forget Mylapore Mami!” “I won’t!” I said. “You gave me my answer!”  I went closer to read the sign nailed on it: Mylapore Mami’s Madras Museum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/in-search-of-a-city/article36009542.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Redefining the coastline||1. Marina is the longest beach in India and the second-longest in the world. 2. The Governor-General Mountstuart Elphinstone Grant Duff, named the beach after an Italian word Marina in 1881. 3. He also built a promenade along the beach with extensive layering, thereby modifying the landscape with soft sand. 4. A number of significant buildings built in the Indo Saracenic architecture like the Ice House and monuments such as the Triumph of Labour statue and the Gandhi statue dot this coastline. 5. It stretches from the Cooum river in the north to the Lighthouse in the south and stretches over 13 kms. 6. It is the most crowded beach in the country with more than 10,000 to 25,000 visitors on weekdays, and over 50,000 visitors during weekends and holidays. 7. The six km stretch where the beach runs from near Fort St. George in the north to Foreshore Estate in the south makes it the longest natural urban beach in the country. 8. Marina Beach is also home for the endangered olive ridley sea turtles, during the nesting and mating season, between late October and April. 9. Memorial of four of the State’s chief ministers, an Olympic size swimming pool, an aquarium and a skating rink are a part of the beach. 10 In 1966 a cyclone sank a tramp ship SS Damatis and it’s remains are still found underwater near the coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/redefining-the-coastline/article36009570.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Pearl on the Coromandel Coast||My name: Madras  Birthday: August 22, 1639  Starting point: Two representatives of the East India Company, Francis Day and Andrew Cogan, secured a grant for a strip of land that belonged to the Raja of Chandragiri, which was under the control of a chieftain named Damarla Venkatappa Nayak.  Getting tough: On April 23, 1653, Fort St. George was built. Within these fortified walls lived British merchants, factory workers and colonial settlers.  Change in leadership: In 1687, the region came under the rule of the Mughal emperor in Delhi. Under their protection, the city witnessed a period of peace and prosperity.  Battle of Madras: In September 1746, French forces captured the city from the British garrison. The French occupied Madras till the end of hostilities when it was exchanged for the British conquest of Louisbourg in North America as part of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.  Top of the class: First mayor; first corporation; first English fortress; first railway company of InWdia (1845); first judiciary (1678); first army (1750); first birth and death registration (1865); first bank — Madras Bank (1682-83); first eye hospital — Madras Eye Infirmary (1819); first observatory; first full-time Marine Surveyor since 1785...  Tittle tattle: The first flag to be flown after Independence is stored in the Fort Museum; Elihu Yale, Governor of Madras (1649-1721) funded the Yale University in the U.S. from the wealth amassed in Madras. The oldest regiment of the Indian Army is the Madras Regiment, headquartered at Wellington, Nilgiris. The first woman to acquire an MBBS degree was Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy. She was also the first woman legislator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/pearl-on-the-coromandel-coast/article36009507.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Building blocks||Across 1 Site of the world's largest monolithic structure (6) 4 A monument for the dead (4) 6 Renaissance architecture originated in this city (8) 7 A vertical curved structure (4) 9 Door from which to leave the building (4) 10 Elevator (4) 12 Top covering of a building (4) 14 Water-filled trench surrounding a castle (4) 17 A slope instead of stairs for wheelchair access (5) 19 Dome shaped house built from blocks of snow (5) 20 A cover for a wall (5) Down 1 A tower in Paris (6) 2 The animal on the Ashoka Pillar (4) 3 A building extension (6) 4 Building where dramas are staged (7) 5 "The Great ___": structure in Mohenjo-daro (4) 8 Mesh enclosure for poultry (4) 11 Place of worship (6) 13 ___ door: An opening in the floor or ceiling (4) 15 ___ Towers: Skyscrapers in Kuala Lampur (4) 16 Vertical structure that divides a space (4) 18 A kennel is a home for this animal (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/building-blocks/article36009518.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How was the solar system formed?  Scientiststhink that, around 4.5 billion years ago, there was a cloud of gases and dust. This was called the solar nebula. Due to gravity, some parts of these came together into clusters. The biggest of these became the Sun, as it was so tightly packed that the heat became intense. Over time, some clusters became planets and began to orbit the Sun, thanks to the latter’s gravitational pull and others became asteroids, comets and moons.   How iswall paint made?  In ancienttimes, paint was made from natural materials. Today, paint has three main parts: pigment or colour, binder that glue particles of the pigment together, and the solvent that makes the first to into a liquid that can be spread. Pigments are usually solid and will not spread evenly. They reflect some wavelengths of light and absorb others to give you the colour. When mixed with binders, they form a thick mass that is also hard to spread. That is why solvents are required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article36009503.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||World on the city’s plate||A large-scale the emigration of Tamils from Burma (now, Myanmar) in the 1960s saw many settle in Chennai, forming a colony close to the beach in the North of the city. One of the many things they brought with them was Burmese cuisine. To this day, there are street stall and restaurants that serve Burmese food; the most popular being atho ( athok or thouk in Burma). It is a salad-like dish with grated vegetables and fried onions tossed in garlic oil, chilli powder, salt, masala powder and a lime juice. It is topped with orange noodles and crushed, crispy bejo and coriander. Bejo is another Burmese speciality — a fried snack made of rice flour and groundnuts. Other popular Burmese food served in Chennai are mohinga — maida noodles served in a bowl of soup, masala eggs and plantain soup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/world-on-the-citys-plate/article36009515.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Get Lucky winners!||Congratulations to the winners of the Get Lucky with Nick Jr. contest published in The Hindu Young World on July 16. For the full list of winners, visit https://ywc.thehindu.com/results/get-lucky- with-nick-jr-july-16-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/get-lucky-winners/article36009555.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article36009532.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article36009558.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Sudoku||You know the worst thing about not going to school? The school comes to you! You sit at home and see your friends and teachers on a computer screen. And then the teacher asks a question that has no answer at all! “Where is Madras?” What did that mean? I had to give the answer by the next day. I asked my mother. “That’s what our city was called until 1996,” she said. “And then we became Chennai.” I was puzzled. “So where’s Madras?” She frowned. “In the history books.” So what should I tell the teacher? “Wrong question, Ma’am. There’s no Madras!” That’s the worst thing! She can ask you a question and disappear, and you can’t ask questions of your own! Pondering over the problem Dad and Mom were in the kitchen. After meetings and phone-calls, they were busy with food production. I had a problem! To clear my head, I decided to go for a short walk. I put on my mask and let myself out. They didn’t hear the door close. I was so lost in my thoughts that I kept walking. There were people on the road, masked and busy. I slipped into one of those tiny streets Mylapore is famous for and soon I felt I’d lose my way. I was turning to go back home when something caught my eye. It was an old building with stained walls, standing quietly between two bright shops. I went closer and saw a board with big letters: M4 . That was surprising because the house number was different. The thick, ancient door was open. I went closer to read the sign nailed on it: Mylapore Mami’s Madras Museum . It was the strangest thing. Here I was looking for Madras, and this fell right on my lap! Since it was a museum and not a house, I walked in. But it looked like a house! The front room had chairs and a sofa, and a girl in glasses watching TV. She was dressed in jeans and a white shirt. She looked up. “I’ve come to see the museum,” I said. “Er... Is Mylapore Mami here?” The girl stared at me, then nodded and got up and left the room leaving the TV on. I watched a herd of elephants slowly crossing a forest. By the time they reached the other side, the inner door opened and a lady came out. She wore a nine-yard sari and had flowers in her hair. She wore glasses and looked familiar. And then I saw it was the same girl dressed up as a Mylapore Mami! At the museum I was about to laugh when she said in a grown-up voice, “Yes? What can I do for you, young man? The museum? Come, then.” I followed her through the same door she’d emerged from. There was a corridor with many doors. She opened the last one on the left and walked in. I followed. It was a surprisingly large room, far bigger than anything you’d expect in a small house. She slammed the door shut behind us and asked, “Where are we now?” Starting point It was dark but I was surprised to feel wet sand between my toes. I heard the sound of waves crashing down. “It’s the Marina beach!” I sputtered. “We’ll begin our Madras journey here,” she said. It was as if my teacher had sent me this strange, fake Mami to help me answer her question! For the next half an hour, I was enveloped by the sounds of old Madras. I could barely see anything. When I was scared, she noticed it and held my hand. The girl watching TV had actually become Mylapore Mami. You can’t imagine how sound can make you see! In the darkness I saw images of sand, beach and red university buildings. I heard families laughing and fisherfolk calling. I climbed the steps in Fort St. George, knowing this was where Madras began. I was then in Central Station, hearing passengers, porters, and vendors selling their wares. The wonderful world of Moore Market opened up with thousands of little and big shops selling everything from books to animals and birds! I’d never been there before but, here it was before me! I went down old Madras streets, some paved a hundred years ago. Old temples, houses, shops. I heard roars, wails and chirps at the Madras Zoo, the steady hoof beats from horse carriages on the road. The Museum was awesome. The young-old girl-Mami took me from Marina to Mahabalipuram, letting only voices and sounds guide me. Later, in the front room, she nodded seriously at me. “No fee,” she said. “But don’t you ever forget Mylapore Mami!” “I won’t!” I said. “You gave me my answer!”  I went closer to read the sign nailed on it: Mylapore Mami’s Madras Museum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/in-search-of-a-city/article36009545.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Being a Bharatanatyam teacher||Esha enters her first Bharatanatyam class hoping to wear a costume and perform on stage very soon or make a video for YouTube like her friend. She has been watching her sister dance and wishes to mimic the beautiful moves one day. However, when she begins to train, she realises her regular classes involve a mundane drill of adavu movements that cause sore legs. The dream of donning a costume and performing seems far-fetched. As a young Bharatanatyam teacher, the challenge is to find new ways to sustain Esha’s interest, without compromising on the technique and learning process. ‘Teach your students the way you were taught’ has been the pedagogical premise of Bharatanatyam classes for many years. The transfer of knowledge through the guru-sishya parampara relies heavily on traditional methods of instruction. The technique is codified and teachers feel obliged to follow the established practice. This legacy involves the guru, who is considered the ultimate authority, and the student, who is expected to follow instructions with implicit obedience. Despite considerable changes in dance repertoires and in the demographics of the student population, pedagogical practices largely remain the same. And today’s students have access to multiple teachers through workshops, and can enhance their repertoire and technique through easily available online resources. I ask myself what my role is, as a teacher in this context. In an era, where children insist on actively engaging in the learning process through questions and activity-based learning, my role as a Bharatanatyam teacher is to kindle a love for the form, encourage creativity, and foster individuality. I realise my pedagogy and classroom practices need to go beyond what I have learned, and I draw inspiration from my varied experiences as dancer, scientific researcher, and, more recently, curator. The breadth and scope of my previous experiences influence my pedagogical practices and shape my identity as a teacher. The requirements of millennial students are changing and there is a need to revisit the teaching methodology. Training in Bharatanatyam requires years of rigorous practice and many students are not able to withstand the demands of the art form in the initial years. They often complain of boredom or feel overwhelmed with the pace of the class and do not have the motivation to continue. As teachers, we need to ask ourselves, is Bharatanatyam meant only for those who can endure the rigour of the practice? How can dance classes look beyond physical education and kinesthetic literacy? The goal in the initial phase of Bharatanatyam training is to perfect the adavu vocabulary through repetition and practice. If repetition is made interesting, perhaps by introducing newer ways of executing the same movement, using different spatial orientations, or employing different rhythmic (thala) patterns, it can spark students’ interest. With such adaptations, the student understands the process of recreating a movement better and appreciates the value of practice. Learning to express Children are taught gestures and their viniyogas (applications) as a theory in the form of Sanskrit slokas. There tends to be a disconnect between the theory learned in an unfamiliar language and the technique practice. Applying the gestural vocabulary learned as ‘theory’ to express day-to-day ideas, stories and small compositions can help engage students of any age group. Teaching the nritta (pure dance) and abhinaya (expressive form) in parallel while making connections between them is another way to break the monotony. It is also easier to tap into their expressive abilities when children are younger and uninhibited rather than waiting to complete the course of adavus. Bharatanatyam is inherently expressive and learning to express through the art is both liberating and empowering for students. The barriers imposed by the pandemic have, in fact, provided teachers an opportunity to explore alternative pedagogical approaches and have conversations with students. Traditionally, Bharatanatyam teachers view concepts such as body awareness, finding the centre, balancing energy, and exploring space as Western notions. But with virtual learning, there’s been a need to verbally articulate movements, so these otherwise neglected ideas are finding an important place in the class now. There is no one-size-fits-all approach. The teacher is in the best position to decide, based on students’ needs. A balance of traditional methods with new and adaptive ones that build a student-centered learning environment will work best. The idea of teaching is to foster in students the desire to engage with the art holistically. We need to create not just dancers and performers, but also choreographers, thinkers, teachers, and an informed audience through our students. The role of the teacher is slowly shifting from an expert to a facilitator. Ultimately, helping students find joy through dance is one of the most rewarding purposes of being a Bharatanatyam teacher. The writer is a Delhi-based Bharatanatyam artiste and co-founder of Re-Cognising Dance.  Teaching the nritta (pure dance) and abhinaya (expressive form) in parallel while making connections between them is another way to break the monotony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/being-a-bharatanatyam-teacher/article36008729.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A new book on Pt. Birju Maharaj||Much has been said about the life and art of Pt. Birju Maharaj, the doyen of the Lucknow Gharana of Kathak, but there still remains a lot to be explored. The recently launched book, Nritya Samrat Pt. Birju Maharaj , is an effort in this direction. It is a compilation of 96 (22 in English and 70 in Hindi) short essays written by his disciples, associates, admirers and senior artistes, associates, and well-wishers from around the world. It has been put together by Nandkishore Kapote, a senior disciple of Birju Maharaj. In his foreword, the veteran dancer-guru has said that the book is a delightful read since it contains many interesting anecdotes from his long journey in dance, along with rare photographs. The performer The book reveals the extraordinary personality of Pt. Birju Maharaj. Prime disciple Saswati Sen speaks about his teaching style, while Janaki Patrik talks about how Maharaj not only gives attention to postures and movements but every little detail. The chapter, ‘The Kathak workshop,’ by Dr. Sunil Sunkara, throws light on how he transcends the barriers of language and culture to teach the dance form across the world. In her essay, Dr. Shovana Narayan writes about the beauty of the guru-shishya tradition of yore. Dr. Uma Sharma shares the story of casting for his ballets. “He instantly knows which character will suit which dancer. He cast me as Yashoda in ‘Krishnayan’ and it remains my most memorable role,” she writes.  Through various essays, the book also gives insights into how Birju Maharaj gained mastery over the dance form. His elder son, Jaikishan Maharaj, says that it is not just his father’s stage presentations but the thought behind each movement that has made him what he is. His thought process is a combination of the mind of a dancer, poet, painter, sculptor, and musician. The visionary Mamta Maharaj, the first female dancer from the ‘Kalka-Bindadin’ family shares that he created productions that have enabled female performers to receive the same recognition as their male counterparts. The book also contains a curated list of his contemporary choreographies, books authored by him, the books written on him, his film choreographies, and his awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-new-book-on-pt-birju-maharaj/article36008731.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Melody meets drama||A Sanjay Leela Bhansali film is like a long, layered song. His cinema combines the flourish of a high-pitched nautanki with the nuance of a Broadway musical. From the folksy dholak and the classical sitar to the operatic influence of violin and piano, his musical platter is always vibrant and diverse. At a time when songs are not assimilated into the narrative but remain adsorbed, Bhansali’s films are an exception. Apart from Vishal Bhardwaj, he is perhaps the only filmmaker who can sit behind the console to compose. He follows in the footsteps of the leaders of parallel cinema like Satyajit Ray and Ritwik Ghatak, who understood the importance of music to convey ideas. Inspired by the likes of V. Shantaram, Mehboob Khan, K. Asif, Guru Dutt, and Raj Kapoor, Bhansali knows a melody can convey an emotion much better than dialogue. In Bajirao Mastani, he composed ‘Tujhe yaad kar liya hai aayat ki tarah, tu kayam rahegi rivayati ki tarah’, exemplifying the beauty of the inter-faith love story. Not to forget ‘Aaj ibadat’. Composed in raag Yaman, it once again displays multicultural strains. Composing film music In Padmavat , he ventures beyond the safe territory to compose ‘Binte di’, a rare celebration of homoerotic imagery. However, one of my favourites is the understated ‘Tera zikr hai’ from Guzaarish. The film was his first official attempt at composing music, earlier he had successfully collaborated with Jatin Lalit ( Khamoshi-The Musical ), Ismail Darbar ( Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam and Devdas ) and Monty Sharma ( Black and Saawariya ). In hindsight, you can see his stamp on the score of each of these films. And you understand why Darbar and Sharma would often say that Bhansali was difficult to work with. In his interviews, Bhansali has said that it is the music that drives his narrative. Though not technically trained, his music has evolved with every film. Inspired by the Naushad and Madan Mohan kind of music, there was a time when he was swept by the A.R. Rahman wave and it reflected in the scores of Saawariya and Guzaarish. The former continues to live through its music, with songs like ‘Thode badmash’ and ‘Jab se tere naina’ still ruling charts and hearts. In Black , Bhansali used more instrumental music, with an emphasis on pauses and silence. There was a moving Prasoon Joshi number, ‘Haan maine chhookar dekha hai’, in the album, but it did not made it to the screen. Mix of styles Grounded in the traditional ethos, he is always keen to experiment — be it adapting ‘Albela sajan’ in raag Bhupali in Bajirao Mastani or blending Garba beat and Marathi folk to Western arrangements in Ram-Leela and Bajirao Mastani or the soaked-in-classicism ‘Mohe rang do lal’ in raag Maand and Puriya Dhanashree. Under his care, the voices of Shreya Ghoshal, Arijit Singh, and Kunal Ganjawala found their reach. One of his unsung collaborators is Shail Hada, who has not only given voice to popular songs like ‘Lahu munh lag gaya’ ( Ram-Leela) but has also assisted Bhansali on music albums. His period dramas draw heavily from the scale and lavishness of K. Asif’s vision. In an interview, Pt. Birju Maharaj, who not only choreographed but also rendered the Kathak bols in ‘Mohe rang do,’ had said the set reminded him of Mughal-e-Azam . Bhansali is a trained Odissi dancer and, in fact, started his career as a choreographer with another multi-faceted director, Vidhu Vinod Chopra. Referring to this aspect of the filmmaker, Birju Maharaj had said, “Sanjay Leela Bhansali knows the intricate aesthetics of dance. It comes through in the picturisation and choreography of his songs.”  Apart from Vishal Bhardwaj, Bhansali is perhaps the only filmmaker who understands that song and dance is the soul of Indian cinema, and can sit behind the console to compose||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/melody-meets-drama/article36008702.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain-soaked songs||Apart from providing respite from heat, monsoon ushers in a celebratory mood, best expressed through music. Many Hindustani music festivals, such as the Malhar Festival and those that focus on thumri, dadra and chaiti, are timed during this season. And there are raags sung especially during monsoon. Thumri, the most popular genre of Hindustani music, is a fine blend of the classical and folk. Under it, seasonal folk genres like Kajri, Chaiti, Hori etc have also developed, of which Kajri is the soul of the rains. With its leisurely and abstract techniques like the ‘Bol-Banaav’, which conveys the meaning of the text musically, thumri is instantly appealing to listeners who are not steeped in the classical tradition. It’s no wonder, therefore, that the annual Thumri-Kajri Utsav organised by Kala Prakash in Varanasi is remarkably popular among music lovers. This year too, the organisation’s founder-chairman, Ashok Kapoor, decided to hold the festival virtually. The festival showcased Rajendra Sijuar, a disciple of Pt. Rajan-Sajan Mishra, streamed live from Gaya, a city famous for its thumri tradition, like the Purab ang and Punjab ang thumris. One expected the Gaya flavour in Rajendra’s concert, but being groomed under the Mishra Bandhus, he presented Banarasi thumris and kajris. An unusual choice Opening with a traditional thumri in raag Tilang, ‘Deejo mohe nai chunari mangay’, set to Deepchandi taal, Rajendra impressed with his unusual selection of raag. Normally, thumri concerts begin with Mishra-Khamaj, where the ‘Mishra’ indicates the possibility of taking liberties with Khamaj. Here was a thumri singer who started with Tilang and treated it faithfully. The slow tempo of Deepchandi taal helped him elaborate, expand and embellish the song-text. The leisurely elaboration keeping in rhythm of the theka played on the tabla had imaginative ‘bol-banaav’, where the singer chose words and phrases from the thumri and gradually decorated them with a variety of swara combinations. After the ‘Sanyog Shringar’ thumri, celebrating togetherness, with the nayika requesting her beloved for a colourful chunari, came the ‘Viyog-Shringar’, the pathos of separation, conveyed through the popular thumri, ‘Mora saiyan bulave aadhi raat, nadiya bairan bhai’, in raag Desh, set to Addha Theka of Teentaal. The thumris were followed with a traditional dadra, ‘Kaise bedardi se pale pade hain, mose bharaave gagaria’, in Manjh-Khamaj, set to the lilting gait of Dadra taal. To conclude, Rajendra sung a couple of kajris describing the beauty of badariya — dark rain clouds. The kajri, ‘Barsan lagi badariya sawan ki, mori dhani chunariya bhij gai’ in Pilu was followed by the popular ‘Barsan lagi badariya room, jhoom ke’. Rajendra’s open-throated singing and sensitive treatment of the repertoire impressed. Each piece ended in a brilliant laggi, with the tabla artiste Dinesh Kumar bringing in amazing rhythmic variations. The harmonium accompaniment by Sarvottam Kumar matched the subtleties in the compositions and vocals. Rajendra Sijuar dedicated his concert to the late Pt. Rajan Mishra.  The Delhi-based writer focusses on Hindustani music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/rain-soaked-songs/article36008726.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Music workshops||Kalakriti School of Music will host a series of workshops to be conducted by veteran musician Alamelu Mani. The first session on August 22 (7 a.m.-8.30 a.m.), will focus on the Swati Tirunal kritis — ‘Bhavaye’ and ‘Sadaramava’. The second session titled ‘Rare Devi Kritis’, will be conducted on August 27, 28 and 29 and September 3, 4 and 5, 5 p.m. to 6.15 p.m. For registration, Whatsapp +91 90438 88961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/music-workshops/article36008720.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Hybrid concerts||Madhuradhwani will conduct the following concerts in hybrid format. Open to a limited audience, the concerts will take place at Arkay Convention Centre and can also be watched live on the Centre’s Facebook and YouTube channels. Details: August 21, 6.15 p.m.: Bharathi Ramasubban with Sayee Rakshith (violin), N.C. Bharadwaj (mridangam) and Chandrashekara Sarma (ghatam). August 22, 6.15 p.m.: Shruthi Shankar Kumar with Shraddha Ravindran (violin), Arjun Ganesh (mridangam), and Sunil Kumar (kanjira).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/hybrid-concerts/article36008723.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Kalaimagal turns 90||Kalaimagal , among the oldest Tamil magazines, celebrated its 90th anniversary recently. Founded by R. Narayanaswami Iyer, who was runningMadras Law Journal,published at his own printing press, started Kalaimagal in 1931. It was during a meeting of Tamil scholars such as U.Ve. Swaminatha Iyer, Prof. S. Vaiyapuri Pillai, and T.K. Chidrambaranatha Mudaliyar that he announced the launch of the magazine. At the anniversary event, Editor Kizhambur Sankarasubramanian recalled the contributions of Ki. Va. Jagannathan, under whom, he said, the magazine scaled new heights. To mark Kalaimagal 's 90th year, a special issue was released by P.B. Sampath, former vice-president, TAFE, and the first copy was received by R. Sivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kalaimagal-turns-90/article36008718.ece
20 August 2021||August 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Webinar on Chennai||USIEF, in collaboration with the U.S. Consulate General, Chennai, presents a webinar, ‘Gana, Koothu, Cutcheri: How Chennai rolls as a UNESCO creative city’ to celebrate Madras Week and the 75th anniversary of the Fulbright programme worldwide. Featuring eminent women from the cultural field, the event will look at the city’s music traditions and what the UNESCO recognition means to its citizens, artistes and policy-makers. To register,log on to https://bit.ly/Chennai_UNESCO_CreativeCity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/webinar-on-chennai/article36008724.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||CM to inaugurate city’s first smog tower||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the city’s first “smog tower” to help purify polluted air. “The smog tower will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Shri Arvind Kejriwal on August 23, 2021. Next, experts will start monitoring the performance of the tower and then assess its impact on the environment. We will then accordingly submit a report to the government and act upon the plan,” Mr. Rai said after inspecting the tower at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in Connaught Place. The smog tower is a 24 metre-high structure fitted with fans and air filters and it will draw in polluted air from the top and release purified air near the ground through fans fitted on sides. The tower has 40 big fans and 5,000 filters to clean the air. Supreme Court order On January 13 last year, the Supreme Court ordered the Delhi government to build a smog tower at Connaught Place in the city by April 13, 2020, to control air pollution. On the same day, the court also ordered a smog tower to be installed in Anand Vihar by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) by the same time. But the governments missed the deadlines for both the towers. On July 29, 2020, the Supreme Court threatened contempt action against the Indian Institute of Technology (Bombay) on learning that the premier institution has opted to pull out of the court-ordered project to instal the tower. Less than a month after this, an MoU was signed for building the tower. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee of the State government was the nodal authority for building the tower. IIT Mumbai and IIT Delhi were technical advisors and Tata Project Ltd. executed the project. The smog tower is a pilot project and is expected to influence the air quality of more than 1 km in the downwind direction, said an official. “The government is working on reducing pollution in the city; be it dust pollution, vehicular pollution or stubble burning...I am certain that the smog tower will contribute immensely towards this cause. The smog tower will work with full force after the monsoon season,” Mr. Rai said.  After inauguration, experts will start monitoring the performance of the tower and then assess its impact on the environment. We will then accordingly submit a report to the government and act upon the plan Gopal Rai Enviornment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-to-inaugurate-citys-first-smog-tower/article36008994.ece
20 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana Assembly session likely to be a stormy affair||The monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly, which is slated to begin on August 20, is likely to be a stormy affair, with the Opposition set to corner the BJP-led government on several issues, including police lodging sedition cases against farmers, rising inflation and unemployment. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly of the Congress party, on Thursday chaired a meeting of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) here to deliberate issues to be raised during the Assembly session. Adjournment motion Mr. Hooda said his party’s legislators had given an adjournment motion to discuss the paper leak and recruitment scams. “Apart from this, adjournment motions have also been given to suspend proceedings and discuss issues like the cases of sedition being registered against farmers, damage to crops due to waterlogging, delay in giving tube well connections, rising inflation and unemployment,” he said. “We will ask the government questions in the Assembly on every issue that concerns the people of the State. The people want answers as they are facing innumerable challenges due to the ill-conceived policies of the BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) coalition government. The government is in deep slumber, hoping that the problems will go away on their own,” Mr. Hooda added. “The government hid the actual death toll due to COVID-19 and a lack of oxygen. It is clear that the government does not want to see the ground reality. Today, unemployment, crime and inflation are at their peak. Scams are being carried out in the name of employment and government recruitments,” he said. Mr. Hooda said poor families in the State during the previous Congress government were provided with foodgrains, pulses, sugar, salt and oil when he was the Chief Minister. “During the BJP-JJP government, this scheme of free ration has become only a medium of advertising and creating publicity events. The present government stopped giving pulses, mustard oil, sugar and salt to the poor,” the Congress leader added. ‘Poor quality foodgrain’ “The foodgrains being given to them are of very poor quality. It is clear from the pictures that surfaced from Gohana that the government is playing with the poor and their lives. Families are being given what cannot be fed to cattle as fodder. It seems that the government has put all the emphasis on getting the photo printed on the bag and not on the quality of the ration,” Mr. Hooda added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-assembly-session-likely-to-be-a-stormy-affair/article36009006.ece
20 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Union Minister targets Cong. during yatra||Union Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav on Thursday targeted the ruling Congress in Rajasthan for the “power tussle” between rival factions, while leading a “Jan Ashirwad Yatra” for highlighting the achievements of the NDA government at the Centre. Mr. Yadav said the top leaders of Congress were fighting for the chair. The three-day yatra, which began from Bhiwadi in Alwar district, will cover a distance of 417 km and hold public dialogues at 40 places. The march will pass through the rural areas and the towns in Alwar and Jaipur districts and finish in Ajmer on Saturday. Mr. Yadav, a Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan, has made his maiden entry into the State after his recent induction in the Union Cabinet. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, BJP State president Satish Poonia and other leaders accompanied Mr. Yadav in a specially-designed vehicle, painted in saffron colour, during the yatra. Mr. Yadav alleged that the fight between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot had pushed back the development agenda and resulted in lack of governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/union-minister-targets-cong-during-yatra/article36009258.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police constable sacked due to involvement in illegal activities||A constable has been dismissed from his service for his involvement in illegal activities in Paharganj, the police said on Thursday. The Station House Officer has also been sent to District Lines. In an order dated August 18 signed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Jasmeet Singh, it was stated that Constable Amit Kumar “has committed one of the gravest acts of misconduct which cannot be tolerated in any disciplined organisation like the police… He indulged himself in an abominable act… The shameful act committed by him has not only tarnished the image of police force and brought disgrace to the organisation but has also demoralised other police officers”. Case comes to fore It is stated that a case of firing was reported on August 14 in Paharganj police station and it was found that the firing was between two groups over the operation of satta. It was further revealed that the constable was working in close connivance with the satta operator and was involved in the collection of proceeds from such illegal activities. The order also stated that the constable was aware of all the illegal practices, which were being undertaken at some of the bars. Mr. Kumar had allegedly hidden his connection with the owners of the bars when asked about them. His call detail records, however, proved otherwise. On July 26, the constable was sent to District Lines after which a discreet inquiry was initiated against him. A senior police officer said the punishment of such policemen will send a loud message to others to not flout rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-constable-sacked-due-to-involvement-in-illegal-activities/article36008980.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Help children orphaned due to COVID-19’||The Delhi government has urged people to sponsor the needs of a child or children or donate towards the Delhi Child Welfare Fund as many children have been rendered orphans due to COVID-19. A public notice issued by the Women and Child Development Department of the Delhi government also said that people can contact the department to be foster parents. The department said that during the pandemic, many children have been rendered orphan and deprived of family care having lost one or both parents and they need to be placed in foster care so that their right to grow in a family is restored. Foster parents “Seek recognition as ‘Fit Person or Foster Parents’ to receive a child/children for services of specific purpose based on the need or in foster care in your family,” the notice read. “You any visit the district child protection unit of respective district of Delhi and submit your application or many mail it at scpsdelhi@gmail.com,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/help-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-19/article36008977.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT plea seeks action against construction project in Ghaziabad||Following a plea seeking remedial action against a construction project in Ghaziabad for alleged violation of environmental norms, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed senior environment ministry and pollution control board officials to conduct an audit of the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) to find out how “frequent blatant violations” are taking place. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a two-member committee comprising officials from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to look into the violations. The committee will comprise officials from the Union Environment Ministry, CPCB, district magistrate Ghaziabad and Uttar Pradesh pollution control board, the Bench specified. “The joint committee may visit the site and interact with stakeholders to verify the status of compliance. Based on the facts found, statutory authorities may take remedial action including stopping creation of third party rights and further construction activities, if the same are found to be in violation of the law,” the Bench said. The Tribunal directed the committee to furnish the report within three months. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by Saviour Park Apartment Owners Association, which alleged that construction was being taken place without requisite environmental clearances.  The NGT plea alleged that construction was taking place without requisite environmental clearances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-plea-seeks-action-against-construction-project-in-ghaziabad/article36008973.ece
20 August 2021||New Delhi,||BusinessLine’s quiz back with its 18th edition; sees over 6,000 participants||BusinessLine’ s Cerebration 2021 — one of India’s premier corporate quiz championships — is back with its 18th edition. This time, the quiz will be in a virtual format. The quiz is designed for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students, and MBA aspirants. The preliminary online quizzing was scheduled from August 4 till August 11 to shortlist the top six from each of the six cities — Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi. It witnessed more than 6,000 participants. Now for the regional Delhi round, the following six participants will battle it out and one will qualify for the grand finale on August 28. Participants selected for the Delhi regional round, which is scheduled on August 21 at 4 p.m., are: Ayush Awasthi, EY; Rahul Panda, Steel Authority of India Ltd; Rishi Kant Gupta, Steel Authority of India Ltd; Ashish Kumar, Zomato; Abhinav Dhar, PT JayKay Files Indonesia; and Rohan Khanna, Barclays. Prize money One stands a chance to win the most coveted intellectual title and take-home prize money worth up to Rs. 1.5 lakh. (First prize-Rs. 75,000, second prize-Rs. 50,000 and third prize-Rs. 25,000) Log in details Quiz enthusiast can login to witness the top six battle it out by registering at — https://bit.ly/BLQUIZ21 or scan the QR Code. The event is sponsored by the following — title sponsor: Union Bank of India; powered by: CFA Institute; and in Association with ManageEngine & BSE IPE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/businesslines-quiz-back-with-its-18th-edition-sees-over-6000-participants/article36008988.ece
20 August 2021||Patna,||JD(U) Ministers to hear grievances at party office||Following in the footsteps of ruling alliance partner BJP, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has asked JD(U) Ministers to listen to grievances of party workers and people at the State unit’s headquarters in Patna for four days a week. The BJP Ministers in the Nitish Kumar Cabinet have been doing this since August 2 under the party’s sahyog (assistance) programme for six days a week. ‘Ministers informed’ “All Ministers of the JD(U) have been informed about the decision to be at the party office on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from next week”, said State JD(U) president Umesh Singh Kushwaha. The BJP Ministers listen to grievances of party workers and common people from Monday to Saturday. “Not one but two or three Ministers from our party have been present at the BJP headquarters on their respective scheduled day”, BJP State media in-charge Rakesh Kumar said. Three Ministers Mr. Kushwaha, though, added that “as per the programme each JD(U) Minister will be at the party office at least once a week”. Two other Ministers too would be present on the given day, he said. As per the schedule, Education Minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, along with Food and Consumer Protection Minister Leshi Singh and Minority Welfare Minister Zama Khan, will be present at the party office from 11.30 a.m. every Tuesday from next week. “Similarly, other Ministers too would be present at the party office on the given day to hear grievances of party workers and other people”, added Mr. Kushwaha. Opposition jibe Meanwhile, the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)leaders took a jibe over ruling alliance partners “taking the cue from each other”. “BJP now shows the path to the ruling alliance partner JD(U) in Bihar on what to do and what not. Earlier, it was vice-versa, wasn’t it?”, asked a senior RJD leader, preferring anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-jdu-ministers-to-hear-peoples-grievances-at-party-office/article36009003.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-D reaches out to alumni for fundraising campaign||Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi has reached out to its alumni to celebrate 60 years of it establishment through a fundraising campaign— Going Further, by Giving Back. The campaign is seeking support to realise the institute’s strategic vision for 2030. From Rs. 3L-Rs. 61L The institute said the IIT-Delhi Endowment Fund has set an ambitious target of collecting pledges from its over 54,000 global alumni by which alumni can pledge amounts ranging from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 61 lakh to be contributed over five years. It added that the effort is inspired by the annual fund-raising approaches of some of the leading global universities, which have raised even larger levels of alumni and philanthropic funding through their annual campaigns. In the last two decades, alumni of IITD have launched over 800 startups, raising over US$ 19 billion in funds collectively, placing the Institute amongst the world’s top-10 undergraduate programmes in terms of a number of startups founded and capital raised by its graduates. The institute is hoping that these entrepreneurs will be willing to give back to their alma mater. The institute is seeking to strengthening teaching and research, investing in technology leadership in select areas, revamping industry engagements, setting up a world-class entrepreneurship centre for alumni, students, and faculty and build strong alumni engagement teams by 2030. V. Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT, Delhi, speaking about the campaign said since its establishment in 1961, IIT-Delhi has nurtured and encouraged people who want to change the world by doing things differently. After 60 years, that same founding ethos has gained even more significance by giving brilliant people the space to make a tangible difference, to do new and disruptive things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-d-reaches-out-to-alumni-for-fundraising-campaign/article36008981.ece
20 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||FIR against Emaar India top officials||A first information report has been lodged against 14 people, including former and existing top officials of Emaar India Limited and Group CEO of Emaar Properties, at the behest of MGF Developments Ltd. on charges of forgery, criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy and cheating under the Indian Penal Code. The FIR said the accused wrongly enriched themselves to the tune of Rs. 25 crore at the cost of the complainant. According to the FIR, Emaar officials fraudulently forged board resolutions of MGF subsidiary companies and executed general power of attorney in favour of Emaar in respect of land owned by the subsidiaries of MGF. The MGF alleged that Emaar India, on the basis of fraudulent GPA, entered into collaboration agreement in respect of the said land with a local builder of Gurugram, who thereupon, has applied for grant of licence for development of Affordable Group Housing in Sector 81 Gurugram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-against-emaar-india-top-officials/article36008971.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Case against candidate for illegal distribution of liquor in the Capital||The police have registered a case following a complaint alleging illegal distribution of liquor by a candidate, Paramjeet Singh Chandok, during the Delhi Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee elections. The police said they got a PCR call at Naraina police station regarding illegal distribution of liquor at the Delhi Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee elections by Ward No. 13 candidate Paramjeet Singh Chandok of Shiromani Akali Dal party. “Instantly a raid was conducted at the premises in Naraina Vihar and 35 bottles of whiskey were recovered from the possession of Harveen Singh Lamba [55],” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel. The police said that another raid was conducted at the co-accomplice — C.S. Bhatia (63) — wherein two filled and 28 empty bottles of whiskey were recovered from his premise. The police said Mr. Bhatia is senior V-P of SAD, Delhi. A case under Section 33/38/58 Delhi Excise Act has been registered and investigation is in process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/case-against-candidate-for-illegal-distribution-of-liquor-in-the-capital/article36008979.ece
20 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for raping woman||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly raping a 22-year-old woman in north-east Delhi’s Shastri Nagar, the police said on Thursday. A senior officer said the accused have been identified as Nitin and Rohit — both residents of Noida. The victim is also a resident of Noida. The police said a call was received at 4 p.m. on August 16 on the women’s helpline number wherein the caller stated that she was raped by two men. She told the police that the duo brought her to Delhi in a car from Noida on the pretext of helping her with a job and raped her, and dumped her at Dharampura junction. Her medical examination has been conducted. The victim said she and Rohit were known to each other. The victim gave the police the registration number of the vehicle. Next, the accused were held. A case under Section 376D (punishment for gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-raping-woman/article36008982.ece
20 August 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Private varsity brought under RTI purview||The State Information Commission (SIC) in Odisha has declared Kalinga Institute of Industrial Training (KIIT), a deemed to be university and one of State’s largest private institutions, as a public authority, which means the university has to furnish information under the Right To Information Act. Despite KIIT’s reluctance to come under the purview of the RTI Act during the past four years of hearing, the SIC observed that since the institute received significant benefits from the State government, without which it would have struggled to carry on, it should respond to the RTI queries. “The commission is of the considered view that the KIIT is a public authority within the meaning of Section 2(h)(d)(ii) of the RTI Act, 2005 and is directed to furnish the required information to the appellant,” State Chief Information Commissioner Sunil Kumar Misra said in a judgment. Pradip Pradhan, an RTI activist, had knocked on the doors of the SIC after he was denied information by the institution in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/private-varsity-brought-under-rti-purview/article36009256.ece
20 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Child rights panel for reopening of Classes VI to VIII in phased manner||The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) has recommended reopening of Classes VI to VIII in a phased manner. “We have held multi-stakeholder discussion over the past several weeks. Teachers, parents and students have strongly advocated for gradual reopening of schools as it was necessity for students’ cognitive and academic development,” said Sandhyabati Pradhan, OSCPCR chairperson. Physical, mental health issues Ms. Pradhan said, “long absence of students from schools start to affect their physical and mental health. The online education cannot replace the school education.” “While appreciating the reopening of Classes X and XII, students and teachers voiced in support of reopening of elementary classes. The commission also recommends reopening of Classes VI, VII and VIII in a phased manner,” says the commission order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/child-rights-panel-for-reopening-of-classes-vi-to-viii-in-phased-manner/article36009257.ece
