22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||80 Indians evacuated; 150 miss flight as Taliban intercept them||At least 80 Indian nationals were airlifted from Afghanistan capital Kabul to Dushanbe in neighbouring Tajikistan on Saturday aboard an Indian Air Force C-130J aircraft. However, more than 150 others failed to get past the Taliban guards blocking access to the Kabul airport in time for the flight. The airlift was part of the ongoing efforts of the government to bring back hundreds of Indian doctors, teachers, engineers and others who have been unable to leave the country since the Taliban took over more than a week ago. Dropped in Doha The group of 80 Indians, who managed to enter the airport perimeter on Thursday, finally boarded the special plane late on Friday night, and are due to return to New Delhi by Sunday morning. A third, smaller group of Indian nationals was able to board a NATO-operated charter which dropped them in Doha. They are expected to return to India by commercial flights. On Saturday, the U.S.-led NATO forces guarding the Hamid Karzai International Airport sealed several entry points due to the large rush of people clamouring to get in, and had to fire rounds in the air to stem the crowds. Visuals on international channels showed an unconfirmed number of bodies of Afghans who died in stampedes and due to severe dehydration. Others reportedly died in the violence and firing by the armed militia on crowds outside the airport. Officials coordinating the movement of the second group of 150 Indians said the convoy spent the entire day trying to enter the airport, and some of them were briefly detained by the Taliban guards outside the airport to have their documents checked. Despite being released and allowed to proceed subsequently, the group had been unable to reach the airport gates, at the time of going to press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/80-indians-evacuated-150-miss-flight-as-taliban-intercept-them/article36040195.ece
22 August 2021||Chennai,||All colleges, classes 9-12 to reopen in T.N. from Sept. 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a number of relaxations from the COVID-19 lockdown as cases declined. According to the new guidelines, schools for classes 9-12 and all colleges, including polytechnics, will be allowed to function from September 1 in shifts. The government is also considering reopening kindergarten and schools for classes 1-8 after September 15, based on the implementation of COVID-19 safety norms for senior classes and after consultations with experts. For the senior classes allowed to reopen, the noon-meal scheme will be operational. All teaching and non-teaching staff should be vaccinated. Cinema theatres will be allowed to function from August 23 with 50% capacity. Beaches will be open to members of the public, and zoos, parks and boat-houses will be allowed to operate. Corporation officials and Collectors were tasked with ensuring that shop-owners, staff and small traders on beaches were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-colleges-classes-9-12-to-reopen-in-tn-from-sept-1/article36040512.ece
22 August 2021||Patna,||Lalu faces tough test as sons tussle over RJD leadership||For Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) patriarch Lalu Prasad, who has been recuperating from multiple health issues at the residence of his daughter in Delhi, the tussle between his two sons is posing new challenges to his health, family and the party. The siblings — Tej Pratap Yadav and younger brother Tejashwi, whom Mr. Prasad has already declared as his heir apparent — are currently locked in a fierce fight for control of the party and have thrown the ball in their father’s court to resolve the discontent between them. Mr. Tej Pratap, MLA from Hasanpur in Samastipur district, has religious leanings and is considered to have a colourful and happy-go-lucky personality. Sporting a chandan tikka (sandal dot on his forehead) and different coloured robes, he is a frequent visitor to the holy city of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. He calls himself a devotee of Krishna and Shiva, and is said to be close to his mother and former Chief Minister Rabri Devi. Mr. Tejashwi, MLA from Raghopur, is seen as close to his father. Unlike his younger brother who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, Mr. Tej Pratap is often in the news for his caustic remarks and rustic mannerisms, causing major embarrassment to the RJD and its leaders. Matters seem to have come to a head after a face-to-face confrontation between the brothers earlier this week in Patna. On August 20, Mr. Tej Pratap visited 10 Circular Road, the official residence of Rabri Devi, where Mr. Tejashwi also lives, to discuss the differen-ces between him and State RJD chief Jagdanand Singh. “While, we started talking with each other Sanjay Yadav (close aide of Mr. Tejashwi) intervened and took Tejashwi away. He did not allow me to talk to my brother,” Mr. Tej Pratap alleged while leaving the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lalu-faces-tough-test-as-sons-feud-over-rjd/article36040193.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Afghan students seek refugee status||Afghanistan students staying in the city, who met Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Saturday, sought refugee status for those who would like to extend their stay in India. During their interaction with Mr. Kumar and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar, the students also sought emergency visas for about 100 students, who are stuck in Afghanistan and unable to join educational institutions in the city, where they have got enrolled this year under the two-year long educational support programme of the Indian government. Some students sought help in reuniting with their family members in Afghanistan. The 58 students, led by Naseer Ahmed Shafi, president of Afghan Students’ Association, met the police officials and shared their concerns.  The political situation in Afghanistan, Mr. Matiullah said, is very fluid. “We do not know when it will stabilise. Really difficult to explain our piquant condition,” said Mr. Maitullah, who came to the city in 2020 to pursue his doctorate degree in Business Administration in Mangalore University. “Presently we are not facing any difficulty in living here as we are getting scholarship. But we need permission from the government to take up some job for livelihood as our stay is likely to continue for some more years,” he said. Another student, Amin Rezaie, said he has been in touch with his family members, who have left their house in Kabul and moved to the countryside. “They have got themselves confined in the house and they rarely come out because of fear of getting targeted by Taliban.”   Mr. Kumar said issues raised by the students will be brought to the notice of Additional Director-General of Police Umesh Kumar, who has been appointed as the nodal officer by State government to coordinate with Centre on issues related to Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghan-students-seek-refugee-status/article36040777.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Schools for Classes 9-12, colleges to reopen from Sept. 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a number of relaxations from the COVID-19 lockdown as cases continue to decline. According to the new guidelines, schools for Classes 9-12 and all colleges, including polytechnics, will be allowed to function from September 1 in shifts. The government is also considering reopening kindergarten and schools for Classes 1-8 after September 15, based on the implementation of COVID-19 safety norms for the senior classes and after consultations with experts. For the senior classes that are allowed to reopen, the noon-meal scheme will be operational, the government said. The government has mandated that all teaching and non-teaching staff be vaccinated. The government also announced that cinema theatres would be allowed to function from August 23 with 50% capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-for-classes-9-12-colleges-to-reopen-from-sept-1/article36040765.ece
22 August 2021||Belagavi,||Bommai to visit Delhi to resolve hurdles in raising height of Almatti dam||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be soon travelling to New Delhi to discuss the legal hurdles in raising the height of the Almatti dam to 524 metres from 519 metres. “I will resolve the issue after discussing with legal experts and other persons concerned,” he said at Almatti on Saturday. “We want to resolve the Krishna river water distribution dispute. Maharashtra is a party to the dispute and we are holding talks with leaders from the neighbouring State. We have already begun discussions with Sharad Pawar, NCP leader, and Jayant Patil, Maharashtra Irrigation Minister,” the Chief Minister said. The priority is to speed up and complete all projects under the Upper Krishna Project Phase-3, he said, adding that a detailed plan would be prepared and executed in this regard. “We will soon convene a meeting of officers and people’s representatives in the Krishna river basin districts of Vijayapura and Bagalkot to discuss the plan,” Mr. Bommai said. He was speaking after offering ‘bagina’ to the Krishna at Almatti dam. He said the project cost of third phase schemes had increased to Rs. 51,000 crore from Rs. 17,000 crore due to the delay in implementation. Allocation of funds for the projects was a challenge, added Mr. Bommai. “We will try to raise funds from various sources. Our capacity to borrow will be assessed before raising funds,” he said. To a query, he said the State would present a detailed proposal to the Centre, requesting it to declare the Upper Krishna Project as a project of national importance. Earlier, the CM arrived in a helicopter from Hospet. He offered bagina to the Krishna in Almatti and in Bagalkot district on Saturday. His Cabinet colleagues Govind Karjol, Umesh Katti, Shashikala jolle, and others were present. Later, the CM held a brief meeting with officials and leaders at the KBJNL office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-to-visit-delhi-soon-to-resolve-hurdles-in-raising-height-of-almatti-dam/article36040504.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State moves to help stranded workers in Afghanistan||Keeping in view the ongoing turmoil in Afghanistan, the Government of Andhra Pradesh has established a help desk in order to reach out to the labourers stranded in the strife-torn country. The help desk comprises Assistant Commissioners of Labour Nanaji Rao (+91 7780339884) and Srimannarayana (+91 9492555089) and Superintendent in the office of Commissioner of Labour Srinivas (+91 8977925653) and 0866-2436314. Appeal In a statement issued here on Saturday, Special Commissioner of Labour G. Rekha Rani said that people who were held up in Afghanistan, or their relatives, could directly call any of the above numbers and inform the detailed particulars to seek help from the State government for their safe return home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/move-to-help-stranded-workers-in-afghanistan/article36040732.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro to Kengeri from Aug. 29||By the end of the month, commuters will be able to travel from Kengeri to Baiyappanahalli in 55 minutes for Rs. 56. After missing several deadlines, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) announced that it would open the extended Purple Line on Mysuru Road for commercial operations at noon on August 29. Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will take part in the inaugural function. “Initially, during the peak hours, every train that departs from Baiyappanahalli will go to Kengeri. During non-peak hours, every alternate train will be operated till Kengeri. However, if footfall increases during non-peak hours, we will run the required number of trains for the benefit of passengers,” said BMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez. The opening of the line will benefit residents on either side of Mysuru Road as well as those residing in major layouts such as Sir M. Visvesvaraya Layout. Students enrolled in Bangalore University, R.V. College, and other educational institutions will also be able to cut short their travel time. It will take commuters 55 minutes to travel from Kengeri (located in the western part of the city) to Baiyappanahalli (in the eastern part). With this, the total length of the operational Purple Line will be 25.5 km. The 7.53-km metro line has six stations: Nayanadahalli, R.R. Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal, and Kengeri. BMRCL had estimated that once operational, it will benefit 75,000 people every day. Commuters from Mysuru side have the option of getting down at Kengeri and taking the metro to reach Majestic, or travel towards Tumakuru Road and Kanankpura Road by changing the train at Majestic intersection. BMRCL has plans to create a multi-modal hub at Jnanabharathi by linking railway halt stations. Plans include building a foot-over-bridge (FoB) to link the railway station. At the Kengeri bus terminal, an FoB will be constructed to help pedestrians cross the busy road by providing a link to both metro and TTMC of BMTC. This is the second line that will be opened for commercial operations under Phase II of Namma Metro. In January, BMRCL launched operations on the extended Green Line from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute on Kanakapura Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-to-kengeri-from-aug-29/article36040476.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,||Cong. may field Konda Surekha from Huzurabad||Telangana Congress leadership is keen on fielding former minister Konda Surekha from Huzurabad constituency, making it an all Backward Classes (BC) contest, but the firebrand leader still has apprehensions over support from a section of top leaders in the party. While the party committee on elections headed by former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajanarsimha has finalised some names, including Konda Surekha, Kavvampalli Satyanarayana, Krishna Reddy and Komuraiah, in all likelihood Ms. Surekha’s name will be cleared once she gives her final approval. Kavvampalli Satyanarayana is another option if her candidature is not finalised. Sources said that initially when the leadership approached her for the contest, she evinced keen interest but expressed her apprehensions over total support from the Karimnagar district leaders, including the lone party MLA from the district D. Sreedhar Babu who represents the Manthani constituency. Neghbouring dist. Ms. Surekha is from the neighbouring Warangal district. TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy and others are of the opinion that she would be a strong candidate given her dynamism and also matches the stature of Mr. Rajender being a former minister herself and a firebrand politician. Her political base is in Parkal constituency, which is geographically closer to Huzurabad. A senior leader, however, argued that the party is making efforts to retain their vote base in this election, which he feels is being fought on sentiment of Eatala Rajender, who resigned from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and joined the BJP, and the money being pumped in by the ruling party through various schemes including Dalit Bandhu. Poor record “We have few chances of winning but our vote base is still good and we want to retain that. Moreover, one should remember that Congress has not won from Huzurabad in the last two decades,” he said. If Ms. Surekha finally agrees, she would be seeking some assurance from the party on her future in Parkal and also another constituency to field her daughter. In fact, she walked out of the ruling TRS just before the 2018 Assembly elections over refusal of seat to her daughter. Her husband Konda Murali, an MLC, then also joined the Congress. If Ms. Surekha’s name is finalised, the contest will be between three BC candidates belonging to three major communities. The TRS has announced its students’ wing president Gellu Srinivas Yadav while the BJP is likely to finalise Mr. Eatala Rajender, who comes from the Mudiraj community. Surekha is a Padmashali while her husband is Munnuru Kapu, another dominant community among the BC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-may-field-konda-surekha-from-huzurabad-constituency/article36040740.ece
22 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Two Maoists surrender to Kothagudem police||Two members of the CPI (Maoist) Local Organising Squad (LOS) operating in the border mandal of Charla in Bhadrachalam Agency turned themselves in on Saturday, police said. The duo identified as Gattupalli Suresh, 25, and Bodika Bheemaiah alias Bheemanna, 34, who originally hail from Chhattisgarh, surrendered before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in the district headquarters town on Saturday afternoon. They had been working for the banned outfit for the past six years, police said. They initially worked as militia members in the outlawed organisation for three years and were subsequently appointed as Charla LOS members. Police said the duo had quit the proscribed outfit unable to bear “harassment” at the hands of Maoist leaders and wanted to lead a better life by joining the mainstream. Commandant, CRPF 141 Battalion-Bhadrachalam Hari Om Khare and Bhadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police G. Vineeth were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-maoists-surrender-in-kothagudem/article36040701.ece
22 August 2021||Belagavi,||Ex-Minister Vinay Kulkarni released from jail||Vinay Kulkarni, former Minister, was released on bail from the Hindalga jail in Belagavi on Saturday. He was granted bail by the Supreme Court and the special court to try people’s representatives recently. Prison officials released the Congress leader after ascertaining the reception of documents from the concerned court officials on Saturday morning. The CBI had charged Mr. Kulkarni with plotting the murder of Yogeshgouda Goudar, former zilla panchayat member. Mr. Kulkarni said he strongly believed that he would be cleared of all the charges one day. “I am thankful to the Supreme Court that granted me bail in this case. Very soon, I will be cleared of all charges,” he told journalists. He said had learnt many lessons in jail. “I have picked up some lessons of life. I have also developed the habit of reading. Earlier, I did not have that habit,” he said. “We were given daily tasks in the jail and that helped me develop a disciplined routine. I have followed all the rules in there. My perspective in life has changed. I have understood how to move ahead in life now,” he said. “I am not like other politicians. I remain a farmer at heart. I have been a fighter since my student days. I will continue to fight for the welfare of the people,” he said. He said that he would like to thank the people of his constituency who stood by him during his difficult times. “I also thank seers, my friends, and supporters who have helped me in various ways,” he said. Among those who came to see him was Laxmi Hebbalkar, MLA. “ I have come to see my brother, as it is Raksha Bandhan,” she said. Ms. Hebbalkar tied a rakhi on his wrist, put a tilak on his forehead, and gave him a sweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-minister-vinay-kulkarni-released-from-jail/article36040685.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||24-hour vaccination centres from tomorrow||All government medical college hospitals in the State will have round-the-clock COVID-19 vaccination centres from Monday. The first such centre was opened at the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine on the premises of Directorate of Medical Services in Chennai on Saturday. Inaugurating the centre, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said similar centres would start functioning in all government medical college hospitals, and district government hospitals in districts that did not have government medical colleges such as Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur from Monday. In Chennai, round-the-clock vaccination centres will come up at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar Estate, Government Royapettah Hospital, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. “Through this, the pace of vaccination will be faster and people can get vaccinated easily in Chennai,” he told reporters. The Minister said that persons who were employed and those travelling could utilise the facility. Individuals can approach these centres directly with proof of residence. Arrangements for observing persons after vaccination were made at these centres. 100% coverage In Pudukottai, 100% vaccination (administration of first dose) of the people with disabilities had been achieved, while Ariyalur had achieved 100% coverage of pregnant women, he added. “We have advised 100% vaccination in tourism destinations, particularly in all spiritual centres. Following this, vaccination has been expedited in many places. For instance, Kodaikanal is an important tourism destination where 100% vaccination has been reached. In Palani, we have achieved 98% coverage, and will reach 100% in one or two days. We are expediting the vaccination in Tiruvannamalai, Rameswaram, Nagore and Velankanni,” he said. The Minister said that so far, 100% vaccination had been achieved in over 60 villages throughout the State. On the occasion, Tamilnadu Foundation USA handed over medical equipment for hospitals to the Health Minister. He said the organisation had sponsored medical equipment worth Rs. 2.36 crore that would be provided to 15 hospitals in the State. N. Ezhilan, Thousand Lights MLA, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, and directors T.S. Selvavinayagam (Public Health), R. Narayana Babu (Medical Education) and S. Gurunathan (Medical and Rural Health Services) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24-hour-vaccination-centres-in-govt-medical-college-hospitals/article36040518.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC to take up ‘3 capitals’ cases from tomorrow||A full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justices Joymalya Bagchi and N. Jayasurya is scheduled to undertake a fresh hearing of arguments in over 90 petitions that challenged the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills, 2020, from August 23. The cases were last dealt with by the same Bench in early May, when they were supposed to do a physical hearing, but could not listen to arguments in-person because of the difficulty expressed by some advocates in attending the court due to the COVID pandemic. Beginning Monday, the cases will be heard in both virtual and physical mode. At the centre of the whole controversy are the proposed ‘three capitals’ namely Amaravati, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool as the Legislative, Executive and Judicial capitals respectively, for which the above enabling legislations had been passed in the Assembly, but hit a stumbling block in the Council in the form of their reference by the then Chairman Md. Ahmed Shariff to a select committee, which resulted in the passing of a resolution in the Assembly for the abolition of the Legislative Council. Panel challenged The petitions mainly include the ones that challenged the appointment of the G.N. Rao Committee, which recommended the development of the three capital cities for as many capital functions, and the endorsement of its findings by the government’s high power committee. The others are opposed to the shifting of offices from Amaravati to Hyderabad (envisaged in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014 as the common capital of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana), shifting of the High Court and the office of the Commissioner of Vigilance and Enquiries to Kurnool, grants given for the construction of Millennium towers at Visakhapatnam, allotment of house sites in the lands in Amaravati acquired for the establishment of the capital city, and the abolition of Legislative Council (this proposal is pending with the Central government). Pleas against ban orders There are also petitions that challenged the imposition of prohibitory orders in the existing capital region (Amaravati) under Section.144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which are purportedly meant to scuttle the protests against the shifting of the ‘Executive capital’ from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. It may also be noted that the recent Cabinet meeting had decided to move the Institution of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta from Hyderabad to Kurnool even as some petitions which prayed for their shifting to the R&B Buildings in Vijayawada were pending adjudication by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-to-take-up-3-capitals-cases-from-tomorrow/article36040190.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Udupi schools, PU colleges will not open from tomorrow||Schools and pre-university colleges in Udupi district will not reopen from Monday [August 23]. It is because the COVID-19 positivity rate in the district has not come down below 2%. According to Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha, the positivity rate presently stood at 2.5 %. The schools will have to wait for sometime to resume the physical classes, he said. A communique from the office of Deputy Director of Pre-University Department has warned that disciplinary action will be taken against such colleges which will conduct offline classes from Monday. Meanwhile, speaking on Saturday, the Deputy Commissioner said that all private hospital should conduct COVID-19 tests on those who show symptoms of fever, cough, and cold.  Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra said in a communique on Saturday that the district administration will decide on Monday when to open the schools and colleges. “They will not be opened for offline classes next week (from August 23 to August 28). Reopening of schools will be finalised after discussion with people’s representatives,” Dr. Rajendra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-schools-pu-colleges-will-not-open-from-tomorrow/article36040775.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi markets, malls to stay open beyond 8 p.m.||Markets, malls, restaurants and bars in the Capital can stay open beyond 8 p.m. from August 23 with the Delhi government announcing on Saturday that restrictions are being lifted following the decline in the number of COVID-19 cases. “In view of the coronavirus situation, the markets were presently allowed to stay open till 8 p.m. With the decline in COVID-19 cases, this time limit is being done away with from Monday. The markets can stay open according to their normal timings,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet. Delhi reported only 19 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, the lowest since April 15 last year, taking the tally to 14,37,293, said a bulletin released by the government. No new COVID-19-related death was reported and the toll stood at 25,079.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/markets-malls-to-stay-open-after-8-pm-from-tomorrow/article36040588.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Thunderstorm likely at many places until August 25||Many parts of the city received heavy rain on Saturday morning under the influence of an upper air circulation over the Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka coasts. According to the India Meteorological Department, cloudy skies with moderate rain or thundershowers may prevail in the city over the next couple of days with some areas even getting heavy showers. It could be heavy in some places at certain times. “The cyclonic wind circulation extends from a height of 1.5 km to 3.5 km above mean sea level over the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka and rains have been forecast for the State until August 25,” said officials at the Regional Meteorological Centre here. On Sunday, a thunderstorm with moderate rain is likely to occur at many places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal areas. Thunderstorms with heavy rain are likely to occur at isolated places over Cuddalore, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipettai, Salem, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Thenkasi, Dindigul, Madurai and Delta districts. On Saturday, Polur and Yercaud registered a rainfall of 10 cm each, Chengam 8 cm and Puzhal 6 cm. Villivakkan registered 5.1 cm, MRC Nagar 4.5 mm, Anna University 1 mm and Chembarambakkam 0.5 mm of rainfall. Several roads in Chennai were flooded while some areas such as Tiruvanmiyur did not get any rain at all. Weather blogger Pradeep John said that places, including Puzhal, Korattur, Perambur, Nungambakkam, Villivakkam and Egmore benefited from the morning spell, which eluded south Chennai. He said that morning rains, from 8.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. were very rare during the south-west monsoon because we depend on heat-based convective activities that usually happen in the evening or at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-morning-showers-cause-flooding-of-several-roads-in-city/article36040531.ece
22 August 2021||Srinagar,||War of words over silence on Article 370||A war of words erupted between Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference and Dr. Farooq Abdullah’s National Conference on Saturday, a day after the virtual meeting of 19 Opposition parties, chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, stayed silent on the issue of the reading down of Article 370. Taking on the NC and Mehbooba Mufti’s Peoples Democratic Party, Mr. Lone said, “ How can J&K leaders justify their presence in the meeting if they could not convince the leaders to talk about Article 370... What is the national Opposition’s stance?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/war-of-words-over-silence-on-article-370/article36040592.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of the box||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/out-of-the-box/article36040756.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||14 arrested for pro-Taliban posts in Assam||The police in Assam have arrested 14 people, including a medical student, for “objection able” pro-Taliban posts on social media platforms. They have been charged under Sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the IT Act and the CrPC.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-arrested-for-pro-taliban-posts-in-assam/article36040189.ece
22 August 2021||Gauhati,||Assam gets 45 days to finish detention camp work||The Gauhati High Court has given the Assam government 45 days to complete the construction of a standalone detention centre for declared foreigners at Matia in Goalpara district. Justice Kalyan Rai Surana directed the State’s Secretary of Home and Political Department to file the updated status report after 45 days from August 11. “…The Advocate General has submitted although he has received specific instruction from the concerned authorities of the Home Department that expeditious steps are being taken to complete the construction work of the detention centre within a period of 1 (one) month…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-gets-45-days-to-finish-detention-camp-work/article36040188.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Waterway||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/waterway/article36040591.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Diversion can be a reason for missing coal||Diversion of coal stock to the grey market and the lack of a methodology to accurately measure the stock could be the reasons for the 2.38 lakh tonnes of coal going missing from Tangedco’s North Chennai Thermal Power Station (NCTPS) at Athipattu in Tiruvallur district, according to a cross-section of experts and officials The Hindu spoke to. “There is a huge grey market for resources like coal, iron ore and bauxite. The stock could have been diverted, and there is a lot of private industries which need the coal,” an analyst who tracks the sector said, speaking on condition of anonymity. He also pointed out that the phenomenon of missing of stock was common in coal mines, but such a huge quantity going missing from a power plant did come as a surprise. The analyst also pointed out that the other way to divert coal was to show that the plant was not running efficiently. “For instance, if you say a power plant is 35% efficient, for 100 units of coal used you should get 35 units of electricity. But you can show the plant is only 30% efficient and it could be the case of coal being shifted away,” he said. Former officials of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission pointed out that there was no accurate method to measure the coal stock and all calculations were approximate. “Since there is no accurate method to measure the coal, it could be a calculation error,” they pointed out. Measurement error An official from a private coal power producer pointed out that the measurement error could not be so huge. “There could be a loss during transit. But that quantum should not be huge. The huge quantity missing could only happen in case of deliberate wrongdoing,” he added. A senior official of Tangedco pointed out that the special committee formed to identify irregularities in the handling of coal had underlined coal shortage in the thermal power stations at Athipattu, Mettur and Thoothukudi. It was also announced by Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji on Friday. “However, the committee is yet to identify how the coal has gone missing, and only after a complete investigation, the details of the quantity gone missing and the time period could be found out,” the official added. The official also ruled out any power shortage owing to the missing coal. The power managers are concerned about the coal stock gone missing, but they said the State would not face any power shortage because the peak demand was yet to cross even 15,000 MW against the total generating capacity of more than 18,500 MW.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/diversion-could-be-a-reason-for-missing-coal/article36040546.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Training for constable, PSI aspirants begins||As many as 200 aspirants for the posts of police constables and sub-inspectors from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru are attending the month-long training programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/training-for-constable-psi-aspirants-begins/article36040779.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,||HC notice to State on plea against IAS officer||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a petition complaining that an IAS officer, who himself was arraigned as a co-accused in a corruption case, has stalled the investigation by denying permission to probe the case against the main accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notice-to-state-on-plea-against-ias-officer/article36040682.ece
22 August 2021||MYSURU,||RT-PCR negative report must for teachers||School teachers in Mandya have been strictly told to bring RT-PCR negative report while coming to the schools that are being reopened from Monday. “The negative reports are a must for teachers reporting to work on Monday,” said Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda in Mandya on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rt-pcr-negative-report-must-for-teachers/article36040799.ece
22 August 2021||bengaluru,||Demand for Rs. 982 cr. from Eagleton resorts upheld||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the decision of the State government to collect around Rs. 982 crore from Chamudreswari Buid Tech Pvt. Ltd., promoter of Eagleton Golf Course and Resorts, for allowing it to retain encroached land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/demand-for-rs-982-cr-from-eagleton-resorts-upheld/article36040474.ece
22 August 2021||bengaluru,||Questions raised about official COVID-19 data||The total health insurance claims for COVID-19 treatment from non-government schemes in six mega cities in July accounted for 91% of the total cases reported, raising doubts about data integrity, according to a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/questions-raised-about-official-covid-19-data/article36040477.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||One arrested over GST fraud worth Rs. 118 crore||An Input Tax Credit refund fraud worth Rs. 118 crore has been busted. The accused availed it without supply of goods by showing bogus invoices. He claimed the sum as refund against exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-arrested-over-gst-fraud-worth-rs-118-crore/article36040795.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||Stay alert, pandemic not over yet, says Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday appealed to people not to let their guard down and invite a third wave of the pandemic. He also urged people not to fall prey to provocations that may endanger their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stay-alert-pandemic-not-over-yet-says-uddhav/article36040796.ece
22 August 2021||Belagavi,||‘Govt. will consider holding winter session at Belagavi’||The State government will seriously consider holding the winter session of the Legislature at the Suvarna Soudha at Belagavi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Saturday. The government is also open to shifting some government offices that could focus on to the Suvarna Soudha, Mr. Bommai told journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-consider-holding-winter-session-at-belagavi/article36040683.ece
22 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab police seize 41 kg of heroin on border||The Punjab police on Saturday said they had foiled a major bid to smuggle drugs from Pakistan and recovered 40.81 kg of of heroin, estimated at about Rs. 200 crore in the international market, in the Panjgraian border outpost area of Amritsar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-police-seize-41-kg-of-heroin-on-border/article36040587.ece
22 August 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal Inheritance Bill faces stiff opposition||The draft Arunachal Pradesh Marriage and Inheritance of Property Bill, 2021, envisaging land rights for girls, has met with stiff opposition. Various student organisations said they would not allow the Bill to be passed in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arunachal-inheritance-bill-faces-stiff-opposition/article36040589.ece
22 August 2021||ERODE,||Officials take stock of crop damage in three villages||A day after a breach in the Lower Bhavani Project main canal resulted in inundation of houses and crops in three villages in the Nasiyanur town panchayat, officials on Saturday started assessing the damage to property and crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-take-stock-of-crop-damage-in-three-villages/article36040510.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||State logs 1,652 fresh cases, 23 deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 1,652 fresh COVID-19 cases and 23 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 25,99,255 and toll to 34,686. Coimbatore recorded 205 cases, followed by Chennai (183).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-logs-1652-fresh-cases-23-deaths/article36040622.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||State logs 1,652 fresh cases, 23 deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 1,652 fresh COVID-19 cases and 23 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 25,99,255 and toll to 34,686. Coimbatore recorded 205 cases, followed by Chennai (183).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-logs-1652-fresh-cases-23-deaths/article36040508.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The Mullah who took the reins of Afghanistan||After a blitzkrieg operation to capture cities and towns following the withdrawal of U.S.-led military forces, the Taliban now control most of Afghanistan, including the capital city of Kabul. The only province that stands outside the Taliban’s control Panjshir is in the north-central part of the country. Poised to form a new government, the Taliban are yet to clearly reveal the contours of their regime, but they had already been in power between 1996 and 2001 over vast areas in the country, which was then declared as the ‘Islamic emirate of Afghanistan’, and governed on the basis of a strict interpretation of ‘Sharia law’. While their spokespersons, especially the political leaders based in Doha, Qatar, have evinced that the group has, over time, reformed and refined itself, there seems to be little inclination of any change in its core ideology. The Taliban as a force are led by their “emir”, Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada and are essentially controlled by the ‘Quetta Shura’, which has provided the ideological leadership for the insurgency as a “leadership council” on the top of a chain of command that extends itself into military groups and operations that now encompasses most of Afghanistan. The Quetta Shura is named so because it was protected and based in Quetta, Balochistan, in west Pakistan and even though only some of its leadership is believed to remain there, the name has stuck. The Quetta Shura’s leadership council is also known as the ‘Rahbari Shura’ and is further divided into sub-committees. The members of this council are tasked with recruitment, training and planning the insurgency. The council was essentially a shadow government that controlled large parts of the country, especially the ethnic Pashtun dominated southern areas, during the insurgency. It has been helped by the protection provided by the Pakistani deep State and has financed the insurgency by various means such as donations from the Gulf and the opium trade in Afghanistan. Akhundzada, who formerly headed the Taliban’s ulema council (religious elders), took control of the Taliban after the death of his predecessor, Mullah Akhtar Mansour, who was widely seen as a violent and divisive leader, in a U.S. drone attack in 2016. Akhundzada, on the other hand, is revered by the outfit’s rank and file for his religious credentials, having made his mark in deciding over thorny issues such as the insurgent group’s use of suicide attacks, among others. During Akhundzada’s tenure as the emir, the Taliban’s public face to the external world has remained its political office in Doha, Qatar, and represented by his deputy Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a founder-leader who was captured by Pakistan security forces in 2010 at a time of internal discord within the outfit and released later in 2018. Other deputies include Sirajuddin Haqqani, son of Jalaluddin Haqqani who led the dreaded Haqqani Network that backed the Taliban during its tenure between 1996 and 2001 and have engaged in several terror attacks in Kabul and beyond. Baradar has sought to project the Taliban as an anti-occupation force that was committed to the defeat and withdrawal of the U.S. military forces in Afghanistan but there has been little evidence of any reform in its core ideology. Secretive movement Formed in 1994 in the southern province of Kandahar, the Taliban, in their initial years and even after coming to power in Kabul in 1996, were a secretive political movement committed to a radical interpretation of Islamic ideology and jurisprudence. The movement emerged in the detritus of the bitter civil war between different factions of the mujahideen that fought for the spoils of power after the withdrawal of the Soviet Union in 1989 and the fall of the communist government in 1992. It was led by former fighters of the mujahideen, who had taken part in the insurgency against the Soviet forces, especially in the Kandahar province. As journalist Ahmed Rashid pointed out, the mujahideen in the south had coalesced around their Pushtun tribal identities and were led by tribal clan chiefs and their religious scholars (or the ulema). Following the withdrawal of the Soviets, the internecine war among the mujahideen also included battles between the rural tribal fighters and the more organised Islamists, who were funded by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan, besides other external actors such as the U.S.’ secret service, the CIA. After the decimation of what Mr. Rashid calls the “traditionalists” from the tribal networks, the ground was laid for the emergence of the radical Islamists of the Taliban, who were initially student recruits (Talibs) from madrassas professing a version of Deobandi Islamic revivalism in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border areas. Akhundzada was an early member of the Taliban, tasked with fighting crime, and serving as part of the Taliban Supreme Court, before training recruits in seminaries. The Taliban in the 1990s were led by Mullah Mohammad Omar, a reclusive leader who sought to gain the support of the people fed up with the war and the corrupt leaders of the Mujahideen, by relying on religious piety and strict observance of Islamic law. The Taliban made rapid military gains after getting support from other fundamentalist groups and the military-driven deep State in Pakistan, which diversified its patrons from the Mujahideen to the new radical Islamists. Once in power, the Taliban, under Mullah Omar, pursued a radical Islamist rule, curbing women’s rights, banning liberal institutions, and adopting medieval values, besides becoming a haven for other radical Islamist and terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda. Following the U.S.’s intervention, the Taliban’s leadership were driven away from Afghanistan, but they slowly gained and retained territory, particularly in the south. No change to the core The Quetta Shura managed to retain control in parts of rural Afghanistan by instituting a shadow government and even gained limited support beyond its core Pushtun ethnic adherents during the insurgency. However, even during peace and power sharing talks with the representatives of the Afghan government before the American withdrawal, the Taliban showed little inclination to dilute its core ideological tenets of establishing an Islamic emirate ruled predominantly by the emir (the Taliban leader), who would appoint the ulema of Sunni Muslims following the Hanafi sect and who would implement the sharia law. The Taliban, as political scientist Barnett Rubin pointed out in a recent special report, released a draft Constitution in 2005, but had not published or adopted it. Taken together with other texts endorsed by the group, the Taliban have shown no indication that they will conform themselves in power to a democracy that will be committed to pluralism inherent in the ethnic, sectional and religious diversity of the country or anything other than a theocratic, unitary system of governance. Akhundzada will seek to preside over an Islamic Emirate after annulling the 2004 Constitution of the Islamic Republic as the group has professed to do, and there is expected to be little difference in its intent from its rule in the 1990s. The Taliban have emerged as a more powerful military force than its 1990s avatar, following the U.S. withdrawal. This time, they have recognised the virtues of public relations exercises, world diplomacy and communication. But they will find it much more difficult to establish a theocratic, medieval regime without resistance in a country, which has seen a significant increase in nominal freedom of expression, participation of women in public life and other civil liberties.  In Focus Akhundzada was an early member of the Taliban, tasked with fighting crime, and serving as part of the Taliban Supreme Court He took control of the Taliban after his predecessor, Mullah Akhtar Mansour, who was widely seen as a violent and divisive leader, was killed in a U.S. drone strike. Akhundzada, on the other hand, is revered by the outfit’s rank and file for his religious credentials Akhundzada is set to preside over an Islamic Emirate after annulling the 2004 Constitution of the country   The Taliban, led by their ‘emir’, Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada, are essentially controlled by the ‘Quetta Shura’, which has provided the ideological leadership for the insurgency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-mullah-who-took-the-reins-of-afghanistan/article36040148.ece
22 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Kalyan Singh, former U.P. CM, passes away at 89||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, who died at the age of 89 on Saturday, personified the BJP-RSS blend of caste and Hindutva, which helped the saffron party achieve power in the State, first riding on the Ram Mandir movement that also fractured old communal and political equations in the country’s most populous State. It was under Singh’s watch that the Mughal-era Babri Mosque was demolished by a mob of karsevaks . The Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences said Singh, who had been admitted there on July 4 in critical condition, died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled Singh’s demise, saying he had a “magical connect” with the masses. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was “saddened beyond words” by Singh’s death, and described him as a statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots-level leader and great human. Even while Singh served as Governor in Rajasthan from 2014, in U.P., the BJP tried to cash in on his Hindutva credentials and iron-fist policy on law and order, a model replicated in a new form under the Yogi Adityanath government since 2017. In October 2016, while campaigning in Etawah, Amit Shah, then BJP chief, promised U.P. that if the BJP came to power, it would replicate a “Kalyan Singh-type of government”. The import was not lost on anyone as Singh’s rule was best remembered for the Babri Masjid demolition. Though Singh resigned over the incident, he expressed no guilt over it. Such was his political significance for the BJP that over the past two months, each time senior BJP leaders from Delhi visited Lucknow in preparation for the 2022 Assembly polls, they made sure they paid a visit to the hospital and to enquire about Singh’s well-being. Born into a Lodh Rajput (OBC) family in Atrauli, near Aligarh, in 1932, Singh was groomed in the ideology of the RSS and in 1967 was first elected to the State Assembly as a Jan Sangh candidate. He went on to win the seat several times, later on a BJP ticket, becoming Chief Minister of U.P. twice. A special CBI court in Lucknow last September acquitted Singh along with other senior BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders in the Babri Masjid demolition case for lack of credible evidence. Singh left the BJP for the first time in 1999 after his verbal attacks on then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee before returning to the saffron fold in 2004. In 2009, he left the BJP again due to differences over distribution of ticket. In March 2014, Singh, then Independent MP from Etah, returned to the BJP. Singh is survived by wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, MP, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is a U.P. Minister .  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-obc-face-ex-cm-of-up-kalyan-singh-dead/article36040106.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘LeT, JeM may intensify infiltration bids’||Terrorists of banned outfits such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), which had been fighting alongside the Taliban against the U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan for the past several years, may soon intensify efforts to infiltrate into Indian territory, according to the latest assessment of security agencies. “Carrying out terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir has been the primary goal of these outfits. Over the years, they have extended active support to the Taliban. The JeM has been deploying senior commanders and trained cadres for Taliban operations. The LeT has also been a major source of armed men fighting along with the Taliban and the Haqqani Network. They share the same ideology,” a government official said. “However, after things settle down a little in Afghanistan, their focus will again shift to their main objective. Among the hundreds of prisoners released from Afghan prisons, many were from the LeT and the JeM,” the official added. The agencies said attempts to infiltrate via the Jammu-Rajouri sector had already increased. Another official pointed out that even on Saturday, three suspected JeM cadres were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir. Preliminary findings indicated that they were part of the module involving two Pakistani nationals who were eliminated in Awantipora on July 31. 95 terrorists Since January, 95 terrorists have been neutralised in Jammu and Kashmir, and 18 of them were Pakistani nationals, officials said. The JeM was founded in Pakistan by Masood Azhar in 2000, after his release from an Indian prison along with two others in exchange for passengers on board the Indian Airlines flight IC-814 that was hijacked on December 24, 1999. The hijacked plane had been taken to the then Taliban-controlled Kandahar. Azhar was earlier the general secretary of Pakistan-based Harkat-ul-Ansar, which had links with al-Qaeda. “The JeM has an organic link with the Taliban. In the past, it has also provided refuge to their cadres... Following the Taliban takeover, the JeM chief on August 16 congratulated his followers through a message titled Manzil Ki Taraf [Towards the Goal],” the official said. Now headquartered at Muridke in Pakistan, the LeT was founded in the Kunar province of Afghanistan in 1999-2000 by Hafiz Saeed and others. At present, LeT cadres are said to be mostly operating in the Kunar, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces, while JeM fighters are active in the Ghazni, Kandahar and Helmand provinces of Afghanistan. Taliban functionaries “The LeT and JeM leaderships have been in contact with top Taliban functionaries through the Haqqani Network, which is in the United Nations Security Council’s [UNSC] sanctions list. Its chief, Sirajuddin Haqqani, and key operatives like Khalil Ahmed Haqqani are UN-designated terrorists,” said the official. Following the Taliban takeover, the group led by Sirajuddin’s brother Anas and Khalil is now controlling security for Kabul. Based on this development, Indian security agencies believe that the LeT and the JeM will continue to get support from Taliban. This apart, as per a UNSC report in June, based on the Monitoring Team’s observations, the Taliban and al-Qaeda continued to be closely aligned. Al-Qaeda elements were said to be residing in at least 15 Afghan provinces. “Sirajuddin Haqqani is the leader of the Miram Shah Shura, which is not a geographical term but an analytical concept describing a regional body of the Supreme Council. He is also assessed to be a member of the wider al-Qaeda leadership, but not of the Al-Qaeda core leadership [the Hattin Shura],” said the report. Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent, whose first chief was Asim Umar, alias Shaan-ul Haq, from Deepa Sarai in Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh, also operates under the Taliban umbrella from Kandahar, Helmand and Nimruz provinces. “The group reportedly consists of primarily Afghan and Pakistani nationals, but also individuals from Bangladesh, India and Myanmar,” it said, also noting that the wife of Asim Umar, who was later killed, was said to be among the 5,000 Taliban prisoners freed by the now-ousted Afghan government last year as part of the Doha agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-jem-may-intensify-infiltration-bids/article36040118.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Zydus Cadila hoping to supply vaccine by end of September||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Saturday said it was looking to supply its COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D by the end of September, adding the pricing of the dose will be announced in a week or two. The company’s indigenously developed needle-free three-dose COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the drug regulator on Friday, making it the first vaccine to be administered to those in the age group of 12-18 in the country. “Now we will work closely with the regulatory authorities to work on the pricing and modality of delivery of the doses of our vaccine. In the next one or two weeks, we will have better clarity on the pricing,” Zydus Group Managing Director Sharvil Patel said at a virtual press conference. The company hopes that “by middle to end of September, we can start supplying the vaccines, and as I said we need to scale up to 1 crore doses and we believe by October we can achieve this. We believe by October we will start producing 1 crore doses and that would mean by end of January, we can have 4 to 5 crore doses,” he added. Ramping up Asked if the company was considering partnering with other firms to scale up production of its vaccine, Mr. Patel said Zydus Cadila was actively looking at ramping up manufacturing both domestically through partnerships and also outside the country. He added that the company was also seeking approval for a two-dose regimen of the vaccine. Describing the approval for Zydus Cadila’s vaccine as a momentous feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet on Friday had said, “India is fighting COVID-19 with full vigour. The approval for the world’s first DNA-based ‘ZyCov-D’ vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India’s scientists. A momentous feat indeed.” ZyCoV-D is the sixth vaccine to get the emergency use authorisation in the country, after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russian vaccine Sputnik V and the vaccines of Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. Three now in use Of these, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are currently in use in India. These vaccines are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which has three doses, these are administered in two doses. “This is a historic milestone with ZyCoV-D, a product of Indian innovation becoming the world’s first DNA vaccine being offered for human use and supporting the world’s largest immunisation drive,” Cadila Healthcare Chairman Pankaj R Patel had said on Friday. “I would like to thank all the researchers, clinical trial investigators, volunteers and the regulators who have supported this endeavour,” the Cadila Healthcare chairman had added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zydus-cadila-hoping-to-supply-vaccine-by-end-of-september/article36040130.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The sword arm of Taliban||On August 17, Sirajuddin Haqqani, the leader of the Haqqani Network, arrived in Kabul from Quetta in Pakistan. The Haqqanis have been part of the Taliban and the responsibilities given to Sirajuddin point to the influence the group has over the Taliban. He is the leader in charge of military operations in Afghanistan. Believed to be in his 40s, Sirajuddin has established himself as a key figure in the Taliban-led “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan” that will take shape in the coming days. In terms of importance, Sirajuddin is seen as the third most powerful Taliban figure after Mullah Baradar and Hibatullah Akhundzada. With this, Sirajuddin is emerging as the top leader of the Haqqani Network, the much-feared group that first emerged to fight the Soviet troops in Afghanistan and continued to fight and defeat the U.S. with its terror tactics. Although his stature has risen within the militant ranks, Sirajuddin remains a UN-designated global terrorist responsible for the suicide bombings and raids unleashed on the U.S. and NATO troops as well as civilians in Afghanistan over the past two decades. The Haqqani Network has also been responsible for some of the attacks on prominent targets in Afghanistan. In June 2011, they attacked the Kabul Intercontinental Hotel. They have carried out attacks against the Indian and the U.S. Embassies in Kabul, the Afghan Presidential palace and the office of the NDS, the Afghan national intelligence. Power tussle In July 1988, Jalaluddin Haqqani had voted for peace along with the tribal elders of entire Afghanistan. He had put his signature in a long list of tribal leaders of the northeast Afghanistan, where his clan, the Haqqanis, dominated over an area that traditionally covers Waziristan of Pakistan. His representatives came to meet the UN-appointed special negotiator for Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez. The plan was to create the “broadest” possible government in Afghanistan that would put an end to the violence that had broken out in Afghanistan beginning with the Soviet invasion of the country in 1979. The peace process, or the Cordovez formula, however, did not take off as Pakistan began to chart its own course after the withdrawal of the USSR. Afghanistan had become an open space for power tussle after Soviet withdrawal. Jalaluddin belonged to the Zadran tribe in the northwest frontiers of Pakistan and the mountains in the eastern Afghanistan. These were some of areas where resistance to the Soviet occupation rose prominently among the Pashtuns. The Haqqanis were associated with Younus Khalis of Hezb-e-Islami, one of the main anti-Soviet jihadist groups. As the resistance grew stronger in the 1980s, Jalaluddin’s militants received weapons and training, including stringer missiles supplied by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The attacks by the Haqqanis on the Soviet forces in Afghanistan were legendary and they evolved as the conflict among the Mujahideen groups intensified in the aftermath of the exit of the Soviet Union and the fall of the government of Mohammad Najibullah. Ties with al-Qaeda Jalaluddin, a Minister in the previous Taliban government from 1996 to 2001, was considered close to al-Qaeda and its founder Osama bin Laden. He had several sons from his multiple marriages — Badruddin, Nasiruddin, Anas, Azizuddin, Sirajuddin and Khalil. He lost most of his sons in the battles that the Haqqanis fought against the Americans and the NATO forces. Anas and Sirajuddin are now in the leadership of the Network. Anas was seen holding talks with former CEO of Afghanistan Abdullah Abdullah and Sirajuddin has proved to be the military successor of his father. The Haqqani Network’s emergence as the sword arm of the Taliban in Kabul has surprised many observers, who believe the Haqqanis are closely aligned with Arab insurgent groups such as al-Qaeda, a tradition that goes back to Jalaluddin’s collaboration with the Arabs against the Soviets and his own marriage to an Arab woman. According to the Taliban-U.S. agreement, the leading figures of the Taliban and aligned groups are expected to be out of the list of global terrorists. Any delay to this effect will create complications for the Haqqanis, who are now in Kabul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-sword-arm-of-taliban/article36040146.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The valley of resistance||When the Taliban took Kabul in 1996, President Burhanuddin Rabbani and Defence Minister Ahmad Shah Massoud, along with their allies, retreated to northern Afghanistan. The Taliban had captured much of Afghanistan, except the north. Massoud, who was called ‘the Lion of Panjshir’, built a united front of anti-Taliban forces in the Panjshir Valley, and continued the resistance against the Taliban regime. Massoud was assassinated by al-Qaeda on September 9, 2001, two days ahead of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York. But the Northern Alliance he had commanded played a critical part in the U.S.-led attacks on the Taliban that saw a quick collapse of the Taliban regime in 2001. After 20 years, the Taliban are back in Kabul. The Taliban are now controlling almost all of Afghanistan—except Panjshir. In the province, located in the northeast of the country, Ahmad Massoud, the 32-year-old son of Ahmad Shah Massoud, is leading the new resistance against the Taliban. Amrullah Saleh, the First Vice President of the Ghani administration, is believed to be with Mr. Massoud in Panjshir. Last week, Mr. Saleh declared himself the ‘legitimate caretaker President of Afghanistan’ as per the Afghan Constitution. While the Taliban are trying to tighten their grip on Afghanistan, early signs suggest a resistance to their rule is taking shape in Panjshir. When Afghanistan became a republic in 1973, the 20-year-old Ahmad Shah Massoud was a student in Kabul University. Muhammad Daoud Khan, backed by the communist People’s Democratic Party, became the first President of the country. Massoud, who was a member of the Muslim Youth, the student wing of the Jamiat-e Islami, started an uprising in Panjshir that was backed by the Pakistani intelligence. Initially Daoud Khan’s regime put down the protests and Massoud had to flee to Pakistan. But he would return to Panjshir after the communists took over Kabul in 1978 through the ‘Saur Revolution’. In the Panjshir Valley, literally the valley of five lions, Massoud built a guerrilla resistance against the communists. After the Soviets came to Afghanistan in 1979, Panjshir emerged the hotbed of the anti-Soviet communist, with help coming from the U.S. Mountainous terrain Located 150 km north of Kabul, the Valley is near the Hindu Kush mountain range. It’s divided by the Panjshir river and ringed by the Panjshir mountains in the north and the Kuhestan mountains in the south. The mountain tops are covered by snow throughout the year. This difficult terrain makes the Valley a nightmare for invaders. It allowed Massoud to keep the Valley away from first the communist government and then the Taliban regime. Earlier, Panjshir was part of Parwan Province. In 2004, the Valley and the surrounding region became an independent province. Roughly 1,50,000 people are living in Panjshir, a huge majority of them ethnic Tajiks. When the Taliban started taking provinces after provinces, many fled to Kabul. Some others fled to Panjshir, hoping that the Valley, the traditional capital of the Tajik mujahideen, would hold off the Taliban onslaught. During the anti-communist war, the Mujahideen were backed by the U.S. with military and financial aid coming via Pakistan. When the Taliban were in power in the 1990s, the Northern Alliance was backed by India, Iran and Russia. And much of the country’s north, including Badakhshan and parts of Takhar, besides Panjshir, was outside the control of the Taliban. This time, the Taliban appear to be stronger. Panjshir is the last province standing. The Taliban have also established contacts with Iran, Russia and China. It’s not clear whether the resistance would gain regional or international support. In an article in The Washington Post on August 18, Ahmad Massoud said he’s “ready to follow my father’s footsteps”. “But we need more weapons, more ammunition and more supplies,” he wrote, in a direct call for help. The more immediate questions Mr. Massoud and Mr. Saleh face is whether they can muster the kind of support among Afghans that the Northern Alliance did in the 1990s and whether Panjshir can survive as an island of resistance in an Afghanistan tightly controlled by the Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-valley-of-resistance/article36040151.ece
22 August 2021||Chennai,||A battery powered by human sweat||In a first, scientists from the Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore, have introduced a stretchable battery that is powered by human perspiration. Gurunathan Thangavel, a native of Archampatti in Karur district, Tamil Nadu, is among the three scientists who designed and developed the battery that can discharge about 20 hours of electricity derived from just 2 ml of sweat. The soft stretchable battery comprises printed silver flake electrodes that generate electricity in the presence of sweat. The battery looks like a paper bandage that can be affixed to a flexible sweat-absorbent textile which draws power from sweat and transfers it to wearable devices, including smart watches and arm straps, via Bluetooth. To demonstrate its potential use when it becomes incorporated in wearable biosensors and other electronic devices, the scientists tested their device with artificial human sweat. “The battery does not contain heavy metals or toxic chemicals unlike conventional batteries, which are often built using unsustainable materials that are harmful to the environment and at times pose a threat of explosion. We have applied to patent this technology,” says Dr. Thangavel, a Senior Research Fellow in NTU’s School of Material Science and Engineering. “Conventional batteries use organic electrolyte, thereby limiting their application in skin-interfering electronics. Our battery conforms to the skin of users by our well-synthesised hydrophilic elastomeric binder. This device will help to do away with toxic materials used in batteries,” he said. In a separate trial, the team reported that an individual wearing the sweat-powered battery around the wrist and cycling on a stationary bicycle for 30 minutes was able to generate a voltage of 4.2 V and output power of 3.9 mW that was sufficient to power a commercial temperature sensor device and send the data to a smartphone via Bluetooth. “By capitalising on perspiration, we could be looking at a more environmentally friendly way of powering wearable devices that does not rely on conventional batteries. It is a near-guaranteed source of energy produced by our bodies,” he quoted Lee Pooi See, Dean of NTU Graduate College, who led the study, as saying. Adding that the third member of the team is Lyu Jian, Research Fellow, Materials Science and Engineering, NTU, Dr. Thangavel said the stretchable textile retained a lot of sweat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-battery-powered-by-human-sweat/article36040111.ece
22 August 2021||Chandigarh,||41 kg of heroin seized on border||The Punjab police on Saturday said they had foiled a major bid to smuggle drugs from Pakistan and recovered 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg and estimated at about Rs. 200 crore in the international market, in the Panjgraian border outpost area of Amritsar. Director-General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the operation based on specific inputs was carried out by the Amritsar (Rural) police, supported by the Border Security Force (BSF). “Following an input that Nirmal Singh, alias Sonu Mayer, a notorious smuggler of the Gharinda area, was attempting to smuggle heroin through the India-Pakistan border, Senior Superintendent of Police, Amritsar (Rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana immediately shared the pin-pointed inputs with the BSF. Joint teams of the Punjab police and the BSF successfully seized the huge heroin cache, besides recovering 180 g of opium and two plastic pipes (manufactured by Super Punjab Pump, made in Pakistan). The police have also impounded a motorcycle and a Scooty belonging to the smugglers from the smuggling side, found stationed at the vicinity,” he said. “The police have launched a massive manhunt to arrest Sonu, who is also wanted by the Tarn Taran police in a case of 1 kg of heroin recovered in 2020.” “An FIR under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act; Section 14 of the Foreigners Act; and Sections 3, 34 and 20 of the Indian Passport Act, has been registered at the Ramdas Police Station, Amritsar,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/41-kg-of-heroin-seized-on-border/article36040113.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. divided over focus on Pegasus||At Friday’s meeting of 19 Opposition parties, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren raised questions on whether the emphasis on the Pegasus cyberattack was misplaced and spoke of the challenges of effectively communicating the issue to the general public. With three States going to the polls early next year, many within the Congress and other parties felt that the strong focus on the issue may not be helping the Opposition’s cause and that it could even turn out to be a second Rafale. According to sources, Mr. Soren said while Pegasus was important, how did it impact the common man on the street or a farmer struggling against the new farm laws. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, in reply, said Opposition leaders had to convey the wider implications of the snooping episode, on how all the institutions were controlled by the government using this spyware and how dangerous it was for democracy. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the Pegasus spyware was used by the BJP government to turn the country into a “totalitarian state”. However, a section of Opposition leaders at the meeting agreed that communication on the spyware would be a challenge. The first test of political currency of the Pegasus snooping episode would come up during Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, which are scheduled for early next year. There was a section within the Congress, too, who feel that “Pegasus first” was a wrong strategy to follow in the recent monsoon session of Parliament. Members from Punjab and Haryana felt aggrieved as the farmers’ agitation was relegated to the background. All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said the elections could not be fought on one issue alone. The U.P. election was a mandate on the “misrule” by the Yogi Adityanath government in the State, especially his “disappearing act” during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Pegasus cyberattack remained important, but there were many issues on which the government needed to be questioned, he said. “Right now, we are going through a huge economic disruption that has been brought about on us by the BJP government,” Mr. Owaisi said. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders both agreed that taking the Pegasus issue to a largely rural electorate in Uttar Pradesh would be an uphill task. BSP Lok Sabha MP Ritesh Pandey said Pegasus could not be a rallying cry for the polls, but it could also not dismissed as a non-issue. “Since the Opposition has been talking about it, people want to know. They are fearful that their rights might already be compromised,” Mr. Pandey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-divided-over-focus-on-pegasus/article36040125.ece
22 August 2021||Srinagar,||Academic from Kashmir stuck outside Kabul airport||An academic from Kashmir, who is stranded outside the airport in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul, on Saturday uploaded an SOS on social media seeking help from the Indian government to nominate a pointsman who could help it in the evacuation of Indian citizens. “We are around 280 [Indian] people. Everyone is blank and clueless. We are not able to enter the Kabul airport despite reaching around 12 a.m. [on Friday night],” Mohammed Asif Shah, an Assistant Professor of Economics, said in a video message. He described the situation outside the Kabul airport as “chaotic” and “scary”. “Tens of thousands of people are marching towards the Kabul airport. Every country has its own personnel who take their citizens inside. However, there is no official for us. We seek help so that we do not suffer at the hands of people who could do anything,” Mr. Shah said. He asked the Indian government, especially the Ministry of External Affairs, to appoint an official at the Kabul airport, who could help them enter inside. In a message wired to a friend in Kashmir, Mr. Shah said he was passing through “a distressed condition”. “There is a very serious situation of chaos and confusion. There are chances of retaliation and confrontation. The Indian government has already closed its embassy and left all citizens in confusion,” he reportedly wrote to his friend in the Valley. Mr. Shah also said there was no accommodation available. “The airport is under U.S. control and security personnel are continuously firing gunshots in the air to disperse people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/academic-from-kashmir-stuck-outside-kabul-airport/article36040123.ece
22 August 2021||Srinagar,||War of words over Opposition’s silence on Article 370||A war of words erupted between Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference (PC) and Farooq Abdullah’s National Conference (NC) on Saturday, a day after the virtual meeting of 19 Opposition parties, chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, stayed silent on the issue of the reading down of Article 370. Taking on the NC and Mehbooba Mufti’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who participated in Ms. Gandhi’s meeting, Mr. Lone said, “No mention of Article 370 in the Opposition parties meet. In wonderment, how can J&K leaders justify their presence in the meeting if they could not convince the leaders to talk about Article 370. The BJP’s anti-370 stance is clear. What is the national Opposition’s stance?” Mr. Lone was not invited for the meeting. ]The joint statement issued at the end of the meeting spoke of the need to restore statehood to J&K. “Leaders from J&K should either get the national Opposition to endorse the demand for Article 370... Or just keep out of it,” Mr. Lone said. Responding to the accusations, several NC leaders, in a joint statement, accused Mr. Lone of “changing narratives”. “His only permanent character is that of a pendulum... From joining the Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration to leaving it, he has only damaged the cause of restoration of Article 370 and 35A,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/war-of-words-over-oppositions-silence-on-article-370/article36040121.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||Remain vigilant, pandemic not over yet, says Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday appealed to the people of the State not to let their guard down and invite a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. He also urged people not to fall prey to any kind of provocation that may endanger their lives. “Organising political, social and religious programmes during the pandemic could turn fatal to the health of all,” he said, adding that the State aims to further reduce the case positivity and fatality rates. The Chief Minister was speaking to reporters after inaugurating a paediatric COVID-19 care centre at Mumbai University’s Kalina campus. Mr. Thackeray said that the pandemic was not over yet and “people should behave responsibly”. He added, “We have announced relaxations only to keep the economy moving. I appeal to citizens to not fall prey to provocations and promises that lead to creation of health problems to them and others.” He also inaugurated 20 ambulances donated for public use by different private individuals and NGOs. Mr. Thackeray’s second statement within the span of a week warning against the holding of mass events comes in the backdrop of four newly inducted Union Ministers from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) touring the State as part of the party’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra. Nineteen FIRs have been registered so far against Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Narayan Rane for holding the yatra during the pandemic.  Three days ago, when senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was asked about Mr. Thackeray’s earlier appeal to avoid crowding, he had said that his party understands and welcomes the suggestion made by the Chief Minister. “But he should tell this not only to us but also to the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party, and his own party,” Mr. Fadnavis had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remain-vigilant-pandemic-not-over-yet-says-maharashtra-cm/article36040762.ece
22 August 2021||Srinagar,||Stamp of support: postal cover on Kashmir’s magic carpet||Kashmir’s famed hand-knotted carpet, with its intricate and colourful floral patterns, adorned a special cover of the Indian Postal Service this week. This comes as a shot in the arm of the J&K Handicrafts and Handloom Department’s efforts to push for the Geographical Indication (GI) certification, upscale the dwindling trade, and restore its lost glory. “The inclusion of Kashmir’s hand-knotted carpet as a postal cover will help educate people about GI tagging and reach a wide audience. The situation demands the building of trust and restoring consumer confidence to buy our authentic carpets,” Mahmood Ahmad Shah, Director, Handloom and Handicrafts Kashmir, told The Hindu . To win over buyers, Mr. Shah said his department was planning to shift from the traditional label system to the Quick Response (QR) code for carpets. “A buyer can use his mobile phone to know about the knots per inch, yarn and the material used. The buyer can also access the name of the craftsmen who wove it. It will reinforce the confidence of a buyer,” Mr. Shah said. The Kashmir carpet faces tough competition internationally from the products of countries such as China, Turkey and Belgium, and internally from carpets manufactured in Jaipur, Agra, Bhadohi and Amritsar. Carpet export fell to Rs. 299 crore for 2019-20, the Handicrafts Department’s figures show. According to one estimate, carpet exports stood at Rs. 369.81 crore in 2016-17. “Yes, there is a slump in the sale of carpets. The fresh dip is due to the pandemic, which affected the export of carpets badly,” Mr. Shah said. Around 80,000 local people are associated with carpet manufacturing in Kashmir, which saw a major jump in both manufacturing and exports post-1990, with the production going up from Rs. 84.55 crore in 1990-91 to Rs. 821.5 crore in 2016-17. But the figures have been sliding. “We are also pushing for an organised sector for the carpet industry, which remains unorganised due to multiple processes like dying, weaving, etc. being done at separate places. Fresh interventions are likely to meet the demands of the market,” Mr. Shah said. Machine-made goods A lot of focus of the J&K government is on discouraging the misbranding of Kashmir art and crafts. J&K’s Handicrafts Quality Control Act has armed the department with powers to promote GI labelling of products and stop the sale of machine-made items posing as hand-woven. Famous for centuries, Kashmir’s carpet industry witnessed a boom under the 15th century ruler Zain-ul-Abidin, with weavers travelling from Persia and Central Asia to Kashmir, and the craft dominating western markets with its laborious and exquisite artwork. In the 1990s, carpet weavers shifted their focus from woollen to silk carpets. “Silk carpets are in the luxury bracket. However, lack of silk processing units in Kashmir forced the weavers to buy [silk] from outside, which added to the cost of the carpet,” Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stamp-of-support-postal-cover-on-kashmirs-magic-carpet/article36040108.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC relief for two candidates with ‘equivalent qualification’ for jobs||Veering away from the norm that an aspirant should have the “requisite qualification” at the time of notification of job vacancy, the Supreme Court said an “equivalent qualification” at the time of application will do equally well. “The principle of service jurisprudence that a candidate must possess the requisite qualification for a post on the date of issue of employment notification cannot be applied in the appellants’ cases, as in our view, they possessed equivalent qualifications when they applied for the posts,” a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said in a recent judgment. The judgment was based on appeals filed by two applicants to the posts of high school assistants in Kerala. The question before the court was whether their B.Ed. degrees were in the subjects fulfilling the eligibility criteria for the job notified by the State Public Service Commission (PSC) in 2012. The job required a Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) degree in the subject of natural sciences. The appellants, Praveen Kumar and P. Anitha Devi, represented by advocate Sarath S. Janardanan, had B.Ed. degrees in biological science from the University of Mysore and Bharathiar University in Coimbatore, respectively. Their degrees in biological sciences were considered “equivalent” to a natural sciences degree from a university in Kerala. They were both shortlisted and even allowed to participate in the job interview. However, their candidature were put on hold after an objection came up on the ground that they were not qualified in the subject concerned for which the job was notified. The Kerala PSC continued to object despite the State’s Higher Education Department issuing orders in 2019, specifically saying that Mr. Kumar’s and Ms. Devi’s degrees were equivalent to a natural sciences degree from Kerala universities. The PSC argued that the government orders in service cases cannot apply retrospectively. It said the duo were not qualified at the time of job application in 2012. Justice Bose, however, disagreed with the Kerala High Court, which favoured the PSC, saying “the acceptance of the Government Orders (GOs) with retrospective effect would amount to change in the rule of the game mid-way, which is impermissible”. “The GOs only confirmed the equivalency of their B.Ed. degrees. In our opinion, they shall be deemed to have had the equivalent qualification on the relevant date [of the job notification],” Justice Bose observed, allowing their appeals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-relief-for-two-candidates-with-equivalent-qualification-for-jobs/article36040136.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rainfall in Delhi breaks 14-year record, IMD sends ‘yellow’ alert||The national capital received 138.8 mm of rainfall over 24 hours (from 8.30 a.m. on Friday to 8.30 a.m. on Saturday) — the highest for a single day in August since 2007. Sunday is expected to be generally cloudy with light rain, said the India Meteorological Department. The all-time highest amount of rainfall received in the capital on a single day in the month was 184 mm on August 2, 1961. Saturday’s reading is the ninth highest in the list. 138.8 mm received Safdarjung observatory, which is considered as representational data for the city, recorded 138.8 mm of rainfall, The Ridge observatory registered 149.2 mm of rainfall over 24 hours. The IMD had issued an ‘orange’ alert for Saturday, a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in transportion, with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. A ‘yellow’ warning has been issued for Sunday, indicating severely bad weather. The Public Works Department received over 334 complaints of waterlogging between midnight on Friday and throughout Saturday as all critical points identified by the agency were flooded for the most part of the day. According to a senior PWD official, Minto Bridge, which was cordoned off by the traffic police on Saturday morning, was among the first points to get flooded. The situation was brought quickly under control as water was pumped out and the stretch was reopened to traffic. “The PWD control room began getting complaints of waterlogging as soon as rain started lashing the city on Friday. Most of the vulnerable and critical points around the city got waterlogged,” said a PWD official. Most complaints of waterlogging came from Azadpur, several points on the Ring Road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Lajpat Nagar, ITO and Mathura Road. The average rainfall that the drainage network of the city handle is 50 mm per day, said a PWD official. Live feeds from ten locations where waterlogging usually occurs is monitored around the clock by the PWD: these include Minto Bridge, Sawan Park underpass, Tilak Bridge, Shakti Nagar underpass, Roshanara underpass, Azad Bhawan pump house, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Bhero enclave underpass, Azadpur underpass and Zakhira RUB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rainfall-in-delhi-breaks-14-year-record-imd-sends-yellow-alert/article36040140.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Service Chiefs visit alma mater together||In a landmark visit, the three Service Chiefs together visited the National Defence Academy (NDA) at Khadakwasla in Pune, their alma mater , on August 20 and 21, during which they reviewed the ongoing training of cadets and the available training and administrative infrastructure, the Army said on Saturday. The Army said in a statement: “The visit marks a historical moment for this prestigious tri-service training Academy as all three service chiefs are coursemates from the 56th Course of NDA, which is rare and unique.” Prior to this, it was only in 1991 that all three Service Chiefs were coursemates. They belonged to the first course of the NDA, the erstwhile Joint Services Wing, the statement said. The idea of establishing the NDA for training officers of the three services was conceived by a committee headed by the then Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army, Field Marshal Sir Claude Auchinlek, in 1945, and the Academy commenced functioning at its interim location in Dehradun as the Joint Service Wing in January 1949. The foundation stone of the Academy at Khadakwasla was laid on October 6, 1949 and inaugurated on January 16, 1955. Admiral Karambir Singh took over as the Navy Chief on May 31, 2019; Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria took over as Air Chief on September 30, 2019; and General Manoj Naravane took over as Army Chief on December 31, 2019. During the visit, the Chiefs paid homage at the ‘Hut of Remembrance’, which commemorates the sacrifice of NDA officers who laid down their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/service-chiefs-visit-alma-mater-together/article36040132.ece
22 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Plea to be filed against ex-DGP Saini’s release||Punjab’s Vigilance Bureau has decided to file a recall petition in the High Court against the August 19 release orders of Sumedh Saini in a land fraud case. It will also petition against the court’s interim bail order of August 12 in the disproportionate assets case against the former Director General of Police. The Bureau will soon be moving the recall petitions in the two cases filed against Mr Saini, a 1982 batch IPS officer. Mr. Saini was arrested on August 18 in the land fraud case when he went to the Vigilance Bureau (VB) office in connection with another case of disproportionate assets. Mr. Saini had gone to the VB office in accordance with the High Court order awarding him interim bail subject to him joining the investigation in the disproportionate assets case within 7 days of the grant of interim bail. Ordering Mr Saini’s interim bail, the court had, on August 12, 2021, stated: “For joining loose ends, if any, with regard to the documentary evidence or banking transactions, this Court is of the opinion that custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required. The petitioner is granted interim bail subject to his joining investigation within one week from today.” Pointing out that the ex-DGP had chosen to visit the VB office late in the evening on the last day of the 7-day period, an official spokesperson of the Bureau said Mr. Saini had thus failed to follow the HC orders in letter and spirit. “Saini intentionally exhausted the seven-day period during which he had to join the investigation in accordance with the interim order in FIR No. 13 disproportionate assets case), and even then he arrived at the Sector 68 Mohali office of the Bureau without any prior intimation to the investing officer,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-be-filed-against-ex-dgp-sainis-release/article36040144.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘States earn more when basic oil prices increase’||The States and the Centre need to work out how to address people’s concern about high fuel prices, Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, reiterating that States earn more when basic oil prices rise. Stressing that India’s pandemic-affected economy was recovering, Ms. Sitharaman promised to provide any support that was required to spur the recovery further. “We see signs of recovery and hope the economy will recover, and are willing to give any help that would be needed to push the recovery process more,” she said. On the issue of fuel prices, the Minister said: “As regards fuel price, the Centre as well as the States tax fuel. The Centre taxes at a fixed rate, the States tax at ad valorem . So whenever there is an increase in the basic fuel price, the States’ ad valorem- based taxes will also increase.” Asserting that the country’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were now getting the recognition they were denied for decades, Ms. Sitharaman said the government had taken several measures to help them over the past two years. Ms. Sitharaman was speaking in Lucknow at the launch of an alternative investment fund called Ubharte Sitare Fund that was announced in last year’s Budget. The Minister urged the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) and India Exim Bank to work with the State administration to popularise its offering for small enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-earn-more-when-basic-oil-prices-increase/article36040114.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||Another extortion case filed against Param Bir||The Mumbai Police have registered one more case of extortion against former City Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh on the basis of a complaint lodged by a builder-cum-hotelier, an official said on Saturday. This is the fourth such case against Mr. Singh and the second in Mumbai. Two other cases were filed in Thane city. All these FIRs were registered within a span of one month. The latest FIR was filed on Friday night at the Goregaon police station based on a complaint lodged by Bimal Agrawal, 48, the official said. In this case, dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze and four others — Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Babloo, and Riyaz Bhati — have also been named as accused. As per the complaint by Mr. Agrawal, the accused extorted collectively Rs. 9 lakh from him in several tranches for not conducting raids on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership, and also forced him to buy two smartphones worth around Rs. 2.92 lakh. The incident occurred between January 2020 and March 2021. Based on the complaint, the case was filed under Sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the six accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-extortion-case-filed-against-param-bir/article36040468.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||80 Indians evacuated; 150 miss flight||Despite being released and allowed to proceed subsequently, the group had been unable to reach the airport gates, at the time of going to press. A second IAF aircraft is now parked at Dushanbe airport, awaiting clearance to go back into Kabul once the group of 150 is able to enter. “We are operating the flights from Dushanbe as it is difficult for planes to be parked in Kabul for an extended period,” explained an official involved in the operations. The biggest problem is ensuring safe passage for the Indians trying to reach the airport, and increasingly, for them to be allowed in. The special Afghanistan cell of the Ministry of External Affairs, which has been coordinating over the telephone and through social media groups with Indians stranded in Afghanistan, estimated that once all the three groups return, an additional 200-250 Indians will remain to be rescued from Kabul. With the Indian Embassy in Kabul closed, organising their passage has become more difficult with each passing day, even as no formal government has been formed in Afghanistan. “Our single focus at the moment is to bring Indian nationals back,” the official added, explaining that the Afghan staff members of the Indian Embassy, and other Afghans holding visas would not be facilitated immediately. Meanwhile, about 72 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, most of whom have Indian visas, and have families residing here were unable to fly out after the Taliban forces reportedly turned them back from the airport, an NGO working on evacuating the Afghan minorities said. It is unclear whether the Taliban have officially decided not to let the group, which is taking shelter at the main gurdwara in Kabul, leave. “We are trying to ensure seamless coordination with local guards and through the MEA to U.S. forces, so that they are allowed to enter the airport. Once they come to India, we will help rehabilitate them or facilitate onward travel,” Vikramjit Singh Sahney, president of the World Punjabi Organisation, told The Hindu , adding that the Ministry of External Affairs has committed to bringing the group back by Indian Air Force aircraft if required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/80-indians-evacuated-150-miss-flight/article36040109.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Lalu faces tough test as sons feud over leadership||Unlike his younger brother who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, Mr. Tej Pratap is often in the news for his caustic remarks and rustic mannerisms, causing major embarrassment to the RJD and its leaders. Matters seem to have come to a head after a face-to-face confrontation between the brothers earlier this week in Patna. On August 20, Mr. Tej Pratap visited 10 Circular Road, the official residence of his mother Rabri Devi, where Mr. Tejashwi also lives, to discuss the differences between him and the State RJD chief, Jagdanand Singh. “While, we started talking with each other Sanjay Yadav (close aide of Mr. Tejashwi) intervened and took Tejashwi away. He did not allow me to talk to my younger brother,” Mr. Tej Pratap alleged while leaving the meeting. Shorty thereafter, Mr. Tejashwi left for New Delhi to meet his father. However, he told reporters that he was visiting the national capital for the upcoming Raksha Bandhan as his six sisters live in the Delhi-NCR region. Besides he is also part of an all-party delegation, led by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, that is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on their demand for a caste-based census in the country. Mythical comparisons “Tejashwi is my Arjun and I am his Krishna. I will make him Chief Minister of the State one day,” Mr. Tej Pratap has often said. However, on Saturday, he said, “Until he (Tejashwi Yadav) gets rid of people like Shishupala and Duryodhana (characters in the Mahabharata seen as having a corrupting influence), I doubt that he will become the Chief Minister.” Drawing further comparisons, Mr. Tej Pratap went on to call Mr. Sanjay Yadav Duryodhana and Mr. Jagdanand Singh Sishupala. “Just like Krishna was abused by Shishupala in the Mahabharata, similarly I am a victim of Jagdanand Singh. People also know how Duryodhana was killed. It was Krishna who gave tips to tear apart the thighs of Duryodhana,” he said. “They both (Mr. Sanjay and Mr. Singh) want to create rift between us and want to weaken the party. But I can never tolerate any wrong thing and will continue to call a spade a spade,” he said. The reference was to his running feud with Mr. Singh, whom he recently accused of running the RJD in “Hitler style” — a barb which apparently upset Mr. Singh, who stopped coming to the party headquarters. A few days later, Mr. Singh removed the president of the party’s student wing president, Akash Yadav, a protégé of Mr. Tej Pratap, escalating tensions. While rebuking some members of the student’s wing who were said to be supporters of Mr. Tej Pratap, Mr. Singh said, “Those who wear jeans, can’t be leaders of our party.” Seeking counsel Party sources told The Hindu that Mr. Tejashwi was perturbed over the developments in the party because of his brother and he wanted to discuss the issue with his father “urgently”. “He (Tej Pratap) may be my elder brother but our parents have taught us to respect our elders. Whoever he may be, indiscipline within party is not good and causes problem,” Mr. Tejashwi was quoted as saying. Mr. Tej Pratap said, “In a couple of days I will leave for Delhi and discuss the matter with my father Lalu Prasad.” He also took a swipe at his younger brother’s departure, saying, “Tejashwi left people of Bihar to fend for themselves in the floods and went to Delhi. He is being brainwashed by Sanjay Yadav on whose advice he is working.” “The sooner the family resolves or reins in over Tej Pratap’s growing nuisance within the party, the better it will be for everyone in RJD,” said a senior party leader close to Mr. Lalu Prasad. Meanwhile, the ruling NDA leaders took a jibe at the ongoing power tussle between the two brothers. “In this internal fight in RJD, who will become Dara Shikoh and who will rule like Aurangzeb, only time will tell,” tweeted senior State BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi.  Tejashwi is my Arjun and I am his Krishna. I will make him Chief Minister of the State one day Tej Pratap YadavMLA from Hasanpur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-faces-tough-test-as-sons-feud-over-rjd/article36040115.ece
22 August 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal Inheritance Bill faces stiff opposition||The draft Arunachal Pradesh Marriage and Inheritance of Property Bill, 2021, envisaging land rights for girls has met with stiff opposition in the State. Various student organisations said they would not allow the Bill to be passed in the Assembly unless tribal women marrying men belonging to the non-Arunachal Pradesh Scheduled Tribes (non-APSTs) were stripped of ST status and benefits. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) said the Bill was being brought without consultations with the stakeholders and, if passed, would pave the way for non-APSTs to settle down in the State permanently. “This Bill is a bid to structurally change the customary laws or traditional settings of the State’s tribal people. It is aggressive and undemocratic in nature and largely undermines the views and opinions of all the community-based organisations,” AAPSU general secretary Tobom Dai said. “Opposing the draft Bill doesn’t mean we are against the women of Arunachal Pradesh. But the government should first publish the draft it has been preparing on the issue of the offspring of non-APST men married to APST women,” he said. The criticism led the government to clarify that it has no plans to table the Bill in the upcoming session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-inheritance-bill-faces-stiff-opposition/article36040116.ece
22 August 2021||SRINAGAR,||Three militants killed in Pulwama, say officials||Three militants were killed in a shoot-out at a forest area of Tral in Pulwama, south Kashmir, on Saturday, taking the toll of militants killed in the last 24 hours to five in the district. An official said the militants, associated with the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM), were encircled in Nagbaeran area of Tral in Pulwama. “On being encircled by the security forces, the militants opened fire and were killed in the subsequent encounter,” the police said. One of the slain militants was identified as Wakeel Shah. “JeM militant Shah was neutralised in today’s encounter. He was involved in the killing of Rakesh Pandita [BJP leader],” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. According to the Army, search operations in the upper reaches of Nagaberan and Dacchigam Forests were on since August 17. “A contact was established with militants at 6.45 a.m. on August 20. Two AK-47 rifles, one SLR and other warlike stores were recovered from them,” the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-militants-killed-in-pulwama-say-officials/article36040119.ece
22 August 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur Chief Minister felicitates Olympians||Five sportspersons from Manipur, who part of the Indian team for the Tokyo Olympics, were felicitated by the State government on Saturday. The Olympians, felicitated at the Khuman Lampak Sports Complex, were Mary Kom, Shushila Likmabam, Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam, S. Mirabai Chanu and S. Nilakanta. Chief Minister N. Biren handed over appointment letters and financial incentives to three of them. Two of them already have government jobs. Mr. Biren handed over an appointment letter for the post of Deputy Director of Sports to Mr. Nilakanta and the post of Assistant Director in the same Department to Ms. Likmabam. Ms. Pukhrambam was given the post of Inspector of Police. As announced earlier, Mr. Biren handed over a cheque of Rs. 75 lakh to Mr. Nilakanta. Ms. Kom, Ms. Likmabam and Ms. Pukhrambam were given Rs. 25 lakh each. Ms. Chanu, who had bagged a silver medal, had been given Rs. 1 crore recently, along with an appointment letter as an Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports). The other sportspersons were honoured with gifts from the State government. Mr. Biren said people were overjoyed when Ms. Kom was seen carrying the Indian flag in Tokyo. The Olympic Park, which was under construction, would be completed by November, he added. Those who were present during the function also stood in silence for a minute to pay their respects to Ngangom Dinku, an international boxer who died recently due to cancer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-chief-minister-felicitates-olympians/article36040137.ece
22 August 2021||Gauhati,||Assam gets 45 days to finish detention camp||The Gauhati High Court has given the Assam government 45 days to complete the construction of a standalone detention centre for declared foreigners at Matia in Goalpara district. The court also sought the shifting of 177 inmates from the existing detention centres, now called transit camps. Hearing a petition, Justice Kalyan Rai Surana directed the State’s Secretary of Home and Political Department to file the updated status report after 45 days from August 11. “…The State envisaged that the construction of detention centre at Matia, Goalpara, would be completed by September 2021. In this regard, the learned Advocate General has submitted although he has received specific instruction from the concerned authorities of the Home Department that expeditious steps are being taken to complete the construction work of the detention centre within a period of one month...” “But as a matter of abundant caution, the learned Advocate General has prayed for allowing 6 weeks’ time to the State to complete the construction of the proposed detention centre and to shift the detenus of the various detention centres…,” the court said. The Advocate General had told the court that there are 177 inmates in the detention centres. “It is also submitted that majority of those remaining detenus have not been able to provide the necessary documents, which the State is presently insisting for releasing the said detenus,” the court said. The next hearing has been fixed on September 30. People adjudged non-citizens by the quasi-judicial Foreigners’ Tribunals are sent to detention centres. Such people are tried after the border wing of the Assam police serve them notice on suspicion of being foreigners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-gets-45-days-to-finish-detention-camp/article36040470.ece
22 August 2021||Kolkata,||‘Demands for bifurcation of W.B. not unjustified’||West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said the demands for bifurcation of the State were not unjustified. The remark assumes political significance over similar statements made by BJP MPs from North Bengal and State’s Jangalmahal region. The Trinamool Congress and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee have in the past severely criticised BJP leaders for raising such demand. ‘Party stand’ “If they (BJP MPs) have raised such demands these are not unjustified. John Barla is a public representative; it is his duty to listen to and raise the opinion of people who have elected him. He has only done that. The party may have a different stand. It will think about it,” Mr. Ghosh said, with Alipurduar MP John Barla by his side. Mr. Barla, now Minister of State in the Union Government, was the first to raise the issue a few weeks ago after the State Assembly polls. The State BJP president went to on to blame Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for people raising such demands. “The entire responsibility of this lies with Mamata Banerjee. 75 years after Independence, why do the people of north Bengal have to go other States for jobs, education and healthcare facilities? In Jangalmahal, the situation is the same. Why the women in Jangalmahal have to depend on sal and tendu leaves for livelihood. Why do they have to go Odisha, Ranchi and Gujarat for jobs,” Mr. Ghosh said. Mr. Ghosh said demands of separate State have been raised in the hills for several years in the name of Gorkhaland. Mr Ghosh’s remarks triggered strong reactions from the TMC which said the BJP is trying to raise sectarian issues for their political interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/demands-for-bifurcation-of-wb-not-unjustified/article36040596.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Assam gets 45 days to finish detention camp||“But as a matter of abundant caution, the learned Advocate General has prayed for allowing 6 weeks’ time to the State to complete the construction of the proposed detention centre and to shift the detenus of the various detention centres…,” the court said. The Advocate General had told the court that there are 177 inmates in the detention centres. “It is also submitted that majority of those remaining detenus have not been able to provide the necessary documents, which the State is presently insisting for releasing the said detenus,” the court said. The next hearing has been fixed on September 30. People adjudged non-citizens by the quasi-judicial Foreigners’ Tribunals are sent to detention centres. Such people are tried after the border wing of the Assam police serve them notice on suspicion of being foreigners. Six detention centres were set up since 2008, but they were within Central Jails across the State. The Centre had in 2014 asked the States to set up at least one exclusive detention centre for foreigners or “illegal immigrants” so that they are not mixed up with others serving time for various crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-gets-45-days-to-finish-detention-camp/article36040117.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Assam gets 45 days to finish detention camp work||“But as a matter of abundant caution, the learned Advocate General has prayed for allowing 6 weeks’ time to the State to complete the construction of the proposed detention centre and to shift the detenus of the various detention centres…,” the court said. The Advocate General had told the court that there are 177 inmates in the detention centres. “It is also submitted that majority of those remaining detenus have not been able to provide the necessary documents, which the State is presently insisting for releasing the said detenus,” the court said. The next hearing has been fixed on September 30. People adjudged non-citizens by the quasi-judicial Foreigners’ Tribunals are sent to detention centres. Such people are tried after the border wing of the Assam police serve them notice on suspicion of being foreigners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-gets-45-days-to-finish-detention-camp-work/article36040593.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Veiled mountains||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/veiled-mountains/article36040104.ece
22 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||14 held for pro-Taliban posts in Assam||A medical student and an All India United Democratic Front leader were among the 14 arrested in Assam since Friday for “objectionable” pro-Taliban posts on social media. Two persons each were arrested from Barpeta, Dhubri, Kamrup and Karimganj districts and one each from Cachar, Darrang, Goalpara, Hailakandi, Hojai and South Salmara. Officials said they were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, IT Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-held-for-pro-taliban-posts-in-assam/article36040120.ece
22 August 2021||Agartala,||Tripura Cong. chief resigns amid rumours||Acting president of the Tripura Congress unit, Pijush Kanti Biswas, who resigned from the party on Saturday, said he may not return to politics, but will concentrate on his legal profession and social service. Mr. Biswas, however, did not comment on reports that claimed his resignation was part of a deal with the Trinamool Congress. In a post on social media, Mr. Biswas said he had resigned from the post of State party president and retired from politics as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-cong-chief-resigns-amid-rumours/article36040126.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||State records 4,575 cases, 145 deaths||Maharashtra reported 4,575 new COVID-19 cases, 145 deaths and 5,914 recoveries on Saturday. The State’s case tally now stands at 64,20,510, while the total death toll has increased to 1,35,817. Nandurbar district in north Maharashtra did not record a single active case for the sixth day in a row. There are 53,967 active cases in the State now. While the recovery rate stands at 96.99%, the fatality rate is 2.11%. The Pune region reported the highest new cases at 2,177, almost half of the total cases logged. Mumbai city witnessed 262 new cases and five deaths, while Pune city reported 538 cases and 10 deaths. The highest deaths (76) were from the Pune region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-records-4575-cases-145-deaths/article36040760.ece
22 August 2021||Kolkata,||Makers of madur mats win accolades||Two women from Sabang in West Bengal’s Paschim Medinpur district have been given the National Handicraft Award in recognition of their outstanding contribution to the development of crafts. The announcement of awards for Gauri Rani Jana and Gauri Bala Das was made on Independence Day to honour their skills in making madur floor mats that are unique to West Bengal. An intrinsic part of the Bengali lifestyle, madur mats are made of natural fibres.  Madurkathi was awarded the geographical indication (GI) tag by the Geographical Indication Registry in April 2018. Madurkathi is a rhizome-based plant ( Cyperus tegetum or Cyperus pangorei ) found abundantly in the alluvial tracts of Purba and Paschim Medinipur. Speaking to The Hindu , both Ms. Jana and Ms. Das said that about 80% to 90% of the entire workforce engaged in this traditional craft comprised of women. “Women are faster weavers and since they stay at home, they have more time. Moreover, it’s a tradition of the region, where every household has people taking up the craft. Men usually help us with designs,” Ms. Das said. The 62-year-old resident of Sarta village in Sabang said that the price of a madur mat can range from Rs. 100 to Rs. 1 lakh. Royal patronage Ms. Jana and Ms. Das are both expert weavers of the ‘Masland’ a fine quality madur mat, which takes weeks to weave. During the 18th century, Masland mats flourished under royal patronage. In 1744, Nawab Alibardi Khan issued a charter to land-owning jagirdar s in this regard, and as a result, it was obligatory to supply Masland mats for use in the Collectorate. “I started weaving at a very early age. Now there are about 60 women in my workshop. The design and the quality of material used determine the price of the madur ,” Ms. Jana said. For the past two years, the COVID-19-induced lockdown has impacted the weavers. Some, however, are selling their products using online platforms. “ Madur was a unique household tradition in West Bengal. The tradition of weaving fine madur was slowly dying. Over the past few years, these workers have revived the tradition and found a market,” said Ananya Bhattacharya, director, Banglanatak.com, a social enterprise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/makers-of-madur-mats-win-accolades/article36040142.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||Minister’s remarks about Rahul leaves Congress fuming||The Congress on Saturday demanded the resignation of Union Minister of State for Railways Raosaheb Danve for his “indecent and shocking” remarks about party leader Rahul Gandhi. Congress’ Maharashtra unit chief Nana Patole said, “He (Danve) has crossed all the boundaries. His remarks are indecent and shocking. We demand his removal from Union Council of Ministers for using such a foul language against Gandhi,” he said. “It makes me wonder how he can be given such an important post despite his track record of using foul language,” Mr. Patole added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministers-remarks-about-rahul-leaves-congress-fuming/article36040127.ece
22 August 2021||Jammu,||Several stranded in Jammu as 40 trains cancelled due to farmers’ protest in Punjab||Thousands of passengers are stranded in Jammu and Kashmir as railway authorities have cancelled over 40 trains since Friday due to an agitation by farmers in neighbouring Punjab, officials said. Scores of farmers on Friday launched an indefinite agitation in Jalandhar and blocked train movement on the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu railway routes to press the Punjab government to accept their demand to increase sugarcane prices. Rains in Delhi also led to cancellation of Jammu-bound trains on Saturday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-stranded-in-jammu-as-40-trains-cancelled-due-to-farmers-protest-in-punjab/article36040128.ece
22 August 2021||Guwahati,||Darjeeling ‘toy train’ service from August 25||The ‘toy trains’ on the World Heritage Darjeeling Himalayan Railway are scheduled to chug again after more than a year of closure due to COVID-19. A statement issued by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) on Saturday said the narrow-gauge train services between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling in West Bengal would be resumed from August 25. The timings for a pair of trains from each terminal, around 88 km apart, are yet to be notified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/darjeeling-toy-train-service-from-august-25/article36040134.ece
22 August 2021||Jaipur,||Taliban defaming Islam, says Ajmer dargah head||Indian Muslims would never support the ideology espoused by the Taliban because the group was “defaming Islam” and distorting religious principles, Syed Zainul Abedin, spiritual head of the Ajmer dargah, said on Saturday. Mr. Abedin, the hereditary trustee of the historic shrine of Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti, said the Taliban were in fact promoting hatred against Muslims around the world by their “dictatorial activities” ever since they captured major cities in Afghanistan. Mr. Abedin said the Taliban were misinterpreting the Islamic laws to serve their own agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taliban-defaming-islam-says-ajmer-dargah-head/article36040138.ece
22 August 2021||Indore,||Police look for owner of horse||Indore police in Madhya Pradesh are searching for the owner of a horse which was painted in the BJP’s flag colours and paraded during Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia’s ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ after receiving a complaint from an animal welfare NGO. Incidentally, the founder of the complainant NGO, People For Animal, is BJP MP Maneka Gandhi. The horse, which also had the word ‘BJP’ in English and party symbol lotus painted on its body, was seen walking alongside Mr. Scindia’s ‘rath’ during the event on Thursday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indore-police-look-for-owner-of-horse/article36040594.ece
22 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Madras’ love for all creatures, great and small||It’s not hard to trace Madras’ enduring connection with animals and their well-being. Be it enthralled visitors gazing at mugger crocodiles dozing in the sun or pet parents lining up at one of the country’s oldest veterinary institutes, the welfare of furry, scaly and winged creatures has always been part of the city’s ethos, and this has continued during the pandemic. In 1906, the Madras Pinjrapole was established to house aged and infirm cows. Started in memory of Chathur Bookasoss Kushaldoss, a Gujarati merchant, who donated 12 acres of land in Otteri, the shelter now houses 1,800 cows, says secretary of the Pinjrapole, Kantilal D. Shah. The aim was to take care of the cows till they died naturally. “About 150 of the cows produce milk, which is given to those who help the organisation with donations,” he says. Birth of Blue Cross Some 50 years later, in 1959, Captain V. Sundaram, a pilot, found two puppies in a stormwater drain near his home in T. Nagar. He brought them home, and the Blue Cross of India was born. “Shaggy and Grimmy were the first, but soon the house was filled with all kinds of animals, including at one point, a goat. My mother had to cook for 50-60 animals some days,” recalls S. Chinny Krishna, Capt. Sundaram’s son and chairman emeritus of The Blue Cross. It was registered as a society in 1964 and, up until 1987, functioned entirely with volunteers. Their greatest achievement, Mr. Krishna says, was the implementation of the animal birth control programme that helped stop the mass killings of stray dogs in the city. Just a few years after Captain Sundaram brought home the puppies, the Animal Welfare Board of India was set up in Chennai in 1962. Established under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, it was spearheaded by Rukmini Devi Arundale, the city’s noted dancer and humanitarian. The board was headquartered in Chennai for decades, before moving to its present location in Faridabad a few years ago. The Madras government too made its own efforts: the Madras Veterinary College began in 1903, while the origins of the zoo (now the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur) date back to 1855 — both among the oldest in the country. The zoo incidentally, came into being when Edward Green Balfour, then director of the Government Central Museum at Madras, persuaded the Nawab of Carnatic to donate his entire animal collection to the museum. Crocodile Bank Caring for animals is, clearly, not new to Chennai. And in true Madras style, organisations that have worked for the welfare and conservation of animals, aided by animal lovers stepped up, despite the exigencies of the pandemic. Take the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust, for instance. Established in 1976 by renowned herpetologist Romulus Whitaker and Zai Whitaker, it has, for years, promoted and worked for the conservation of reptiles and amphibians — something that did not stop during the pandemic. “While prolonged lockdowns affected our income since there were no visitors, we continued our conservation activities owing to support from donors. We continue to get calls from the public, asking us if the Crocodile bank is open for visitors, which we hope will happen soon,” said Pramila Rajan, director. Continuing conservation education, the Trust now conducts virtual programmes on various topics, for children and adults. The Chennai Snake Park, one of the go-to destinations for any visitor to the city is currently reeling under the impact of not having had visitors for months, and consequently, very little revenue. Pre-pandemic, it averaged 4 lakh visitors a year. The park, now managed by the Chennai Snake Park Trust, got by on CSR funds donated by companies last year, and it has now appealed to the public for funds. COVID-hit lions COVID-19, however, did not leave our animals untouched. Two lions at the Vandalur zoo died after testing positive for the virus, but round-the-clock monitoring by a team of zoo staff and vets ensued, helping save 13 others. A city under some form of lockdown for over 15 months now, also meant that vulnerable animals such as strays and those offering joy rides could suffer. To tackle this, many city organisations and animal lovers came together to feed stray animals. “With beaches shut for prolonged periods, we realised that the horses used for public joy rides were not being taken care of, given their owners’ loss of livelihood. We bought these horses and rehabilitated them at our facility, and employed a few of their owners as well,” said Shravan Krishnan, who helps run Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary, a historical organisation that was revived about four years ago at the Theosophical Society campus with the support of its international president Tim Boyd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-love-for-all-creatures-great-and-small/article36040529.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,652 fresh cases, 23 deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 1,652 fresh COVID-19 cases and 23 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 25,99,255 and toll to 34,686. Infections continued to fluctuate in a number of districts. Coimbatore recorded 205 cases — cases had dropped below 200 in the district two days ago. In Chennai, 183 people tested positive, while Erode saw 152 cases. There were 99 cases in Chengalpattu, 95 in Thanjavur, 79 in Salem and 76 in Tiruppur. Of the 38 districts, 25 reported no deaths due to COVID-19. Pudukottai, Salem and Tiruppur recorded three deaths each. While Coimbatore recorded two deaths, Chennai saw one. Eighteen of the deceased had co-morbidities. Another 1,859 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,45,178. The State’s active cases fell marginally to 19,391. Of these, Coimbatore accounts for 2,244 cases, followed by Chennai with 2,120. In the last 24 hours, 1,59,213 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 4,07,50,790. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine distributed 7,76,770 doses of Covishield and 1,93,330 doses of Covaxin to health unit districts on Thursday, and 6,93,970 doses of Covishield on Friday. Vaccine distribution According to the directorate, 5,64,048 people vaccinated between January 1 and July 7 were due for the second dose of Covaxin, and 10,48,575 people for Covishield. In Chennai, 1,27,502 people were due for the second dose of Covaxin and 1,70,019 for Covishield. As many as 3,49,495 people, including 2,20,410 aged 18 to 44 and 97,483 in the 45-59 age group, were inoculated on Saturday. This took the total coverage in government centres to 2,61,20,624. Vaccination was held in 2,662 sessions.  The State’s active caseload fell marginally to 19,391. Of these, Coimbatore accounts for 2,244 cases and Chennai 2,120||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1652-fresh-cases-23-deaths/article36040543.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital performs 3 complex jaw joint replacement surgeries||Doctors at the SIMS Hospital here have carried out three complex total jaw joint replacement surgeries, of which one involved the use of artificial jaws made using 3D printing technology. K. Sridhar, Director, Institute of Craniofacial, Aesthetic and Plastic Surgery at the hospital, said that while hip and knee replacements were common, replacement of the temporomandibular joints (TM joints or jaw joints), particularly with the use of 3D printing, was rare. Moreover, he said, these three cases presented unique challenges in which a straightforward jaw joint replacement was not possible. Of the three cases, the one that used 3D-printed artificial jaws involved a patient whose one half of the jaw, the TM joint and the adjoining facial bones were removed 20 years ago because of a bone tumour. “This patient required a custom-made jaw joint for replacement. Since no bone was available to fix the joint, the total jaw joint was replaced with artificial jaws made of titanium and polyethylene using 3D printing technology. Since this patient required teeth on one half, we took leg bone and did microsurgery and put in a dental implant at the same time,” he said. Another case involved a patient who had complete ankylosis, which referred to the immobility of the joint, and as a consequence the patient was suffering from sleep apnoea as well. Dr. Sridhar said that the surgery had to be done in two stages as his lower jaw did not have any growth because of the ankylosis. He said the height and length of the lower jaw was increased through a process called distraction that happened over two or three months. The total jaw joint replacement was done subsequently, he said. The third patient faced zero jaw opening. The doctor said that in her case the bone taken from a leg and placed at the jaw during an earlier microsurgery performed few years ago at another hospital had fused with the skull bone over time. “We took out the damaged jaw bone part and replaced it with an artificial part made of titanium,” Dr. Sridhar said. Life-changing visit Sarala, the patient, said she lost hope over the past 10 years as many doctors she consulted said no remedy was possible. “I underwent many procedures, but nothing helped. I actually came to SIMS Hospital because I had a fever and cold, but that turned out to be life altering,” she said. Ravi Pachamuthu, Chairman, SRM Group, in a statement, congratulated Dr. Sridhar and the entire medical team for their accomplishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-hospital-performs-3-complex-jaw-joint-replacement-surgeries/article36040533.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Of Yale University and its connection with Madras||Did you know that the man after whom the Yale University in the U.S. is named, Elihu Yale, was the name responsible for giving all streets of Madras a name? Prior to this, there were no names at all. Historian V. Sriram, while delivering a talk on “Madras Money for Yale University” said, “He insisted that all the streets of Madras be given names because when there is a war and you need to station the army at various places, same place will be referred to by multiple people in multiple names and imagine the confusion that it would create.” It was during his tenure that the Corporation of the City too was set up. It was the oldest corporation of the British Empire in 1688 and when the charter came, it was met with a procession with dancers performing, musicians singing and a lot of celebration and Nathaniel Higginson was the first Mayor of Madras, he added. “Madras had the tallest flagstaff in the whole of India measuring up to a 148 feet as well. Yale gave instructions that a mast that floated off from a shipwreck in 1688 be brought to Fort St. George and be used for hoisting the flag and it remained the flagstaff till 1996,” he said. Yale, who came to Madras in 1672, rose rapidly, from joining as a writer in East India Company to finally becoming the Governor itself but also earned money slyly through various means, Mr. Sriram said. Much later, he helped in founding Yale University. “Yale’s legacy was about £10-15 million in current value. That was the money he could make in Madras on a salary that never exceeded £100,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yales-connection-with-madras/article36040525.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those above 80 to get jabs at home||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch vaccination drive for senior citizens aged above 80 at home on Sunday. As part of Madras Day celebrations, Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru and HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu will flag off 15 vehicles for vaccination of senior citizens aged above 80 at their homes. The vehicles will start at 10 a.m. on Sunday at Ripon Buildings. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said 90,153 doses of vaccine had been given to senior citizens aged above 80 in Chennai. Starting Sunday, around 700 senior citizens were expected to get vaccination at home every day. Fifteen teams, each headed by a doctor, have been formed to visit homes to administer vaccines for senior citizens. At least three lakh senior citizens were estimated to be living in Chennai, officials said. However, according to the last Census, the number of senior citizens aged above 75 was 1.65 lakh in 2011. Corporation officials said the number of senior citizens aged above 80 in the city was expected to have increased in the past decade. Exemptions likely Many senior citizens, who are very sick and have cardiac complications and other conditions, are expected to be exempted from getting vaccinated even if there were no contraindications, the officials said. At least one lakh senior citizens aged above 80 are likely to get vaccinated in the next few months. Residents can call 044-46122300 or 044-25384520 to get vaccines for senior citizens aged above 80.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-above-80-to-get-jabs-at-home/article36040514.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||U.S. envoy organises virtual tour of sister cities Chennai and San Antonio||As a part of its Madras Week celebrations, the U.S. Consulate General Chennai organised a virtual tour of sister cities Chennai and San Antonio on Friday, to enhance cultural understanding and appreciation between the cities. “The virtual presentation on historic landmarks of San Antonio and Chennai is a gateway within the framework of their collaborative and robust San Antonio-Chennai Sister City relationship,” said Judith Ravin, U.S. Consul General in Chennai, welcoming representatives from both the sister cities. Akila Raman, Storytrails storyteller led the historic Chennai landmarks tour for officials from San Antonio, the Rotary Clubs of San Antonio and Madras East, students, and history enthusiasts in Chennai. From San Antonio, Colleen Swain, Director of San Antonio World Heritage Office, shared San Antonio’s cultural heritage and festivals, plus notable landmarks such as the Alamo. “Both Chennai and San Antonio are members of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network – Chennai for its music and San Antonio for its gastronomy. Yet, our similarities go beyond how both cities have stayed true to our history and heritage; both are thriving tourist destinations and top-ranked cities to live in,” said Colleen Swain. Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi took part in the event and lauded the initiative.  Our similarities go beyond how both cities have stayed true to our history and heritage Collen Swain Director of San Antonio World Heritage Office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/us-envoy-organises-virtual-tour/article36040524.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Semmancheri residents fear flooding due to encroachment||Residents of Semmancheri are worried that the construction of a compound wall by a private contractor, blocking the flow of water into the stormwater drain, could lead to flooding in several areas. The residents complained that a private builder had encroached the waterway by constructing a compound wall above the stormwater drain, which flowed into the Buckingham Canal to prevent flooding, and blocking the free flow of rainwater. Swaminathan, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said while the macro canal near the Tsunami Nagar of Semmancheri is wide, the width of the canal got reduced near a real estate property through which the macro canal passes. Action sought He feared that several colonies, including Nehru Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, and several apartments, could face flooding this monsoon if the Greater Chennai Corporation did not remove the encroachments. A senior official of the Corporation said though the localities fall under Sholinganallur zone the macro canal falls under Chengalpattu district and is maintained by the Water Resources department. He said that the zonal officer concerned had already alerted the department and also officials of the Chengalpattu district to remove the encroachments from the macro canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/semmancheri-residents-fear-flooding-due-to-encroachment/article36040534.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why should you not pay Rs. 5,600 cr. to T.N. for reducing its MP seats, HC asks Centre||The Madras High Court has termed as “unfair and unreasonable” the reduction in number of parliamentary seats based on the population of a State. It said the practice amounted to punishing States which implemented birth control measures successfully. Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi wanted to know why the Centre should not be directed to pay a notional compensation of Rs. 5,600 crore to Tamil Nadu for having reduced its Member of Parliament (MP) seats from 41 to 39 since the 1967 general election. The judges suo motu impleaded prominent political parties as respondents to a case before them and wanted to know why the number of MP seats in Tamil Nadu should not be restored to 41 or at least frozen at 39 without any further reduction based on future census. The Bench made the observations and raised the queries while rejecting a plea to de-reserve Tenkasi parliamentary constituency. It said no such direction could be issued since the law does not permit reservation of parliamentary constituencies on rotation. The court, however, recommended an amendment to reserve parliamentary constituencies on rotation. Despite rejecting the litigant’s plea, the judges kept the case pending for the Centre and the political parties to answer the other queries raised by them in public interest. They pointed out that every single MP was important and referred to the no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition in 1999 when the Bharatiya Janata Party government, led by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had fallen for want of a single vote. Authoring the order, Justice Kirubakaran said there had been 14 general elections since 1967 and Tamil Nadu had so far lost about 28 MPs due to the reduction of two seats. The loss could be fixed notionally at Rs. 200 crore for each MP, he said. Directing the Centre to explain in four weeks, the judge also advocated an amendment to Article 81 of the Constitution so that the number of Parliamentary seats could be frozen irrespective of individual States’ population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-should-you-not-pay-rs-5600-cr-to-tamil-nadu-for-reducing-its-mp-seats-high-court-asks-centre/article36040680.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. gives pension to folk artiste who was forced to sell fruit||A photograph of P. Gurusamy Thevar, an udukkai artiste of a villupattu troupe, selling palm fruit ( nongu ) caught the attention of authorities after it was circulated on social media, and Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj has sanctioned Rs. 1,000 a month to him under the old age pension scheme. “We have also sent a proposal, recommending a monthly pension of Rs. 3,000 under the Nalintha Kalaignar Scheme (scheme for poor artistes),” said Mr. Raj who has also issued Mr. Gurussamy an MGNREGA job card. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, who also holds the portfolios of Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture and Archaeology, also chipped in to offer help. He has directed officials to sanction the pension. The 84-year-old artiste said he had been playing the udukkai , a small drum, for 45 years, but the pandemic had affected the livelihood of folk artistes like him. He had to give up selling the fruit too as he was not able to ride the bicycle. “My legs are weak and are not cooperating. I have been trying to get the old age pension, and I am happy that it has become a reality now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-gives-pension-to-folk-artiste-who-was-forced-to-sell-fruit/article36040541.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Terracotta seal found in Agaram||Archaeological excavation in Agaram in Sivaganga district has yielded a fine specimen of terracotta seal. “The object is cylindrical in shape with concavity on the body and has flattened ends. The face of the seal comprises incised decorations with three segments of thick circles,” said Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, who is also in charge of Archaeology. The texture of the 2.75 cm object is smooth and polished, and the handle part is slightly damaged on lateral side. It weighs 24.6 grams. The depression observed on the body confirms that it was a hand-made object. R. Sivananthan, director of Keezhadi excavations, said the seal would have been used for making designs on textiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/terracotta-seal-found-in-agaram/article36040555.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two couples among eight arrested for DMK man’s murder||Eight persons, including two couples, were arrested for their alleged involvement in the murder of a DMK functionary due to previous enmity over a land dispute in T.P. Chatram in Anna Nagar police station limits. E. Sampathkumar, 51, a resident of T.P. Chatram and a local DMK functionary who was into water business, was murdered by a gang on Wednesday evening. The victim was riding a bike in M Block of Anna Nagar at the time of attack. The gang, which arrived in an autorickshaw, fled the spot after murdering him. The police reached the spot and conducted an investigation after sending the body for postmortem. Sampathkumar had a feud with his neighbour Vinayagam, 47, and had attacked his son over alleged encroachment of a property. A special team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Augustin Paul Sudhakar, arrested Vinayagam, his wife Karpagam, 41, and four others on Thursday. Based on their information, the police on Saturday arrested Vinayagam’s brother Balaji alias Dravida Balaji, 50, and his wife Amirtham, 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-couples-among-eight-arrested-for-dmk-mans-murder/article36040515.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 54 MW, Chennai emerges as data centre hub||With a current capacity of 54 MW, Chennai is steadily emerging as a data centre hub and the city is likely to increase its supply by 1.3 times in the next two years, with a planned pipeline of 79 MW. The Tamil Nadu government is wooing firms in the data centre space, and it has signed MoUs with 11 firms in recent months, entailing investments worth Rs. 18,827 crore. “The most common requirements to establish a data centre, which include submarine cable landing stations, ample power supply and thriving IT infrastructure, already exist in Tamil Nadu. And with the proposed data centre policy, we are well- positioned to take over this growing market,” Pooja Kulkarni, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Guidance Tamil Nadu, told The Hindu . More deals likely State government officials and Guidance have indicated that more deals will happen in the coming months and talks are on with various firms. Currently, Chennai has the third highest data centre capacity in India, after Mumbai (199 MW) and Bangalore (57 MW). Chennai also has high occupancy levels (83%) owing to space taken up by large cloud companies. Jerry Kingsley, senior director, Capital Markets, Jones Lang LaSalle, pointed out that historically, Chennai has been a hub for data centres for telecom operators. “Bharti Airtel, through its subsidiary Nxtra, has established a data centre in Siruseri, and is constructing its second data centre. Similarly, Vodafone and Reliance have established their data centres in Siruseri,” he added. Tata Communications Limited (TCL) had acquired the VSNL Earth Station in 2002. ST Telemedia Global Data Centres (STT GDC) acquired this TCL asset in 2016 to establish its data centre. Apart from STT GDC, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) have established their data centre in Velappanchavadi, 6 km from the Ambattur micro-market. “Sify has established its data centre in Taramani. Its proposed second data centre is to be established in Siruseri,” Mr. Kingsley pointed out. Plans for the future Yotta Infrastructure, a Hiranandani Group subsidiary and a managed data centre service provider developing a hyper-scale data centre park, will set up its park in Chennai. The Hiranandani Group and its group companies, along with Yotta, will invest Rs. 4,000 crore in this proposed project over 8-10 years. Sunil Gupta, co-founder and CEO, Yotta, said the proposed data centre park would be built on a 20-acre campus at Hiranandani Parks on the Singaperumal-Oragadam Highway. He added, “The first data centre building, with a built-up area of 350,000 sq ft, will be live by December 2022. We are coming up with a 5 MW IT power facility on our Chennai campus. This facility will be live by April 2022.” Princeton Digital Group, which has inked an MoU worth Rs. 750 crore with the Tamil Nadu government, said its actual investments were expected to be much higher. Sumit Mukhija, CEO of STT GDC India, said, “We had signed an MoU in May 2020 to expand our data centre footprint in the State and invest up to Rs. 1,500 crore over the next 5-7 years. The company has already invested close to Rs. 1,000 crore over the last couple of years, and is actively considering further expansion of its overall capacity by an additional 40-60 MW of IT load.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-54-mw-chennai-emerges-as-data-centre-hub/article36040674.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Data sharing necessary for better governance’||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan pitched for a Union-to-State methodology for all States for accessing data for better governance. To begin with, he said the State government will create an integrated profile of every household and every citizen with information like Voter IDs and ration shops, which are within the State’s control. “We are also planning to do a door-to-door survey to collect additional information,” Mr. Rajan said, speaking in a discussion on ‘Tamil Nadu’s Development Vision — from Regular Reforms to Transformations’ with S. Narayanan, member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. The event was organised by the Chennai International Centre. This exercise would give a picture of the situation of each citizen, he pointed out. Mr. Rajan said the bulk of the data was not within reach of the State government. It was with Union government-owned public sector undertakings. “With help from members of the Economic Advisory Council, we want to approach the Centre to create a template for Union-to-State data connectivity and sharing for better governance,” said. Mr. Rajan said such a methodology should evolve sooner rather than later. “This methodology will take time. But, we can make significant progress in the next six months by bringing all the data that the Government of Tamil Nadu has. That should give us clarity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/data-sharing-necessary-for-better-governance/article36040545.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP more concerned about corporates’ welfare’||The BJP government has reduced corporate tax from 40% to 22% and is more concerned about the corporates than the commoners, said Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Saturday. Criticising Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for her statement that the UPA regime had been responsible for the current fuel price situation, he said while the corporate tax had been brought down, the government was raising the prices of fuel and cooking gas and netting more than Rs. 4.53 lakh crore as cess in 2020-21 alone. “At a time when the pandemic has affected the lives of the people, the BJP government has been increasing the taxes. This is absolutely anti-people,” he charged. Mr. Alagiri further said more than 23 lakh people had become unemployed in the last one month alone while 23 crore people had been pushed to below poverty line under the BJP rule. The minimum wage of 13 crore people had fallen to less than Rs. 150 per day. “People are also facing untold economic miseries. Ms. Sitharaman is making such statements after increasing fuel, gas prices and is causing more misery,” he said.  At a time when the pandemic has affected the lives of the people, the BJP government has been increasing the taxes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-more-concerned-about-corporates-welfare/article36040576.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reservation for in-service doctors in MDS courses||The 50% reservation for in-service doctors in State quota seats is being implemented in admissions to MDS courses for 2021-22. Welcoming the move, doctors’ associations hope the quota comes into place in MD/MS and DM/MCh courses too. The selection committee, the Directorate of Medical Education, which has kickstarted the admission process to MDS in government and self-financing colleges for the 2021-22 session, has stated the provision of the 50% quota for in-service doctors in the prospectus for 2021-22. It said that of the seats sanctioned for MDS courses in government dental colleges, 50% were offered to the All-India Quota (AIQ) for allotment by the Director General of Health Services. The Centre had been intimated about the State’s position on follow-up reservation during the AIQ and High Court judgment on the issue. The remaining 50% seats will be allotted under the State quota during the first phase of counselling. Of the 50% of seats in the State government quota, 50% will be exclusively allocated to in-service candidates serving in government health institutions, and the remaining 50% will be allocated to the open category, and will be available to both service and non-service candidates. The seats will be filled up based on the marks obtained in NEET, along with eligible incentive marks. A doctor, who has completed BDS, said the in-service quota was essential to have adequate faculty members in government dental colleges in the future. The Service Doctors and Postgraduates’ Association has thanked the government for providing the 50% quota for in-service doctors. “Hopefully, the quota will be implemented in MD/MS and DM/MCh courses too,” president of the association P. Saminathan said. The association, in a petition last year, had said that in the absence of an in-service quota, service candidates getting into MDS in the government dental college were zero in 2019, and just three in 2020. There are 42 seats in the Tamil Nadu Government Dental College and 268 in self-financing dental colleges in the State. M. Akilan, State secretary of the Tamil Nadu Medical Officers’ Association, said the service quota had been denied since 2017, and the association had staged protests and taken up the issue legally. “We request that the reservation be assured for in-service candidates in the counselling for MD/MS and DM/MCh courses as well,” he said in a release. An official said they had started receiving applications from August 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservation-for-in-service-doctors-in-mds-courses/article36040553.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Agreements for overseas sale of Aavin products signed||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday handed over copies of agreements for sale of Aavin products in overseas markets and other States to vendors with whom the contracts were signed. Under the agreements signed with six firms, milk and milk-based products manufactured by the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation would be exported to the United Arab Emirates, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, Ajman, Oman, Qatar, Canada and the U.S. The federation has set a sales target of Rs. 60 crore and expects to earn a profit of around Rs. 6 crore per annum through these sales. Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Nasar, Chief Secretary V. Iraianbu, Secretary (Dairy Development) T.S. Jawahar and Aavin Managing Director K.S. Kandasamy were present at the signing ceremony held at the Secretariat. Among those who signed the deal include Whiteleaf Ventures Pvt. Ltd, represented by Nawabzada Mohammed Asif Ali, Dewan to the Prince of Arcot. Mr. Stalin also handed over appointment orders under compassionate ground to the kin of those who died in harness in the Dairy Development Department and the Federation, and distributed monetary benefits under the Perarignar Anna Centenary Milk Producers’ Welfare Fund. Under the scheme, financial assistance is given to heirs of milk producers who died in accidents or those who sustained permanent disability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-products-set-to-be-exported/article36040536.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre will back seafood industry, says Murugan||L. Murugan, Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, said the Centre will provide all possible support to the seafood Industry in terms of policy interventions to ensure a sustained manner growth in exports. “We will leave no stone unturned to address the issues impacting marine product exports,” he said, speaking at a meeting with the Seafood Exporters’ Association in Chennai on Saturday. Mr. Murugan said the fisheries sector in India had shown impressive growth with an average annual growth rate of 10.2% between the years 2014-15 and 2018-19. Later, he held a review meeting with officials of the Fisheries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-back-seafood-industry-says-murugan/article36040537.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for stealing cash||A man has been arrested for allegedly stealing Rs. 1.5 lakh cash from a two-wheeler in Neelankarai police station limits. The cash was stolen from the bike of V. Krishnaswami, 33, a milk vendor of Injambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-stealing-cash/article36040516.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijaya Hospitals holds training for nurses in treating children||The Vijaya Group of Hospitals organised a one-day training in treating children who could be affected by COVID-19 in case of a third wave. The hospital management organised the training to help nurses working in several private hospitals to take care of COVID-19 infected children. Training module The training included a series of lectures along with hands on training to identify children infected with COVID-19, giving special medical treatment and the timing for children to be referred to a tertiary care centre. More than 30 nurses from eight private hospitals participated, according to a press release from the hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijaya-hospitals-holds-training-for-nurses-in-treating-children/article36040535.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pass Bill to ban online games’||Pattali Makkal Katchi leader Anbumani Ramadoss has urged the State government to introduce an amended Bill to ban online games and pass it in the current Assembly session. In a Twitter post, he pointed to an incident of a youth committing suicide in Villupuram due to losses suffered in online games. “There should be no further loss of lives due to online games,” Mr. Ramadoss said. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pass-bill-to-ban-online-games/article36040551.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Release white paper on toll plazas in Tamil Nadu, says Ramadoss||PMK Founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday urged the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to release a white paper on the cost incurred to set up toll plazas in Tamil Nadu and the fees collected from users. Until then, the fees should not be hiked, he said. In a statement, he pointed out that the NHAI was planning to hike fees in 23 toll plazas in Tamil Nadu from September 1, and it is said that the minimum hike would be 8%. Mr. Ramadoss alleged that there was no transparency and the proposed hike was condemnable. He also pointed out that a hike in user fees on transportation of goods would result in higher prices of essential commodities and affect the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-white-paper-on-toll-plazas-in-tn-ramadoss/article36040676.ece
22 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Annur row: Police file case against man who recorded video||Annur police have registered a case against the man who recorded the video of an altercation between a Dalit village assistant (VA) and a dominant caste man at the Ottarpalayam village administrative office, which has been at the centre of a controversy for three weeks. On August 7, the VA, P. Muthusamy, who is from a Scheduled Caste,was seen in a viral video clip, prostrating and apologisingto K. Gopalsamy, a farmer, at the Ottarpalayam office on the previous day. Following this, the Annur police booked the latter based on a complaint from Ottarpalayam Village Adminstrative Officer V. Kalaiselvi, under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Indian Penal Code. However, another video surfaced a week later thatshowed the VA assaulting Mr. Gopalsamyat the village office purportedly minutes before the prostrating incident. This led to protests from Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam in Annurdemanding the withdrawal of the two casesregistered against the farmer. The police booked Mr. Muthusamy for the assault and the Coimbatore district administration placed both the VAO and VA under suspension on August 17. Police said that a Revenue Inspector from the Annur taluk office lodged a complaint at the Annur police station on Friday seeking action against the man who recorded the video and allegedly circulated only a portion of it deliberately, which led to tension between two the communities. The man was booked under IPC section 153A (1) (b) (Whoever commits any act which is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities, and which disturbs or is likely to disturb the public tranquillity). The identity of the accused was not revealed by the police as of Saturday. While Mr. Gopalsamy has absconded after being booked in two cases, further details will emerge only after tracing his whereabouts and interrogating him first, police said. Meanwhile, the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday demanding the arrest of Ms. Kalaiselvi and Mr. Muthusamy for allegedly providing false information to the district administration during an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annur-row-police-file-case-against-man-who-recorded-video/article36040675.ece
22 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Institute signs MoUs to promote ‘Trees Outside Forests’||The Forest College and Research Institute (FC & RI) at Mettupalayam has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Cotton Connect, a London-based multinational company, to promote cotton-based agro forestry in seven States. According to I. Sekar, professor and head (agro forestry), the UK-based company focuses on regenerative agriculture. Cotton is a six-month crop and the farmers need to switch over to another plant for the next six months. Through the MoU, pilot projects will be taken up in seven States to demonstrate how trees can be grown on the farm boundaries in cotton fields and also between cotton crops. Seven varieties of high value trees have been identified for the project. While the programme will be implemented by the Institute, the funding is from Cotton Connect. The company has facilitated constitution of farmer producer companies in different States and the demonstration will be at their fields, he said. Cotton Connect has sanctioned an initial fund for the five-year project. The FC & RI has also signed an agreement with Vanam India Foundation to plant trees outside forest areas in Coimbatore region. According to a press release from the institute, “Trees Outside Forests in India” is the immediate need to attain ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ in the country. The FC & RI of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has signed the two agreements to achieve this goal. N. Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of TNAU, said that the infrastructure facilities developed by Forest College and Research Institute could be used by the students of other colleges also. He also said that the varieties released by TNAU could be inter-related with MNCs such Cotton Connect for worldwide promotions. A.S. Krishnamoorthy, Registrar, TNAU, explained the importance of automatic integrated farming system without spoiling the agricultural productivity which could be a part of ToF promotion in the State. K.T. Parthiban, Dean (Forestry) highlighted the importance of ToF towards agroforestry development over the past three decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/institute-signs-mous-to-promote-trees-outside-forests/article36040558.ece
22 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. rescues stray mares||The Coimbatore Corporation rescued seven stray mares (female horses) that were found on the streets in Selvapuram and relocated the animals to VOC Park for temporary maintenance. According to the officials, the mares were rescued from Priya Nagar in Selvapuram (Ward No. 76) on Friday evening following complaints from residents. A team of employees from the Corporation’s South Zone rescued the animals, which were later brought to the VOC Park to be looked after by the staff members of the VOC Park Zoo. The owners have not come forward to claim the animals, the officials said. It is likely that the mares were intended to be sold at the annual cattle and horse shandy in Erode, but as it was not organised this year, they were abandoned on the streets here. E. Senthilnathan, Zoo Director, said on Saturday that the zoo staff members were providing feed and water to the mares kept at the park. “If the owners claim [these mares], we will levy a fine and hand these over,” he said, adding that the animals would be sent to a goshala, if remained unclaimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-rescues-stray-mares/article36040562.ece
22 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five held for vandalising bakery||The Peelamedu police on Saturday arrested five youths on charges of vandalising a bakery on Avinashi Road and assaulting its employees. The incident took place on Friday evening. Based on a complaint from the bakery’s cashier, the Peelamedu police booked the youths under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. The police nabbed the accused using the CCTV footages from the bakery. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-vandalising-bakery/article36040556.ece
22 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Fit India Run flagged off||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini flagged off the Fit India Run from Adhiyaman Kottam to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations here on Saturday. The Run was being organised jointly under the aegis of Nehru Yuva Kendra and the district chapter of the Tamil Nadu Sports Development Authority. The Run that witnessed participation over 150 sports persons concluded at the Collectorate. The participants were administered fitness oath. Later, they were issued certificates of participation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fit-india-run-flagged-off/article36040659.ece
22 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Four of a family charred to death||Four persons from a family were found charred to death when a fire broke out in a haystack near their house at Vatha Goundan Valasu village near Palani in Dindigul district on Saturday. Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan, who visited the spot, said that the bodies were identified as Chinnaraj alias Murugesan (52), his wife Valarmathi (45), daughter Sivaranjini (20) and son Karthikeyan (18). Preliminary inquiries revealed that at around 2 a.m., a few neighbours of Chinnaraj had alerted the fire and rescue service personnel about the fire in the vicinity. When the fire fighters were engaged in the operation, they spotted four bodies inside the haystack. Immediately, the police were alerted. Inspector General of Police (south zone) T. S. Anbu and DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) B. Vijayakumari visited the spot. An officer told The Hindu that the four bodies were sent for post-mortem to Dindigul Government Hospital. Based on the report, the next course of investigation would commence. “As of now, there seems to be no motive. There was no disturbance to any valuables kept inside the house,” he said. Another officer said that the family members had been to a relative's wedding in Velayuthampalayam Pudur on Friday night and had returned home around 9 p.m. “What transpired between 9 p.m. and 2 a.m. is not known,” the officer said. A relative of Chinnaraj said that he had cultivable lands near his village and was a progressive farmer. Both his children were studying in college. Depending on the postmortem findings, the case would be registered, police replied, when reporters asked whether it was a case of suicide or murder. Fingerprint expert visited the spot and sniffer dog ‘Ruby’ was deployed by the police. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-of-a-family-charred-to-death-in-palani/article36040644.ece
22 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Erode, Salem districts||Many places in Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts received heavy rain, affecting the normal life of people on Saturday. In Erode, rain started at 4 a.m. and continued till 9 a.m., resulting in water stagnation on arterial roads and disrupting vehicle movement. Water stagnated on Railway Station Road, Chennimalai Road, and Perundurai Road and at railway underpasses at Vendipalayam and K.K. Nagar. Vehicles waded through knee-deep water along the stretch. A portion of the compound at Diesel Loco Shed fell on the road in the morning. Rainwater also entered many houses located along Perumpallam Canal. At 8 a.m. on Saturday, Erode recorded 42 mm rainfall, Modakkurichi 31 mm and Kavindapadi 18 mm. In Salem, many areas received rainfall in the morning. Rainfall recorded at various places in the district was Yercaud 98 mm, Sankari 37 mm and Salem 25.5 mm. In Namakkal, Tiruchengode received rain in the morning, leading to water stagnation on Salem Main Road. Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam stood at 65.69 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet at 8 a.m. on Saturday. Officials of the Public Works Department said the inflow was 5,712 cusecs while the discharge was 12,000 cusecs into River Cauvery and 700 cusecs into canal. The storage was 29.109 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, water level stood at 101.15 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage was 29.63 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. At present, 100 cusecs was discharged into River Cauvery and 500 cusecs into Kalingarayan canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-erode-salem-districts/article36040668.ece
22 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Assessment of crop damage due to canal breach begins||A day after a breach in the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) main canal resulted in the inundation of houses and crops in three villages in the Nasiyanur town panchayat, officials from various departments on Saturday started assessing the damage to property and crops. Breach in the canal on Friday morning had led to water entering houses on Pallathur Main Street, East Street, Adi Dravidar Colony, Puduvalasu, Varavankadu and Karaiyankadu. Water also entered farmlands, affecting the standing crops, including paddy, sugarcane, coconut and jowar. Sixty-two families, comprising 200 people, were shifted to safe locations, and given free dhotis, saris and food. On Saturday, revenue officials began collecting details of the families affected by the flood. A team led by S. Chinnasamy, Joint Director of Agriculture, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, started assessing crop damage in the villages. Officials said the damage to sugarcane, paddy, jowar, coconut trees and inter crops was being assessed. They added that a complete assessment could be done only after water in the fields recedes. “It may take a week for the assessment to be completed, after which a report will be submitted to the government for getting compensation for crop damage,” Mr. Chinnasamy said. Since water has started receding, many have returned home, while a few others are still at the camps, waiting for the water to recede. Work is on to plug the breach with the help of earthmovers, as officials are keen on completing the works in 10 days and releasing water for irrigation. Water was released from the Bhavanisagar dam to the LBP canal on August 15, for 120 days, to benefit 1.03 lakh acres of land in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assessment-of-crop-damage-due-to-canal-breach-begins/article36040550.ece
22 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Hotel sealed for violation||A Punjabi hotel at Chithode that allowed its customers to consume liquor on the premises was sealed by officials here on Saturday. With an increase in COVID-19 cases, the district administration has earmarked 24 places where shops, except medical and milk, are not allowed to function on weekends. Officials received information that the customers to the hotel, located along the Salem – Kochi National Highway, were allowed to consume liquor on the premises. Revenue officials and police personnel inspected the hotel and sealed it for violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotel-sealed-for-violation/article36040665.ece
22 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Worker dies||A 27-year-old worker at a meat stall, who was allegedly beaten by three persons, died at a hospital here on Saturday. On August 19, R. Barmanullaha of B.P. Agraharam was working at the meat stall when three people from the same area asked him for an empty bottle to purchase petrol. A dispute broke between them and the three beat Barmanullaha and left. Barmanullaha returned home and complained of severe pain in head. He was admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital, but he died on Saturday. On a complaint, a case was registered. Only after post-mortem, the cause of death could be known, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-dies/article36040666.ece
22 August 2021||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||DMDK treasurer booked||A case has been registered by the Hosur town police against Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) treasurer Premalatha Vijayakanth, her son Vijay Prabhakaran and 349 cadre for violating COVID-19 norms during the protest rally of the party here on Friday. On Friday, Ms. Premalatha rode a tractor for over 1 km without a mask and led a protest demonstration against Karnataka over the Mekadatu reservoir project. Earlier, the DMDK had sought permission to stage the protest at the inter-State border in Athibelle, but was denied permission. The protest was later held at Ramnagar. Based on a complaint by the local VAO, cases were registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-treasurer-booked/article36040658.ece
22 August 2021||Kalaburagi,TAMIL NADU||Visit Hampi, Vice President tells students||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, his wife M. Usha, and other family members visited the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hampi on Saturday and enjoyed its architectural marvels. They started their tour in Hampi with a darshan of Virupaksheshwar Temple in the morning. As Mr. Naidu and his family members entered the temple complex, Lakshmi, a temple elephant, welcomed them with garlands. Vidyaranya Swami presented the Vice-President and his family members with shawls and flowers and also offered a special puja at the temple. Mr. Naidu then took a darshan of Pampabike and Bhuvaneshwari and visited the monuments around the Virupaksheshwara Temple. Keshav, guide, and V. Vidyavathi, Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India, gave a brief description of each of the monuments. The family then proceeded to Queen’s Mahal and Lotus Mahal. After taking a brief break, Mr. Naidu proceeded to Hajararama Temple and observed sculptures on the temple wall depicting the stories from the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. The music pillars and stone chariot appeared to catch his eye the most. Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati, Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath, Additional Deputy Commissioner P.S. Manjunath, Additional Superintendent of Police B.N. Lavanya, ASI Superintendent Kalimuthu, and others accompanied the Vice-president in his Hampi visit. Speaking to presspersons at Vijaya Vittala Temple, Mr. Naidu called upon the young people to visit the UNESCO World Heritage Site. “The monuments of Hampi tell the story of our ancient history, rich culture and heritage, the greatness of our civilisation and the goodness of our kings, especially Sri Krishnadevaraya who had rule the land. Our culture, literature, music and everything is depicted in the monuments here and it is a beautiful place that gives a total account of the Vijayanagara Empire that had spread from here to Udayagiri. I suggest to the youngsters, particularly the student community, to visit the Hampi so that they can know the cultural heritage and feel proud of their forefathers. I am happy that the ASI is preserving our culture to pass on it to the next generation. It is the duty of all citizens, particularly the local people residing here, to cooperate [with the administration] for the conservation the site,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visit-hampi-vice-president-tells-students/article36040179.ece
22 August 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Registration of granite polishing units made mandatory||All granite polishing units shall be registered as mandated under the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Illegal Mining Transportation and Storage of Minerals and Mineral Dealers Rules, 2011. According to an administration release, in a bid to prevent illegal mining and extraction of mines and minerals, all granite polishing units are mandated to apply for registration of the storage godowns with the District Collector. According to V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy, while units dealing with M-sand, gravel and stone quarrying have come forward and applied for registration and licensing, no such applications have been made by granite polishing units. Under Rule 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Illegal Mining Transportation and Storage of Minerals and Mineral Dealers Rules, 2011, all granite polishing units are mandated to file their applications and register for operation. Any violations shall invite legal action against the errant units, the Collector has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-of-granite-polishing-units-made-mandatory/article36040660.ece
22 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Walk-in vaccination camp||From now on, people who have not yet got the vaccine shots for COVID-19 virus can walk-in to any of the designated vaccination centres and get inoculated, according to Collector S Aneesh Shekhar. In a press release here on Saturday, he said that with adequate vaccines in hand, the administration had planned to accommodate more people, especially those in the peripheries, with the dosage. As for those residing in the Madurai city limits and who have already registered in the website of Madurai Corporationwww.maduraicorporation. co.in. can have the vaccine shots between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. After 11 a.m. till 4 p.m., those without registration can get the vaccine shots through the 12 designated locations by producing the approved identity card. The district administration, Dr. Aneesh Shekhar said that it had also planned to hold special camps at block levels from Monday to Thursday for teachers and non-teaching staff. Those who have not yet got the vaccine shots may get benefitted through the camps to be held across the district. The Collector said that all private establishments and industrial undertakings in the city and the district should ensure that their employees had taken the vaccine shots without fail. Any negligence would be seriously viewed by the authorities. He also appealed to private companies to approach the Health department for any assistance. In the event of a large number of employees, the modalities could be worked out and if needed, a special camp could be explored for the purpose. The doctors at the Government Rajaji Hospital said that there was no need for the public to rush to the vaccine centres. Instead of crowding, they can look at the website of the Madurai Corporation and get the vaccine at any of the approved locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walk-in-vaccination-camp/article36040772.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers’ grievances redressed||About 5,000 grievances from construction workers regarding welfare schemes and registration issues among others were redressed by the district administration in the past month, Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar said, at a meeting conducted by the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board here on Saturday. About two weeks back, a meeting to review these pending grievances was organised and works were speeded up. A week back, a review meeting was held between the leaders of the workers’ unions and the officials from different departments. As a result, many elderly workers who had been requesting pension in the past few years were sanctioned with a monthly sum of Rs. 1,000. Also, relief funds for the families of labourers who had died due to an unfortunate accident were sanctioned. Dr. Aneesh Shekhar said, “90 % of labourers in our nation belongs to the unorganised sector. We need to protect and empower them. Close to 17 different welfare boards are functioning in the State for such purposes. The Covid-19 pandemic has made life difficult for both workers in the organised and unorganised sectors. The International Labour Organisation has even stated that after the second world war, this is the event that has had a very bad impact on the global economy.” Since labourers from the unorganised sectors were the most affected due to it, the government had taken many steps to help them, he added. The Collector asked the union leaders to have interact with their members and help them get the monetary benefits that are given under the social security schemes of the government. He also promised to redress some of the grievances mentioned by the workers regarding online registration process of the welfare board soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-workers-grievances-redressed/article36040766.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts to speed up board’s functioning’||Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board chairman Pon Kumar said that efforts would be made to speed up the board's functioning, at a meeting held with the worker’s unions in the district, at the Collectorate here on Saturday. He said that Tamil Nadu had always been a leader when it came to addressing the problems faced by labourers in the unorganised sector and it was sad to see the welfare board being dysfunctional during the AIADMK regime. “After I took over as the board’s chairman in June, 50,000 pending grievances from the construction workers, with regards to welfare scheme distribution and registration, were cleared across the State. To help clear the backlog from the past 5-6 years at a faster pace, 180 computer assistants and junior assistants would be hired across the State,” he added. After having discussions with the workers’ unions, he assured that steps would be taken to ease the difficulties that arise between VAOs and the unions, in the process of worker’s registration with the board. Since many unregistered workers lose out on the monetary benefits that are provided to labourers via welfare schemes, measures to legalise compulsory registration with the board would also be undertaken. The board planned to give away houses for at least 25,000 construction workers across the State this year, he said. He also alleged that funds to the tune of some crores allotted to the board were used by the previous AIADMK government to implement schemes that were unrelated to the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-speed-up-functioning-of-construction-workers-welfare-board/article36040657.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Problems aplenty for the visually impaired as schools reopen||The covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns have been extra harsh on the everyday lives of many visually challenged schoolchildren. They are looking forward to the reopening of schools for classes 9-12 next month, more than anyone else. A visually challenged class 12th student, R. Dharmaraj says, “I study at the KNPM Pillaimar Sangam School under inclusive education. The pandemic has been so stressful since I have not been able to follow a proper routine. I listen to the Kavli Tholaikatchi classes for about 3-4 hours every day. It becomes exhausting at one point. Though I understand the teaching, it gets difficult when teachers explain concepts using black boards. I am relieved that I can go back to school and seek help from my teachers and friends.” Though Dharmaraj is excited to go to the school campus, he is nervous about catching up on the syllabus. “We went to school for two months in 11th standard. I missed out on learning many chapters in class that are crucial for the 12th standard syllabus. When the school reopens, I have to start gathering audio books for each subject and concentrate on the syllabus,” he adds. The visually impaired are also having a tough time buying Braille books. Vel Murugan, who runs an NGO (Thuimai Vizhigal) for visually challenged children in the city, says that not everyone can afford to buy Braille books for all the subjects. “Braille books for subjects, usually have to be bought by a student, out of his/her individual interest. It costs around Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 1,800 to convert a regular book into a Braille book and it contains 5 times more pages. Given the economic background of a majority of the visually impaired students and the pandemic situation, it is not possible to get all the books converted to Braille. They need to become completely dependent on audio books,” he explains. A special educator who works for government schools in Madurai feels that it would be difficult to get such children on track, after a long break. “Special educators to schools in the district are assigned block-wise. In usual times, we would have the time to visit all the schools in the block and take special care of these children. The long break may have affected them psychologically. We are clueless on how to bring back their confidence levels,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/problems-aplenty-for-the-visually-impaired-as-schools-reopen/article36040774.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||After being told ration rice not fit to eat, HC Bench seeks State’s response||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a response from the State government on how the public distribution system (PDS) was functioning in the State after the court was told that the rice distributed through PDS is not consumable by humans. The court was told that since the rice was not consumable, the ration card holders got the rice from the ration shop and sold the same. The submission was made during the course of the hearing of an anticipatory bail plea filed by a man apprehending arrest by police for illegally transporting PDS rice. Justice B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the State in the anticipatory bail petition filed by one Kumar of Kanniyakumari district. The petitioner apprehended arrest by the police for having illegally transported the rice to Kerala. He was booked for offences under the Tamil Nadu Scheduled Commodities Order and the Essential Commodities Act. The case of the prosecution was that the petitioner obtained ration rice from various ration card holders at cheap price and illegally transported the same to Kerala. A total of 22 tonnes of ration rice worth Rs. 1.24 lakh was seized. Senior Counsel Kathirvelu appearing for the petitioner submitted that the rice which is distributed through Public Distribution System is not consumable by humans and therefore, the ration card holders got the rice from the ration shop and sold the same. In view of the submission made, the court directed the State government to answer how the Public Distribution System was functioning in the State. The case was posted to August 25 for response from the State. The court granted an interim anticipatory bail to the petitioner with conditions and directed him to appear before the police for inquiry daily and cooperate with the investigation The police was directed to file a report as to the nature of the rice recovered from the petitioner which was distributed through PDS and how the same was identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-told-ration-rice-not-consumable-hc-bench-seeks-states-response/article36040653.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Unauthorised temple structure razed down||The Madurai district administration razed down an unauthorised temple structure built in a kanmai in IIangipatti village in the district on Saturday. The structure had no idol inside. The demolition drive took place following a High Court direction to remove encroachments. In July, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court had directed the authorities to remove a new temple that was built inside the waterbody. The court was informed that there was no idol inside the structure. Taking cognisance of the reports submitted in the case, the court directed the authorities to take necessary steps to maintain the waterbody and remove the encroachments. The order was passed on a batch of petitions filed by the local villagers. They had opposed the earlier move of the authorities to remove the encroachment on the waterbody, including the removal of the temple. The court observed that waterbodies are required to be protected. The court said that the petitioners had no locus standi to file the writ petitions before the court and disposed of the batch of petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unauthorised-temple-structure-razed-down/article36040770.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench’s verdict hailed||Hailing the verdict of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that directed the Centre to strictly follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act and Rules, Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan felicitated advocate M. Kannan who appeared in the case. Mr. Venkatesan had filed the petition before the High Court seeking a direction to the Centre to reply only in English. He moved the High Court after he was upset over a reply sent in Hindi by a Union Minister of State to a query raised by him. The court held that when the representation was given in English, the reply should also be in English. In the felicitation event held on Saturday, he appreciated advocate Kannan for his efforts. He also appreciated advocate Pugalendhi for the contribution made by him in the case. The MP said that the Centre was naming government schemes in Hindi which was not understood by many.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-benchs-verdict-hailed/article36040773.ece
22 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Driver killed as two lorries collide head-on||Boopathi (48), son of Maya Thevar of Tirumangalam in Madurai district, died when the lorry he was driving from Madurai to Tiruchi collided head-on with another cement-laden lorry bound for Sivaganga from Tiruchi, at Malampatti near Melur in the early hours of Saturday. Police said rescue operation got delayed as the front portion of the two lorries was badly damaged. Fire and Rescue Service personnel led by Melur Station Fire Officer Suresh Chandrakanth, Melur DSP Prabakaran, Inspector Charles. Though the driver was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital, he died on the way. The toll plaza rescue vehicle and some of the employees regulated the vehicle movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driver-killed-as-two-lorries-collide-head-on/article36040652.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CJ inspects court campus||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee inspected the District Court campus in Ramanathapuram on Saturday. Principal District and Sessions Judge R. Shanmuga Sundaram received the Chief Justice. The Chief Justice inspected the court buildings and also planted saplings on the court premises. He interacted with the District Judges and the members of the Bar. He advised them to take necessary steps to dispose of old cases and strictly adhere to the court procedures.    The water level in Periyar dam stood at 133.20 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 612 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 67.01 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 883 cusecs and a discharge of 1969 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9321 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m on Saturday was (in mm): Madurai 2, Kodaikanal 1 mm, said PWD officials.      A team of Civil Supplies CID police has seized 1,800 kg of rice meant for public distribution system during a vehicle check conducted in Tirunelveli Town on Saturday. Civil Supplies CID sources said that their team, which was conducting vehicle check near Arunagiri Theatre Road on Saturday, intercepted a mini cargo vehicle going to Tenkasi. Upon checking the vehicle, the team found 1,800 kg ration rice, packed in 45 bags. Subsequently, the police arrested vehicle owner E. Maharajan, 32, of Tirunelveli Town, driver K. Mahendran, 28, of Keezha Kalangal and attendant E. Sakthivel, 23, of Tirunelveli Town. Inquiry revealed that they had collected the ration rice from cardholders of Vannarpet in Tirunelveli and were transporting it to Tenkasi to be used as cattle feed. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cj-inspects-court-campus/article36040646.ece
22 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 133.20 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 612 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 67.01 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 883 cusecs and a discharge of 1969 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9321 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m on Saturday was (in mm): Madurai 2, Kodaikanal 1 mm, said PWD officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36040767.ece
22 August 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Students seek CM’s help to bring back body of medico from the Philippines||The Tamil Nadu Medical Students’ Association has written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, seeking his intervention to bring back the body of a student from the Philippines. He had gone there to study medicine. The student, who hailed from Sirkazhi, died on August 10, but doctors are yet to declare the cause of his death or send the body home, the association said. A. Aswin, a 22-year-old Lyceum North Western University student in the Philippines, had completed his final year of MBBS, and was to join a medical clerkship — the equivalent of a house surgency in India. Prior to beginning the clerkship, students are required to take six precautionary vaccines. Aswin took two — the MMR vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella, and the Hepatitis B vaccine — on August 9, the day before he died. “Aswin and his friends had all taken the vaccines on the same day and gone home to rest. The next day, when his friends knocked on his door, he did not respond. They broke the door open to find him dead,” a student at the same university, who also hails from Tamil Nadu, told The Hindu on the condition of anonymity. Initial reports by local medical officers, after declaring Aswin dead, said the cause may have been hypersensitivity to the vaccines, the student said. However, the time taken to conduct an autopsy, embalm the body and begin the process to transport it to India has taken over 10 days due to COVID-19 restrictions and a lack of funds. Classmates and friends of Aswin has crowdfunded Rs. 7 lakh to pay for the necessary procedure, as his family is unable to do so. His father runs a small business in Sirkazhi, but it has come to a standstill due to COVID-19, the father had told his friends. The friends travelled 250 km from where the university is located, to Manila, which is in lockdown, several times, to complete documentation. “We now request the Chief Minister to take action and bring his body from the Philippines for free. We also urge him to get due compensation for the bereaved family from the Philippines government,” the letter read. On August 20, the students were informed that Aswin’s remains, currently at the Manila airport cargo holding, may be sent on a flight from there on Monday, and would arrive in Chennai early Wednesday on a flight via Dubai. “We will not know till they load the casket onto the flight. Some of his friends will receive the body in Chennai and go to Sirkazhi in an ambulance,” one of his senior colleagues said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-seek-cms-help-to-bring-back-body-of-medico-from-the-philippines/article36040571.ece
22 August 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects housing project in Thovalai||Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj reviewed on Saturday the ongoing construction of residential flats at Esanthimangalam under Thovalai panchayat union on an outlay of Rs. 6.36 crore. The flats, with three floors, are being built for the homeless urban poor. The complex will have 64 houses, each costing about Rs. 9.94 lakh. Of the Rs. 6.36 crore, the Union government’s share is Rs. 96 lakh while the State government has allotted Rs. 4.48 crore. The remaining Rs. 92.41 lakh is the beneficiaries’ contribution. After the subsidy being released by the Central and State governments, each beneficiary will have to give Rs. 1.44 lakh as their share. A deep borewell is to be sunk with a ground-level sump for supplying water to the residents of the apartments. Roads, drainage facility, rainwater harvesting structure, park, street lights etc., will also be provided in the residential complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-housing-project-in-thovalai/article36040769.ece
22 August 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for dragging 65-year-old mother on road||Paramathi Police arrested a man who dragged his 65-year-old mother on a road demanding transfer of house to his name here on Saturday. The incident took place at Ponneripatti in Paramathi on Friday evening after a video went viral on the social media showing the man assaulting her with the help of his wife. Inquiries revealed that Nallammal, a worker under MGNREGS, lost her husband Chinnasamy (74) last year and was staying alone. Both, her daughter Gomathi and son Shanmugam, were married. Police said that the parents registered their four-and-half acres in Shanmugam’s name two years ago and he was carrying out farming activities. Demands cash But Shanmugam demanded transferring the house too in his name and also cash Rs. 3 lakh that Nallammal received by selling her jewellery. On Friday evening, when Nallammal was at work, Shanmugam and his wife Janaki went to the workplace and demanded the transfer of the house and the cash. Altercation broke between them and Shanmugam dragged her by hair on the road and assaulted her. The villagers rescued Nallammal and admitted her to the District Headquarters Hospital at Namakkal. A villager shot the video and circulated it on social media. Based on her complaint, the police registered a case and arrested Shanmugam while search is on for Janaki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-dragging-65-year-old-mother-on-road/article36040681.ece
22 August 2021||Paramakudi,TAMIL NADU||Will take 5 years for DMK govt. to set right State’s finances: Chidambaram||The Tamil Nadu government may take at least five years to correct all the wrongs committed by the previous AIADMK regime in the finances, said former Union Finance Minister and senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the white paper tabled by the DMK government has given a clear picture on the financial position. “The errors committed by the previous AIADMK regime had to be set right by the new government. It is a herculean task. It cannot be done overnight and the DMK government hopes to do it efficiently”, he added. All that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had promised in his election manifesto cannot be done within 100 days, though the government had already implemented some of its poll promises. Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan’s white paper reflected the poor financial position. “Setting them in order will not be possible within two or three months. There was no point in the AIADMK leaders rushing to the Governor, he said. Asked to comment on the Afghanistan developments, he said that the Centre should ensure that the Indians in Kabul and other parts were safe. The situation, he hoped, will improve in the coming days. Only after a clarity emerged on the governance there, the Union government can decide on its stand. With not much trade with Afghanistan, the Centre should safely evacuate the stranded Indians there at the earliest. The Congress leader was here to participate in a party functionary’s family function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-take-5-years-for-dmk-govt-to-set-right-states-finances-chidambaram/article36040643.ece
22 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||IGMCRI will no longer admit COVID-19 patients: Health Dept.||The Health Department has decided not to accommodate COVID-19 patients at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI) hereafter.  Instead, COVID-19 patients would be admitted at the Government Hospital for Chest Diseases (GHCD), Gorimedu.“Only a few patients are remaining at the medical college. We have stopped new admissions. Already 22 patients have been admitted at the GHCD for COVID-19 treatment,” a senior Health Department official told The Hindu . The decision, he said, was taken after the Chief Minister’s directive to the department to revive functioning of outpatient units and functioning of the college. The medical college remained the main centre in providing treatment to virus infected patients during the first and second waves. Meanwhile, Opposition leader R. Siva has urged the government to reconsider the decision. In the wake of warnings by experts about a possible third wave of COVID-19, the decision to close the medical college for treatment could hamper the government’s efforts to contain the virus at an early stage, he said in a statement. “The hospital played a key role in providing timely treatment for patients during peak time of the virus in the Union Territory. It used to treat more than 400 patients at one time. It is the only centre under government control with all facilities. So, the decision not to admit COVID-19 patients should be revisited,” Mr. Siva added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/igmcri-will-no-longer-admit-covid-19-patients-health-dept/article36040831.ece
22 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Speaker forms Business Advisory Committee||Speaker R. Selvam has constituted a six-member Business Advisory Committee (BAC), which decides the agenda and duration of Assembly sessions, for the current year. Apart from Mr. Selvam, other members are Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Home Minister A. Namassivayam, Deputy Speaker (to be elected on the first day of the Budget session, starting August 26), A.M.H. Nazeem (DMK) and G. Nehru alias Kuppusamy (Independent). The constitution of the committee has irked Opposition Leader R. Siva due to his exclusion, sources said. As per the customary practice, the Leader of the House and Opposition Leader would be part of every BAC. “It is a convention that we followed for years. Now, only the Leader of the House (Chief Minister) has been accommodated,” said an aide close to Mr. Siva. After the notification announcing the committee came on Friday night, Mr. Siva formally complained to the Chief Minister for not including his name. “Not only was Mr. Siva not included, he was not consulted before choosing the DMK legislator. It is against Parliamentary practices,” the aide added.  As per the customary practice, the Leader of the House and Opposition Leader are part of every Business Advisory Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-forms-business-advisory-committee/article36040827.ece
22 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||59 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in Puducherry||The Union Territory on Saturday registered two COVID-19 deaths and 59 new cases. Both deaths were reported in the Karaikal Government Hospital. A 65-year-old, and another 46-year-old woman with comorbidities succumbed to the virus at the hospital. In the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m., the region recorded 59 new cases from 3,501 tests. As of now, there are as many as 908 active cases and more than 80 percent of the patients are under home isolation, data released by the Health Department said. While the test positivity now stood at 1.69%, case fatality stood at 1. 47%. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 1,808 patients have succumbed to the virus. So far, 7,77,866 persons have been vaccinated in the Union Territory, data revealed.  Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 1,808 patients have succumbed to the virus||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/59-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-puducherry/article36040626.ece
22 August 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus services flagged off in Pudukottai||Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan flagged off bus services on 14 routes from Ponnamaravathy Bus Stand on Saturday. He said that 12 buses would be operated on the routes. Five of the services would run on changed routes and seven others were resumption of services. Eight were town bus services on which women could enjoy free rides. Steps would be taken to operate additional buses based on demand. Law minister S. Reghupathy, said steps would be taken to operate bus services to Palani and Tiruppur from Ponnamaravathy. Collector Kavitha Ramu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-flagged-off-in-pudukottai/article36040628.ece
22 August 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘Drinking water project being revived’||The DMK government is preparing fresh proposals to revive the Narippaiyur drinking water project, said Transport Minister Raja Kannappan here on Saturday. Speaking at a function in Andakudi near Paramakudi to inaugurate the newly constructed office of Motor Vehicles (MV) Inspectorate built at a cost of Rs. 1.66 crore, he said that the water project, which was launched in the DMK regime, had become defunct due to poor upkeep during the AIADMK regime. The drinking water project was a boon to the people of Ramanathapuram and it would be revived first. “We are giving top priority for this. Similar water projects which were established in the past and were working well, but left unattended for political reasons, would again be dedicated to the public,” Mr Kannappan said and added that the Chief Minister was keen to keep up the poll promises. The newly built office of the MV Inspectorate would cater to 224 villages in Paramakudi, Mudukalathur, Kadaladi and Kamudi blocks respectively. People can approach the office here for applying for learner's driving licence, for its renewal, payment of road tax and among other procedures. Earlier, the office was functioning in a rented building at Paramakudi. He gave away welfare assistance to beneficiaries on the occasion, opened up a community hall built at a cost of Rs. 25.26 lakh at Thinaikulam village and flagged-off TNSTC buses in three new routes in the presence of Collector J. U. Chandrakala, Additional Collector K. J. Praveen Kumar, MP Nawaz Kani, MLA S. Murugesan, Deputy Transport Commissioner M. S. Ilangovan and other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narippaiyur-drinking-water-project-is-being-revived/article36040649.ece
22 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three persons killed in road accident||A couple and their relative, a 10-year-old girl, were killed in an accident at Gajalnaickenpatty on the Namakkal – Salem National Highway on Friday night. Pasupathi (30) of Adi Dravidar Colony in Thirumalaigiri was married to Karthika (28) and had a six-year-old son and three-year-old daughter. The couple left their children at home and went to Pasupathi’s sister’s house at Pudupatti in Rasipuram on a two-wheeler. While returning, they took Pasupathi sister’s daughter Mohanapriya with them. While nearing Gajalnaickenpatty, a lorry moving ahead of them suddenly stopped and the two-wheeler hit the rear side of the lorry. In the impact, the three fell onto their right side on the national highway. At the same time, another lorry proceeding from Namakkal to Salem ran over them. The three died on the spot. Salem Rural DSP Thaiyal Nayakee and the Mallur police inspected the spot and held inquiries. The bodies were shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. A search is on for the lorry driver. The Mallur police registered a case. The bodies were handed over to the relatives after post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-killed-in-road-accident/article36040669.ece
22 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Saplings of fruit-bearing trees planted in forest area||In an effort to protect the forest area and to improve food availability for birds and animals, members of Salem Nature Club planted saplings of native fruit-bearing trees at the forest area located at the foothills of Shevaroyan Hills here on Saturday. The members said they were planting saplings in the forest area for the last two years and were also maintaining them. Trees would protect and increase the forest cover and also provide fruits to the birds and animals. The members planted saplings of Java plum, figs, badam, papaya, jackfruit, custard apple, tamarind, guava, gooseberry and Mahua.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-of-fruit-bearing-trees-planted-in-forest-area/article36040664.ece
22 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Excluding kuruvai paddy from insurance irks delta farmers||The decision to extend insurance cover for crops other than paddy cultivated during the kharif (April to July) season has irked the delta farmers who have taken up kuruvai paddy cultivation this year with confidence. Two days ago, the State government made an announcement that the farmers who have taken up the cultivation of crops other than paddy and ‘thattaipayaru’ (cow pea) in the notified areas during April to July could insure their crop till August 31. It had also announced that in case the excluded crops get affected due to natural calamities, such loss would be compensated with the State Disaster Relief Fund and all the crops notified during the special and rabi seasons (October to March) would be insured. The government has justified its stand stating that the reduction in the Centre’s share in crop insurance premium had increased its burden. Moreover, the disbursement of crop insurance compensation on a large-scale during the last five years had forced the insurance companies to effect steep hike in the premium amount. But the delta farmers are not willing to accept those reasons. Talking to reporters at Mannargudi on Saturday, P.R.Pandian, the general secretary of Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, termed the announcement as nothing but a shock to the delta farmers who had taken up kuruvai cultivation this season despite the financial stress and mental agony caused by the inclement weather during the last samba/thaladi season. Further, making this crucial announcement through an official bypassing the Assembly was highly unacceptable, he added. Regretting the manner in which the issue was handled, Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Welfare Protection Association and G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam said compromising on the crop security would not help the State government in achieving its ambitious goal of enhancing the food productivity and enlarging the area of cultivable lands in a phased manner.  The government has justified its stand stating that the reduction in the Centre’s share in crop insurance premium had increased its burden||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excluding-kuruvai-paddy-from-insurance-irks-delta-farmers/article36040552.ece
22 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Crop insurance: skirting ‘kuruvai’ irks farmers||The decision to extend insurance cover for crops other than paddy cultivated during the kharif (April to July) season has irked delta farmers who have taken up kuruvai paddy cultivation this year with confidence. Two days ago, the State government made an announcement that farmers who took up cultivation of crops other than paddy and thattaipayaru (cow pea) in the notified areas during the period April to July could insure their crop till August 31. It also announced that in case if the excluded crops get affected due to natural calamitiesl such loss would be compensated with the State Disaster Relief Fund and all the crops notified during the `special’ and `rabi’ season (October to March) would be insured. Though the exclusion of paddy (standing kuruvai ) was justified in the official release by stating that the reduction in the Central government’s share in crop insurance premium had increased the State government’s burden and disbursement of crop insurance compensation on a large-scale during the last five years forcing the insurance companies to effect steep hike in the premium amount, the reasoning seems to have not augured well with the delta farmers. Talking to reporters at Mannargudi on Saturday, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam general secretary P.R. Pandian termed the announcement as nothing but a bolt from the blue on the delta farmers who had took up kuruvai cultivation this season withstanding the financial stress and mental agony caused due to inclement weather conditions during the last ‘samba/thaladi’ season. Further, making the crucial announcement through an official bypassing the Assembly while it was in session was highly unacceptable, he added. Regretting the manner in which the crop insurance issue for kuruvai crop was handled by the elected government and officials, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Welfare Protection Association secretary Sundara Vimalanathan and a progressive farmer, G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, said compromising on crop security would not help the State government in achieving its ambitious goal of enhancing the food productivity and enlarging the area of cultivable lands in the State in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-insurance-skirting-kuruvai-irks-farmers/article36040577.ece
22 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Kerala woman bludgeoned to death||A 40-year old woman was allegedly murdered by her neighbour near Thiruvallam in Kerala on Saturday. Raji of Nirappil was purportedly bludgeoned by her neighbour Gireesh following a dispute around 2 a.m. The suspect, who has been taken into custody, is believed to have attacked Raji using a stone. Despite being rushed to a hospital nearby, she succumbed to head injury. While the actual cause of the disagreement was yet to be known, the police pointed out that the two families have been engaged in a long-standing feud that has often led to altercations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-woman-bludgeoned-to-death/article36040187.ece
22 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||39 tonnes of ilmenite seized||The SIPCOT police have seized 39 tonnes of mineral sand being transported in five lorries to a private factory. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, the police received a tip-off about illegal transport of ilmenite to a private factory in SIPCOT Industrial Complex from a godown in Mullakkaadu on Thoothukudi. The premises which was sealed by the then Collector in 2017 following charges of illegal mining. Subsequently, movement of ilmenite in the district was also prohibited. When revenue officials intercepted a lorry in front of the factory and checked the vehicle, they found nine tonnes of ilmenite loaded in it. Based on a complaint filed by Village Administrative Officer of Meelavittaan Rajesh Kanna, 49, the SIPCOT Police registered a case. Mr. Jayakumar, accompanied by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi Rural, Ponnarasu, also visited the spot and found that four more lorries had also transported the mineral to the factory. Subsequently, lorry drivers V. Esakki, 49, of Chekkadi Street in Thoothukudi; N. Marimuthu, 39, of Arockiyapuram on Thoothukudi outskirts; P. Murugan, 39, of State Bank Colony, Thoothukudi; A. Sadaiyaandi, 39, of Shanmugampuram in Thoothukudi; and S. Selvam, 59, of Authoor; and supervisor of Mullakkaadu godown S. Ramakrishnan, 41, of South Soorangudi in Kanniyakumari district were arrested besides seizing the five lorries with the ilmenite. The godown was sealed again. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/39-tonnes-of-ilmenite-seized/article36040647.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Something is ‘cooking’ in Chathiram Bus Stand area in Tiruchi||The Department of Food Safety has identified Chathiram Bus Stand and its peripheries in the city to promote a street food hub with emphasis on cleanliness and hygiene. According to a rough estimate, there are about 600 street food vendors and roadside food stalls in the city. While a section of them make and sell hot food on wheels (pushcarts) at various locations, many others function in busy areas on public spaces with foldable and makeshift benches and chairs. They mainly operate in the evenings up to 11 p.m. According to a long-time resident, the city’s first roadside food stall came up on Theradi Street on Big Bazaar Street about 50 years ago. Since it received good patronage, the concept gradually spread its wings in other parts of the city. The stalls have mushroomed in the recent past with unemployed youth starting their own business. Though they offer food, mainly light items, at cheap rates, there is serious concern over the unhygienic method of preparation, serving and distribution. There are apprehensions that several street food traders prefer to use adulterated oil and recycled oil bought from big hotels. In order to address the grievances of customers and to improve the quality of food being sold by street vendors, the Department of Food Safety has proposed to implement clean street food hub project on a pilot basis at Chathiram Bus Stand area. Chathiram Bus Stand has been chosen to implement the project as it has a number of roadside and pavement food sellers, R. Rameshbabu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi, told The Hindu . They wild be clustered into a group. Bringing behavioural changes among workers and cooks, enhancing personal hygiene of cooks and suppliers, ensuring preparation of food in a clean and hygienic environment, providing a clean dining experience, standard mechanism to dispose of food waste and leftovers and using quality ingredients to prepare food are among the components of the project, he said. As a first step, an awareness programme on clean food preparation in street food stalls and businesses has been given to the vendors. The selected vendors, who are part of the Chathiram Bus Stand clusters, will be called again for intensive training. They will be asked to strictly enforce the standard requisites of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) right from wearing apron and hair caps to proper waste disposal. They will also be asked to do business only at hygienic places. Dr. Rameshbabu says it might mean additional investments by vendors to create the infrastructure. Hence, he is in talks with some companies to get sponsorship for the project under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund. Once the vendors are found to be following all hygienic and sanitary parameters, steps will be taken to get an FSSAI certificate for the cluster. “The aim is to make Tiruchi a model in clean street food sale. The project will be implemented within two months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/something-is-cooking-in-chathiram-bus-stand-area-in-tiruchi/article36040630.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women blaze new trail in rendering sanitation services in Tiruchi||A day at work is no ordinary achievement for K. Aravalli, 45, who is one of five women professionals making their way through the male-dominated field of sanitation service providers in Tiruchi. Her company, Sri Sai Enterprises, based out of Ponmalai, has been undertaking deep cleaning operations of drains and toilets in residential and industrial premises since 2012. “I was inspired by my elder brother, who runs a septic tank cleaning company in Pudukottai; but when I decided to replicate the same business idea in Tiruchi, I did not get much encouragement,” Ms. Aravalli told The Hindu . “Some of my own relatives doubted my ability and the propriety of my choice of occupation.” Unfazed by naysayers, and with her spirits bolstered by her husband Kandamurthy, a Karate master, and three children, Ms. Aravalli decided to raise funds for her first de-sludging vacuum truck, which cost Rs. 18 lakh, by pawning her jewels. With business picking up after a few years, Ms. Aravalli now owns two de-sludging trucks and manages a team of six workers (two drivers and four de-sludging staff). “There was a time when we had very little money; I am fortunate and proud to be in a position to employ people today,” said Ms. Aravalli. “Society should be more accepting of those who work in such difficult fields.” While Ms. Aravalli does not drive the vacuum trucks herself, she pitches in to help her male staff fix the industrial equipment for cleaning jobs. “A regular assignment, where we just open a manhole and get started, can take up to two hours. In places where we have to organise minor demolition of concrete drainage covers before we can get to the actual spot, our work can stretch out to over 10 hours. We are busiest during the rainy season,” Ms. Aravalli said. As a recognition of her professional success, on August 23, Ms. Aravalli is one of the Tiruchi-based guests who will be sharing her experiences at a virtual storytelling session on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme (TNUSSP) and the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) at the World Water Week (WWW) organised by Stockholm International Water Institute. Yakkoppu AP, a transgender sanitation worker who maintains a community toilet in Srirangam, is the other guest invited to speak at the event. The session, titled ‘Women in Sanitation: Glimpses from across the chain’ will discuss the challenges faced by women sanitation professionals across the public, formal and informal sectors and the possible solutions to create a gender-inclusive working environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-blaze-new-trail-in-rendering-sanitation-services-in-tiruchi/article36040641.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,000 take the jab in Tiruchi||The intensified vaccination drive by Tiruchi Corporation appears to have drawn a good response with 10,165 people taking the shots at 35 camps organised by the civic body on Saturday. The camps were set up in an attempt to vaccinate 13,300 eligible residents . Speaking toThe Hindu, City Health Officer M. Yazhini said the aim was to reach out to more people willing to get the vaccine shot. “We do not encourage overcrowding. With more centres, people can go to the nearest one and get the jab without having to wait in long lines,” she said. Of the four zones in the city, 2,401 people took the jab at Srirangam, 1,870 in Ariyamangalam, 2,352 in Ponmalai and 3,542 in K. Abishekapuram zones. Only 371 doses remainedof the total stock. Similar arrangements would be made over the next few weeks in an attempt to reach at least 50% of the city's eligible population. So far, around 35% of the city had received at least one shot of the vaccine. Dr. Yazhini said people must realise that they could not afford to be lax. “Just because the number of fresh COVID-19 cases is low, it does not mean that COVID-19 is eradicated. The only way to beat it is through vaccination.” She warned that with the coming marriage and festival season, reopening of schools, theatres, and other facilities, the public needed to be more cautious. Meanwhile, Collector S. Sivarasu disclosed that a total of 27,122 people took the COVID-19 shot in Tiruchi district on Saturday, including 10,165, in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10000-take-the-jab-in-tiruchi/article36040627.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on improving banana value chain, marketing||Improving the banana value chain and marketing of the fruit was the focus of deliberations at the Foundation Day celebration of ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) here on Saturday. Addressing the meet on a virtual platform, A. K. Singh, Deputy Director General (Horticulture Science), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, while appreciating the research and development initiatives of NRCB, emphasised the need to take banana cultivation to the next level by adopting cutting edge technologies such as artificial intelligence. Besides, post-harvest value addition using modern technologies was essential to enhance export potential and tripling the farmers’ income. S.K. Malhotra, Agriculture Commissioner, Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, released NRCB’s publications and five podcasts. He underlined the nutritional importance of banana and the need to increase its export by promoting the ‘cluster approach.’ Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat, the importance of branding was getting momentum for all products. The ‘One District One Product’ programme covered Tiruchi and Theni districts for banana development. S. Uma, Director, NRCB, said the institute had made commendable contributions in technology development and dissemination for holistic and sustainable development of banana cultivation in the country. The banana value chain had to be improved in order to double the farmers’ income and NRCB was focussed on strengthening the value chain and marketing of banana. Best farmer, best farmers producers organisation, best technology disseminators, best Krishi Vigyan Kendras, best entrepreneur, best business initiative and best institute employees’ awards were presented. Innovative ideas in banana production, processing and marketing which emerged through a hackathon were also rewarded Mylswamy Annadurai, Former Director, ISRO; Pawan Kumar Singh, Director, Indian Institute of Management, Tiruchi; M. Selvam, Vice Chancellor, Bharathidasan University, and B. K. Pandey, Assistant Director General (Horticulture Science –II), ICAR, participated. A webinar on ‘Banana Value Chain and Marketing – New Business Horizons’ saw scientists and entrepreneurs discussing the way forward in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-improving-banana-value-chain-marketing/article36040629.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||Three hundred and fifty doses of Covishield will be administered at each of the camps at the following places on Sunday: Corporation Zonal Office, Srirangam; Anganwadi Centre, North Adayavalanjan, Srirangam;Thiruvanaikovil High School, Sannidhi Street, Thiruvanaikovil; Anganwadi Centre, Venice Street; R.C.School, Butterworth Road; Thevar Hall, West Boulevard Road; Xavier’s School, Varaganeri; Corporation School, Ukkadai Ariyamangalam; Anganwadi Centre, Malligaipuram; Anganwadi Centre, Sangiliandapuram Main Road; Corporation School, Subramaniapuram; Corporation Middle School, Kamaraj Nagar; Kalaimagal School, Edamalaipattipudur; BHM School, Melapudur; Saraswathi Balamandir, Srinivasa Nagar, Vayalur Road; Corporation School, Kuratheru;K.A.P.Viswanatham Higher Secondary School, Thillai Nagar; S.M.Higher Secondary School, Woraiyur; Aurobindo International School, Fathima Nagar, Woraiyur; SIT College, Ariyamangalam; Equitas Gurukul Matric Higher Secondary School, Oil Mill Road, Ariyamangalam; Corporation School, Bhagavathipuram; and Corporation School, Malaikovil. The camps will begin at 9.30 a.m., a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article36040634.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report nearly 300 fresh cases||The central region reported 307 fresh cases of COVID-19 and six deaths on Saturday. Three died in Pudukottai, and one each in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam. On Saturday, 95 fresh cases were reported in Thanjavur and 52 in Tiruchi. Nagapattinam reported a marked increase in COVID-19 cases on Saturday. A total of 48 patients reported positive in the district and in Tiruvarur, 39. In Pudukottai district, 25 patients reported COVID-19 positive and in Mayiladuthurai, 14. Meanwhile, 16 fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur and 13 in Karur. Perambalur continued to report the least number of fresh cases among the central districts with five cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-nearly-300-fresh-cases/article36040632.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of shallots plummet in markets||The prices of shallots have plummeted in Tiruchi markets due to increase in supply and poor demand. One kg of shallot was sold for Rs. 10 to Rs. 30 depending upon the quality. The rate of a kg of big onion (Bellary) ranged between Rs. 7 to Rs. 28 in the wholesale market in Tiruchi on Saturday. The rate was Rs. 10 more in retail markets and grocery stores. Hawkers sold four kg of shallot (good quality) for Rs. 100 on the streets and doorstep of customers. Though the rate of Bellary onion remained the same for the last three months, one kg of shallot was priced between Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 in June. The rate began to plummet in the last week of July. Traders attributed the slump in rates to poor demand among customers. According to sources, Tiruchi received about 100 tonnes of shallots and 200 tonnes of big (Bellary) onions daily. Though the supply was just about 20% to 25% more than the normal, poor demand among the customers caused the slump in prices. “The yield is said to be good in almost all onion cultivable areas. Locally grown onion hits neighbouring markets too. It has ultimately brought down the demand onion in Tiruchi market,” said P. Sudhakar of Sri Kalaivani Traders at the Wholesale Market for Onion in Tiruchi. He said Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Pudukottai and Madurai received onion mainly from Tiruchi market. But the traders had been receiving just 50% of the regular order for the past few weeks due to marketing of locally grown onion in the respective towns. Mr. Sudhakar said the arrival of shallot from Perambalur would slowly pick up in the next few weeks. Though the demand would go up during the festive season, there would not be many fluctuations in prices till the end of the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-small-onion-plummet-in-markets/article36040639.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Paddy raised on 15,000 hectares thanks to good storage in dams||Paddy cultivation in Tirunelveli district has been taken up during this ‘kar’ paddy season on nearly 15,000 hectares, thanks to a comfortable storage level in the prime reservoirs. Collector V. Vishnu said the district received 626.68 mm rainfall from January 1 to August 17 against the average rainfall of 298.80 mm during this period, which is 127.74% more. This was due to a low-pressure-triggered excess rainfall received during mid-January. Though rainfall during the south-west monsoon - from June to August - this year is poor, the ‘kar’ paddy cultivation was taken up with the decent storage in Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar dams due to the surplus rainfall in January. While paddy has been cultivated on 14,498 hectares in the areas irrigated by the Tamirabharani, cultivation of grams has been taken up on 1,340 hectares. Small foodgrains on 231 hectares, cotton on 499 hectares, sugarcane on 28 hectares and oilseeds on 179 hectares have been cultivated in the rain-shadow regions where the standing crops are being irrigated with well water. After distributing 209 tonnes of certified paddy seeds to farmers who have gone in for ‘kar’ paddy cultivation, sufficient quantity of bio-fertilizers have been stocked in the Agriculture Extension Centres. The seed inspectors, who have lifted 445 samples from 248 licensed seed sales depots for analysis, have found that eight samples were of inferior quality. Consequently, sale of 26.82 tonnes of seeds, worth about Rs. 17.77 lakh, has been banned. Mr. Vishnu informed that the small and marginal farmers could get 100% subsidy for installing micro irrigation equipment in their fields while other farmers could get 75% subsidy for irrigating the horticultural crops. Since the small and marginal farmers, while applying for getting 100% subsidy for installing micro irrigation equipments should attach the certificates issued by Departments of Revenue, Agriculture and Horticulture authorizing the applicants as ‘small / marginal farmers,’ special camps were organised on August 6 and 12. Subsequently, 1,200 farmers are about to get this certificate, Mr. Vishnu said. Farmers, who could sell their produce in the regulatory markets at Ramaiyanpatti, Ambasamudram, Thisaiyanvilai and Valliyoor, could also store their produce in the regulatory market godowns and draw loans up to Rs. 3 lakh with 5% interest by mortgaging their produce stocked in the godown, Mr. Vishnu said.  Good times There is comfortable storage in Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar dams Farmers can get 100% subsidy for installing micro irrigation equipment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-raised-on-15000-hectares-thanks-to-good-storage-in-dams/article36040655.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to operate train to Tambaram via Tenkasi||S. Gnanathiraviam, MP, has appealed to the Southern Railway authorities to operate a weekly train service from Tirunelveli to Tambaram in Chennai via Cheranmahadevi, Ambasamudram and Tenkasi. In a petition submitted to John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway, and P. Ananth, Divisional Railway Manager, Madurai division, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said people living in Cheranmahadevi, Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram, Keezha Kadayam and Pavoorchathram have to travel either to Tenkasi or Tirunelveli to take the trains to Chennai even after the Tirunelveli – Tenkasi track was converted into broad gauge. Senior citizens, physically challenged, pregnant women and iling persons suffer a lot as they have to travel to Tirunelveli or to Tenkasi to take the Chennai-bound trains. The Tirunelveli to Tambaram Express, which was operated earlier via Cheranmahadevi, Ambasamudram, Paavoorchathiram and Tenkasi with good patronage, was stopped in the wake of the pandemic. If this service is resumed again, it will be of great help to the people coming to Courtallam, Tenkasi, Sorimuthu Ayyanar Temple in Papanasam, Manimuthar and other tourist spots. Hence, the Tirunelveli – Tambaram Express may be operated on Sundays, and the Tambaram – Tirunelveli service on Mondays with Dadar Express rake, which lies idle in Tirunelveli Junction for three days a week, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-operate-tambaram-bound-train-via-tenkasi/article36040650.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||1,800-kg ration rice seized, three held||A team of Civil Supplies CID police has seized 1,800 kg of rice meant for public distribution system during a vehicle check conducted in Tirunelveli Town on Saturday. Civil Supplies CID sources said that their team, which was conducting vehicle check near Arunagiri Theatre Road on Saturday, intercepted a mini cargo vehicle going to Tenkasi. Upon checking the vehicle, the team found 1,800 kg ration rice, packed in 45 bags. Subsequently, the police arrested vehicle owner E. Maharajan, 32, of Tirunelveli Town, driver K. Mahendran, 28, of Keezha Kalangal and attendant E. Sakthivel, 23, of Tirunelveli Town. Inquiry revealed that they had collected the ration rice from cardholders of Vannarpet in Tirunelveli and were transporting it to Tenkasi to be used as cattle feed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1800-kg-ration-rice-seized-three-held-in-tirunelveli/article36040637.ece
22 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 93.95 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 568.06 cusecs and 1,304.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 66.70 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of four cusecs and 150 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36040853.ece
22 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Petrol usage up by 11% following price reduction’||With the State government reducing the cost of petrol by Rs. 3, its usage has increased by nearly 11% across the State, said Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan. He issued subsidy cheques worth Rs. 28 lakh in total to 102 beneficiaries under the two-wheeler for working women scheme for the financial year 2020-21 at Pongalur on Friday evening. Speaking to mediapersons, he claimed the DMK government has been fulfilling its poll promises and the reduced price for petrol will be helpful for working women. Talks to implement the Anamalaiyar-Nallaru scheme for the benefit of farmers in Tiruppur district are under way, Mr. Saminathan noted. A total of 3,250 women with an annual income of less than Rs. 2.5 lakh were chosen to receive the subsidy of Rs. 25,000 under the two-wheeler scheme for the financial year 2020-21 in Tiruppur district, a press release said. On Saturday, Mr. Saminathan along with Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj and District Collector S. Vineeth inaugurated welfare schemes such as construction of anganwadi buildings and laying of roads at Sankarandampalayam in Kundadam panchayat union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-usage-up-by-11-following-price-reduction-says-minister/article36040560.ece
22 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||The Mangalam police on Friday arrested a 40-year-old man on charges of abducting a 14-year-old girl for marriage and committing penetrative sexual assault. The police said in a statement said that the victim’s father lodged a complaint on August 7 that his daughter was missing. Investigations revealed that the accused Kathiresan, who was the victim’s neighbour, allegedly abducted her and they got married at Samayapuram, near Tiruchi, and sexually assaulted her. Later, he allegedly abandoned her at Oddanchatram and absconded, the police said. The case was altered to section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 5 (l) (whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) read with 6 (Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and section 9 (Punishment for male adult marrying a child) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act on August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article36040565.ece
22 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 90% of missing cases solved in Tiruppur since 2015||City Police Commissioner V. Vanitha said on Saturday that 2,155 missing cases out of the 2,371 cases filed in the eight police stations within the limits of Tiruppur City Police between 2015 and 2021 were solved and those who went missing were reunited with their families. She participated in an event organised by the City Police at Sirupooluvapatti on Saturday, where the missing persons traced in the past three months were reunited with their family members. Speaking to mediapersons, she said that only 216 missing cases were yet to be solved as over 90% of the cases have been traced. In June, July and August this year, 94 missing cases were registered in the city, of which 71 were traced. In these months, eight missing cases that were filed before June were also traced. Out of the 78 persons, 57 attended the event on Saturday while four persons were found to be dead, including a murder case, she noted. The traced cases also included 15 minors (12 girls and three boys), who were handed over to their parents through the District Child Welfare Committee. Tiruppur City Police has appointed eight Missing Person Liaison Officers – one for each police station – who are under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) S. Aravind and Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes against Women and Children unit) S. Mohan to help in swift tracing of the missing persons, the commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-90-of-missing-cases-solved-in-tiruppur-since-2015/article36040564.ece
22 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||RPF steps up security at Katpadi junction||In the past few months, the Railway Protection Force (RPF), Katpadi, have seized at least 70 kg of marijuana from long-distance trains, especially ones originating from Visakhapatnam. The latest seizure was on Friday, when a special team of the Crime Prevention and Detection Squad of the RPF found 18 kg of marijuana, worth Rs. 3.60 lakh, in the Visakhapatnam-Kollam Express. “It is difficult to identify ganja at a stopover junction like Katpadi due to the short time the trains are here. Marijuana is a tightly-packed substance that can hardly be smelled. Our tip-offs should be accurate to make the seizure successful,” said N. Selvakumar, assistant sub-inspector, RPF, Katpadi. He led the team on Friday’s search. Special police teams were also deployed at emerging transit stations like Ranipet and Gudiyatham, especially after the easing of lockdown restrictions, due to increased footfall and safety of goods trains. Every day, more than 150 trains pass through Katpadi railway junction. RPF sources said most of the contraband seized in recent months, especially marijuana, were from trains originating in Visakhapatnam and heading towards either Tamil Nadu or Kerala. Easing of the lockdown restrictions, especially movement of trains for commuters, had made it easy for drug peddlers to transport the contraband in trains. They said Araku Valley, a thickly wooded area in Visakhapatnam, was allegedly the spot where marijuana was grown in the wild. Despite major stations like Tirupati and Renigunta being on the route, the contraband goes mostly unnoticed. Police said the substance was usually packed tightly in several small packets and sprinkled with perfume to prevent detection. Unlike Jolarpet, Katpadi railway junction gets trains from Bengaluru, Chennai, Vishakapatanam and Kollam (Kerala) covering all southern States. “With limited manpower, we are doing our best to prevent such contraband from getting into the open market,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-steps-up-security-at-katpadi-junction/article36040678.ece
22 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 27 new cases of COVID-19||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,610 with 27 new cases reported on August 21. While a total 47,132 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 372. The district’s death toll is 1,106. Ranipet numbers In Ranipet district, 20 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,387. In Tirupattur district, 15 new cases were reported on Saturday and the total stood at 28,483. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 31, taking the total to 53,005. Out of this, 51,922 patients have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 436.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-27-new-cases-of-covid-19/article36040828.ece
22 August 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Policewoman killed by husband||A woman constable Banupriya (31) was found dead in her house in Virudhunagar on Saturday. Police said that she was married to Vignesh (33) of Palanganatham in Madurai five years ago. The couple had two children aged four and two years respectively. Preliminary inquiries revealed that they had some issues over shifting their house from Virudhunagar to Madurai as Vignesh was working as a conductor in the TNSTC, Madurai. On Friday night, it is suspected that there was a fight between the couple and Vignesh left the house. Sensing something amiss, neighbours informed Karpagam (Banupriya's sister), who lives nearby. She rushed to the house and found Banupriya dead. On information, Soolakarai police came to the spot and inquiries revealed that Vignesh allegedly strangulated his wife to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policewoman-killed-by-husband/article36040636.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Betting on games of skill and chance||Since 2018, S. Mahesh (name changed as per request) has lost a few lakh rupees playing rummy and cricket online. The 29-year-old Vadapalani resident said, “It started off with Rs. 5, and over the next few months, the stakes got higher and higher. After a point, despite consistently losing money, my addiction to the game increased.” But in 2020, when COVID-19 hit India, Mahesh lost his job. That was when his family was shocked to find out that he had squandered all the money that they thought he had saved for a crisis like this. “I was very depressed for a few days — One: it was totally my fault playing the game despite knowing that I had lost several times. Two: I could not even complain as I did this out of my own choice,” he said. Like Mahesh, thousands of others are losing money every minute in Tamil Nadu, betting their hard-earned money on online games. Gambling and betting is not something new, Tamil Nadu has a long history of such games. For decades, people have been betting offline on bulls, roosters, horse-racing and card games. And during the pandemic, many of these games migrated online. For instance, even rooster fights happen online. Without disclosing the location, a source said that in the last three years, there had been bets being placed on rooster fights, a popular sport in villages and rural parts of the State. “But here you don’t lose much money. The one who placed the cash on the winning rooster gets the money,” he said, adding that people sitting in other countries also watched the fights and placed bets. Though there are no formal police complaints, many have died because of gambling and gaming. Reports collected by The Hindu across the State show that at least four persons from Coimbatore district ended their lives following losses from online gambling since 2020, according to the police. In October 2020, Mathan Kumar, 28, a resident of Radhakrishnan Street near Seeranaickenpalayam in Coimbatore, ended his life after claiming he had run up heavy debts what with online gambling. Kumar, an employee of a private bank, was addicted to alcohol and online gambling, according to the details provided by the police. This was followed by two more deaths in November. And in August this year, K. Karthik, 36, of Chetty Street in Coimbatore, took his own life after losing money in online gambling. Barring the case of a police constable near Tiruchi ending his life owing to the mounting debt caused allegedly by online rummy, there have been no other instances of suicide due to distress caused by online games in the central region. Even in the case of the young constable, the reason for the extreme step was mentioned as “heavy debt”, without the debts caused by online rummy being specified, say police sources. The legal games On July 24, 2020, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court quashed a First Information Report against a school teacher. He and four others were booked after they were found playing cards. Though the petition filed before the court sought the quashing of the FIR, Justice B. Pugalendhi took into account the growing menace of online gaming/gambling. The judge observed that advertisements for these games targeted unemployed youth. They induced them to play the games by saying that they could earn money comfortably from their home. The judge said there was a need to have a comprehensive framework to regulate such online games and curb illegal activities. The judge pointed out that a few other States in the country had amended their Gaming Acts, keeping these aspects in mind. When the menace of the lottery was at its peak, the Tamil Nadu government banned it. Similarly, the government enacted the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act to tackle the menace of usury. Therefore, there was a need to regulate and control these games, the judge said. On November 3, 2020, the Madurai Bench took a serious view of online gaming/gambling, with several youngsters killing themselves over debts. Hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi asked the State government to spell out its stand. The government informed the court that it was considering regulation of such games. The judges pointed out that several States had either banned or regulated online games that involved gambling and hoped the Tamil Nadu government would take appropriate steps. The court also ordered notice to celebrities who endorsed online games in advertisements. On November 24, 2020, the judges were informed that the State promulgated an ordinance to ban online gaming/gambling. A batch of petitions was filed by many private companies offering online games before the Madras High Court. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy allowed the petitions and struck down Part II of the Tamil Nadu Gaming and Police Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021 (Act 1 of 2021) on August 3, 2021. “In the absence of any scientific or empirical study to justify the proposed action, the impugned legislation may be seen to have been born out of a sense of morality and a bid to play to the galleries in election season in a societal ethos where smoking and drinking are regarded as less immoral than when indulged in before elders; and superstitious notions and false senses of vanity continue to prevail as real education is still at a premium despite literacy rates increasing and thousands qualifying each year to add a few letters after their names. That the Bill faced no opposition in the House has more to do with the optics just ahead of the State elections,” the court observed. In the view of the court having struck down the Tamil Nadu Gaming and Police Laws (Amendment ) Act, 2021, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi hoped that the government would come out with a new legislation to address the issue. Passing orders on a few petitions filed before the Madurai Bench on August 17, 2021, the judges observed that many lives were being snatched away by such gaming/gambling websites and the court hoped the government would come up with an appropriate legislation or a new amendment to address the menace at the earliest, preferably within six months. The court also directed the Centre to look into the issue. The AIADMK government banned online games but the High Court struck down the Tamil Nadu government’s amendment to the Gaming Act. The DMK government has also said it will pass new laws to regulate online gaming. The other side Meanwhile, those in the business of online gaming said the State government should carefully evaluate the pros and cons before coming out with new regulations. N.L. Rajah, senior advocate at the Madras High Court, said, “In all these cases, the court is called upon to apply the ‘skill versus chance test’ and Indian courts have always applied the ‘dominant factor’ test applied by U.S. courts. It is by the application of these principles that the Supreme Court in 1996 held horse-racing for stakes to be a game of skill... For a piece of legislation to pass muster before courts, it has to be very carefully drafted,” he said. He also noted that if there was evidence that several youngsters were being drawn into this, to their detriment, the State should regulate it. Roland Landers, CEO, All India Gaming Federation (AIGF), said that until any new legislation was brought in, it would be just speculation on what the State intended to do. “We hope the government will come out with a progressive regulatory and policy framework for this sunrise sector. The Indian regulatory framework has clearly differentiated between games of skill and games of chance.” “Just because games of skill entail an entry fee, which is true for several industries including content consumption, they cannot be considered gambling or betting.” Instead of banning online skill games, the State should devise a regulatory framework or recognise the self-regulation like the one followed by the AIGF member stakeholders. “Regulating this sunrise sector will boost the investment trends in the States, create jobs, and contribute economically,” he said. Sameer Barde, Chief Executive Officer, The Online Rummy Federation (TORF),  said: “TORF would be keen to collaborate with and support the government of Tamil Nadu in developing a comprehensive regulation that will address all the issues of the State, the players, and the operators alike. We sincerely hope that the government will consider establishing a robust regulatory framework for the online gaming sector as the only sustainable and effective way to address concerns.” According to Mr. Barde, banning online gaming is not the solution. “A case in point, Telangana which had banned Online Rummy in 2017 reported a massive illegal online gambling racket, worth more than Rs. 1,200 crore, run by a Chinese firm. Similar incidents are possible anywhere, which further underscore the need for a proper regulatory framework.” TORF also pointed out that the Madras High Court’s judgment highlighted that rummy involved a high preponderance of skill and could not be considered gambling, and these were games of skill and not games of chance. Even the Law Commission’s recommendations stressed regulation and not prohibition. Over the decades several Supreme court judgments have held rummy as a game of skill and protected it under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. According to a report launched by EY-All India Gaming Federation (AIGF), titled ‘Online gaming in India-The GST conundrum’, the Indian online gaming sector reached $1.027 billion in 2020, a growth of 17.3% from $543 million in 2016, and with its current trajectory, it is expected to reach $2 billion by 2023 in terms of rake fees earned. Since the online skill gaming business horizontal is made of several gaming formats, the Tamil Nadu market is bigger for some formats than the others. On an average, it will be approximately 10%-12% of the total current market size, the report said. (W ith inputs from Wilson Thomas in Coimbatore, R. Rajaram in Tiruchi and R Sivaraman in Chennai ) ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 )  Just because games of skill entail an entry fee, which is true for several industries including content consumption, they cannot be considered gambling or betting Roland Landers CEO, All India Gaming Federation   TORF will be keen to collaborate with and support the government of Tamil Nadu in developing a comprehensive regulation that will address all the issues Sameer Barde CEO, The Online Rummy Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/betting-on-games-of-skill-and-chance/article36040539.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Happy birthday,||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/happy-birthday/article36040527.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Diversion, lack of accurate measurement could be a reason for missing coal||Former officials of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission pointed out that there was no accurate method to measure the coal stock and all calculations were approximate. “Since there is no accurate method to measure the coal, it could be a calculation error,” they pointed out. An official from a private coal power producer pointed out that the measurement error could not be so huge. “There could be a loss during transit. But that quantum should not be huge. The huge quantity missing could only happen in case of deliberate wrongdoing,” he added. A senior official of Tangedco pointed out that the special committee formed to identify irregularities in the handling of coal had underlined coal shortage in the thermal power stations at Athipattu, Mettur and Thoothukudi. It was also announced by Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji on Friday. “However, the committee is yet to identify how the coal has gone missing, and only after a complete investigation, the details of the quantity gone missing and the time period could be found out,” the official added. The official also ruled out any power shortage owing to the missing coal. “At present, the coal stock at the North Chennai plant is available for nine days against the normal stock for 11 days. The power station consumes, on an average, 11,000 tonnes per day for generating electricity in the 1,200-MW plants,” he added. The power managers are concerned about the coal stock gone missing, but they said the State would not face any power shortage because the peak demand was yet to cross even 15,000 MW against the total generating capacity of more than 18,500 MW.  There could be a loss during transit. But that quantum should not be huge. The huge quantity missing could only happen in case of deliberate wrongdoingAn official of a private coal power producer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diversion-lack-of-accurate-measurement-could-be-reasons-for-missing-coal/article36040573.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools for Classes 9-12, colleges to reopen from September 1||Beaches would be open to members of the public, and zoos, parks and boat-houses would be allowed to operate. Corporation officials and the Collectors were tasked with ensuring that shop-owners, staff members and small traders on the beaches were vaccinated. Swimming pools are also allowed to function for sports training with 50% capacity. Trainers and trainees aged above 18 are mandated to be vaccinated. The government also extended the timings for shops to operate from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. from August 23. Information Technology and ITeS companies are also allowed to function with 100% staffing in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol and safety measures, the government said. Anganwadi centres are also allowed to open for providing mid-day meals from September 1 and creches have been allowed to operate with all staff members vaccinated. Bars and pubs and star hotels with bars (FL-2 and FL3 licensees) will be allowed to function. The government has also allowed public transport from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to operate following the protocol. It said all organisations for which the regulations had been relaxed had to ensure that all their staff members were vaccinated. The government said the protocol of ‘test-track-treat-vaccination-COVID-19 appropriate behaviour’ will be strictly implemented. It directed officials to ensure that in places where there were COVID-19 cases, strict monitoring was done at the micro level and the eligible persons were inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-colleges-classes-9-12-to-reopen-in-tamil-nadu-from-september-1/article36040548.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 152 new cases||Erode district reported 152 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 97,158. While 174 persons were discharged, 1,768 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem reported 79 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 95,439. While 61 persons were discharged, 1,111 persons are under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll to 1,621. Namakkal district reported 50 cases, taking the tally to 48,332. While 57 persons were discharged, 521 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 465. Coimbatore district reported 205 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, causing the overall tally to touch 2,34,046.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-152-new-cases/article36040662.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Coimbatore reports 205 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 205 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 2,34,046. The Health Department reported two deaths, taking the death toll to 2,236. The district had 2,244 active cases and 226 patients were reported to have recovered on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 76 fresh cases, taking the tally to 89,606. Three new deaths were reported in the district as the toll went up to 911. The district had 851 active cases and 87 patients recovered from COVID-19. The Nilgiris district reported 36 new cases. The total number of cases in the district increased to 31,450. The death toll went up to 192 as the Health Department reported the death of a 45-year-old woman who was under treatment for COVID-19. The district had 423 active cases and 51 patients were reported to have recovered as of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-coimbatore-reports-205-new-cases/article36040568.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-hues/article36040570.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-mood/article36040672.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bond of love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bond-of-love/article36040182.ece
22 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. will consider holding winter session of legislature in Belagavi, says Bommai||The State government will seriously consider holding the winter session of the Legislature at the Suvarna Soudha at Belagavi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Saturday. The government is also open to shifting some government offices that could focus on north Karnataka to the Suvarna Soudha, Mr. Bommai told journalists. To a query, he said he will soon issue orders to shift the Sugar Commissioner’s office to Belagavi from Bengaluru. Mr. Bommai also said that taluk hospitals will be established in all newly formed taluks. Oxygen plants will also be set up in all the district hospitals that lack captive oxygen generation plants or dedicated storage systems. Smaller oxygen plants will be set up in each taluk, he said. By that count, Belagavi district would get 10 oxygen plants. All oxygen plants across the State would start functioning in three weeks, he said. A COVID-19 testing laboratory has been inaugurated in Chikkodi. Another one will be sanctioned to Gokak, he said. He claimed the government has succeeded in managing the epidemic effectively. “This is demonstrated by the falling positivity rates across the State, except some pockets,” he said. “Steps will be taken to increase vaccination to 40,000 per day in Belagavi and 25,000 per day in Vijayapura. Similarly, the government will increase vaccination in the State to five lakh doses per day. This will ensure that we will reach the target of vaccinating every adult in the State in three months. We have placed orders with the Centre for 1 crore vaccines,” he said. The government will take steps to increase awareness about nutrition among the people. “We will take steps to distribute medicines at the doors of black fungus patients, once they are discharged from the hospitals. A team of senior officials will be sent to Belagavi to study the problems faced by Belagavi institute of medical sciences and address them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-will-consider-holding-winter-session-of-legislature-in-belagavi-says-bommai/article36040693.ece
22 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CM promises to take steps to find solutions to farmers’ problems||The State government will take steps to provide solutions to long pending problems of farmers, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai assured in Belagavi on Saturday. He told farmers’ leaders who met him in the Suvarna Soudha that he would try his best to help find solutions to their problems. The CM assured them that the government would ensure that all sugar factories paid arrears of sugarcane dues of all farmers. He also said he would ensure that officers completed the flood loss survey in a short time and released all compensation due to the farmers. A memorandum submitted by farmers to the CM included other demands like a complete farm loan waiver, shifting of the Sugar Commissioner’s office to Belagavi, shifting of important offices to Suvarna Soudha and completing all irrigation projects in North Karnataka on time. The CM tried to stop Prakash Nayak, a farmer’s leader, who fell at his feet. “You should not do that,” he told him. Earlier at Almatti, farmers’ leaders had a heated argument with the police who allegedly stopped them from meeting the CM. Basavaraj Patil Sonnal, a farmer, told journalists that the police did not allow them to meet the CM in the KBJNL office in Alamatti. “We wanted to submit a memorandum to the CM complaining against delay in payment of sugar cane arrears by sugar factories and delay in release of compensation to farmers who lost houses and crops in the floods. But we were stopped,” he said. The CM spent a few minutes with farmers before he left Almatti and received a memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-to-take-steps-to-find-solutions-to-farmers-problems/article36040691.ece
22 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni, supporters booked for violating COVID-19 protocol||The Belagavi police have filed two cases against Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni and his supporters for alleged violation of COVID-19 protocol and weekend curfew rules in the border district of Belagavi on Saturday. There was crowding as he came out of Hindalga jail, after obtaining bail in a murder case, and was welcomed by hundreds of supporters. The case about violation of weekend curfew was filed after the police took suo motu cognisance of the offence at the open ground outside the jail. Another one, about protocol violation, was registered following a complaint by the Panchayat Development Officer of the Hindalaga Gram Panchayat. The two cases were registered in the rural police station. The cases filed under various provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Cr.PC, name Mr. Kulkarni and 300 others. “They violated guidelines despite advice by prison and police officers,” Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe told The Hindu . Earlier, a huge crowd awaited Mr. Kulkarni when came out of the jail. People from his constituency, his supporters, and Congress workers had come to Belagavi by cars, vans, and mini-lorries from Dharwad and surrounding areas. The police estimated that over 2,000 people had gathered in the ground before the jail gate. He was taken in a procession in an open car from Hindalaga village to Rani Channamma Circle. The celebration caused a traffic jam on Belagavi-Hindalaga Road. From there, Mr. Kulkarni left for Bengaluru. The Supreme Court bail order bars him from entering Dharwad district till the bail period, the police said. In his defence Mr. Kulkarni, however, has defended his supporters holding a welcome rally, saying it was the “expression of happiness of innocent voters”. He also argued that the government had no moral right to stop his rallies or book him for violations when it was “openly supporting” the BJP’s Janashirvad rallies. “My supporters are not politicians. They are just innocent voters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vinay-kulkarni-supporters-booked-for-violating-covid-19-protocol/article36040492.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools worried about finances ahead of classes resuming||While teachers are getting ready to welcome students of classes IX and X when schools reopen on Monday, many managements are worried about meeting expenses as a majority of parents have not paid fees for the previous and current academic years. It is not just staff salaries that school managements are worried about. Many have invested in infrastructure or had to renovate classrooms to adhere to government’s SOPs to ensure that students and staff can maintain physical distancing. In addition, a significant part of money will go into sanitising classrooms, washrooms, labs, and common areas, etc. and purchasing disinfectants, as well as hiring non-teaching staff to carry out these duties. Staff have to clean the school premises multiple times a day, said one principal. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that on an average, across private schools following the State syllabus, only around 30-50% of parents have paid the fees. “Even among that category, most have paid only a portion of the annual fees. With this in mind, the association will write to the State government to subsidise various costs,” he said. S. Sathyamurthy, president , Karnataka Unaided Schools Management Association, said that they are encouraging schools to make investments in infrastructure, sanitising the school and buying other items needed to follow the SOP laid down by the State government. “We are telling them that things may improve this year if more parents are confident of all the precautionary measures that we are taking and start sending their children to school,” he said. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said that school managements will suffer huge losses if other classes don’t resume. “We will have to sanitise the whole school, but if only two grades are open, it is a huge burden for us,” he said. Another expenditure is overtime pay for teachers who have to conduct both offline and online classes from Monday onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-worried-about-finances-ahead-of-classes-resuming/article36040483.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yogesa Melta from Netcore wins Bengaluru regional round of BusinessLine quiz||BusinessLine’s Cerebration 2021, one of India’s premier corporatequiz championships, is back with its 18th edition, this time in a virtual format. The quiz is designed for corporate executives, business professionals, B-school students, and MBA aspirants. The preliminary online quiz round was scheduled from August 4 to 11 to shortlist the top six from each of the six cities of Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Mumbai, and Delhi. More than 6,000 candidates participated in this round. The Bengaluru regional round took place at 11a.m. on August 21 with six participants — Abhijit Bhalachandra, ZS; Sethu Madhavan, Capgemini; Sanish Samuel, Adobe; Rabi Sankar Saha, Capegmini; Ronisha Das, Accenture; and Yogesa Melta, Netcore. After a gruelling four rounds, Yogesa Melta, Netcore, emerged as the winner of the regional round with 43 points. Abhijit Bhalachandra, ZS, with 33 points, came second, followed by Rabi Sankar Saha, Capegmini (30). Some of the interesting questions answered by our participants included: Q: The first time this brand reached #1 on Camera Brands used in the Flickr Community chart was back in 2009 and since then it has been so dominant that now all the five cameras in this chart today are different models by the same brand. Which brand is this? A: iPhone Q: Launched by JPMorgan Chase in 2019, the Volfefe Index, where Volfefe is a portmanteau term, measures the fluctuations in U.S. interest rates due to what unpredictable activity? A: Donald Trump’s Tweets Editor BusinessLine Raghuvir Srinivasan gave the welcome address, along with Union Bank of India general manager D. Chandra Mohan Reddy. The quiz master for the event was Ajay Poonia. The Bengaluru regional round can be viewed at: https://bit.ly/BLCQ6. Union Bank of India is the title sponsor. The event is powered by CFA Institute, in association with ManageEngine and BSE IPE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yogesa-melta-from-netcore-wins-bengaluru-regional-round-of-businessline-quiz/article36040490.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah to undergo naturopathy treatment||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah got admitted to Jindal Naturecure Institute (JNI) on the outskirts of Bengaluru on Saturday for a 10-day nature cure regimen. In 2018 After the formation of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2018, Mr. Siddaramaiah had gone to Shree Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Yoga and Nature Cure Hospital in Dharmasthala for two weeks. Sources in the Congress said the former Chief Minister has gone to JNI for ayurveda treatment and weight loss, keeping in mind the coming elections to zilla and taluk panchayats, and a few urban local bodies, including Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. He will be discharged from JNI on August 31. In June this year, Mr. Siddaramaiah was admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru for a couple of days for treatment of fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-to-undergo-naturopathy-treatment/article36040497.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for snatching chains||The Central Crime Branch police on Saturday arrested three members of a gang who were allegedly involved in more than 18 chain-snatching cases in and around the city since 2016. The police team recovered 1.9 kg of gold jewellery worth around Rs. 52 lakh from them. The accused mainly targeted elderly women. After committing a series of such crimes, they would leave Bengaluru within an hour to hand over the gold to their contact in Hiriyur. “The accused would then go to another city to target elderly people there, and return to Bengaluru a month later,” said a police officer. After uncovering their modus operandi, the CCB tracked them down to many cities in the State, before arresting them in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, in another unrelated case, passers-by and locals helped the police catch a notorious chain snatcher after he allegedly assaulted a 50-year-old woman in an attempt to rob her gold chain. The incident took place on 5th Main Road, Chamarajpet, on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-snatching-chains/article36040486.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,350 new cases, 18 deaths across State||Karnataka reported 1,350 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,37,427, on August 21. With 320 new cases, Dakshina Kannada has again reported the highest number of cases in the State. Bengaluru Urban reported 260 cases on Saturday. With 18 deaths,the toll rose to 37,123. This is apart from 23 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,648 people were discharged on August 21, taking the total recoveries to 28,79,433. Karnataka now has 20,845 patients. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.85%, the Case Fatality Rate was 1.33%. As many as 1,57,509 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,34,802 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,18,39,866.  On August 21 Recoveries: 1,648 Tests: 1,57,509 Vaccinations: 4,52,290 Test positivity rate: 0.85 Case fatality rate: 1.33||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1350-new-cases-18-deaths-across-state/article36040499.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Peenya Industrial Association highlights infrastructure deficiencies||Potholes, defunct street lights, waterlogging due to improper drainage system, uncollected waste: these were just some of the problems that members of the Peenya Industrial Association (PIA) highlighted at a meeting with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials here on Saturday. BMMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said civic officials have been given a deadline of one week to fill all potholes and conduct a survey of the street lights in the industrial area. PIA office-bearers complained that waste was often not picked up with civic workers claiming that it is industrial waste. Mr. Gupta assured them that a team will be constituted specifically for solid waste management. Officials have also been directed to draw up a project proposal for the development of 14th Cross Road in PIA that connects major industrial centres within the industrial area. Civic officials have been directed to coordinate with PIA office-bearers at least once a month to discuss the progress of various works. Manjunath, Dasarahalli MLA, said that PIA lacked basic infrastructure. Roads in newly added areas need immediate attention while Nilagadanahalli Road and Hesaraghatta Main Road have been damaged by BWSSB’s pipeline laying work, he said. Vaccine coverage Mr. Gupta said the State government had assured the BBMP of allocating more vaccine doses. “Many wards in the outer zones have more migrant labourers. In such wards, officials have been directed to ensure 400 vaccinations per day,” he said. Teams have been constituted to conduct random testing in markets, railway, and bus stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peenya-industrial-association-highlights-infrastructure-deficiencies/article36040481.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former IPS officer helping in evacuation||The former IPS officer from Karnataka Savita Hande, presently serving as senior U.N. security officer in Kabul, is in a safe zone and helping in evacuation, a senior police officer said here on Saturday. A 1990-batch IPS officer and batchmate of ADGP Railways Bhaskar Rao and city Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, she was deployed to Kosovo in 2000 after being relieved from cadre and since then was interested in doing United Nations service. Senior officials who contacted her said the U.N. would be taking care of her evacuation following all the protocols. Meanwhile, two persons from Karnataka stranded in Afghanistan, will be airlifted from Kabul. They are expected to arrive to the State on Sunday, according to sources in the State Home Ministry. These are the only two persons who have contacted the control room established by the State government, One is a resident of Mangaluru and another of Tirthahalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-ips-officer-helping-in-evacuation/article36040493.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Encroachment cleared||While the BBMP cleared encroachment on Doddabommasandra lake, the Bengaluru (Urban) district cleared encroachments on government land, including lake, kunte, gomala, graveyard, and storm water drains, in five taluks. According to a press release here on Saturday, the district administration cleared encroachments on over 27 acres and 25.08 guntas and recovered land worth Rs. 60.71 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encroachment-cleared/article36040479.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Begur lake statue: FIR against group||The Begur police have registered an FIR against a group of people for allegedly promoting enmity and intent to hurt religious sentiments after they posted objectionable comments on social media in connection with the Shiva statue controversy at Begur lake. The statue had been installed on an artificial island constructed within the lake by the BBMP. However, its cover was removed earlier in August in violation of the Karnataka High Court’s 2019 orders. When environmentalist Leo Saldanha took objection to this, he was allegedly labelled as “anti-national”. In his complaint, he said the accused posted derogatory and objectionable posts on social media against a minority community. Following the court’s directions, the Begur police registered an FIR on Monday against the accused, and efforts are on to trace them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/begur-lake-statue-fir-against-group/article36040480.ece
22 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Gandhiji’s visit recalled||Chikkamagaluru district administration held a programme on Thursday to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to the town 94 years ago. Mahatma Gandhi, as part of his nationwide tour, had visited Chikkamagaluru on August 19, 1927. He had paid a visit to then Amaldar’s Office, which stands today as the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Deputy Commissioner K.N.Ramesh offered flowers to Gandhiji’s statue on the office premises. He recalled Gandhiji’s visit and his leadership in the country’s freedom struggle. Before reaching Chikkamagaluru, Mahatma Gandhi had visited Tirthahalli, Mandagadde, Gajanur and Bhadravati. Later, he reached Kadur, where freedom fighters Kempe Gowda, Krishna Shetty, Lakshminarayana and others welcomed him. He addressed the gathering on the occasion and people gathered donated 400 silver coins for the freedom struggle, he said. The people of Chikkamagaluru actively took part in the freedom movement. Responding to Gandhiji’s call against liquor and foreign clothes, the residents of the district ensured liquor shops were closed and also burnt foreign clothes, he added. Zilla Panchayat CEO G. Prabhu, Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gandhijis-visit-recalled/article36040804.ece
22 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Call to minimise pollution||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has directed the officers of KIADB and industrialists to take measures to minimise pollution in the Mandli Kallur industrial area. He held a meeting with representatives of the industrialists’ associations and officers recently. The effluents from the industries had been polluting water bodies. The officers of KIADB should take up the construction of drain in the area. The KIADB had also proposed the improvement of basic infrastructure facilities in the area at a cost of Rs. 80.6 lakh. The proposal had been accepted by the central office of the KIADB. Zilla Panchayat CEO M.L. Vaishali was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-to-minimise-pollution/article36040805.ece
22 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman rescued||Hassan Police busted a prostitution racket in Hassan and rescued a woman from West Bengal recently. Hassan Extension Police conducted a raid based on a tip-off and arrested a person, part of the large group allegedly into illegal women trafficking and rescued the woman. Additional SP of Hassan B.N.Nandini told The Hindu , “The woman is native of Kolkata. She said she was brought to Hassan from Bengaluru. We have arrested one person and registered a case under the Illegal Trafficking (Prevention) Act”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-rescued/article36040801.ece
22 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘No administrative blockades after NEP’||Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Saturday clarified that after the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020 (NEP), there would be no administrative blockades in the educational system and there was nothing suspicious in the policy as it would give freedom to learning. Speaking at a programme on the implementation of NEP, organised at Karnatak University in Dhawad on Saturday, the Minister claimed that with NEP, the State would open itself to the world and would empower students to face global competition. Mr. Narayan said that the new policy advocated good quality teaching and learning, and would do away with the red tape that affected the traditional system. “Karnataka is the first State to implement the NEP which had been introduced after 38 years. The implementation requires support and cooperation of the community and experts and intellectuals should mobilise it,” he said. The Minister said that the new policy would change the course of India and added that educational institutions had a great role to play in it. Earlier in the day, participating in a discussion with literary personalities in Dharwad, Mr. Narayan said that under the new policy, every student will be educated in his or her mother tongue for two years compulsorily. The Minister said that technical education will be given in one’s mother tongue and those having completed their technical education in their mother tongue would get jobs and relaxations in higher education. Explaining the salient features of the new policy, the Minister clarified that there was no agenda other than upgrading the educational system and sought cooperation in its implementation. Writer Malati Pattanashetti stressed the need for revising the education policy every 10 years. The Minister said that the new policy was open to changes and there would no need to wait for decades. Harsha Dambal, professor, sought to know whether continuous monitoring system of teachers capabilities and evaluation would be possible in the new system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-administrative-blockades-after-nep/article36040793.ece
22 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Ensuring quality needed for success at global level’||Minister for Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood C.N. Ashwath Narayan has emphasised the need for ensuring good quality in products and services in order achieve success at the global level. He was inaugurating ‘World Entrepreneurs’ Day’, organised by the Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship & Livelihood at the Centre of Entrepreneur Development of Karnataka in Dharwad on Saturday. The Minister said that entrepreneurs should make use of advanced technology to promote their products. Mentioning about plans of various companies engaged in e-business and many others to enter the Indian e-market segment, Mr. Narayan called on the entrepreneurs to make use of the opportunity to promote their products at the global level. The Minister said that 95% of the entrepreneurship ventures in India were a failure and the main reasons for that were lack of planning, training, and poor knowledge about market conditions. Only 5% who made proper planning and execution have succeeded, he said. Elaborating on the government plans on promoting entrepreneurship along with the programmes of the Union government, he said that budding entrepreneurs were being identified and trained in a systematic manner apart from giving them incentives. The National Education Policy-2020 was aimed at grooming entrepreneurial skills during the learning stages itself and the government was taking steps to train the entrepreneurs in a systematic way to increase their success rate, he said. CEO of Krishikalpa Foundation C.M. Patil, shared his journey of becoming a successful entrepreneur. “Apart from hard work, one should know how to deal with the government, have proper guidance of a guru and faith in God,” he said. On the day, entrepreneurs and budding innovators trained by CEDOK were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensuring-quality-needed-for-success-at-global-level/article36040697.ece
22 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||No discussion on district-in-charge Ministers yet||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said the issue of appointment of district-in-charge Ministers had not been discussed yet. Speaking to press persons in Hubballi on Saturday night, Mr. Bommai said he always felt happy coming to Hubballi and would soon come out with plans for development of the city he loved in consultation with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and former CM Jagadish Shettar. He said that being an important centre of Bombay- Karnataka, Hubballi should be developed as an industry hub. It already was being developed into a smart city and efforts would be made towards further development, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-discussion-on-district-in-charge-ministers-yet/article36040686.ece
22 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||We are taking initiatives to ensure the safety of lives and property, says GESCOM MD||Responding to concerns over accidents leading to loss of human life, Rahul Pandve, Managing Director of Gulbarga Electricity Company (GESCOM) said that he had a number of safety projects in the pipeline to ensure the safety of people and public property. “Safety is our top priority. We are taking up a number of initiatives to ensure the safety of human life and public property. Replacing open live electric wires with insulated pipes and wires, iron electric poles with cement ones. We are identifying the hazardous locations to implement the safety measures,” Mr. Pandve said during his interaction with presspersons at his office in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Hazardous locations The GESCOM has, he added, identified 2,088 hazardous locations across its area of operation in the seven districts of the Kalyana Karnataka and sensitive places like schools, hostels and hospitals will be prioritised in the implementation of safety measures. Flood impact To a question on the damage inflicted to GESCOM property in the recent floods, Mr. Pandve said that the damage was minimised owing to the proper coordination between the the Department of Water Resources and GESCOM. “We got authentic information about the time and the amount of water being released from the reservoirs. This enabled us to assess the areas that would be flooded and the extent of flooding. We shifted the transformers from flood-prone areas before the floods. That is how we protected the GESCOM properties. Yet, 104 electric poles, 23 transformers, and 7.3 km of electric lines were damaged and we have replaced them all,” Mr. Pandve said. Mr. Pandve said that GESCOM had introduced the Discounted Energy Charges Scheme as per the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission order for encouraging High Tension (HT) consumers to increase its sales and resultant revenues. “The idea is to encourage HT consumers to use more power over and above normal consumption. The excess energy consumed over and above the normal usage would be charged at Rs. 6 a unit against the normal charges of Rs. 7.15 a unit,” Mr. Pandve said adding that 21 HT consumers had already applied for the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-taking-initiatives-to-ensure-the-safety-of-lives-and-property-says-gescom-md/article36040698.ece
22 August 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Congress only opposes government: Kateel||Holding Congress responsible for the recent disruptions of proceedings in Parliament, president of BJP’s State unit Nalin Kumar Kateel said the party does not have any job other than opposing and criticising the government. “The Centre was ready to discuss issues the Opposition raised in Parliament. But, Congress was not. It went on to disrupt the proceedings despite repeated appeals from PM Modi. Congress has no job other than opposing the government, irrespective of the correctness of the decision. It opposed implementation of CAA and NRC, abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, ban on triple talaq. It did not oppose Mr. Modi for giving more Ministerial berths in his Cabinet to people from SC, ST, backward classes and women as it feared the wrath of these communities. Congress is not working as a real opposition party,” Mr. Kateel said at a media conference in Kalaburagi on August 21. Exuding confidence in winning the elections to municipal corporations in Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi, he said BJP’s work in Karnataka and at the national level would bring the party to power in local urban bodies too. “BJP has been the ruling party in the Hubballi-Dharwad civic body for the last 10 years. In Belagavi, we are contesting on our party symbol for the first time. In Kalaburagi, we will increase our seat tally this time to capture power...I am confident that the BJP will win all the three corporations this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-only-opposes-government-kateel/article36040687.ece
22 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||K. Madhusudhan appointed MEAI president||K. Madhusudhan has been selected as the National President of the Mining Engineers’ Association of India (MEAI) at a national seminar organized by MEAI at Hospet in Vijayanagara district on Saturday. Call to youngsters Mr. Madhusudhan, who has been serving in the mining industry for the last 28 years, has called upon youth to choose a career in mining engineering. He said that the association intends to identify those youngsters who are skilled and trained in mining and engage them to take up employment and thrive in the mining sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/k-madhusudhan-appointed-meai-president/article36040694.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Training for constable, PSI aspirants begins||As many as 200 aspirants for the posts of police constable and sub-inspector from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru are attending the month-long training programme organised the Mangaluru City Police, which commenced here on Saturday. With recruits from Dakshina Kannada to the State police since 2010 being around 10%, Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar decided to conduct free training for aspirants from Dakshina Kannada and a few other neighbouring districts to appear for the written examination for the two posts. As many as 685 students filed application and a test was conducted to screen 200 aspirants. During the inaugural programme, Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said the training gives aspirants an orientation towards the selection process. The 20 police personnel, who are conducting the training, have gone through this process. “Make the best use of this training,” he told the aspirants. Lauding Mr. Kumar for holding an unique programme, Inspector General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray said there was tough competition and aspirants should work hard to get selected. Though the police force looks tough from outside, it is the good working environment in the force that binds policemen together and helps them continue in the force, he said. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said having more local personnel in the police stations in the district will go a long way in effectively handling law and order and other problems in the district. Among those who are undergoing the training include Harishit, a graduate, from Vitla. “I have applied for the post of police constable. I hope this training will help,” he said. Another aspirant for PSI post from Thokkottu said he has quit a job of a mechanic in showroom to attend the training. Of the 200 who are undergoing training, 161 are from Dakshina Kannada, 25 from Udupi, 10 from Uttara Kannada, two from Chikkamagaluru and one each from Hassan and Shivamogga districts. Eleven of the 25 trainees from Udupi district are from Naxal affected areas. While boys will stay in the hostel in St. Aloysius College premises, girls will be in a separate hostel in Balmatta. Twenty newly-recruited sub-inspectors and a constable will conduct classes for different subjects of the written examination. Assistant Professor of Economics from Canara College Prashant Bhat will hold classes on précis writing. The classes will be held between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. at the St. Aloysius College premises. While Kadri Manjunatha and Mangaladevi temple authorities will provide breakfast and lunch, the ISKCON will provide dinner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-for-constable-psi-aspirants-begins/article36040789.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Skin bank opened in Manipal||Coastal Karnataka’s first skin bank was opened at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal on Saturday. Rotary MAHE Skin Bank has been set up jointly by the Rotary Club Manipal Town and the Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE). The Rotary Club received Rotary Foundation’s global grant for Rs. 83 lakh to procure the equipment, and MAHE contributed Rs. 50 lakh for creating the infrastructure, a release from the hospital said. Ranjan R. Pai, Chairman, Manipal Education and Medical Group who inaugurated it, said that the bank will help burn victims, especially the underprivileged. Through skin grafting, by utilising the readily available skin in the bank, the patients will get the best care, and their quality of life and self-esteem will improve. N.C. Sreekumar, professor and head, Department of Plastic Surgery, KMC, Manipal, said that in cases of major burn wounds, over 30% to 40% wounds, the patients’ own skin is not sufficient to save them. Although several expensive skin substitutes are available in the market, human cadaveric skin is the best substitute for skin. With a skin bank, patients need not wait for 2-3 days of the crucial period to procure the skin from other parts of the country. The availability of skin is also an issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skin-bank-opened-in-manipal/article36040787.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioners inspect restoration work of NH 75 near Donigal||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra and his counterpart from Hassan R. Girish conducted a joint inspection of restoration works of a Mangaluru-Bengaluru national highway stretch near Donigal in Hassan district on Saturday. After the highway side, near Donigal, slipped on July 22 owing to heavy rains, it was restored for the movement of light motor vehicles from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., from August 17. Mr. Girish issued an order on August 16 allowing movement of cars, jeeps, tempos, minivans, two-wheelers, ambulances, ordinary buses, Rajahamsa buses, trucks carrying up to 20 tonnes of load, and six-wheelers. The vehicles prohibited on the road are bullet tankers, fish cargo containers, long chassis vehicles, heavy commercial vehicles, axle truck trailers, and all other heavy-load carrying vehicles. Dr. Rajendra said that the restoration works were inspected along with the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The Hassan Deputy Commissioner after consulting the NHAI engineers and taking their report might allow one lane from Sunday for movement of other heavy vehicles, he said. Bisile Ghat road was also inspected, Dr. Rajendra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioners-inspect-restoration-work-of-nh-75-near-donigal/article36040784.ece
22 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Four deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported four COVID-19 deaths and 320 new cases on Saturday. Of the deceased, two were from Puttur and one each from Mangaluru taluk and outside the district respectively. While one person died within 48 hours after admission, two died within 72 hours after admission, and one died 72 hours after admission to hospital. With 428 discharged, the number of active cases stood at 3,173. The test positivity rate was 3.22%. A fine of Rs. 1,03,75,920 has so far been collected in 85,269 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported 177 new cases of which 92 are from Udupi taluk, 35 from Kundapur taluk, and 50 from Karkala taluk. As many as 145 are in home isolation while 32 are in government health facilities. With 99 discharged, the number of active cases was 1,499. There are three cases of mucormycosis. With 24,314 persons vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday, a total of 14,01,923 have received vaccine so far of which 10,62,926 have received the first dose and 3,38,999 have received second dose. In Udupi, 13,259 persons were vaccinated and this took the total to 8,87,751 of which 6,46,246 have received the first dose and 2,41,505 have received the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-four-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada/article36040788.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for illegal stocking of crackers||In continuation of a city police crackdown on illegal stocks of explosive substances, the Kankanady police recently arrested a person and seized crackers worth Rs. 4.31 lakh from him. On a tip off, the police raided the godown of Kanchana Ganga Traders in Kottara Chowki on August 18 and seized crackers. The owner did not have a licence to trade crackers. He was booked under Section 9 B(b) of Explosive Substances Act and under 286 of the Indian Penal Code. On August 16, the Mangaluru North police arrested Anand Gatty and seized 1,400 kg of low-grade explosive substances from a building in Azizuddin Road. These were being used for making crackers and in quarries and fish ponds. Among the substances recovered included 161 boxes of .22 air pistol pallets, that were recently banned by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-illegal-stocking-of-crackers/article36040791.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Platform shelter inaugurated at Udupi railway station||One more platform shelter at Udupi railway station under Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., sponsored by Lions Club International, was inaugurated on Saturday. Lions International District 3217C director Vamshidhar Babu inaugurated the shelter in the presence of district governor Vishwanath Shetty and other Lions Club functionaries including V.V. Krishna Reddy, K.C Veerabhadrappa, Jayakar Shetty, Jayaprakash Bhandary, Prakash Bhandary, Rmananda, Prakash Bettin, Chandrashekhar Rao, and others. Being the second shelter on platform No. 2, it compliments the earlier one. It was built at a cost of about Rs. 1.4 lakh. KRCL public relations manager in Mangaluru Sudha Krishnamurthy requested Lions Club International to consider arranging laying interlock blocks along platform No. 1 so as to enhance cleanliness. The organisation agreed for the proposal, Ms. Krishnamurthy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/platform-shelter-inaugurated-at-udupi-railway-station/article36040781.ece
22 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Train periodicity extended||Railways has extended the periodicity of the Gandhidham-Tirunelveli-Gandhidham weekly superfast special express (fully reserved) plying via Mangaluru Junction till further advice. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said Train No. 09424 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli weekly superfast festival special running on Mondays that was earlier notified up to August 30, is extended from September 6 till further advice. Train No. 09423 Tirunelveli - Gandhidham weekly superfast festival special running on Thursdays that was earlier notified to run till September is now extended from September 9 till further advice. All norms regarding COVID-19 including social distancing, sanitisation etc. should be followed in trains and at the railway stations, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-periodicity-extended/article36040782.ece
22 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports has invited applications from SC and ST sportspersons to be awarded incentives. The applicants should have won medals in State, national, and international authorised sports events during 2020. The last date to apply is September 15. Call 2451264.    Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje will attend various programmes in Puttur on August 23. After attending a local programme at 10.30 a.m. she will participate in a video conference in the office of Puttur Sub-division Assistant Commissioner at 11.30 a.m. She will receive a felicitation by Okkaliga Sangha at noon. Later she will leave for Bengaluru via Mangaluru.    There will be no power supply to Mannagudda, Lalbagh, Lady Hill, Chilimbi, Malaraya Dwara, Lady Hill Church, and nearby areas on August 24 from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    The Department of Women and Child Development has invited applications from women to avail loans under Udyogini scheme of the Karnataka Women Development Corporation. The application forms can be obtained from the office of Child Development Project Officer. Apply by August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36040785.ece
22 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Insurance claims in mega cities indicate under-reporting of COVID-19 cases: study||The six mega cities of India — Ahmedabad, Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Bengaluru — together reported a total of 36,688 COVID-19 cases during this July. The total health insurance claims for COVID-19 treatment from non-government schemes in these six cities during the month was 33,241, accounting for as much as 91% of the cases reported. Citing these figures, Jeevan Raksha, a public-private initiative involving Proxima, a management firm, and Public Health Foundation of India, which is studying COVID-19 trends across the country, has raised questions over data integrity. Contending that Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) report on State-wise health insurance shows only 2% of India’s population is covered by any health insurance — group or individual (non-government schemes) — Jeevan Raksha’s convener Mysore Sanjeev said the health insurance claims (non-government schemes) registered for COVID-19 treatment in these six mega cities during July, as per the data provided by General Insurance Council, was a “shockingly high” 91%. “This means 91% of the people infected with COVID-19 in July had group or individual health insurance even after excluding the Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY and other government scheme beneficiaries. This shows massive under-reporting of the COVID-19 cases,” Mr. Sanjeev said. Out of the 957 COVID-19 deaths reported in the six mega cities during July, insurance claims had been registered for as many as 489 deaths, which accounts for 51%. “The six mega cities, which contribute nearly one in every five cases and deaths, might have under-reported to the tune of 1.8 lakh to 2 lakh cases and 2,200 to 2,500 deaths during July. All over India, about 5 lakh cases and 10,000 deaths may have been under-reported,” Mr. Sanjeev said. However, the extent of under-reporting varies from one city to another. Going by the data provided by the General Insurance Council, Mr. Sanjeev said there was reason to believe that the under-reporting of cases and deaths in Bengaluru and Mumbai was relatively less. While the percentage of population having group or individual health insurance coverage (non-government schemes) ranges from 1 to 6 in different States, Delhi has the highest penetration of 14% while Maharashtra has around 6%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/insurance-claims-in-mega-cities-indicate-under-reporting-of-covid-19-cases-study/article36040495.ece
22 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||RT-PCR negative report must for teachers||School teachers in Mandya have been strictly told to bring RT-PCR negative report while coming to the schools that are being reopened for running classroom teaching for Classes IX and X from Monday. “The negative reports are a must for teachers reporting to work on Monday,” said Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda in Mandya on Saturday. Mr .Gowda, who chaired a meeting in view of the reopening of schools and PU colleges, told the school authorities to monitor the health of every child and report to health authorities for medical assistance. “Try to remove disquiet among the children and their parents when they come to the schools on Monday. Greet them by giving sweets or chocolates to lighten the mood. You have to instill confidence among the parents about the safety in schools for their wards,” he told the officials from the Department of Public Instruction. Being the Minister for Sports and Youth Empowerment, Mr Gowda advised the schools to set aside one hour daily for sports, which, he felt, are essential for the physical fitness of the children. The teachers have to record the health of each child daily. Mr. Gowda, who reviewed the preparations done for the reopening of schools and PU colleges, said Mandya has 2,529 schools, including government, aided and unaided institutions. It is a must for teachers to take at least one dose of vaccine before reporting to the school and taking classes for the children. Teachers above 50 years of age have been asked to wear face shields while the rest of teachers and other staff members and children have to wear face masks compulsorily. Melkote MLA and former Minister C.S. Puttaraju said hygiene in schools must be maintained regularly as it plays a major role in the health of children. The police must take steps to ensure that no eateries, including the push-carts selling ice-creams or other eatables, are sold in front of the schools, as a precaution. Kodagu scenario However, in Kodagu, the wait for joining offline classes has only gotten longer for the students because of the district’s positivity rate which is 2 per cent. The State government is not ready to allow schools in Kodagu to reopen as it doesn’t meet the conditions in view of its prevailing TPR. Kodagu has been identified as a high-risk district because of its proximity to Kerala where the cases have continued to soar, triggering alerts in the bordering districts. Students have continued to face interruptions in online classes with villages in the hilly areas troubled by poor internet connectivity issues. This has affected continuity in learning and the locals wanted the offline classes, at least for the higher classes, to resume at the earliest with the pandemic situation eased to a large extent. A note from the office of Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI), Madikeri, on Saturday said the schools aren’t reopening in the district from Monday as the positivity rate over the last 10 days stands at 2 per cent. So, it doesn’t qualify to run the physical classes until the TPR falls below 2 per cent. Sharing links A DPI official in Kodagu said teachers were recording classes and sharing the link with the students on WhatsApp groups. The content of classes broadcast on other platforms are also shared on the groups for the benefit of students. “Because of its proximity to Kerala, the reopening of classes has been put off in Kodagu. Once the situation becomes normal and TPR drops below 2 per cent, our schools too will reopen and the students can attend offline classes,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rt-pcr-negative-report-must-for-teachers/article36040807.ece
22 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Delay in land acquisition hits airport expansion||The proposed expansion of Mysuru airport has been held up due to delay in the land acquisition process though farmers are keen to strike a deal with the government. The expansion entails runway extension besides construction of a subway perpendicular to the runway alignment in addition to expanding the terminal building. The airport currently has a runway length of 1,740 metres and a breadth of 30 metres which is suitable for operating ATR-72 type of aircraft. The proposal is to increase the runway length to 2750 metres and breadth to 45 metres so as to help operate bigger planes and enable direct long distance flights from the city. Officials in the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that the immediate land requirement to kickstart the project is about 115 acres though nearly 187 acres will be required in all for completing the works. Farmers keen The land acquisition has to be completed by the State government and though the farmers are willing to settle for the prevailing market rate, there has been no progress so far, said the officials. Theprocess has been delayed due to the focus on fighting the pandemic and investment on health infrastructure and hence the delay was only expected. But with the economy gradually gaining traction and the increase in vaccination coverage of the target population, there are hopes that the subsequent waves of the pandemic will be less virulent and will not derail the economy as during the first and the second wave, according to stakeholders who are now keen that the land acquisition process be initiated. Meanwhile, farmers of Mandakalli and surrounding areas close to the project area have approached the airport officials in the recent past to ascertain the status of the airport works. Calculations upset Their interest in the airport project stems from the fact that many of them have taken loans for personal reasons and were hoping to clear the loan by selling the land. But the delay has affected their calculations and they are now in the doldrums having to bear the steep rate of interest that is charged by the moneylenders. The stakeholders in the commerce and industrial sector are also keen that the runway extension kicks off at the earliest as there is now a proposal before the National Highways Authority of India to widen the Mysuru-Nanjangud highway from the existing four lane to six lane. In the event the road works are taken up and the airport expansion is cleared subsequently, it will amount to duplication of resources as the same highway will have to be dug up for construction of a subway underneath the runway. The subway construction was accorded clearance by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) after completion of a ground study by technical experts. The subway is necessitated to take up the runway extension which bisects the existing Mysuru-Nanjangud highway, diverting which will be prohibitive and unfeasible in terms of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-land-acquisition-hits-airport-expansion/article36040803.ece
22 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mayoral polls: JD(S) again in demand||The Congress as well as the BJP have begun wooing JD(S) ahead of the August 25 mid-term polls to the post of Mayor of Mysuru. Though Congress and JD(S) have an understanding in the hung Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to share power, the BJP has resumed its efforts to secure the support of JD(S) in an effort to install the party’s first Mayor of the city. The BJP has 22 members while Congress has 19 and JD(S) 17 in the MCC, whose strength has been reduced to 64 after the disqualification of former Mayor Rukmini Made Gowda from the Council. There are five independents and one BSP member also in the MCC. Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru district, called on JD(S) leader S.R. Mahesh at the latter’s office late Friday and sought the party’s support in the polls. Mr .Mahesh, however, said he will have to consult the party leadership before any decision can be taken. He said he will also hold a discussion with the party’s corporators. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working President R. Dhruvanarayan and Mysuru City Congress Committee President R. Murthy have both spoken to Mr. Mahesh and sought JD(S) support for their candidate. “As per the party leadership’s wishes, we have asked the JD(S) to support ourcandidate and we will support the election of JD (S) Mayor for the next two terms as per the already agreed understanding”, Mr. Murthy said. The JD(Shas not ruled out fielding its own candidate. Mr. Mahesh, however, expressed his disappointment with the Congress fielding Rajni Annaiah in the by-elections to MCC ward 36 scheduled to be held on September 3. It was Ms. Annaiah who had filed a petition against Ms. Rukmini Made Gowda for submitting a false assets affidavit, leading to her disqualification from the MCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayoral-polls-jds-again-in-demand/article36040810.ece
22 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Visitors to Mysuru palace are monitored by 125 cameras||Visitors to Mysuru palace are monitored by 125 network cameras from the time they enter the premises till they exit it and the footage is stored for almost six months. The smart surveillance system was installed about six years ago, replacing the CCTV system with the advanced Internet Protocol (IP) Surveillance, which is Internet-based. The feed from the cameras, some of which rotate 360 degrees, are monitored 24x7 at the control room by the police personnel from the Mysuru Palace Security. The palace, which is spread across 72 acres, is among the most visited tourist destinations in the country. Deputy Director of Mysuru Palace Board Subramanya told The Hindu the surveillance system is so designed that each visitor will be monitored by one or more cameras from the time they enter till they exit, covering the baggage check area, footwear counter, main building and museum. According to a statement by Axis Communication, which had installed the system, a holistic system was designed to enable perfect monitoring of the area and deployment of quick alarms for security breaches. The implementation covers every point of the property – from entry points to the parking areas with blind spots. The installation of network cameras has helped intelligent crowd management,, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/visitors-to-mysuru-palace-are-monitored-by-125-cameras/article36040800.ece
22 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pratap Simha criticised by Congress||The Congress has launched a broadside against Mysuru MP Pratap Simha for claiming credit for the ongoing Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway project. KPCC spokesperson M.A. Lakshman said here that it received approval when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister and there were records to prove it. Mr. Simha had on Wednesday stated that though the project was initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister Nitin Gadkari who is heading the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, others were projecting themselves as responsible for initiating it. He had also stated that the project cost of more than Rs. 8,000 crore was being entirely met by the Centre. Mr. Lakshman also chided Mr. Simha for projecting the expressway as a 10-lane highway and said that the main carriage way was a six-lane road. The Congress spokesperson dubbed the Mysuru MP as a ‘liar’. The BJP also came under flak for Jan Ashirwad Yatra and said it will be held responsible for the third wave of the pandemic. “The second wave was triggered by the Kumbha Mela and this political yatra will trigger the third wave’’, claimed Mr. Lakshman. On the increase in representation to the OBCs after the recent Cabinet reshuffle, Mr. Lakshman said a majority have been allotted only the ministry of states while 15 important portfolios were held by a community constituting less than 2 per cent of the country’s population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratap-simha-criticised-by-congress/article36040806.ece
22 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir gears up for reopening of Classes IX, X tomorrow||R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner has said that officers of concerned departments have been asked to ensure that all necessary precautions were taken to maintain the cleanliness on school premises and safety of the students of Class 9 and 10, that will commence from August 23, as per guidelines issued by State government. Speaking to The Hindu, Dr. Ragapriya said that classrooms, toilets and playgrounds in each school should be sanitized before with help from local bodies. “A preliminary meeting with government-aided and unaided school authorities was held to discuss precautionary measures that must be initiated to protect the health of every student coming to school from August 23,” she added. 242 high schools Yadgir district has total 242 high schools with 39,800 students in Classes 9 and 10. Children will be put in groups of 15-20 and will have to maintain social distancing, the DC said. A total of five classes of 40 minutes duration from 10 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. from Monday to Friday and four classes from 10 a.m. to 12.50 p.m on Saturday will be conducted. Lunch and water Dr. Ragapriya specifically said that students should bring lunch and potable drinking water from home. If they need more water, school authorities should supply hot water. Teachers must be compulsorily vaccinated. If any student shows symptoms of fever, school authorities should immediately inform the Health Department and take further action, she added. Each school should have a separate teacher to inspect the temperature of every student with a thermal scanner as strictly directed by the government in the SOP, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-gears-up-for-reopening-of-classes-ix-x-tomorrow/article36040689.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Livelihood crisis||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/livelihood-crisis/article36040809.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bonded||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bonded/article36040485.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kengeri metro line to be opened on August 29||It will take commuters 55 minutes to travel from Kengeri (located in the western part of the city) to Baiyappanahalli (in the eastern part). With this, the total length of the operational Purple Line will be 25.5 km. The 7.53-km metro line has six stations: Nayanadahalli, R.R. Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal, and Kengeri. BMRCL had estimated that once operational, it will benefit 75,000 people every day. Commuters from Mysuru side have the option of getting down at Kengeri and taking the metro to reach Majestic, or travel towards Tumakuru Road and Kanankpura Road by changing the train at Majestic intersection. Linking halt stations BMRCL has plans to create a multi-modal hub at Jnanabharathi by linking railway halt stations. Plans include building a foot-over-bridge (FoB) to link the railway station. At the Kengeri bus terminal, an FoB will be constructed to help pedestrians cross the busy road by providing a link to both metro and TTMC of BMTC. This is the second line that will be opened for commercial operations under Phase II of Namma Metro. In January, BMRCL launched operations on the extended Green Line from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute on Kanakapura Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kengeri-metro-line-to-be-opened-on-august-29/article36040487.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All ears||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-ears/article36040502.ece
22 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priest falls to death from hillock in Anantapur district||The priest of Gampamallayya Swamy temple in Anandaraopeta village of Singanamala mandal of the district, known for his daredevilry, died on Saturday, when he slipped from the top of the temple. Appa Papayya, 49, climbs near-vertical rock cliffs stepping on oil-soaked edges four times every year on Saturdays during Sravana Masam as part of a ritual to appease the Lord Gampamallayya and perform the puja in the temple on top of the hillock. A large number of people gather on the top to watch the feat. He is survived by two sons. Ironically his grandfather too died in a similar fashion, while performing the ritual, said the Singanamala police. The police have asked people not to gather around the temple as it was dangerous for them also. Papayya and temple committee chairman Narasaih had issued a statement last week asking people not to come to the hillock in view of the threat of COVID third wave, a police official said. On Saturday, the priest was performing the ritual on the top of the hillock and tried to climb down the slope, when he slipped into the valley and fell close to 100 feet resulting in his instantaneous death. He hit several rock edges while tumbling down. The police and revenue officials have been instructed not to allow people to gather there. The ritual will not be conducted during the next two Saturdays of Sravana Masam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priest-falls-to-death-from-hillock-in-anantapur-district/article36040843.ece
22 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priest falls to death from hillock in Anantapur district||The priest of Gampamallayya Swamy temple in Anandaraopeta village of Singanamala mandal of the district, known for his daredevilry, died on Saturday, when he slipped from the top of the temple. Appa Papayya, 49, climbs near-vertical rock cliffs stepping on oil-soaked edges four times every year on Saturdays during Sravana Masam as part of a ritual to appease the Lord Gampamallayya and perform the puja in the temple on top of the hillock. A large number of people gather on the top to watch the feat. He is survived by two sons. Ironically his grandfather too died in a similar fashion, while performing the ritual, said the Singanamala police. The police have asked people not to gather around the temple as it was dangerous for them also. Papayya and temple committee chairman Narasaih had issued a statement last week asking people not to come to the hillock in view of the threat of COVID third wave, a police official said. On Saturday, the priest was performing the ritual on the top of the hillock and tried to climb down the slope, when he slipped into the valley and fell close to 100 feet resulting in his instantaneous death. He hit several rock edges while tumbling down. The police and revenue officials have been instructed not to allow people to gather there. The ritual will not be conducted during the next two Saturdays of Sravana Masam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priest-falls-to-death-from-hillock-in-andhra-pradesh/article36040175.ece
22 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siva Reddy is new Anantapur DPO||Anantapur District Panchayat Officer B. Parvathi, against whom a criminal case was filed by the Nandyal Divisional Panchayat Officer, has been replaced by T. Siva Reddy. The new District Panchayat Officer (FAC) assumed office on Saturday evening according to the Anantapur Additional Director of Information and Public Relations. Mr. Siva Reddy was working as the Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) at Kambadur and had earlier worked as the Divisional Panchayat Officer at Kalyandurg. Anantapur district currently does not have Divisional Panchayat Officer for Anantapur as the officer died recently. Ms. Parvathi, currently facing criminal charges, was holding the post of Dharmavaram Divisional P.O. and later given full additional charge (FAC) as Anantapur DPO. Ms. Parvathi has meanwhile, filed a plea in the A.P. High Court seeking anticipatory bail in the case being pursued by the Banaganapalli Police, who had come to arrest her on August 8. She had gone on casual leave till August 17 and now Mr. Siva Reddy has been posted in her place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siva-reddy-is-new-anantapur-dpo/article36040206.ece
22 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CUAP invites applications||Anantapur-based Central University of Andhra Pradesh (CUAP) has invited online applications for CUCET-2021 - an entrance examination for admission into the undergraduate programmes in Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Political Science, B.Sc. (Hons) Economics, Bachelor of Vocational Course in Tourism and Travel Management, B. Voc. Retail Management and IT. The online application process will close on September 2 and entrance examinations will be held on September 15, 16, 23 and 24. The university will also offer Post Graduate programmes. The entrance examination will be a computer-based objective test with multiple-choice questions. Applications can only be sent online. For more details, students can visit http://cucet.nta.nic.in or call helpline: 8367621527.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cuap-invites-applications/article36040196.ece
22 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC notice to Karnataka on plea against IAS officer||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a petition complaining that an IAS officer, who himself was arraigned as a co-accused in a corruption case, has stalled the investigation by denying permission to probe the case against the main accused. Justice K. Natarajan passed the order on the petition filed by one H.M. Girish of Ramanagaram questioning the legality of July 17, 2021, communication of IAS officer Mohammed Ikramulla Shariff, who is serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Ramanagaram ZP. Denied permission The CEO had denied permission under Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to conduct a probe against Doddalinge Gowda, a Panchayat Development Officer of Kalliganahalli Gram Panchayat, on the charges of embezzlement of lakhs of rupees by issuing self cheques. It has been pointed in the petition that he first filed a complaint against the PDO before the CEO but as no action was taken he filed a complaint before the ACB. As the ACB too did not act, the petitioner, in December 2020, filed a private complaint before Ramanagaram district court, which directed the ACB to probe allegations of corruptions against both the PDO and the CEO, and submit a report. After registration of FIR, the petitioner claimed, the CEO in a hurried manner conducted a departmental inquiry against the PDO and took action of deducting two increments from salary after inquiry found he was guilty. Also, the CEO, despite the district court’s order, denied sanction for the ACB to conduct probe against the PDO saying action was already taken and no investigation by the ACB was needed. However, the petitioner questioned legality of the ACB’s action of seeking permission from the CEO as well as the denial of permission by the CEO, when he himself is an accused in the same case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-notice-to-karnataka-on-plea-against-ias-officer/article36040177.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools for Classes 9-12, colleges to reopen from Sept. 1 in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a number of relaxations from the COVID-19 lockdown as cases continue to decline. According to the new guidelines, schools for Classes 9-12 and all colleges, including polytechnics, will be allowed to function from September 1 in shifts. The government is also considering reopening kindergarten and schools for Classes 1-8 after September 15, based on implementation of COVID-19 safety norms for senior classes and after consultations with experts. For senior classes that are allowed to reopen, the noon-meal scheme will be operational, the government said. The government has mandated that the entire staff be vaccinated. The government also announced that cinema theatres would be allowed to function from August 23 with 50% capacity. Beaches would be open to members of the public, and zoos, parks and boat-houses would be allowed to operate. Corporation officials and the Collectors were tasked with ensuring that shop-owners, staff members and small traders on the beaches were vaccinated. Swimming pools are also allowed to function for sports training with 50% capacity. The government also extended timings for shops to operate from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. from August 23. IT and ITeS companies are also allowed to function with 100% staffing in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol and safety measures, the government said. Anganwadi centres are also allowed to open for providing mid-day meals from September 1 and creches have been allowed to operate with the staff vaccinated. Bars and pubs and star hotels with bars (FL-2 and FL3 licensees) will be allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-for-classes-9-12-to-reopen-from-sept-1-in-tn/article36040488.ece
22 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||7-member T.N. gang held, 10 bikes seized||The police on Saturday arrested a seven-member gang from Tamil Nadu allegedly involved in several cases of two-wheeler thefts under Chittoor Urban, Rural and Pakala police circle limits during the last six months, and seized 10 motorcycles from them in multiple raids. Addressing a press conference here, Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that three special parties were formed to investigate a series of vehicle thefts in the district. After a thorough probe, the special teams nabbed seven accused and seized 10 motorcycles at different locations in Chittoor police division. Mr. Reddy said the inter-State gang used to steal motorcycles parked at isolated places or in front of houses during the night and dispose them of to gullible customers at throwaway prices. The accused, from Vellore district of Tamil Nadu, have been identified as V. Maniganda, Dhamoradaram, Mohammad, Vedhachalam, Nishant Kumar, S. Manigandan and Rathnaiah, all aged between 19 and 26 years. They were produced before the local court and were remanded in custody. One held in housebreak incident In another incident, the Chittoor One-Town police on Saturday arrested a 21-year-old youth, Syed Hameed, of Lalu Gardens locality in Chittoor town in a housebreak incident at CB Road locality last week. The police seized acash of an amount of Rs. 45,000 from him, and the accused was sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-member-tn-gang-held-10-bikes-seized/article36040200.ece
22 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 100 taken ill after wedding dinner||More than a hundred guests, who attended a marriage at Bandlapaigramam village of Nimmanapalle mandal of Madanapalle division, were taken ill after taking dinner on Friday night. According to information, the guests showed signs of dizziness and vomiting. From midnight till the early hours of Saturday, batches of the guests were rushed to the government area hospital at Madanapalle and the primary health centre at Nimmanapalle and other private hospitals in autorikshaws, ambulances and two-wheelers. While a majority of them were treated as outpatients, a few of them were admitted in hospitals and were discharged by Saturday evening. Doctors at Madanapalle hospital said that consumption of stale food could be the reason behind the illness among the guests. The residents and medical officials as well heaved a sigh of relief as the condition of all the guests was safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-100-taken-ill-after-wedding-dinner/article36040198.ece
22 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth held in hundi theft cases||The police on Saturday nabbed two youth, allegedly involved in a series of hundi theft cases in Chittoor district, and formed a search party to track down the third suspect. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that following the looting of a hundi at a local temple in Tavanampalle mandal on August 16, a special team was formed to investigate the case. The Chittoor rural west police nabbed two youth, identified as Vadde Amarnath (21) and Krishnapuram Bharat (23) of Bangarupalem mandal, while they were moving suspiciously at Varigapalle on the outskirts of Chittoor. The police team seized Rs. 30,050 and two mobile phones from the duo. The gang was also allegedly involved in the theft of a temple hundi at Keelapatla village of Gangavaram mandal on July 26. The accused were sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-held-in-hundi-theft-cases/article36040202.ece
22 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Depressed’ over wife’s death, man ‘ends life’||Reportedly unable to bear the loss of his wife, who died due to COVID three months ago, a 40-year-old man in Punganur on Saturday allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his residence. Ever since the death of his wife, Ayyappa reportedly chose to be alone and used to stay indoors mostly. Informing the relatives, the police shifted the body to area hospital for autopsy and registered a case. Helpline Those battling suicidal thoughts can dial 100 for guidance and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/depressed-over-wifes-death-man-ends-life/article36040203.ece
22 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes Chittoor||Heavy rain lashed some of the western mandals in Chittoor district on Saturday. While Tavanampalle, Chittoor, Bangarupalem and Puthalapattu mandals witnessed a sudden downpour, the surrounding mandals experienced heavy drizzle. Yerravaripalem and Kuppam mandals experienced rain for a while. As per latest reports, 37 mandals in the district received excess rain this year, followed by 24 mandals with normal and five mandals with deficient rain. There was no reports of scanty rain in any mandal. Agriculture officials said the spell of rains were beneficial to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-chittoor/article36040201.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana bans use of glue traps for rodent control||Telangana government has banned manufacture, sale and use of glue traps to kill rodents, a method that went against the spirit of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. In a recent memo, Director of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Anita Rajendra noted that the use of glue traps would inflict unnecessary pain and suffering on rodents. There were many other humane methods available to control rodent population which could be explored. The memo called for special drives by police to seize glue traps from manufacturers and traders. Meanwhile, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA)-India has welcomed Telangana government’s directions to curb the use of glue traps to trap rodents. Progressive action “The manufacturers and sellers of glue traps sentence small animals to hideously slow and painful deaths and can turn buyers into lawbreakers,” a PETA-India media release quoted PETA-India Advocacy Associate Pradeep Ranjan Doley Barman as saying. “PETA-India commends Telangana State for its progressive action, which sets a precedent for the entire country and will protect countless lives,” the release added. It stated that the best way to control rodent population is by making areas unattractive or inaccessible to them. Food sources should be eliminated and surfaces, such as floors, should be kept clean, and edible items should be stored in chew-proof containers. Ammonia-soaked cotton balls can also repel rodents. The organisation suggested the use of cage traps, and advised that once caught, the rodents should be released within 100 yards of where they were found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-bans-use-of-glue-traps-for-rodent-control/article36040180.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former A.P. Minister’s son questioned||Three days after a live round was found in his baggage during the security check at Hyderabad airport, Andhra Pradesh’s former minister late Paritala Ravindra’s son Sidhartha was summoned by the Cyberabad police for questioning. Though Sidhartha is a licensed firearm holder, the bullet found in his bag did not match with his licensed weapon. Mis-match “While he has a licence for .32 MM pistol, 5.56 MM INSAS rifle round (which is generally issued to the armed forces) was found in his bag. Both are mismatched,” a senior police officer said. A case under Arms Act was registered against the former minister’s son. When questioned Mr. Sidhartha, reportedly told Shamshabad ACP V Bhaskar that he was not aware of how a 5.56 MM INSAS rifle bullet ended up in his bag. “He was called to clarify some doubts in the investigation. A notice under Section 41 (A) of CrPC was served to him in which we asked the accused to get back to us within six days,” the officer said. Srinagar trip Mr. Sidhartha along with his family members was going to Srinagar for trekking when he was stopped by the sleuths of the Central Industrial Security Force at the airport after the bullet was found in his baggage.  While he has a licence for .32 MM pistol, 5.56 MM INSAS rifle round was found in his bag. Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-ap-ministers-son-questioned/article36040169.ece
22 August 2021||KAKIANDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 engineers suspended for ‘poor quality’ in Nadu-Nedu works||Three engineers of the Panchayat Raj Department have been suspended for “poor construction standards and for using substandard materials” in the works pertaining to the Z.P. High School at P. Gannavaram in East Godavari district. On August 11, officials of the Chief Minister’s Office had inspected the works under progress at the school, which were undertaken under the government’s flagship programme, ‘Mana Badi – Nadu Nedu’. The officials had identified a few irregularities in the construction and violation of guidelines. The issues raised were, however, addressed prior to the Chief Minister’s visit to the school on August 16. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said that the suspended officers were Executive Engineer (Amalapuram) K. Chantibabu, Assistant Executive Engineer (P. Gannavaram) K. Anand Babu, and Deputy Executive Engineer (P. Gannavaram) V. Chandra Sekhar. “We cannot afford to compromise on quality in the Nadu-Nedu works. The Chief Minister has launched the second phase of the programme in the district. We will monitor every minute work to ensure quality,” Mr. Hari Kiran said, and appealed to the engineering officials to meet the expectations in the quality of works being undertaken under the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-engineers-suspended-for-poor-quality-in-nadu-nedu-works/article36040823.ece
22 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Honeymoon’ in guest house: JNTU-K constitutes five-member probe panel||Authorities of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada (JNTU-K) on Saturday constituted a five-member committee to inquire into the issue of using the university’s guest house by a couple for ‘honeymoon’ purpose for two days. According to university Registrar R. Srinivasa Rao, the Director of the JNTU-K Women Empowerment Cell, A. Swarna Kumari, had obtained permission for using the accommodation in the university guest house for two days from August 18. However, a couple had allegedly celebrated their honeymoon in the same rooms allotted to Ms. Swarna Kumari on the allotted days. In a video that had gone viral on August 20 and which shocked the university fraternity and students, the room in the guest house was seen decorated with flowers. A preliminary inquiry conducted by the university authorities had established that the family members and friends of the couple had stayed in the two or more rooms in the same guest house without any official permission. Prof. Srinivasa Rao said that he had inspected the guest house on Saturday and inquired with the staff about the incident. “The five-member committee is headed by JNTU-K Rector G.V.R. Prasada Raju. It is tasked with submitting a report within two days. We will submit an action taken report on the issue to the A.P. State Council of Higher Education next week,” Prof. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu . Meanwhile, Chairperson of the A.P. State Commission for Women Vasireddy Padma had condemned the act of using the university guest house for such purposes. “The Commission has heard about the issue through the media. We will seek details of how permission has been granted to provide accommodation in the university guest house for non-academic purposes,” Ms. Padma said. “It is understood that the permission is against the guidelines. The APSCHE will be asked to submit a detailed report for further action,” Ms. Padma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honeymoon-in-guest-house-jntu-k-constitutes-five-member-probe-panel/article36040820.ece
22 August 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala scales down Onam celebrations||The Thrikkakara temple, seat of the Onam legend in Kerala, saw subdued Thiruvonam celebrations as COVID-19 fears and warnings by the health authorities kept people away from the massive celebrations that were usually seen in the pre-pandemic days. The most significant among the ceremonies skipped on Thiruvonam day was the cancellation of the votive lunch in which about 50,000 people usually participated. The entire festival lunch, the ‘Onam Sadya’, was cancelled, temple authorities said. Only one elephant Programme convenor K. T. Rajappan said the temple ceremonies began at 4 a. m.. The ceremonial reception to King Mahabali was held at about 7 a.m., which was followed by the “Sheeveli” ritual up to noon. Temple authorities had been given permission to use just one elephant for the festivities, instead of nine or even 11 elephants seen in the pre-pandemic days. A concert of devotional songs, along with a performance of the Thiruvathira dance, was planned for the evening, temple authorities said. Restrictions notwithstanding, Onam was celebrated with religious fervour at Sabarimala on Saturday. The temple’s chief priest ( thantri ) Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu led the performance of various special puja s marking the auspicious day. The sumptuous onasadya (feast) for devotees began with the thantri serving the dishes in a banana leaf to the presiding deity after the utchapuja . Only people with negative RT-PCR tests taken within the previous 48 hours, or having completed two shots of COVID-19 vaccination, were permitted entry to the temple. The temple will be closed after Onam celebrations on August 23, and will reopen for monthly puja s on September 16. In Aranmula, the Thiruvonathoni carrying provisions for the Onam feast reached the Sree Parthasarathy temple in the morning. Led by M.R. Raveendra Babu Bhattathiri, the eldest member of the Mangattu Illam in Kumaranallur, the vessel had begun its journey from Kattoor by 6.30 p.m.. In its 10-hour long voyage, the Thiruvonathoni was also accompanied by three ‘Palliyodam’s, each carrying 40 persons on board. On their arrival at Aranmula, they were accorded a grand reception. Festivities at the temple began with Mr. Bhattathiri handing over the light to the eternal lamp at the temple. This followed preparations of the feast at the temple kitchen for serving devotees at the temple dining hall. In view of COVID-19 regulations, the number of people attending the procession and rituals at Aranmula was strictly regulated. Meanwhile, Kerala reported a dip in cases with 17,106 new cases of COVID-19 logged on Saturday, when 96,481 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The Onam holiday and festivities affected testing and the dip in the number of samples tested saw test positivity rate rise from 16.94% to 17.73% on Saturday.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-celebrates-a-subdued-onam/article36040171.ece
22 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajahmundry man scales Mount Elbrus||Thirty-three-year-old Achanta Umesh from the city has scaled Mount Elbrus, the highest peak in Europe, on August 15. Mr. Umesh told reporters here on Saturday that he had waved the national flag on the mountain as a mark of achievement by an Indian mountaineer. The height of Mount Elbrus in Russia is 5,642 metres. “The adventure of scaling Europe’s highest peak has been attempted to spread the message for those battling with various cancers. I dedicate my adventure to them and want them to be brave and fight the malady. I cherish to be part of creating awareness on the early detection of cancer,” he said. Mr. Umesh was guided by Chatur Tamang and groomed in mountaineering by coach Sekhar Babu, an Arjuna awardee. In March, Mr. Umesh scaled the Uhuru peak, the highest point of Mt. Kilimanjaro in the African continent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajahmundry-man-scales-mount-elbrus/article36040822.ece
22 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged not to reduce seats in IIIT-Etcherla||TDP senior leader Kalisetti Appalanaidu on Saturday urged the State government not to reduce the seats in IIIT-Etcherla in the district. In a press release, he said circulation of news that the government might reduce 500 seats out of the 1,000 in the current academic year had become a cause of concern for the students aspiring to join the institution. He said more than 1,000 seats were required on the campus. Mr. Appala Naidu said that there was a huge demand for the IIIT seats as all the students passed the Class X this year with the government promoting them due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-not-to-reduce-seats-in-iiit-etcherla/article36040836.ece
22 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor Chitra passes away in Chennai||Actress Chitra, who played memorable roles in some iconic Malayalam films, died in Chennai on Saturday. She was 56. She had begun her career in tinseltown as a child artiste in Tamil films. But it was through Malayalam films that she attained popularity. After debuting as an adult in a minor role in Hariharan’s Valaruthumrugangal in 1981, she gained recognition with Aattakalasham , in which she was featured in the popular song Naanamaavunoo meni novunno … along with Mohanlal.  In Tamil, her notable films include En Thangachi Padichava, Oorkkavalan and Thirippu Munai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-chitra-passes-away-in-chennai/article36040186.ece
22 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plaint against Saseendran likely to be dismissed||The Kerala police are likely to dismiss the complaint that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran had attempted to shield a top party aide from prosecution in an alleged sexual assault case. The government pleader has reportedly told the police that Mr. Saseendran's “advice” to the father of the alleged victim to “settle the case in the proper way” did not tantamount to coercion. A preliminary investigation had purportedly revealed no cognisable offence, an official said. The scandal had put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government on the backfoot in July after a voice clip of the purported conversation between the Minister and the victim’s father, an NCP leader in Kollam, emerged in the public domain. The audio recording attributed to Mr. Saseendran did not reveal the name of the victim or the particulars of the alleged incident, the official pointed out. The United Democratic Front had raised the issue in the Assembly. Mr. Saseendran had defended his action by stating that at no point he attempted to undermine the woman’s complaint or persuade her to retract her petition. Mr. Saseendran said he reckoned he was settling an intra-party dispute between two local leaders of the NCP in Kollam. However, the “victim’s” father had accused Mr. Saseendran of doublespeak. He stated his daughter was a BJP leader. However, her grievance was genuine. The NCP had rallied behind Mr. Saseendran. The party said it saw a conspiracy to unsettle the LDF. It also suspended an array of leaders in Kollam for their alleged role in the scandal. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala slammed the government for misinterpreting the law to insulate Mr. Saseendran from prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plaint-against-saseendran-likely-to-be-dismissed/article36040184.ece
22 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||All Vedic schools will be brought under single roof: TTD Addl. EO||Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy emphasized the need to bring all the Vedapatasalas in the country under the umbrella of TTD Sri Venkateswara Vedic University(SVVU). The main intention behind the concept is to preserve the Vedic knowledge for the benefit of the posterity. As a first step in the direction, all Vedapatasalas under the TTD’s fold will be affiliated to SVVU. Already, patasalas in Vizianagaram and Kotappakonda have been brought under its purview and it is only a matter of time before others are also brought under its orbit, he said. At a review meeting on Saturday, he directed principals of patasalas and the newly-formed committees to evaluate common syllabus, examination pattern and issuance of certificates under the chairmanship of the Vice- Chancellor of SVVU. The student-teacher ratio should be maintained and vacancies filled, he added. Mr. Dharma Reddy also exhorted the authorities to ensure strict adherence to COVID protocols during the re-opening of the learning centres. Vice- Chancellor of SVVU Sannidhanam Sudarshan Sarma, Registrar Dr. K. Taraka Rama kumar Sarma, Principal Veda Vignana Peetam KSS Avadhani, SVIHS Project officer Dr. A. Vibhishana Sarma and principals of other patasalas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-vedic-schools-will-be-brought-under-single-roof-ttd-addl-eo/article36040208.ece
22 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Expert panel to improve educational standards’||The TTD is all set to constitute an expert panel to enhance the quality and learning standards at all the educational institutions under its fold. A decision to this effect was taken by TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Saturday at a review meeting. Mr. Jawahar Reddy emphasized the need for orientation on smart classes right from class I till graduation for achieving better results. Attempts should also be made for imparting proper training to the students as well as the pedantic staff. All the degree colleges, including the Oriental College and Sri Padmavati Mahila University, should focus on accomplishing at least 10 research UGC-related projects each besides improving required infrastructure facilities on their respective campuses. Efforts should also be made in reaching a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the agriculture, veterinary, horticulture and culinary colleges to brighten the job opportunities of the students. The colleges should think on the lines of introducing various diploma and certificate courses to achieve financial viability and also strive for the recognition by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expert-panel-to-improve-educational-standards/article36040204.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily positivity rate lower than 2% for the third time this week||The State witnessed 13 COVID-19 deaths and 1,217 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the toll to 13,715 and the cumulative tally to 20,01,255. During the period, 1,535 patients recovered, pushing the number of recoveries to 19,72,399. The recovery rate stood at 98.56%. The number of active cases now stand at 15,141. The daily positivity rate of 61,678 samples tested was 1.97%. It was lower than 2% for the third time this week. The overall positivity rate of the 2.60 crore samples tested so far was 7.69%. The last 10 lakh samples were tested in 15 days, and their positivity rate was 2.27%. Krishna district reported four deaths during the last 24 hours. It was followed by Guntur and Prakasam (three each) and Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam (one each). Seven districts reported no death during the period. Nellore reported 198 infections during the period. It was followed by East Godavari (182), Chittoor (171), Krishna (136), West Godavari (123), Prakasam (113), Guntur (101), Visakhapatnam (58), Vizianagaram (47), Srikakulam (33), Kadapa (23), Anantapur (17) and Kurnool (15). The tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,83,814), Chittoor (2,36,154), West Godavari (1,72,968), Guntur (1,71,353), Anantapur (1,56,907), Visakhapatnam (1,54,229), Nellore (1,38,734), Prakasam (1,32,506), Kurnool (1,23,672), Srikakulam (1,21,645), Krishna (1,12,443), Kadapa (1,11,896) and Vizianagaram (82,039).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-positivity-rate-lower-than-2-for-the-third-time-this-week/article36040815.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fight against listing of LIC on bourses, insurance staff told||All India Insurance Employees Association general secretary Srikanth Mishra stressed the need for insurance employees to fight collectively against the government’s decision of listing Life Insurance Corporation in the stock market. Mr. Mishra along with AIIEA president V. Ramesh, treasurer B.S. Ravi and others inaugurated the 12th General Conference of the South Central Zone Insurance Employees’ Federation (SCZIEF) here on Saturday. It is a two-day programme aimed at opposing Initial Public Offering of LIC, FDI hike in the insurance sector and privatisation of the public sector, in general. Mr. Mishra said the government, which was promoting ‘Atma Nirbhara Bharat’, had amended the General Insurance Business Nationalisation Act, 1972 to privatise general insurance companies and public sector companies such as LIC and Vizag Steel Plant. “We have to fight collectively against the disastrous policies of the government,” he said. MLC K.S. Lakshman Rao said it was only possible for people to get social and financial justice when the industries like insurance and banking were in the public sector. Only then would India achieve self-reliance. But the BJP government was only pursuing privatisation of the public sector. Such policies could destabilise the economy, he said and called upon the employees to fight and safeguard LIC which was the world’s best insurance company in claims settlement. SCZIEF vice-presidents P. Satish, S.K. Geetha and Md. Mehboob and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-against-listing-of-lic-on-bourses-insurance-staff-told/article36040858.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commemorating Alluri’s ‘Chilli Post’||On this day in 1922, the revolutionary freedom fighter, Alluri Sitarama Raju, had attacked the British police station at Chintapalli in Visakhapatnam Agency. The revolutionaries had a unique way of despatching messages to the British officials. They used to shoot an arrow, along with a bunch of chillies and a typed message. They had coined it ‘Mirapakaaya Tapa’, or ‘Chilli Post’, which had created a scare among the British. To mark the “centenary of the Chilli Post,” the Department of Posts is gearing up to release special covers on the series of attacks Sitarama Raju had carried out on the police stations. The special covers, which lucidly explain the attacks, will be released at Chintapalli on Sunday. The first attack “After carrying out his first attack on the Chintapalli police station, Sitarama Raju had targeted the police station at Krishnadevipeta on August 23,1922. He had collected a few arms and ammunition without much resistance from the policemen present there,” says Mutyala Venkateswarlu, Post Master General, Visakhapatnam Region, who has developed the content for the special covers. “Handerson, the then District Magistrate, had submitted a report on the incidents to the Chief Secretary, wherein he said that the attacks were mainly aimed at taking away the arms and ammunition, and not to plunder,” Mr. Venkateswarlu says. Handerson had further said that “though there is a linkage with the civil disobedience movement, the main reason for the revolt is yet to be known.” ‘Rampa Revolution’ The attack on the Chintapalli police station had led to the ‘Rampa Revolution’ against the British rule that continued for almost two years, says Mr. Venkateswarlu. The final war that had started on May 1, 1924, lasted six days until Sitarama Raju was captured by the British. Kondapalli village, near Addatigala in East Godavari district, was the war zone in which Sitarama Raju had lost nearly 20 of his followers. After his capture, the remaining followers, numbering about 30, were charged with treason and deported to the Cellular Jail in the Andamans, where they remained till attainment of Independence in 1947. Later, most of them had settled in the Andamans. The British later shot dead Sitarama Raju, who was then 27 years old. “Sitarama Raju had became one of India’s youngest martyrs,” says Mr. Venkateswarlu. Araku Member of Parliament G. Madhavi and Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi would attend the function as chief guest and special guest respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commemorating-alluris-chilli-post/article36040825.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trough triggers heavy rain in many parts of State||Heavy rain lashed several areas in Krishna, Guntur and other districts on Saturday due to a trough running from the cyclonic circulation over the State. Cloudbursts occurred in Vijayawada and surrounding areas in Krishna district for about two hours from 8 a.m. Several roads in the city remained waterlogged for long time in the morning following the cloudburst. According to the AP State Development Planning Society, Nagayalanka in Krishna recorded 146.7 mm rainfall by 6 p.m. on Saturday. It was the highest rainfall recorded in the State. Ganapavaram in West Godavari recovered 98 mm rainfall, while Repalle in Guntur recorded 85.5 mm. Chittoor's Baireddypalle also witnessed about 85 mm rainfall, while Golugonda in Visakhapatnam received 60.6 mm rainfall. Vijayawada city and surrounding areas like Nunna, witnessed about 60 mm rainfall. Isolated areas in other districts also witnessed moderate to heavy rainfall. According to the India Meteorological Department's forecast, moderate to heavy rainfall is very likely in many parts of the coastal districts during the next four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trough-triggers-heavy-rain-in-many-parts-of-state/article36040817.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jasti Chelameswar releases book on works of Koteswara Rao||Former Judge of the Supreme Court Jasti Chelameswar released a book titled ‘Sahiti Tapasvi Polavarapu Koteswara Rao Sahitya Sarvaswam’ at a programme organised by the Lok Nayak Foundation here on Saturday. Paying tributes to Koteswara Rao on the occasion, Mr. Chelameswar said he had made valuable contributions to the field of Telugu literature and that his works reflected the richness of the culture that was prevalent in villages and was existent to a large extent even today. Koteswara Rao excelled in all forms of literature and he was a role model for aspiring writers, Mr. Chelameswar said, suggesting that efforts should be made to pass on his works to posterity. Andhra Pradesh High Court Judge Justice A.V. Sesha Sai, Koteswara Rao’s son Jayadev, Lok Nayak Foundation chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad and noted writers Golla Narayana Rao, Gumma Sambasiva Rao and Venna Vallabha Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jasti-chelameswar-releases-book-on-works-of-koteswara-rao/article36040863.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to create ecosystem for research in education sector||Creating an ecosystem for research in the education sector is important, said Vice-Chancellor of the Hyderabad-based Anurag University U.B. Desai, on Saturday. Delivering a keynote address on “India’s Ascent to 5G”, organised to mark the third edition of Research Day observed by SRM University-AP, Prof. Desai said the significance of research had been increasingly realised in the last decade and it reflected in the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 but there was a long way to go. Digital future. Speaking about the evolution witnessed by the communications sector every 10 years, he elaborated on the 10 technological trends namely Artificial Intelligence, Autonomous Networks, Cyber Security, Distributed Ledgers, Dynamic Data, Extended Reality, Internet of Things, Quantum Computing and Autonomous Systems, along with three software trends of Softwarization, Cloudification and Virtualisation, which, he said would shape the digital future. Pro Vice-Chancellor of the university D. Narayana Rao said educational institutions should think beyond classroom and infuse the right thought process and inquisitiveness among students. He said universities should encourage research and also collaborate with the industry to design innovative courses. Vice-Chancellor V. Sambasiva Rao highlighted the university achievements in the last 30 months. Associate dean (Engineering) T. Raghunathan, deputy dean Bandi Kamaiah and B. Siva Kumar were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-create-ecosystem-for-research-in-education-sector/article36040864.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable suspended for ‘misbehaving’ with girl||A police constable, Ramesh, attached to Kothapet police station in Guntur Urban district, was suspended for allegedly misbehaving with a 15-year-old girl. The constable, who was known to the girl, reportedly called the victim into his house, located at A.T. Agraharam and allegedly behaved inappropriately with her. Following a complaint, Superintendent of Police (SP) Arif Hafeez ordered an inquiry. Based on the inquiry report, the constable was suspended on Saturday, said Guntur range in-charge DIG S.V. Rajashekhar Babu. Arrested In another case, the Guntur Rural police arrested a person, Labanu, who allegedly sexually assaulted a minor girl under Rajupalem police station limits. The accused, who was a distant relative of the victim, took her into his house and allegedly committed the crime, said SP Vishal Gunni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-girl/article36040813.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hypermarket fined Rs. 10,000 for allowing customers without masks||Public health officials of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation imposed and collected on the spot a fine of Rs. 10,000 on Spencer's hypermarket in the city on Saturday. Acting on a complaint, VMC officials inspected the mart and found that customers were not wearing masks as mandated by the government as a COVID safety measure. According to a release, a team comprising Assistant Medical Officer of Health Sridevi and Sanitation Inspectors Salim Ahmed and GSK Rayala inspected the mart. They also found expired items put on the racks. Notices were served on the management and a fine of Rs. 10,000 was imposed. VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that ‘No Mask-No Entry’ rule should be strictly followed by organisers of all shops and establishments in the city. He said three mobile teams were constituted to spot and fine people not wearing masks at public places of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hypermarket-fined-rs-10000-for-allowing-customers-without-masks/article36040859.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Diagnostics centre opened||The second branch of Hyderabad-based Infinity Diagnostics was inaugurated at Tikkle Road in the city on Saturday. Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, MLA Malladi Vishnu, YSRCP east constituency in-charge D. Avinash and NRI Academy of Sciences secretary Narsaraju Mantena were present. In a release, Infinity Diagnostics managing director K. Indira Raju said the centre offered modern diagnostics such as CT scan, ultrasound and others apart from laboratory tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/diagnostics-centre-opened/article36040860.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.S. varsities to participate in virtual education fair||More than 100 U.S. universities will participate in Virtual Education Fair, scheduled to be held on August 27 and September 3. These university fairs proposed to be held remotely aims at providing an online platform for students and their parents to interact with accredited U.S. universities and colleges. There is no registration or participation fee for the participants. For students seeking Master’s or Ph.D. programmes in the United States, the Graduate Virtual Fair 2021 will be held on August 27 from 5.30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. (IST) and the registration link is https://bit.ly/EdUSAFair21EmbWeb. For high school students seeking to pursue Bachelor’s programmes in the United States, Undergraduate Virtual Fair 2021 will be on September 3 from 5.30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. (IST) and the registration link is https://bit.ly/ UGEdUSAFair21EmbWeb. The participating higher education institutions represent a wide geographic area in the U.S. and offer a range of programmes at the undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral levels. The participants can learn about various programmes and admission criteria, said a release on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/us-varsities-to-participate-in-virtual-education-fair/article36040826.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspects picked up in industrialist’s murder case||The police reportedly picked up a few suspects in industrialist Karanam Rahul’s death case. It is suspected that more than five persons are involved in the alleged murder. Rahul, who was running a group of industries, was found dead in his car that was parked on the roadside, on August 18. The police are observing the CCTV footages and the mobile call data of the suspects. Rahul was married in 2018, and the couple was staying on the outskirts of Vijayawada. He started Zixin Cylinders Private Limited in G. Konduru mandal in Krishna district, with a partner, in 2016. Special teams formed However his business partner, whose role is being suspected in Rahul’s murder, allegedly pressured him to return his share. The suspect along with a few others allegedly insisted that Rahul sell his company. Special teams had been constituted to nab the accused, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspects-picked-up-in-industrialists-murder-case/article36040855.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman found dead||A woman, Ch. Sindhu (22), died under suspicious circumstances in her room under Machavaram police station limits in the city. Her body was found hanging from the ceiling fan on Saturday. Case registered Her family members expressed doubts on the death. Police shifted the body to Government General Hospital (GGH) for postmortem. A case has been registered and investigation is on. Persons in distress can dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-dead/article36040856.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited||Applications are invited from headmasters and school assistants to work on deputation in the State Samagra Shiksha office. A statement released by the Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi said interested headmasters and school assistants from high schools could submit applications either to the District Education Officer or the Regional Joint Director of the Education Department by Aug. 31. A detailed information is available on the website https://cse.ap.gov.in/DSENEW||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited/article36040865.ece
22 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan extends Raksha Bandhan greetings||While conveying Raksha Bandhan greetings to the people, Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan said it was an occasion to instil courage among women. He was referring to the recent attacks on women in Guntur and Vizianagaram districts. “The murder of Ramya in Guntur and the attempt to murder Ramulamma in Vizianagaram are heart-rending. The atrocities against women should be stopped. Then only can Raksha Bandhan be celebrated in true spirit,” Mr. Kalyan stated in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-extends-raksha-bandhan-greetings/article36040861.ece
22 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for posting obscene photos of student||The Cyber Crime police on Saturday arrested two persons, Rohit Kumar (23) of Bihar and D. Ganesh (21) of Vijayawada, who allegedly posted objectionable photos and videos of a student in social media groups. According to the police, Rohit befriended a degree student. They visited several places and the accused allegedly took the obscene photographs and videos of the girl. After snapping relations with her, Rohit with the help of Ganesh, allegedly shared the photos and videos of the girl among his friends. Following a complaint, the cyber crime police seized their mobile phones and a laptop from them. They were produced in the court, which remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-posting-obscene-photos-of-student/article36040869.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRDO, Nasscom to support AU in taking up research activities||In tune with the new National Education Policy (NEP)- 2021, Andhra University is teaming up the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) and the National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom), to take forward its research endeavours. The DRDO has already agreed to support the AU in its effort for supporting and mentoring its food research and testing laboratory. DRDO Chairman G. Sateesh Reddy, during his visit to AU on Friday, agreed in principle to support the food research and testing facility, that is coming up in AU under RUSA (Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan) phase-II. Giving details on the project, AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that based on Dr. Sateesh Reddy’s commitment, the Director of Defence Food Research Laboratory Anil Dutt Semwal has already been in touch with the AU and discussion for collaboration is on. Initially, the research would focus on preservation and packaging of local products such as Araku Coffee, pineapple and jackfruit, Prof. Prasad Reddy said. The research labs, which are coming up with the RUSA Phase-II funds, will be housed in a three-storied building that is coming up at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. The RUSA has also sanctioned another Rs. 9 crore for purchase of the required research equipment. In total, Rs. 18 crore has been sanctioned. According to Prof. Prasad Reddy, the building is nearing completion and will be ready for occupation in about two to three months. “On one floor we will have a research and testing lab for food, and in the other two floors we will have research and testing facility for pharma and genetics,” he said. For genetics, the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant had already sanctioned Rs. 65 lakh for equipment from its CSR funds. “For pharmaceuticals, we are trying to tie up with local pharma companies and we have already signed an MoU with Purdue University, USA,” he said. “The MoU is for one year and will include joint research activity and mentoring.The DRDO has also agreed to support AU in startup incubation centre. The 35,000 sft spread across five floors building has already come up in the AU College of Engineering campus and is being mentored by the STPI. The DRDO will also act as mentor and support financially. The idea is encourage entrepreneurship under the NEP,” said the V-C. The Nasscom has already entered into an understanding with the State government to set up a Centre of Excellence in AU and the project cost is Rs. 27 crore, spread over five years. According to Prof. Prasad Reddy, the CoE will fund research in the areas of artificial intelligence and machine intelligence. This centre is also coming up in AUCoE campus at a sprawling three-storied building with a built space of 30,000 sft. “We are just waiting for the COVID-19 pandemic to subside to get the CoE operational,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drdo-nasscom-to-support-au-in-taking-up-research-activities/article36040879.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former employee held for ‘theft’ in private hospital||The city police (crime wing) on Saturday arrested three persons and took a juvenile into custody for allegedly being involved in two cases. In one case, the crime wing of (West sub division) arrested a 30-year-old man who had gained entry into a private hospital at Kancharapalem and allegedly made good with property worth about Rs. 17 lakh, including Rs. 16.5 lakh cash, a gold chain, a mobile phone and a few other articles, said Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP-Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao.  The arrested was identified as R. Sattibabu, a native of Narasannapeta in Srikakulam district. Three more accused in the case. including Sattibabu’s wife and his in-laws, are yet to be arrested. DVR hard disk Police said that after committing the crime, Sattibabu reportedly took away the DVR hard disk of the CCTV cameras. It was learnt that Sattibabu was a former employee of the hospital and he reportedly had knowledge about the premises. Two arrested Police recovered Rs. 9.50 lakh cash and the gold chain, all worth Rs. 10 lakh, from the accused. In another case, the police arrested B. Venubabu (19) and Ch Venkatesh (19), and also took a 17-year-old juvenile into custody for reportedly entering a temple and allegedly committing a theft of Rs. 5,000 from the hundi in the intervening night of August 14 and 15, at Pendurthi. In the investigation, the police also found that the accused had committed several offences under Chodavaram and Sabbavaram police station limits also in the district. The police have recovered Rs. 1,000 and a two-wheeler from them. ADCP (Crime) Venugopal Naidu was present at the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-employee-held-for-theft-in-private-hospital/article36040875.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushkarini at Simhachalam will be developed: Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that Pushkarini at Simhachalam will be developed with all amenities for the devotees. He visited Pushkarini along with the officials of the Simhachalam Devasthanam here on Saturday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the Pushkarini, considered holy by the devotees who come to Simhachalam shrine, was neglected by the previous government. He has asked the officials to clear the garbage in the surroundings of Pushkarini. “Apart from serving the devotees, it is also a pleasant hangout spot for the locals. The devasthanam officials will prepare estimates for walking tracks, proper lighting, seating arrangements, change rooms, toilets and drinking water facility,” he added. Simhachalam Devasthanam Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala was among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pushkarini-at-simhachalam-will-be-developed-muttamsetti/article36040872.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC declared ‘Water Plus’ city||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation has been declared “Water Plus” by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) under Swachh Bharat Mission and Swachh Survekshan Assessment, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana announced here on Saturday. It is learnt that along with Visakhapatnam, Tirupati Municipal Corporation and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) too had received the tag. Water plus certification is the next stage of ODF ++ given for liquid waste management. For ODF++, the city should have safe disposal of water and for ‘water plus’, the treated water should be reused. Cleanliness of public toilets, garbage collection, UGD system and how far the treated water is being released into the environment and number of components will be checked. After GVMC declared itself as Water Plus in December 2020, a third party from Swachh Bharat Mission inspected the city during July 2021. The team inspected public toilets, septic tank disposal system, parks, public places, Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) for couple of days. The team also visited 76 locations which include public places, commercial spaces, transport hubs, water bodies, industrial hubs, treatment plants, barren areas and certified “Water Plus”. Ms. Srijana said that the central team had checked the garbage collection procedure, transportation and various scientific methods adopted for solid waste management system. The third party also inspected robotic machines which were used for Underground Drainage cleaning and 24/7 complaint service for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-declared-water-plus-city/article36040866.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 1 death, 58 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 58 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,54,739. The death toll rose to 1,069 after one more person undergoing treatment for COVID-19 succumbed to the virus. As many as 61 persons recovered from the infection. As on date, the recovery rate is hovering around 98.4 %. The number of recoveries/discharges has increased to 1,52,357. The number of active cases has declined to 1,313. In the last three weeks, the district saw an average of 85 cases being reported every day. As many as 1,785 new infections were recorded in the last 21 days. The district also saw 17 deaths so far in the month, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-1-death-58-new-covid-cases/article36040870.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||44 Smart City works completed: Srijana||The 25th board meeting of Smart City projects was held at the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) office here on Saturday. District Collector and Chairman of Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited (GVSCCL) A. Mallikarjuna was briefed about the ongoing projects by GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana. She said that as part of the Smart City initiative, 60 works were taken up in the GVMC limits. Out of them, 44 works have already been completed, while 15 are in various stages. One work is still in the tender stage, she explained. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, CMD (APEPDCL) K. Srinivasa Rao, Chief Engineer K. Ravi Krishna Raju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/44-smart-city-works-completed-srijana/article36040874.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sobha Swathi Rani takes charge as GCC chief||Sobha Swathi Rani took charge as chairperson of the AP Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister & Minister for Tribal Welfare (TW) P. Pushpa Srivani, at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Saturday. Ms. Swathi Rani earlier worked as Zilla Parishad Chairperson of Vizianagaram during the TDP government. It may be remembered that she had joined the YSR Congress Party during March 2020. Speaking during the programme, Ms. Pushpa Srivani said that the YSRCP was committed for the development of tribal region. She said that in the last two years the State government introduced number of welfare schemes for the tribals Thanking Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tribal Welfare Minister Srivani for the opportunity, Ms. Swathi Rani said that she would strive hard for the development of the GCC. Araku MP G. Madhavi, Payakaraopeta MLA Golla Babu Rao, Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sobha-swathi-rani-takes-charge-as-gcc-chairperson/article36040840.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death of BJP leader condoled||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLC P.V.N. Madhav expressed grief over the demise of State BJP secretary Lokula Gandhi. He expressed his condolences to the bereaved families members. Recalling his services to the party, Mr. Madhav said that whenever BJP organised any programme in the State, Gandhi used to actively take part in it. BJP leader M. Ravindra has also expressed his grief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-of-bjp-leader-condoled/article36040877.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Internships will help tech institutes: AICTE official||All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE) Chief Coordinating officer Buddha Chandrasekhar said that internships and Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) would help engineering and technical institutes in facing the global competition. Delivering the keynote address at a seminar organised by Dadi Institute of Engineering and Technology on the occasion of World Entrepreneurs Day on Saturday, he spoke about the initiatives taken by the AICTE in bringing out transformation in the technical education. DIET chairman Dadi Ratnakar, Principal Challa Narsimham and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/internships-will-help-tech-institutes-aicte-official/article36040881.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surgical Oncology OP facility started in KGH||As part of a comprehensive cancer care, in addition to having the services of Radiation Oncology and Medical Oncology Departments, the services of Surgical Oncology Out-Patient(OP) facility have been started in KGH, Andhra Medical College here . It was inaugurated by P. Syama Prasad, Vice-Chancellor of Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences, in the presence of P. Mythili, Superintendent, KGH, and P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College. Surgical Oncologist Guru Raghavendra Naik said that public can avail the services every Wednesday and Saturday in Room No.14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surgical-oncology-op-facility-started-in-kgh/article36040880.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Special drives from Sept. 1 to check fitness of school buses’||Deputy Transport Commissioner (DTC), Visakhapatnam district, G.C. Rajaratnam, said that the Transport Department would organise special drives to check fitness of school buses from September 1. He warned that the school buses which ferry students without having fitness certificates would be seized. He organised a meet with operators and bus drivers of various schools at the office here on Saturday. Mr. Rajaratnam said that as schools have reopened from August 16, buses having Fitness Certificates (FC) will only be permitted to run. He said that Transport Department offices are working as usually and those buses which do not have FC, should apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drives-from-sept-1-to-check-fitness-of-school-buses/article36040873.ece
22 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protest staged against hike in property tax||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association (VARWA) and the Greater Visakha Residential Colony Associations Federation (Nivas) staged a protest demanding that the GVMC council take into consideration the opinions and objections of Vizagites on the property tax, near Gandhi Statuehere on Saturday. VARWA president N. Prakash Rao said that it was most unfortunate that the GVMC didn’t take into consideration the opinions of people in the city. General Secretary, VARWA, B.B. Ganesh, said that the Bill was passed with the support of the YSR Congress Party corporators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protest-staged-against-hike-in-property-tax/article36040876.ece
22 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. keen on speedy progress of Vizianagaram, says Collector||District Collector A. Suryakumari has said that the government has been giving top priority to industrial growth and promotion of economic activity in and around the fort city. The ambitious plans would ensure speedy progress of the district while providing direct and indirect employment to many people. Ms. Suryakumari on Saturday interacted with the representatives of various organisations to study their proposals for the development of the district. Forum for Better Vizianagaram president M. Venkateswara Rao and Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce president-elect Kapuganti Prakash urged the Collector to identify suitable sites for development of new markets in view of the congestion at the PW market. Balaji Market president Buddepu Venkata Rao and general secretary Nirmal Kumar Pokarna said the town was a major hub for textile and other business activities and the government’s support to trade bodies would ensure its quick progress. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India-AP chapter general secretary K.S.C. Bose said that a planned development was the need of the hour to cater to the housing needs of the people. Rotary Club district governor Madipilli Ramarao promised to extend support to the district administration in all aspects as many industrialists and traders were the members of the club. Vizianagaram Hotels’ Association president G. Srinivasa Rao urged the Collector to extend support for the development of the hospitality sector. Golden Heritage vice-president K.R.K. Raju, Chamber of Commerce secretary Kapuganti Srinivas, Lifting Hands vice-president Sankar Reddy, Kaumudi Parishad president Sarveswara Rao and others expressed their opinions in the meeting. Ms. Suryakumari assured them of holding a meeting with senior officials to explore the possibilities of developing new markets in the town and its surroundings. She said concerted efforts were needed for the progress of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-on-speedy-progress-of-vizianagaram-says-collector/article36040838.ece
22 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTF seeks payment of DA arrears, statutory benefits||Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation district honorary president Bankuru Joginaidu and Shaik Bukhari Babu on Saturday alleged that the State government had failed to clear DA arrears and other statutory benefits of the employees for the last few years. In a press note released here, they alleged that the government had not paid arrears of Dearness Allowances since 2018. “The government is deducting income tax proportionately, calculating the DA amount also. It is unfair,” said Mr. Jogi Naidu. Mr. Bukhari Babu said that many employees had been eagerly waiting for ZPPF claims for the last three months. There was no response from the government in spite of many representations by the APTF (Registered No.257) leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aptf-seeks-payment-of-da-arrears-statutory-benefits/article36040835.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sacred bond||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sacred-bond/article36040883.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bond of love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bond-of-love/article36040868.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sacred bond||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sacred-bond/article36040842.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spl. vaccination drive in GHMC, SCB areas from tomorrow||The State government will conduct a special COVID-19 vaccination drive in about 5,200 residential colonies, localities and slums in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) limits from August 23. The special drive is likely to be carried out for 10-15 days. The decision was taken at a meeting held by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar here on Saturday with the GHMC, SCB and Medical and Health Department officials. The objective of the special vaccination drive is to make Hyderabad a 100% COVID-19 vaccinated city, the Chief Secretary said. A total of 175 mobile vaccine centres (vans), 150 in GHMC and 25 in SCB areas, would be utilised for the special drive to be carried out in 4,846 localities, slum and residential colonies in GHMC limits and 360 in SCB. Each mobile vaccination centre would have two staff members to administer the vaccine (vaccinators) and a data entry operator. Mobilisation teams comprising two personnel each would go door-to-door to enlist persons yet get their vaccine jabs in advance and also inform people about the time and date of mobile vaccine centre visiting their area in advance, the Chief Secretary said and stated that a sticker would be pasted on the doors of houses with 100% vaccination. He appealed to people to avail the opportunity get the vaccine administered. Adequate quantity of vaccine would be made available to the mobile vaccine centres covering the localities in GHMC and SCB limits. An awareness drive on the special vaccination drive would also be taken up with the help of banners, auto-stickers and audio announcement. The GHMC would issue appreciation certificates to resident welfare associations (RWAs) for achieving 100% vaccination. Secretary (Health) S.A.M. Rizvi, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer of SCB Ajit Reddy, Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, Officer on Special Duty (Health) to Chief Minister Dr. T. Gangadhar and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spl-vaccination-drive-in-ghmc-scb-areas-from-tomorrow/article36040718.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID-hit private colleges bear the brunt||Government Junior College (GJC) in Falaknuma, which rarely crosses 500 admissions, has seen a whopping 2,083 admissions this year, indicating an increasing faith in government system and also the impact of COVID on the income of families. This trend is not just confined to Falaknuma college but all other GJCs in the city and State. GJC Bahadurpura with 1,253 admissions followed by GJC Mahabubnagar (1,205) and Nampally college (1,203) have shown an upward trend in admissions. Other colleges with enormous increase in numbers include GJC Tandoor (1,139), Govt City College (1,072), GJC Nalgonda (985), GJC Girls Falaknuma (965), GJC Chanchalguda (965) and GJC Kukatpally (876). Multiple factors seem to have influenced parents to join their wards but the most telling reason seem to be the declining incomes due to COVID. Venugopal, who runs a small sweet shop and admitted his daughter in Nampally college, agreed that he made the decision due to the falling income. “Either I had to choose between a corporate college or a government college and I chose the latter as I cannot afford the corporate fee structure,” he said. Many like him, who would have earlier preferred neighbourhood private junior colleges, have opted for government colleges since education is free and books are also provided free of cost. “The middle level small time private colleges have lost out as they were unable to offer online education like the corporate colleges or the government colleges,” said principal of a GJC. Lot of parents feel there is no point in paying the fee for online classes when their wards are unable to attend physical classes in colleges. So there is hardly any difference between a government college or a private college where they had to pay fee. Small time colleges charge anywhere between Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 15,000 per annum while corporate colleges charge more than a lakh. The demand has also spiralled because of the increased pass percentage in SSC, as all students were declared pass in the absence of examinations due to corona. Government Junior Lecturers Association (GJLA) president P. Madhusudhan Reddy agrees that the spurt in admissions was also due to increased confidence in the government sector. He says when Telangana was formed in 2014 admissions in government colleges was around 52,000. With no fee and free books it has increased to 87,000 last year. However, this year so far 1,05,600 admissions have been made so far – an increase of nearly 20,000 additional admissions. Interestingly, in the combined State GJCs saw a decrease of 10% admissions year on year. In Hyderabad itself, this year, 12,000 students were enrolled in the GJCs of which 6,800 were in the Commerce stream. State has 405 GJCs with an intake strength of 1.44 lakh seats. Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy said that the government has already distributed free textbooks to 3 lakh Inter students on Rs. 9 crore. Private colleges set up by individuals and small groups seem to be the worst sufferers forcing students to opt for GJCs. The number of private colleges has declined to 1,700 now from 2,520 in 2014. And of these, this year only 1,550 applied for affiliation from the TSBIE indicating the disastrous effect on them. An official said that 162 colleges are closed this year and a major factor is the non-release of fee reimbursement funds by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-colleges-reel-under-covid-blues/article36040742.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Curtains on NISA athletic meet||The three-day Annual Athletic Meet 2021 of the National Industrial Security Academy (NISA) at Hakimpet, which trains personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), concluded on Saturday. The meet was inaugurated by the senior IPS officer and academy director C.V Anand while star badminton player and Tokyo Olympics broze medalist P.V. Sindhu took part in the valedictory function. March past The celebration started with a flag march past. A host of athletic events were conducted across men and women categories. As many as 62 Assistant Commandant Officer Trainees, directly appointed by the UPSC, competed in a number of events which included 100m, 200m, 400m, 800m, 5000m, relay events, long jump, high jump and shot put. Ms. Sindhu distributed medals and prizes where the best athletes male and female were bagged by Assistant Commandant/Probationer Ashish Galiyan and Assistant Commandant Probationer Bhumika Varshney respectively. She also congratulated the winners and said that every participant is a winner and emphasised that one needs to believe in oneself and success will follow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/curtains-on-nisa-athletic-meet/article36040721.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Miss being in Amberpet: Kishan||An emotionally charged Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy on Saturday lamented his connect with Amberpet constituency, which he missed after losing the last Assembly elections. As part of his Jan Ashirwad Yatra, Mr. Reddy addressed a meeting on Saturday while passing through Amberpet in the city. ‘Like a mother’ He recounted that the constituency was like his mother who gave him life. He wanted to visit the by-lanes in the segment like in the past when he represented the constituency but had no time. “The BJP and Amberpet are like my two eyes,” he averred. Mr. Reddy said that he was not happy that he became the Union Minister and shifted to New Delhi and at the same time, was sad that he was distanced from Amberpet. It was only because of support by voters of the Amberpet Assembly and Secunderabad Parliamentary constituencies that he could become a Minister. He promised to be accessible to the people of Amberpet always. Lauds Modi On World Heritage Site status for Ramappa temple, he said that it was possible only because of the initiative taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Centre convinced all countries that opposed the recognition for Ramappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/miss-being-in-amberpet-kishan/article36040730.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mangrove species spells doom in urban landscape||Little or no thought in selection of sapling species for urban afforestation could have disastrous consequences for public health, city infrastructure and local biodiversity. A case in point is the exuberance of the species conocarpus lancifolius across the city, along avenues, on the medians, and within gated communities. The plant has become extremely common during the past four to five years, due to its evergreen and sound barrier quality, fast and symmetrical growth, and cost effectiveness. Environmentalists, however, ring danger bells about the plant which could cause pollen allergy, guzzle water, and damage the city infrastructure, besides disturbing the local biodiversity. Commonly called Damas tree, Dubai tree and Buttonwood, the Conocarpus species is native to coastal and riverine areas of a few African and Arabian countries. The mangrove species has gained popularity worldwide during 1980s with several cities planting it in great numbers. After experiencing the ill effects of the species over past few decades, countries such as UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Afghanistan and Pakistan are now going on a spree of removal of the tree. “Ironically, all cities in India are planting the species now. We should learn from the global experience and dissuade it, as its excessive plantation could lead to several issues, including severe pollen allergy,” says retired forester and plant taxonomy expert N. Chandramohan Reddy. Doctors warn during this pandemic, pollen allergy could only worsen lung damage among patients, especially if they are asthmatic. “Several asthmatic patients are hospitalised between August and November as this period is especially conducive for spread of pollen. Due to rain, pollen particles could break and get inhaled into lungs easily leading to worsening of symptoms,” says city-based pulmonologist M. Ravindranath. Another disadvantage of Conocarpus is its extensive root system which could penetrate deep into the ground causing damage to roads, walls, drains, swimming pools, pipelines and other infrastructure. Besides, the species sucks excessive water, thereby leading to ground water depletion. Damage to local biodiversity could be worst, as the species has nothing to offer to indigenous birds, bees and other fauna. Its invasive root system will not allow other plants to grow nearby, Mr. Chandramohan Reddy said. “Growing a single species of plant, regardless of species, can be harmful to the environment. Foresters, horticulturists and landscape architects should choose proper mix of the native species to support healthy ecosystem and urban biodiversity,” he said. Environmentalist Purushottam Reddy concurs and says the best way to afforestation is observation of nature and promotion of endemic plants which promote local biodiversity. Governments could promote indigenous species such as neem, peepal, banyan, jamun, Indian Elm, Golden Shower, Indian Cherry, Minusops, elephant apple, Malabar Ebony, Kadamba, Putranjiva, soapnut, and ficus species that thrive well in urban landscape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mangrove-species-spells-doom-in-urban-landscape/article36040705.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to use robotic technology in cleaning of sewerage lines||Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav stressed upon the importance of doing away with manual labour in de-silting of sewerage lines, by deployment of modern technology. He spoke at the awareness meeting on Saturday, as part of the Safety Fortnight being conducted by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), with regard to the sewerage maintenance and workers’ safety. Already, a pilot project has been successfully completed in Sanathnagar constituency to test the use of robotic technology in cleaning of sewerage lines. It will be taken up in the entire city soon, the minister said, and urged people not to dump garbage in manholes. MD, HMWS&SB M.Dana Kishore said body suits worth Rs. 2 lakh each are being procured for safety of the workers entering into the sewerage lines. Special operations teams have been formed in each of the six circles pertaining to water board, with seven skilled workers in each team. The teams will train remaining workers in use of safety equipment and technology used in sewerage maintenance in problematic areas, Mr.Dana Kishore said. Public Representatives, NGOs and other organisations have been made part of the awareness drive, he said. Several workers who have shown merit in duty have been felicitated by the minister on the occasion. Mr.Dana Kishore administered a pledge to the workers towards adherence to the safety standards and use of safety equipment. MLA G.Sayanna, corporators and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-to-use-robotic-technology-in-cleaning-of-sewerage-lines/article36040727.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Leaders emerge out of crisis: Revanth||“Leaders are born out of crisis and the present political situation in the country provides a great opportunity for the Youth Congress to prove themselves through struggles against anti-people policies of the government,” Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy said on Saturday. Addressing the TS Youth Congress executive committee meeting here, he ruled out party tickets to those who don’t prove themselves with their hard work and said that those willing to sacrifice would get rewarded. “Seeking tickets and going to people will not help. Fight like a solider and the B-forms will come to your house. The present political atmosphere was fertile for Youth Congress activists to prove themselves,” he said. Stating that the Congress had always been a big platform for youngsters to rise in the political system, he reminded that leaders such as Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, K. Chandrasekhar Rao and N. Chandrababu Naidu were all products of the Youth Congress. They honed their skills in the party and got recognition. Referring to his own journey, he said that he could become the president of a big political party within 15 years of political journey due to his hard work. “When Rahul Gandhi asked me for any position while joining the party, I requested him to reward me based on my work and not just for joining,” he said. On the criticism of he changing parties, he said that he had always joined the Opposition and not ruling parties, indicating his commitment to people’s issues. AICC in-charge for Telangana and MP Manickam Tagore was confident that the party would come back to power with a minimum of 72 seats and the Youth Congress had a big role to play. He said that the party had 20 months for it and Youth Congress should not leave any stone unturned in this endeavour. Stating that hard work always pays, Mr. Tagore said that people who worked in the Youth Congress went on to become PCC presidents and AICC secretaries. “The next 20 months are crucial for the party and they should prepare the ground from now onwards to reach the goal,” he said. The meeting was presided by Youth Congress president Shivsena Reddy, and attended by AICC secretaries N. Bose Raju and A. Sampath Kumar, working presidents Anjan Kumar Yadav, Mahesh Kumar Goud, senior vice president Mallu Ravi and former Minister Shabbir Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leaders-emerge-out-of-crisis-revanth/article36040738.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Consumer forum directs Water Board to reverse three bills||A consumer commission directed the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (HMWSSB) to reverse three bills which were issued under the commercial category. The commission differed with the board’s stand of a connection as commercial, and after ordering an inspection, treated it as domestic. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-II was dealing with a complaint filed by Indira Srinivas Mawle, with the opposite party being the HMWSSB. The complainant stated that all efforts of requesting the HMWSSB to change a commercial connection to domestic went in vain, and that this was the second round of litigation on the subject. The complainant also contended that changing of the water connection from domestic to commercial was arbitrary. For their part, the HMWSSB stated that the change of type of connection was based on their finding that commercial activity was under way on an area of 64 square metres, which is over the prescribed limit of 50 square meters. They also stated that a notice of conversion was sent to the complainant, which the latter denied. The commission appointed an advocate commissioner with a licensed surveyor who measured the plinth area and filed a report, concluding that 45.04 square metres were being used for commercial activity. The HMWSSB contended that carpet area was measured, and not plinth area. The commission stated that since the HMWSSB did not cross-examine, and failed to ‘elicit anything from the surveyor’, this report would be final. Based on the evidence filed, it concluded that the water connection was domestic. However, the commission noted that the complainant had not paid minimum charges, and did not award her compensation, but directed a reversal of bills. Costs of Rs. 10,000 were imposed on the HMWSSB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-board-asked-to-reverse-bills/article36040713.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10-day anti-larval campaign from today||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has called for anti-larval campaign in the city for 10 weeks starting from Sunday, in order to prevent seasonal diseases such as malaria and dengue. 10-min. initiative As part of the campaign, vector control operations will be taken up for 10 minutes every day at 10 a.m. across various localities. Stagnant water in containers will be emptied in homes and offices as part of the drive. Overhead tanks without covers, sumps, drums, cement tanks, flower pots, coolers, old tyres, discarded coconut shells, and other containers where rainwater may have been stagnant thereby aiding larval growth will be cleared. Public representatives, corporators, colony welfare associations and NGOs will be made part of the drive, a press statement informed on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-day-anti-larval-campaign-from-today/article36040726.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stop making remarks on KCR and family, Kishan Reddy told||Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Chennur MLA Balka Suman have lambasted Union Tourism Minister Kishan Reddy for his remarks against the TRS government and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during his Ashirward Yatra. At a press conference on Saturday, Mr. Dayakar Rao asked the Minister to refrain from personally targeting the CM or his family and instead concentrate on getting funds for Telangana using his influence in the Union Cabinet. He reminded Mr. Reddy that the BJP government should first fulfil the promises made in the AP Reorganisation Act, including Kazipet rail coach factory, Bayaram mines and Tribal University. While all Central ministers praise the development schemes of Telangana, it was strange that Mr. Kishan Reddy doesn’t see them. He termed the Jan Ashirwad Yatra a ‘Failure Yatra’. Mr. Balka Suman said that the Minister’s remarks lowered his image and his reference to family politics in TRS was a joke given that most BJP leaders’ children are in politics. He said that the BJP government was responsible for the ills in India and recalled how the fuel prices have spiralled and so were the prices of cooking gas cylinders. He said Mr. Kishan Reddy should reveal what funds he would get for Telangana rather than blindly criticising KCR. He alleged that BJP had become a haven for people indulging in financial irregularities referring to Eatala Rajender. He also alleged that Eatala had turned his Minister’s office and residence into a centre for anti-TRS activities. Meanwhile in Bhongir, Mr. Kishan Reddy spoke about promoting festivals in Telangana while speaking about the tourism sector in India. Informing that tourism contributes about 5% to the country’s GDP and provides 12% employment, he said that resources for the 40 UNESCO world heritage sites, 3,700 protected monuments and several cultural centres would be improved to boost the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-making-remarks-on-kcr-and-family-kishan-reddy-told/article36040744.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish Rao is new president of Exhibition Society||The managing committee of Exhibition Society has elected Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao as the new president of the society that organises annal ‘Numaish’ or the All India Industrial Exhibition in January-February every year. The managing committee met Mr. Rao at his residence here on Saturday and thanked him on being elected president of the society. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Harish Rao said he would put all efforts to lead the exhibition society on the path of progress. Former Minister Eatala Rajender, now in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), held the position since 2014 and quit it in June this year after he was dropped from the Cabinet, which led to his resignation from Assembly and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Incidentally, Mr. Rajender was also Finance Minister when the reigns of the society were handed over to him. Mr. Rao asked the members to work for popularising Numaish further with the government cooperation and for providing quality education in the educational institutions run by the society to improve the employability of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-is-new-president-of-exhibition-society/article36040719.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Elderly Clinic’ services resume at PHCs||‘Elderly Clinic’ services at Primary Health Centres (PHC) have resumed in Telangana. There was interruption in the services during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials in the Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare said that Thursdays at PHCs were dedicated to attending health issues of the elderly population. “Apart from giving medicines and natural oils for common ailments that the elderly suffer from, we used to conduct wellness activities at the PHCs every Thursday. This used to serve as an opportunity for them to socialise with people of their age group. We have resumed the Elderly Clinics, but the number of patients is yet to pick up,” said an official. Apart from continuing the services, the officials plan to open 10-bed geriatric wards in all district hospitals. Elderly-friendly bathrooms and other facilities would be provided. Geriatric services Senior officials of the Health department said like paediatrics speciality, there is a need for separate facilities and services for the geriatric population in whom health issues such as bone weakness are increasingly reported. “There are only a few geriatric centres in India. They can be attached with general medicine departments. Since the elderly population is increasing, there is a need to tailor medical services for them. A post-graduation course in geriatrics should be started,” said a senior official. Health care Additional professor and unit head of department of orthopaedics at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Cherukuri Nagesh said that from an orthopaedics point of view, a common issue faced by the elderly population is hip fracture. One of the reasons could be osteoporosis which can be addressed by consuming calcium-rich foods such as curd and milk. “Early fixing of fractures and early rehabilitation will give good results. Normally, such cases are brought quite late to the hospitals,” Dr Nagesh said. He listed anti-skid floor tiles, adequate light in bathroom and supportive handles as safety precautions. The World Senior Citizens Day was observed on Saturday (August 21).  We also used to conduct wellness activities at the PHCs every Thursday. This used to serve as an opportunity for them to socialise with people of their age group. An official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elderly-clinic-services-resume-at-phcs/article36040709.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two colleges celebrate their graduation day||TKR College of Engineering and Technology (TKRCET) conducted its first graduation ceremony after attaining autonomous status where 486 students received their certificates. Chevella MP G. Ranjit Reddy was the chief guest and felicitated the toppers with medals. Former MLA and chairman of TKR Group Teegala Krishna Reddy was also present. J. Tejasri from the Computer Science Engineering (CSE) branch, who was the topper across the streams, was awarded the medals by the chief guest. Mr. Ranjit Reddy motivated the students to dabble in entrepreneurship and focus on startups if they wished to make a difference to the society, instead of just becoming job seekers. He said the current environment was great for entrepreneurs and those with innovative ideas. Principal D.V. Ravi Shankar, dean (academics) Suresh Rao, Teegala Amarnath Reddy and Teegala Harinath Reddy were among present. Meanwhile, Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology (GRIET) also celebrated its 21st Graduation day on Saturday where 1,169 B. Tech and 98 M.Tech students were awarded provisional certificates for the academic year 2020-21. JNTU-Hyderabad Vice-Chancellor Katta Narasimha Reddy, who attended as chief guest, appreciated the efforts of the college management in providing quality education. All the toppers of undergraduate and post graduate courses were awarded gold medals. GRIET executive director Vani Gokaraju, CEO M.G. Sekaram, director Jandhyala N Murthy, SAO K.V.S. Raju, department heads and deans attended the event. Principal Praveen Jugge presented the academic report for year 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-colleges-celebrate-their-graduation-day/article36040712.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cheating case accused nabbed after five years||A 51-year-old private employee who was absconding for the past five years after he was made accused in a cheating case by the Hyderabad Central Crime Police was arrested on Friday. A non-bailable warrant was also issued against N. Ajay Babu, a resident of Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh. Case details According to the Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty, in 2016, one K Venkat Rami Reddy approached the police stating that Naralachetty Madhavi Laxmi and her husband N Ajay Babu collected Rs. 1.75 crore from him and his partner for submission of EMDs in Civil Supplies Corporation of Telangana State for supplying red gram. “The couple failed to repay the said amount to the complainant and his partner and cheated them. The case was charged but the accused was absconding. A local court also issued NBW against the accused,” Mr. Mohanty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cheating-case-accused-nabbed-after-five-years/article36040722.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2,056 booked for drunk driving||As many as 2,056 tippler drivers were booked by the Hyderabad Traffic police in the last 60 days. The police filed 1,670 chargesheets against the drunk drivers and they were produced in the 3rd and 4th Metropolitan Magistrate Courts, Nampally. “The courts awarded punishment of stand till the rising of the court to three persons and cancelled the driving licence of one person,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. The court has imposed a fine of Rs. 1.74 crore to 1,666 tippler drivers and the rest 386 violators will be produced in court after filing the chargesheet against them. Those convicted of drunken driving and other traffic violations may face difficulties in getting government jobs, passport and visa clearance, Mr. Kumar said. “If any person drives a vehicle in drunken condition and causes a fatal accident, insurance will not be covered as per IRDAI (Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India) Rules. Similarly in the case of injury/death while triple riding also insurance will not be covered,” he said. The violators were also counselled at Traffic Training Institutes at Goshamahal and Begumpet. The drive against drunken driving and other violations will continue, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2056-booked-for-drunk-driving/article36040723.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||US education fair on Aug. 27 and Sept. 3||More than 100 universities from the United States will take part in a virtual education fair on August 27 and September 3 where students will get first-hand information on courses, colleges, admissions, scholarships and visas. The fair will be open from 5.30 pm to 10.30 pm on both days. The virtual fair is open to all and there is no registration or participation fee. The fair will help parents and students understand the admission procedure for Masters and Ph.D courses in accredited universities in USA. The participating institutions represent a wide geographic area in the United States and offer a range of academic programmes at the undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral levels. The attendees can learn about various programmes and admission criteria at this virtual fair from the comfort of their homes. Discussions with U.S. universities and EducationUSA advisers are expected to help students make informed choices about studying in the U.S., funding and scholarships, practical training options, and COVID-19 precautionary measures at the universities and colleges. They will also get information on student visas through the U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs, the official source on visas. Registrations can be done on ‘https://bit.ly/UGEdUSAFair21EmbWeb’ and students can join the fair on ‘https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1dcOlvRx6A QkZGBU9URf1IblqMU_pXzMm’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/us-education-fair-on-aug-27-and-sept-3/article36040710.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||364 new COVID cases identified in Telangana||Telangana recorded 364 COVID-19 infections on Saturday, taking the total to 6,54,758. While 75289 samples were examined, results of 1,116 were awaited. The new cases include 76 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 44 from Karimnagar, and 22 each from Nalgonda and Warangal Urban. Only one infection each was recorded in six districts, including Adilabad and Jogulamba Gadwal. Two more COVID patients died during the day. With this, the fatality figure now stands at 3,856. There were 6,608 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/364-new-covid-cases-identified/article36040707.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporator fined Rs. 80,000||A GHMC corporator has been slapped with a fine of Rs. 80,000 on Saturday for putting up flexi posters in violation of rules. The corporator, Bandaru Srivani from Ramanthapur, has been held responsible for a total 16 instances of violations on the Uppal road, for which she has been penalised by the enforcement wing. The flexis were tied congratulating Union Minister G.Kishan Reddy on his 'Praja Asheerwada Yatra' which was held with much fanfare in Amberpet constituency on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporator-fined-rs-80000/article36040725.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boy died||A 12-year-old boy died after he accidentally fell from the terrace of a five-storey building at Saidabad here on Friday evening. The victim, Advyath, son of Sudhakar, along with his friends was playing on the terrace of their residential complex at SBH-C Colony when he tried to jump from one block to another and fell on the ground. The incident took place at around 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/boy-died/article36040848.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Bike rally||To create awareness among the people on wearing helmets, Cyberabad Traffic Police on Saturday conducted a mega bike rally at Shadnagar. The bike rally which aims to enter Telangana Book of Records comprising about 2,000 bikes was flagged off by Shadnagar ACP Kushalkar and other officers at Shadnagar Municipality Stadium. The bikers carried placards with messages of road safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-bike-rally/article36040724.ece
22 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Congress, BJP spreading lies, says Sukender||“National political parties like the BJP and Congress are not only daydreaming about forming the government in Telangana in 2023 but are also engaged in propagating false claims in an attempt to destabilise the TRS government,” former State Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy said on Saturday. “Congress and BJP leaders are like wolves, and power-hungry,” he said. Union Minister Kishan Reddy’s recent Jana Ashirvad Yatra or the Congress party’s Dalit Girijana Dandora may be different in terminology but aimed at spreading false claims, he added. Addressing the media at his camp residence here on Saturday, Mr. Sukender Reddy said that Kishan Reddy’s yatra was spreading lies. “The Modi government failed in fighting the COVID second wave. The only thing that the government achieved was price rise of all essential commodities such as petrol, diesel and domestic gas,” he pointed out. The senior TRS leader also said that through Mr. Kishan Reddy and under the BJP-led Central government, Telangana did not benefit in getting allocations and rights as per the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, but has essentially lost jurisdiction of the Krishna and Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-bjp-spreading-lies-says-sukender/article36040735.ece
22 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Training for panel lawyers||District Principal and Sessions Judge B. Papi Reddy inaugurated a training programme for panel lawyers on Saturday. He said that the course would improve skills among lawyers while addressing a gathering at the District Court. High Court resource person S. Sunanda is an experienced lawyer and her expertise should be used by those undergoing training, he said. District Legal Services Authority secretary Ch. Ashalatha was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/training-for-panel-lawyers/article36040749.ece
22 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Last family vacates Vemulaghat village||Kasula Satyanarayana Sharma is busy at Vemulaghat village of Toguta mandal on Saturday. He offered his last prayers at a temple in about 500 yards from his house, as he was given time till 4 p.m. to vacate the village. Vemulaghat is one of the eight villages that would get submerged under the Mallannasagar reservoir. Bidding adieu Mr. Sharma was a teacher and used his retirement benefits to construct this temple along with a Kalyana mandapam. But, on Saturday, he had to bid adieu to it. His son Gopala Krishna Murthy was busy shifting household items to transport vehicles lined up in front of their house. “We are the last ones to vacate this village. Officials told us that water would be released into the Mallannsagar on Sunday or in the next 3-4 days. Every house in the village was demolished. Once we leave, our house will meet the same fate,” Mr. Sharma told The Hindu . He said that his great grandfather belonged to this village and since then, the family continued staying there. They had lost seven acres to the project. For the last few days, the authorities made every effort to make sure all villagers vacated or face consequences. No water, no power “Water and power supply are already cut. One can see only debris but no human being. Though we are supposed to be paid for the demolished structures, officials told us that we will get the money only after we vacate the village,” said P. Janardhan Reddy, another oustee who vacated the village at the last moment and had to leave some belongings in the house. Almost all the structures and houses at Vemulaghat and Etigaddakishtapur villages were being demolished on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-family-bids-adieu-to-vemulaghat/article36040746.ece
22 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Gudatipally oustees hope for justice||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), on August 13, ordered the constitution of a three-member joint committee to look into the permissions obtained by the State government with regard to construction of Gouravelli reservoir. The committee would have a senior officer from the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Integrated Regional Office, Telangana, a senior officer from Godavari River Management Board and a senior officer from Central Water Commission, Integrated Regional Office, Hyderabad. The Gouravelli project was initially designed for 1.41 tmc ft but during redesign, the capacity was increased to 8.23 tmc ft. Gudatipally in Akkannapet mandal is one of the villages that would submerge in the reservoir. “In order to ascertain the genuineness of the allegations made and also to find out whether there is any violation, we think it is appropriate to appoint a joint committee to inspect the area in question and also to examine the project and submit a factual as well as action taken report if there is any violation,” read the order issued by NGT. The panel is directed to ascertain what is the impact on environment. The committee was instructed to submit its report before September 30. “Going ahead with works without taking prior permissions or environment clearance and not paying us total compensations is not right on the part of the State government. The committee will dig out the facts by next month,” Gudatipally sarpanch Baddam Raji Reddy, who filed a complaint with NGT, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gudatipally-oustees-hope-for-justice/article36040747.ece
22 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallanasagar pump test run likely today||Moving a step closer towards the construction of the Mallannasagar reservoir, officials are making all out efforts to test-run the eight pump sets on Sunday. “As a protocol, we have to test the pumps before commissioning them. This needs to be done before the finalisation of the formal water release programme by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao,” said an officer on Saturday on condition of anonymity. “We may know about the test run only tomorrow. Nothing is finalised yet,” engineer-in-chief Hari Ram said. The Mallannasagar project is the last major reservoir in the long chain of projects under KLIS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallanasagar-pump-test-run-likely-today/article36040750.ece
22 August 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘State festivals will be promoted’||Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and Development of North-Eastern Region G. Kishan Reddy on Saturday said that proposals to restart the tourism sector in the country were being considered actively, and optimistically the sector’s businesses would be open starting January 2022. “God willing, and if people follow all COVID protocols, we will restart tourism activities from January 1. By December 31, majority of the population will be vaccinated and hopefully, the intensity of COVID will also decline,” he said. Mr. Kishan Reddy was addressing a press conference at Bhongir town on Saturday, after concluding his three-day Jan Ashirvad Yatra in Hyderabad by offering special prayers at the Yadagirigutta Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was keen on reviving the domestic tourism sector through ‘Dekho Apna Desh’, which motivates every family to visit at least 15 tourism destinations in India. He said that the Ministry was working on plans to roll out the programme. “In Telangana, annual ‘people festivals’ such as Bonalu, Bathukamma, Ganesh Chaturthi and the biennial Sammakka Sarakka Jatara will be duly recognised. Their significance will be captured into short films and showcased for domestic and international tourism,” he said. While informing that tourism contributes about 5% to the country’s GDP and provides 12% employment, he said that resources for the 40 UNESCO world heritage sites, 3,700 protected monuments and several cultural centres would be improved to boost the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/festivals-in-telangana-will-be-promoted/article36040736.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In tune with tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-tune-with-tradition/article36040716.ece
22 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha likely to move NHAI for translocation of trees||The Forest Department in Odisha may move the National High Authority of India (NHAI) with a request to translocate trees that were felled when laying roads. The proposal was mooted in the wake of a massive loss of tree cover due to road widening projects in the State. More than 18.5 million trees have been felled for the widening of roads in the State in the past decade. “We will move the NHAI with a request to issue an advisory to executing agencies to deracinate fully grown trees and translocate them to nearby areas. Though the translocation of trees has not been taken up in any of our projects, we can make a new beginning,” a Forest official said. He said banyan, arjun and peepal trees, preferably around 15-year-old, should especially be extirpated and planted again as their chances of survival are higher. “It is difficult to deracinate trees that are more than 50-year-old. If the taproot gets slashed during the removal process, chances of the survival of the transplanted tree become slim,” the official added. The NHAI was not averse to the idea, but certain basic issues needed to be addressed to firm up the proposal. “We can start it on a limited scale by identifying endangered species and trees with medicinal value,” said Ram Prasad Panda, Chief General Manager, NHAI, Bhubaneswar. According to sources, however, the major problem in relocating trees would be the scarcity of land. The identification of land for trees requiring translocation should be made at the beginning of a project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-likely-to-move-nhai-for-translocation-of-trees/article36040619.ece
22 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Naveen launches new look govt. schools||The Odisha government on Saturday launched transformed high schools in Ganjam — the home district of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. These schools have all the features like that of any modern private schools. They do not only have smart classrooms but also have e-libraries, advanced science laboratories, clean drinking water facilities, toilets and sports. The overall facelift has been implemented under 5T (team work, technology, transparency, transformation and time limit) action plan. In the first phase, Mr. Patnaik dedicated 10 transformed schools of Hinjilicut — his own Assembly constituency — to the State. “Every child is a symbol of infinite potential. They have many dreams for their future and the school transformation has created opportunity for accomplishment of their dreams,” he said. Mr. Patnaik said the transformation in government schools in Hinjili block has shown path to others and 1,070 schools of the State would get facelift in the first phase of the programme. The transformation involves soft components using technology for better education content and methods to reach children. In planning and execution of the programme, community, alumni, panchayati raj institution representatives and school committees were involved. These high schools got new look in six months’ time. A total 50 schools have been transformed in Hinjilicut and Sheragada blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/naveen-launches-new-look-govt-schools/article36040621.ece
22 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmers block rail tracks, road||Farmers seeking a hike in sugarcane prices blocked rail tracks and a national highway in Punjab’s Jalandhar for the second day on Saturday, affecting trains and vehicular traffic. According to railway officials of the Ferozepur division, 69 trains have been cancelled, while 54 have been diverted or short terminated. Rail passengers travelling for ‘Raksha Bandhan’ festival on Sunday bore the maximum brunt of the blockade. Scores of farmers had on Friday launched an idefinite agitation to press the State government to accept their demands related to the pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices. On Saturday, they refused to lift the blockade till their demands were met. Emergency vehicles have been allowed to ply, they added. Protesters have blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the National Highway near Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district. The blockade hit vehicular movement to and from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot. Farmers sitting on the Jalandhar-Chaheru section have blocked the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu rail tracks in Jalandhar, affecting several trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi Swarna Shatabdi Exp. Spl., Amritsar-Dehradun Exp. Spl., New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Spl. and the New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Shri Shakti Spl. Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba) general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni said they are allowing families travelling for ‘Raksha Bandhan’ to go through the service lane along the National Highway. Rejected hike Protesting farmers are demanding that the Punjab government raise the State Assured Price of sugarcane and clear arrears of Rs. 200-250 crore. They have already rejected the hike of Rs. 15 per quintal announced by the government a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-block-rail-tracks-road/article36040618.ece
22 August 2021||Ghaziabad/Lucknow,||‘Harassment charges against IPS officer false’||A probe panel looking into allegations against a senior IPS officer of harassing a retired government official’s daughter in Ghaziabad has found the charges untrue, sources said on Saturday. The probe was ordered by U.P.’s Director General of Police Mukul Goel in the wake of the allegations raised on social media. The investigation was handed over to a committee led by Additional DG PAC Ajay Anand, the sources said. An officer said, “The panel has found the allegations against IG Provincial Armed Constabulary B.R. Meena untrue. A probe by the local police also found the claims baseless.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/harassment-charges-against-ips-officer-false/article36040620.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||One held over GST fraud worth Rs. 118 cr.||The Mumbai Zonal Unit of Directorate General of GST Intelligence, CBIC, (DGGI1-MZU) on August 17 busted an Input Tax Credit (ITC) refund fraud case worth Rs. 118 crore and arrested Santosh Doshi, who allegedly operated seven companies. The officials alleged that the arrested accused fraudulently availed ITC without any supply of goods and services showing bogus invoices and claimed Rs. 118 crore as refund against exports. “The modus operandi involved in this financial fraud was that several dummy units were created in the States of Jharkhand and West Bengal on the basis of forged documents,” an official said. “They passed on the said bogus ITC to several shell trading firms acting as intermediary entities situated in the State of Chhattisgarh. Further, several units were created as exporting fronts at Pune and Mumbai in Maharashtra to whom the units in Chhattisgarh supplied fictitious goods purported to be exported,” he added. The export units were created merely for the purpose of availing refund in a fraudulent manner. “To nab the mastermind behind the whole channel of financial fraud, the DGGI, Mumbai launched an operation, by searching concerned CHAs (Custom House Agents), CAs (Chartered Accountants), CSs (Company Secretaries), key persons and freight forwarders and several statements were recorded,” a statement from DGGI-Mumbai said. It was revealed that Santosh Doshi, a resident of Pune in Maharashtra, who is also the managing director of Masumi Overseas Pvt. Ltd., was actually the promoter and operator of these exporting firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-held-over-gst-fraud-worth-rs-118-cr/article36040764.ece
22 August 2021||Mumbai,||HC extends protection to IPS officer Rashmi Shukla||The Bombay High Court on Saturday extended protection to IPS officer Rashmi Shukla for allegedly leaking confidential data on police transfers till September 13. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar was hearing a criminal petition filed by Ms. Shukla seeking to quash the FIR against her that charges her with sections of the Indian Telegraph Act and the Officials Secrets Act. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, appearing for Maharashtra government, said the petition seeks to quash an FIR. The court directed the State to file its reply and adjourned the matter. The case dates back to March, when Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis cited a letter allegedly written by Ms. Shukla to the then Maharashtra Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal about alleged corruption in police transfers. The letter is believed to have relied upon leaked conversations by Ms. Shukla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-extends-protection-to-ips-officer-rashmi-shukla/article36040763.ece
22 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Gang that looted temples, stole car batteries busted||The central unit of the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has busted a four-member gang that looted temples and stole car batteries. Over 2 kg and 350 gm of silver and 24 car batteries were recovered from them. With their arrest, 10 cases of theft lodged at police stations in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, and Nashik have been solved. The accused — Asit Das (45), Maqbool Shaikh alias Chira (38), Subhash Kewat (35), and Raju Vanjare (30) — confessed to stealing the silver crown of the idol at Radha Girdhari temple in CBD Belapur along with cash from the donation box. Senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar said, “They stole ornaments and a silver paduka from Vithal Rukmini temple in Nhava Sheva, cash from the donation box at Balaji temple in Nerul, and the idol at Chintamani Parshvanath Digambar Jain temple in Palghar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gang-that-looted-temples-stole-car-batteries-busted/article36040759.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Regularisation of illegal colonies awaits Centre’s nod||In a bid to regularise unauthorised colonies in the national capital, proposals have been sent to the Central government, senior officials of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) said. To ensure better living conditions and to push for regularisation of the unauthorised colonies, the proposal entails regularising colonies as it is, in cases where the respective colonies meet basic requirements. Better living DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain told The Hindu, “In the ’70s and ’80s, when colonies were regularised, there was not really much difference in their lives. What we have proposed is to make certain norms which will ensure better living in the colonies which get regularised. The first part of it is that if a particular colony meets the basic level of norms, then the DDA will regularise it, as it is.” Stating that unauthorised colonies which do not meet the basic requirements will have to go for compulsory redevelopment. Mr. Jain explained, “If a particular colony is not meeting the basic norms, including the minimum width of a road and so on, the colonies will have to go for redevelopment. People will be asked to pool their lands. The more land that gets pooled, the incentives provided will be better. If for example, 2,000 square metre of land gets accumulated, then we will make multistoreys and regularise the colony. This will also ensure that the quality of life in the area improves.” Senior officials said that the proposal is with the Centre and the guidelines will be finalised after receiving required approvals. Officials of the urban body also said that urban planning agencies like the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) have also been asked to select colonies on a random basis and make layouts of whether the proposed regularisation process can be implemented. Model colonies Mr. Jain said, “It is still at the planning stage but the NIUA has been asked to choose five to six colonies as model colonies and make plans accordingly to see whether the proposed regularisation process can be implemented. The first few model colonies will most likely be the ones which can be regularised as it is, if they meet the basic requirements.” Had consultations While the land-owning agency has had consultations with other departments like the fire department regarding basic requirements that are to be laid out, senior officials said that once a colony is regularised, agencies concerned like civic bodies and public works department among others, will have to carry out the required development work in the area. Meanwhile, as per official records, the DDA had issued over 8,000 conveyance deeds and authorisation slips as of August 15. The scheme was launched in December 2019 after the Centre passed a Bill to grant ownership rights to people residing in unauthorised colonies. According to data provided by the DDA, the urban body has received over 4.25 lakh registrations under the scheme and over 78,000 applications. Speaking about the pace of the PM-UDAY scheme, Mr. Jain said, “The pace of registrations and completed applications was hit by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. There still exists a gap between the number of registrations and the number of completed applications. We are in the process of restarting camps to facilitate people. We have also changed our strategy and will be continuing the work in coordination with the civic bodies.” “Apart from direct messaging through camps, in case of deficiencies in applications, we will also be doing targeted messaging,” said Mr. Jain.  The pace of registrations and completed applications was hit by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic Anurag Jain DDA vice-chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/regularisation-of-illegal-colonies-awaits-centres-nod/article36040605.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Agencies given list of 15 names to file fake FIRs against: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister and senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia on Saturday claimed that they have come to know from “reliable sources” that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a list of 15 people to the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate and the Delhi police to raid and file fake FIRs against. Many names in this list are from the AAP, he added. “PM Modi is using his brahmastra to falsely implicate the leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party in view of the coming elections. Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana’s career graph has matched PM Modi’s political growth, and thus, he has promised PM Modi that he will ruin these people through fake cases,” Mr. Sisodia said during a ‘online press conference’. Mr. Sisodia did not explain from where they got the information. “You are welcome to come and raid us in false cases, but don’t forget that you couldn’t find a single thing against us in all your past raids instead,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a statement. Mr. Sisodia claimed that Mr. Modi had got houses of AAP leaders, including his raided in the past as well. Mr. Sisodia said that the Delhi government believes in honest politics and giving quality education. Mr. Sisodia said that the BJP is “scared” and upset of the increasing popularity of the AAP. “The growth graph of the AAP is increasing rapidly in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh. Seeing this, the BJP is shaken,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/agencies-given-list-of-15-names-to-file-fake-firs-against-sisodia/article36040607.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 10,000 doses given to inmates in Delhi jails||A total of 10,885 doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered to the inmates of three jails in Delhi so far, the Delhi Prisons Department said on Saturday. According to the data shared by prison officials as on Thursday, 1,648 Tihar jail inmates aged above 45 and 5,750 below the age of 45 years had been vaccinated. In Rohini jail, 172 inmates above 45 years and 600 below that age were administered the vaccine. In Mandoli jail, 483 inmates aged above 45 and 2,232 below it have been vaccinated so far. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel, “The inmates who received their first dose inside the prison and released on interim bail or emergency parole were asked to get the second dose in the dispensaries and hospitals near their homes. If they face any difficulty in getting the vaccine, then they can approach the jail authorities”. The vaccination drive in Tihar prison complex was launched on March 18 for the 45-plus category and the drive for inmates in the 18-44 age group began on May 18. Since March, at least 383 COVID-19 cases have been reported among the inmates of the jails in the national capital and eight of them have succumbed to the disease, the data showed. Out on interim bail Prison officials said over 4,000 inmates were released from three jails. “This year, the process of releasing inmates started from the second week of May. A total of 3,442 undertrial prisoners were released on interim bail and 845 convicts were released on emergency parole from the prisons,” they said. Officials said that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the prisons department has remained vigilant and instructed its staff to maintain hygiene and social distancing among themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-10000-doses-given-to-inmates-in-delhi-jails/article36040611.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU closes registration portal for PG courses||The online registration portal for the various postgraduate courses in Delhi University closed on Saturday. The university received over 1.79 lakh registrations for PG courses. According to data provided by DU, as of 6 p.m. on Saturday, the university had received around 28,827 registrations for M.Phil and Ph.D courses. The online portal for PG, M.Phil and Ph.D registrations was launched by the university on July 26. According to officials, there are around 20,000 postgraduate seats on offer this year. The university had earlier announced that the entire admission process would be online and applicants were not required to visit departments or campuses for any admission-related purposes. The Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) will also be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) between Sept. 26 and Oct. 1 for the various entrance based PG courses. The officials said the declaration of admission lists will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/du-closes-registration-portal-for-pg-courses/article36040614.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Couple held for killing two-year-old nephew||A couple has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping and killing their 2-year-old nephew in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden, the police said on Saturday. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said the accused — Yamuna and her husband  Rajesh — beg for a living. On Friday, a woman told an ASI that her son has been missing. During probe, a woman can be seen carrying the child. “She was then apprehended from Tughlakabad,” an officer said. Next, her husband was held on Saturday. They told police that they strangulated the child and dumped him in a drain. Accused said they killed the boy because they believed he will grow up and rule the begging area while they will be sidelined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/couple-held-for-killing-two-year-old-nephew/article36040615.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. baffled over DTC bus inquiry: BJP||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Saturday called Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s allegations against PM Narendra Modi “baseless”. He alleged that these were being made in response to the Centre’s nod for a CBI probe in the DTC bus purchase scam by a “baffled” Delhi government. “It has been seen in the past seven years that whenever a scam of the Kejriwal government gets exposed, they are baffled and they start coming out with all kinds of unfounded and baseless statements,” Mr. Gupta said. He added that the AAP had “a history of first making unwarranted allegations and then apologising”. He sought to issue a warning to Mr. Sisodia to either identify the sources behind his allegation or offer an apology to the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-govt-baffled-over-dtc-bus-inquiry-bjp/article36040610.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man who set self on fire outside SC dies||A 27-year-old man, who had allegedly set himself on fire outside the Supreme Court, succumbed to injuries on Saturday, the police said. The man and a woman had tried to end their lives by setting themselves ablaze on August 16. The man had sustained 65% burn injuries and the 24-year-old woman suffered 85%burns. Officials deployed the court rushed them to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. The woman is undergoing treatment. The woman — from U.P.’s Ghazipur — was allegedly raped by a BJP MP in 2019. The accused has been in jail for two years and the matter is undergoing trial. In a live video before the incident, the woman and the man alleged that a few police officers and other noted people were supporting the accused. In August, a local court in Varanasi issued a non-bailable warrant against her in a case of forgery based on a complaint filed by the accused MP’s brother.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-who-set-self-on-fire-outside-sc-dies/article36040616.ece
22 August 2021||Kabul,||Taliban co-founder in Kabul for talks to form government||Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar arrived in Kabul on Saturday for talks on establishing a new “inclusive” government in Afghanistan, a senior official said. It comes after other senior Taliban leaders were seen in the capital in recent days, including Khalil Haqqani — one of America’s most wanted terrorists with a $5 million bounty on his head. A senior Taliban official said that Baradar would meet “jihadi leaders and politicians for an inclusive government set-up”. Hours later, pro-Taliban social media accounts showed Haqqani announcing that Ahmad Massoud — the son of Afghanistan’s most famed anti-Taliban fighter Ahmad Shah Massoud — had “declared allegiance” to the movement. Mr. Massoud had earlier this week appealed to the United States to supply arms to his resistance movement in the Panjshir Valley, northeast of Kabul, saying he wanted to follow in his father Ahmad Shah Massoud’s footsteps. Mr. Massoud has not issued a statement. Haqqani has also met with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar — a former bitter rival during the brutal civil war of the early 1990s, but still influential in Afghan politics. ‘Different’ rule Baradar arrived in Afghanistan last Tuesday from Qatar, choosing to touch down in the country’s second-biggest city Kandahar — the Taliban’s spiritual birthplace. Within hours of his return, the group announced its rule would be “different” this time. But they have given few details about who would form their government. Arrested in Pakistan in 2010, Baradar was in custody until pressure from the U.S. saw him freed in 2018 and relocated to Qatar. He was appointed head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha, where he oversaw the signing of the agreement last year that led to the withdrawal of U.S. forces and an end to their 20-year campaign. On Friday, Haqqani — the uncle of Taliban deputy leader Sirajuddin Haqqani — was seen leading prayers at a mosque in Kabul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-co-founder-in-kabul-for-talks-to-form-government/article36040096.ece
22 August 2021||Sydney,||Hundreds held in Australia after clashes over lockdown||Hundreds were arrested after violent clashes between anti-lockdown protesters and police in Australia’s two largest cities on Saturday as the country recorded its sharpest rise in daily COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began. Sydney’s state of New South Wales posted 825 infections — a record for the entire country — a day after authorities extended the city’s lockdown until at least September to try to head off the Delta variant. “No matter how hard we work, no matter if 99% of people are doing the right thing, there’s an element of Delta that nobody can control,” NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian told media. “The best way we can look forward to freedom is by making sure that we get vaccinated.” An increasing outbreak in Melbourne’s state of Victoria also prompted stay-at-home orders to be extended across the entire State on Saturday. But Melbourne’s public health orders didn’t deter thousands from venting anger in a march against the lockdown rules, with police using pepper spray in violent clashes with protesters. Seven officers were injured and more than 200 people were arrested in the “violent and unlawful” protest, Victoria Police said in a statement. “While there were some peaceful protestors in attendance, the majority of those who attended came with violence in mind,” they said. In Sydney more than 1,500 police flooded the city, setting up roadblocks and making dozens of arrests as around 250 gathered there, NSW Police said. Large crowds were also reported at an anti-lockdown rally in Brisbane. Sydney’s outbreak has also been linked to a case that sparked a national lockdown in New Zealand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hundreds-held-in-australia-after-clashes-over-lockdown/article36040101.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Attacks cast doubt on China’s Pak. projects||Two suicide bombings in the space of just over one month have cast doubt on the future of China’s ambitious projects in Pakistan and neighbouring Afghanistan, with renewed concerns over the safety of Chinese personnel in the region. On Friday, a motorcade carrying Chinese personnel working at the East Bay Expressway project in Gwadar, the Arabian Sea port where the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) ends, was attacked by a suicide bomber, Pakistani and Chinese officials said, with two local children killed and one Chinese worker injured. This followed another bomb attack on July 14 targeting Chinese workers at the Dasu hydropower project, that killed 13 people, including nine Chinese nationals. The attacks prompted an unusual statement from Chinese authorities on Friday. “Recently, the security situation in Pakistan has been severe,” the Chinese Embassy in Islamabad said, adding that it “launched the emergency plan immediately, demanding Pakistan to properly treat the wounded, conduct a thorough investigation on the attack, and severely punish the perpetrators.” “At the same time, relevant departments at all levels in Pakistan must take practical and effective measures to accelerate to implement strengthened whole-process security measures and upgraded security cooperation mechanism to ensure that similar incidents will not happen again,” the statement said, noting “there have been several terrorist attacks in succession, resulting in the casualties of several Chinese citizens.” Pakistani authorities in a statement said “the bomber targeted the convoy of Chinese nationals comprising four Chinese vehicles with integral security details of the Pakistan Army and police contingent on the East Bay Expressway near Fishermen Colony in Gwadar.” “A young boy ran out of the colony once the convoy reached there to target Chinese vehicles. Fortunately, soldiers of the Pakistan Army in plain clothes employed as hanging around security rushed to intercept the boy; who immediately exploded himself about 15-20 meters away from the convoy,” said a statement reported by the Press Trust of India. Companies worried The July 14 attack had already deepened concerns among Chinese companies and workers, particularly amid the instability in neighbouring Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover. Workers for Chinese companies involved in the Dasu project were “reportedly on tenterhooks and fearful of another terrorist attack,” the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported, quoting a local interpreter for one Chinese firm as saying “Pakistani mobile army units only provided protection to Chinese staff travelling between the Barseen residential camp and the hydropower project’s various sites outside Dasu town in the remote Kohistan region.” “Without consistent army protection at the worksites, senior executives of the Chinese firms have reportedly refused to put their staff at risk and ordered a go-slow,” the interpreter said, while Arif Yousafzai, deputy commissioner for Lower Kohistan district, said “full-fledged activities are yet to be resumed” although “the work has not been stopped completely”. Many Chinese projects in Afghanistan have also been on pause. While China on Monday was among the first major countries to say it “stands ready” to work with Afghanistan in the wake of the Taliban takeover and Chinese state media have celebrated the U.S. exit, there are long-persisting concerns among Chinese officials over the Taliban’s links to jihadist groups going back to the 1990s that “very much remain”, said Andrew Small, senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund and author of “The China Pakistan Axis”. “If you’ve seen the recent developments with CPEC and the Chinese investments in Pakistan, there’s been far more anxiety about the security situation there in the last few months than in the last few years,” Mr. Small told The Hindu . “They’re concerned that effectively, Afghanistan could be used as strategic depth for the Pakistani Taliban, and that that would have implications for their investments and security interests in the country. The attack that we saw a few weeks ago was probably the largest loss of life you’ve seen in a terrorist attack on Chinese personnel in Pakistan, full stop.” Most Chinese experts have blamed the July 14 attack on the Pakistani Taliban or TTP. Authorities in Pakistan claimed the attack was “executed by the Swat chapter of TTP”, saying the attacker was “trained in Afghanistan”. Pakistan’s officials, including the Foreign Minister, claimed the attacker “received support from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies”, claims which New Delhi rubbished as “absurd” and “yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as…a safe haven for proscribed terrorists”. Pakistan’s claims haven’t received wide attention in the Chinese press, and the Chinese Foreign Ministry in a statement on August 13, in response to queries about the claims, stopped short of directly endorsing the allegation. It said “further investigation by Pakistan is still ongoing at the moment” and China “firmly opposes any force using terrorism to seek geopolitical gains”. China on July 28 invited a delegation from the Taliban and sought a commitment from the grouping to “make a clean break” with jihadist groups, although some Chinese analysts remain skeptical of that likelihood. Nevertheless, some Chinese companies have expressed hope, regardless of China’s past concerns, that the Taliban takeover might bring stability if the civil war ends. “While some Chinese companies are involved in several major projects in Afghanistan, including the Aynak Copper Mine project, which is the second-largest copper mine in the world, many have been stalled or seen slow progress due to political instability in the country,” the Communist Party-run Global Times reported. “We would consider reopening it after the situation is stabilised, and international recognition, including the Chinese government’s recognition of the Taliban regime, takes place,” a source at China Metallurgical Group Corporation told the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/attacks-cast-doubt-on-chinas-pak-projects/article36040097.ece
22 August 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka elephants to get biometric ID cards||Sri Lanka will issue captive elephants with their own biometric identity cards and ban their riders from drinking on the job under a wide-ranging new animal protection law. Many rich Sri Lankans — including Buddhist monks — keep elephants as pets to show off their wealth, but complaints of ill treatment and cruelty are widespread. The new measures are aimed at protecting the animals and include strict regulations around working elephants, as well as mandating a daily two-and-a-half-hour bath for each creature. Official records show there are about 200 domesticated elephants in the South Asian nation, with the population in the wild estimated at about 7,500. The new law will require all owners to ensure that animals under their care have new photo identity cards with a DNA stamp. It also brings in multiple regulations for working elephants. Baby elephants can no longer be used for work — even cultural pageants — and cannot be separated from their mothers. Logging elephants cannot be worked for more than four hours a day and night work is prohibited. There are new restrictions on the tourism industry too — from now on, no more than four people can ride an elephant at once, and they must sit on a well-padded saddle. Their use in films is banned, except for government productions under strict veterinary supervision, as is allowing their riders to drink while working. “The person who owns or has the custody of such elephants shall ensure that the mahout (rider) is not consuming any liquor or any harmful drug while employed,” Wildlife Protection Minister Wimalaweera Dissanayaka said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-elephants-to-get-biometric-id-cards/article36040099.ece
22 August 2021||New York,||Hurricane threatens U.S. East Coast||A swath of the U.S. East Coast, including New York City, was under alert on Saturday, as storm Henri was upgraded to what could be the first hurricane in 30 years to hit New England. Forecasters warned of violent winds, the risk of flash floods and surging seas as the storm churned in the Atlantic, packing maximum sustained winds near 120 km per hour. “Although some weakening is expected prior to landfall on Sunday, Henri is forecast to be at or near hurricane strength when it reaches the coasts of Long Island and southern New England,” the United States National Hurricane Center said. The heavy rainfall “may result in considerable flash, urban, and small stream flooding,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hurricane-threatens-us-east-coast/article36040466.ece
22 August 2021||Washington,||Avoid Kabul airport, U.S. tells its citizens||Potential Islamic State threats against Americans in Afghanistan are forcing the U.S. military to develop new ways to get evacuees to the airport in Kabul, a senior U.S. official said on Saturday. The official said that small groups of Americans and possibly other civilians will be given specific instructions on what to do. The U.S. Embassy has issued a security warning telling citizens not to travel to Kabul airport without instruction from government representative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/avoid-kabul-airport-us-tells-its-citizens/article36040102.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||SEBI keeps Adani Wilmar’s Rs. 4,500-crore IPO in abeyance||Capital markets regulator SEBI has kept the proposed Rs. 4,500-crore initial share-sale of edible oil major Adani Wilmar Ltd. (AWL) in “abeyance”. However, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) did not elaborate further. The company had filed preliminary papers with SEBI on August 3, to raise funds through an initial public offering (IPO). Without disclosing the reason, SEBI said “issuance of observations kept in abeyance” with regard to the Adani Wilmar IPO, according to an update on the SEBI website as on August 13. In market parlance, SEBI’s observations is a kind of go-ahead to float a public issue. In a statement on Saturday, an Adani Group spokesperson said, “we have not received any formal communication from SEBI with respect to the IPO observations being kept in abeyance”. ‘Fully compliant’ “While we have always been fully compliant with applicable SEBI Regulations, we have made full disclosure to SEBI on specific information requests from them in the past. We will continue to cooperate with the regulators in the future as well,” the spokesperson added. AWL’s proposed listing on the stock exchanges will comprise the fresh issue of new equity shares by AWL for an amount of up to Rs. 4,500 crore. There will not be any secondary offering, Adani Enterprises Ltd. (AEL), the flagship company of the Adani group, had said in a regulatory filing. AWL, which sells cooking oils under the Fortune brand, is a major player in the edible oil industry. The firm is a 50:50 joint venture between the Adani group and the Wilmar group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-keeps-adani-wilmars-rs-4500-crore-ipo-in-abeyance/article36040085.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Pickup in economic indicators gives hope for coming quarters’||Indian mutlinational conglomerate Larsen & Toubro Ltd. is betting on key focus markets such as West Asia, Africa and the Far East for growth. Within India, it will continue to target projects funded by multilateral agencies, MD & CEO S.N. Subrahmanyan said in an e-mail interview. Excerpts:  How is the infrastructure scenario in India and globally? Both the Indian economy as well as all its constituents comprising households, corporates and government are seeking to get back to growth momentum. The pickup in high-frequency economic indicators builds hope for the coming quarters. Government is committed to infra formation in India and we believe large parts of the national infrastructure pipeline [target] will be achieved. Creation of a development finance institution and announcements around recycling of operating assets are credible measures that have been recently taken up. With the pickup in oil prices, the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) is looking a lot better; and Africa with consistent multilateral funding support should do well. Having said that, the risk of a third wave and its consequent economic fallout does linger in our mind at this juncture, but we hope this will not be severe. What are the key drivers that will boost infrastructure? The government is seized of the fact that investment spends can create the much-needed employment opportunities and add multiplier impact to economic activity. In a normal year, public spends comprising those by the Centre, the States and public sector units add up to 7% of India’s GDP. For the next 4-6 quarters till private investments pick up, the heavy lifting in terms of capex formation will have to be [done] by the government. We see various prospects in different areas of infrastructure like metros, hydel projects, tunnelling and bridge construction, in roads, power transmission & distribution, water spends and hydrocarbon projects including activities taking place in factories; and commercial activities such as data centres, big auditoriums, and the central vista. What kind of support do you expect from the Centre? With an aim to speed up economic normalisation, the Indian government accelerated public investments in key infrastructure sectors. The wheels of India’s capex cycle had been set in motion with a strong revival in investment-led growth supported by the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission’ and production-linked incentive schemes. The government also rightly stepped in to announce a series of fiscal relief measures. The greatest opportunity and the biggest need in front of the government is to create jobs. Important determinants ahead revolve around sustained capex ordering from the government and an enabling environment for execution and liquidity to contrators. A robust pre-qualification criterion for projects, timely settlement of retention money and claims, reduced arbitration and enhanced conciliation processes and a less stringent bank guarantee exposure will augur well. How have your international orders shaped up? Our principal markets apart from India are West Asia, to some extent Africa, and to a lesser extent the Far East. We see some positive momentum in Africa. There has been revival of both power transmission and water projects in certain parts of Africa. We have bid for some hydrocarbon jobs in certain countries; we hope that with oil prices stabilising, we will see some positive movement on some of those projects in the GCC. Domestic tendering and awarding activity was subdued in Q1 but with economic normalisation from Q2 onwards, we will see a revival. For the remaining nine months of FY22, we see total ordering prospects of around Rs. 9 trillion — comprising domestic opportunities of Rs. 6.3 trillion, and Rs. 2.7 trillion in international prospects.  For the next 4-6 quarters, govt. will have to do the heavy lifting in capex formation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pickup-in-economic-indicators-gives-hope-for-coming-quarters/article36040081.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Listed insurers to control 60% of business post LIC IPO’||After the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC, about 60% of the insurance business will be with listed companies, Additional Secretary in the Finance Ministry Amit Agrawal said on Saturday. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs had in July given its in-principle approval for the listing of the insurance behemoth. The IPO of the state-owned life insurer is part of the government’s efforts to raise Rs. 1.75 lakh crore through disinvestment in the current financial year. Speaking at an event to mark Actuaries Day, Mr. Agrawal said amid global challenges, India has continued to develop as an emerging economy with a financial system that has matured, deepened and achieved scale. The needs of this emerging India are in many ways different, he said, adding the insurance sector, over the two decades since the introduction of competition and regulation, has matured with 69 insurers today as against only eight in 2000. “A majority of these have crossed their initial break-even phase. “Once the proposed listing of LIC happens, about 60% of the insurance industry business would be with listed entities. The sector as a whole has been growing at a pace significantly higher than that of the overall economy,” he said. Currently, there are four listed life insurers and two in the non-life segment. State-owned re-insurer General Insurance Corporation of India is also listed on the bourses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/listed-insurers-to-control-60-of-business-post-lic-ipo/article36040084.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arvind Fashions raises Rs. 439 cr.||Arvind Fashions Ltd., India’s leading casual and denim manufacturer, on Saturday said it has raised Rs. 439 crore from various marquee investors, including promoters by issuing equity shares of the company. This will ‘significantly strengthen’ the balance sheet and allow the business to pursue its growth strategy while insulating it from any COVID-19-related uncertainties, AFL said in a statement. “The board of directors of AFL, at its meeting held today (Saturday), approved the preferential allotment of equity shares aggregating to Rs. 439 crore to various marquee investors, including promoters, at the price of Rs. 218.50,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/arvind-fashions-raises-rs-439-cr/article36040082.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Race walker Amit wins historic silver||Amit Khatri, who had been on a record-breaking spree in the national circuit this year, won the men’s 10,000m race walk silver after a brave effort at the World Athletics under-20 championships in Nairobi on Saturday. The 17-year-old from Rohtak, the world’s fastest under-20 walker this year, held the lead for a good part of the race with host Kenya’s Heristone Wanyonyi hot on his heels. Water woes But the Indian had missed picking a bottle from the water table on a couple of occasions midway through the race and later appeared to go for too many ‘water breaks’ which perhaps cost him the gold. Wanyonyi won the title in 42:10.84s while Amit clocked 42:17.94 for India’s first-ever race walk medal in a World championships. Baljeet Kaur finished seventh with a personal best 48:58.17s in the women’s 10,000m walk where Mexico’s Sofia Ramos Rodrigues won the gold in 46:23.01s. Later in the evening, Priya H. Mohan went all out in the women’s 400m final and improved her personal best by more than half second, clocking 52.77s, but could only finish fourth with Nigerian Imaobong Nse Uko winning the gold in 51.55s. The Indian quartet of Abdul Razak, Sumit Chahal, Kapil and Bharath Sridhar finished last in its heat, and overall, in the men’s 4x400m relay in 3:10.62s, while Rohan Gautam Kamble was seventh in the men’s 400m hurdles semifinal in 52.88s and crashed out. Namibia's Christine Mboma, the Olympic 200m silver medallist, and Beatrice Masilingi who were not allowed to run the quartermile in Tokyo because of their high testosterone levels, made it a fast one-two in the women's 200m, the former even breaking the under-20 world record (21.84s).  Frenchman Sasha Zhoya (110m hurdles, 12.72s, new u-20 world record), Nigeria's Udodi Chudi (men's 200m, 20.21s), Botswana's Anthony Pesela (men's 400m, 44.58s), Ethiopia's Ayal Dagnachew (women's 800m, 2:02.96s), Kenya's Vincent Kibet Keter (men's 1500m, 3:37.24s), Israel's Yonathan Kapitolnik (men's high jump, 2.26m) and Jamaican Ackera Nugent (women's 100m hurdles, 12.95s) were among other gold medallists on the championships' penultimate day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/race-walker-amit-wins-historic-silver/article36040070.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Double for Akanksha, Duhan||Akanksha  Nitture of Maharashtra and Haryana’s Chirag Duhan annexed the singles titles in the Tennishub MPTA National junior under-18 clay court tennis championships at the MPTA, KTC courts, on Saturday. The two had earlier won the doubles crowns. In the girls’ final, the second-seeded Akanksha was in full flow against the top-seeded Reshma Maruri of Karnataka, winning 6-1, 6-3. In the boys’ summit clash, top seed Duhan staged a comeback after losing the first set, prevailing 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 over Maharashtra’s Saheb G. Sodhi. A. Vellayan, former chairman, Murugappa Group and vice-president, TNTA, gaveaway the prizes in the presence of Premkumar Karra,honourary secretary, TNTA.  The results (finals): Boys: Chirag Duhan (Har) bt Saheb G. Sodhi (Mah) 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.   Girls: Akanksha Nitture (Mah) bt Reshma Maruri (Kar) 6-1, 6-3.   Doubles: Akanksha & Kavya Kirwar (Del) bt Reshma & Suhitha Maruri (Kar) 6-4, 7-6(5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-akanksha-duhan/article36040093.ece
22 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Vignesh stars in SRM IST’s title triumph||Vignesh Iyer (73 n.o., 49b, 3x4, 4x6) guided SRM IST to a thrilling three-wicket win over Freyer International in the final of the 51st All India YSCA Trophy tournament at the MAC Stadium on Saturday. Chasing a target of 172, SRM reached home with an over to spare. Earlier, Subramania Siva (97 n.o., 52b, 5x4, 8x6) had powered Freyer to 171. Subramania Siva and Karthik Shanmugam added 85 for the fourth wicket. Dr. Ashok Sigamani, vice-president, TNCA, Prabhu, MD, Sumangali Homes, and Srinivasa Raju, MD, Freyer International, gave away the prizes. M.S. Gurumurthy, Organising Secretary, YSCA, proposed a vote of thanks  The scores (final): Freyer International 171/4 in 20 overs (Karthikeyan 27, Subramania Siva 97 n.o.) lost to SRM IST 172/7 in 19 overs (Vignesh Iyer 73 n.o., Trilok Nag 31, Anthony Dhas 3/19).   Special awards: Best batsman: Subramania Siva (Freyer).   Best bowler: Trilok Nag (SRM); Man-of-the-final: Vignesh Iyer (SRM) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vignesh-stars-in-srm-ists-title-triumph/article36040507.ece
22 August 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Corfe Castle tipped for Governor’s Cup||Trainer L. D’Silva’s Corfe Castle, who ran second in his last start, should make amends in the Governor’s Cup, the feature event of Sunday’s (Aug. 22) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  DONCASTER PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1 p.m.: 1. Ashwa Sultan (4) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Gregor Clegane (10) P. Sai Kumar 56, 3. Salisbury (6) Zervan 56, 4. Wallop And Gallop (9) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 5. Yesterday (5) Surya Prakash 56, 6. Able Love (3) B. Nikhil 54.5, 7. Garden Of Eden (8) Abhay Singh 54.5, 8. Inside Story (1) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 9. Maximum Glamour (11) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 10. Moonlight Ruby (2) Koushik 54.5 and 11. Morior Invictus (7) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. MORIOR INVICTUS,   2. MAXIMUM GLAMOUR,   3. WALLOP AND GALLOP   OCEAN STAR PLATE (Div. III) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.30: 1. Miss Marvellous (10) Abhay Singh 61.5, 2. Lockhart (5) Ajeeth Kumar 61, 3. Curcumin (4) Deepak Singh 60.5, 4. Soul Empress (1) P. Sai Kumar 59.5, 5. Explosive (9) Gaurav Singh 57, 6. Gazebo (3) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 7. Sublime (6) Santosh Raj 56.5, 8. Rhine (8) A.A. Vikrant 54, 9. Story Teller (7) Nakhat Singh 53 and 10. Bedazzled (2) Surya Prakash 50.  1. EXPLOSIVE,   2. SUBLIME,   3. CURCUMIN   DONCASTER PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.00: 1. Dream Station (5) Zervan 56, 2. My Master (9) Nakhat Singh 56, 3. Special Effort (7) P.S. Chouhan 56, 4. Winning Streak (2) Sandesh 56, 5. Ahanu (10) Afroz Khan 54.5, 6. Angelita (4) Koushik 54.5, 7. Hot Seat (6) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 8. Key To Time (8) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 9. Over Joy (1) Ashad Asbar 54.5 and 10. Soloist (3) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. SOLOIST,   2. WINNING STREAK,   3. SPECIAL EFFORT   SAI RAMA PLATE (1,600m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.35: 1. Cheltenham (6) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Lamha (4) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Campania (5) Surya Prakash 58.5, 4. Sweet Melody (2) B.R. Kumar 57, 5. Catalina (3) Zervan 56.5, 6. Steve Rogers (Ex: Always Success) (1) P.S. Chouhan) 56.5 and 7. Grand Duke (7) Nakhat Singh 54.  1. CAMPANIA,   2. LAMHA,   3. CHELTENHAM   BEANDAZ PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m) rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 3.10: 1. Air Salute (1) Abhay Singh 62, 2. Healthandhappiness (2) Ajinkya 62, 3. Star Babe (10) Koushik 61.5, 4. Winning Player (8) Gaurav Singh 61.5, 5. Elmira (13) Santosh Raj 61, 6. Elegant Stroke (11) R.S. Jodha 60.5, 7. Sacred Lamp (7) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 8. Secret Command (3) Kiran Naidu 59, 9. Let It Be Me (6) B.R. Kumar 58.5, 10. Proud Legacy (9) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 11. Felix Flame (12) B. Nikhil 57, 12. India Gate (5) Md. Ismail 56 and 13. Moment Of Silence (4) Afroz Khan 50.  1. AIR SALUTE,   2. SACRED LAMP,   3. STAR BABE   HYDERABAD CITY POLICE COMMISSIONER’S CUP (1,200m) 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.45: 1. Her Legacy (1) P.S. Chouhan 60, 2. Sporting Smile (2) C.P. Bopanna 58.5, 3. N R I Elegance (3) B.R. Kumar 57.5, 4. Full Volume (Ex: Marinetti) (11) Ajinkya 57, 5. Incredulous (8) Md. Ismail 55.5, 6. Maxwell (4) Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 7. Shaquille (5) Ashad Asbar 55.5, 8. N R I Vision (10) Akshay Kumar 55, 9. Rapid Fire (6) Nakhat Singh 55, 10. City Of Wisdom (7) P. Sai Kumar 53 and 11. N R I Magic (9) Afroz Khan 52.  1. HER LEGACY,   2. N R I VISION, 3. FULL VOLUME   GOVERNOR’S CUP (1,400m) (Terms), 3-y-o & upward (Cat. I), 4.20: 1. Corfe Castle (6) Sandesh 60, 2. Moondancer (1) Zervan 55, 3. Victory Parade (7) B.R. Kumar 55, 4. Consigliori (4) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 5. Prince Valiant (5) P. Gaddam 53.5, 6. Galloping Gangster (3) S.S. Tanwar 52 and 7. Titus (2) Ashad Asbar 52.  1. CORFE CASTLE,   2. CONSIGLIORI,   3. PRINCE VALIANT   BEANDAZ PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Berkeley (12) Gaurav Singh 62, 2. Aibak (9) Afroz Khan 61.5, 3. Stark (Ex: Echoes Of Heaven) (10) Ajit Singh 61.5, 4. Hurricane (1) Abhay Singh 61, 5. Bravo (8) P. Sai Kumar 60.5, 6. Golden Forza (2) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 7. Jo Malone (13) Deepak Singh 59.5, 8. Charcoal (4) Santosh Raj 58.5, 9. Big Day (3) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 10. N R I Flame (6) B.R. Kumar 57.5, 11. Acadian Angel (11) G. Naresh 56.5, 12. Cephalonia (5) N.B. Kuldeep 54.5 and 13. Royal Avenger (7) Ajeeth Kumar 50.  1. BERKELEY,   2. AIBAK,   3. ACADIAN ANGEL  Day’s Best: CORFE CASTLE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5, (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 3, 4 & 5, (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/corfe-castle-tipped-for-governors-cup/article36040088.ece
22 August 2021||Chennai,||Commanding win for Jagan||Defending champion Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) did as he pleased on his super-quick Apache RTR 160 bike to win the premium Pro-Stock 165cc Open race in the first round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship 2021 at the MMRT, here on Saturday. Earlier, Alwin Sundar (AS Motorsports), who turns 19 in a week’s time, gave himself an advance birthday gift by taking the Novice (Stock 165cc) race from fifth on the grid. Another notable winner was 16-year-old Kavin Quintal from Chennai in the high-end NSF 250R class of the Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup.  The results (provisional, six laps unless mentioned): National championship: Pro-Stock 165cc Open (Race One): 1. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) (11mins, 50.845secs), 2. Rajiv Sethu (Idemitsu Honda SK69 Racing) (11:55.312), 3. Deepak Ravikumar (TVS Racing) (11:57.519).   Novice (Stock, 165cc, Race One): 1. Alwin Sundar (AS Motorsports) (13:09.026), 2. Anfal A (Rockstar Racing) (13:09.157), 3. Teja TVR Namburu (Gusto Racing) (13:09.335).   One-Make championships: Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup–NSF 250 Open (Race One): 1. Kavin Quintal (Chennai) (11:04.310), 2. Varoon Sadasivam (Chennai) (11:15.762), 3. Geoffrey Reviven Emmanuel (Chennai) (11:16.398).   Honda CBR 150 (Race One): 1. Rakshith S Dave (Chennai) (13:12.373), 2. Prakash Kamath (Bokharo Steel City) (13:17.189), 3. Theopaul Leander (Chennai) (13:21.759).   Honda Hornet 2.0 (Race One): 1. Kevin Kannan (Chennai) (13:28.543), 2. Veera Ashwin Lal (Madurai) (13:49.116), 3. Sudheer Sudhakar (New Delhi) (13:52.208).   TVS Apache RR 310 Open (Race One): 1. Amarnath Menon (Kerala) (12:18.421), 2. Yashas RL (Bengaluru) (12:19.175), 3. Jagadeesh N (Bengaluru) (12:19.737).   TVS Rookie (RTR 200, Race One): 1. Jinendra Kiran Sangave (Kolhapur) (13:00.501), 2. Zenas Zhotan Bailey (Auroville) (13:21.271), 3, Jagathishree (Chennai) (13:21.432).   TVS Girls (RTR 200, Five laps): 1. Rakshita Srihari Dave (Chennai) (11:21.305), 2. Adlin Seles (Chennai) (11:25.725), 3. Nishita Palani (Chennai) (11:32.585) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagan-retains-his-crown-in-style/article36040072.ece
22 August 2021||London,||Man City cruises past Norwich||Jack Grealish scored his first goal for Manchester City as the Premier League champion thrashed Norwich 5-0, while title rival Liverpool extended its perfect start with a 2-0 victory against Burnley on Saturday. Aymeric Laporte, Raheem Sterling and Riyad Mahrez netted in the second half to ensure City bounced back from last weekend’s defeat at Tottenham. At Anfield, Liverpool earned a second successive wins thanks to goals from Diogo Jota and Sadio Mane. In Ligue 1, Paris Saint-Germain survived a scare without Neymar and Lionel Messi before beating Brest 4-2 and extending its winning start to three games. Coach Mauricio Pochettino indicated that Messi could make his debut against Reims next weekend. “Next week will be a long one, but if all goes well, we hope he can be in the squad and start at a competitive level [against Reims].”  The results: Premier League: Liverpool 2 (Jota 18, Mane 69) bt Burnley 0; Aston Villa 2 (Ings 45+3, El Ghazi 62-pen) bt Newcastle 0; Crystal Palace 0 drew with Brentford 0; Leeds 2 (Klich 41, Raphinha 72) drew with Everton 2 (Calvert-Lewin 30-pen, Gray 50); Manchester City 5 (Krul 7-og, Grealish 22, Laporte 64, Sterling 71, Mahrez 84) bt Norwich 0; Brighton 2 (Duffy 10, Maupay 41) bt Watford 0.   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 0 drew with Augsburg 0; Freiburg 2 (Grifo 6, Sallai 53) bt Borussia Dortmund 1 (Keitel 59-og); Hertha Berlin 1 (Lukebakio 60-pen) lost to VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Baku 74, Nmecha 88); VfL Bochum 2 (Holtmann 21, Polter 56) bt Mainz 0; Greuther Fuerth 1 (Klos 45)drew with Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Hrgota 50-pen).   LaLiga: Alaves 0 lost to Mallorca 1 (Fer Nino 80).   On Friday: LaLiga: Real Betis 1 (Juanmi 22) drew with Cadiz 1 (Alvaro Negredo 11-pen).   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 4 (Szoboszlai 38, 52, Forsberg 46, Silva 65-pen) bt VfB Stuttgart 0.   Ligue 1: Brest 2 (Honorat 42, Mounie 85) lost to PSG 4 (Herrera 23, Mbappe 36, Gueye 73, Di Maria 90).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-cruises-past-norwich/article36040079.ece
22 August 2021||BENGALURU,||Hasaranga, Chameera, David in RCB squad||Wanindu Hasaranga, Dushmantha Chameera and Tim David have been added to the Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) squad for the second part of IPL 2021, the team announced on Saturday. The side will miss the services of Finn Allen, Scott Kuggeleijn, Kane Richardson, Daniel Sams and Adam Zampa. Katich steps down In another personnel change, Australian Simon Katich stepped down as the Head Coach due to personal reasons. Mike Hesson, the Director of Cricket Operations, will additionally take on the role of Head Coach for the remainder of the season. Sri Lankan leg-spinner Hasaranga, who replaced Australian Zampa, turned heads recently with a four-for-nine haul against the visiting Indians in the third T20I. “Hasaranga offers balance with his wrist-spin, and also with his batting,” Hesson said in a media interaction on Saturday. Fellow Sri Lankan Chameera was equally impressive against India, generating good pace with the new ball. “Chameera has genuine pace. “His white-ball game has developed significantly in the last few years,” Hesson said. Singapore-born Australian David has made a mark as a hard-hitting middle-order batsman. David, who found great success in Pakistan Super League (PSL) and Big Bash League (BBL), most recently recorded two match-winning centuries in the Royal London Cup one-day tournament in England. “David is a power player who could become a straight swap for (Glenn) Maxwell or A.B. de Villiers, if required,” Hesson said. “We have one more spot to fill, which we will do in the coming days,” Hesson added.  New Zealand cricketers Allen and Kuggeleijn will not be available as they have been selected for international duty. Australians Richardson, Sams and Zampa have declared themselves unavailable for the tournament. Richardson and Zampa were among the first overseas players to pull out of the first part of the IPL held in India, as the nation suffered an alarming spike in COVID-19 numbers. RCB’s India players, support staff and team management — apart from those who are away on tour in England — started their seven-day quarantine in Bengaluru on Saturday. Departure on Aug. 29 After undergoing three COVID-19 tests, the contingent will depart from here via a chartered flight on August 29. The other international players and staff will assemble in the UAE from August 29. The IPL was suspended in May after a rise in COVID-19 cases among players and staff. RCB had won five of seven matches at that stage. The league will resume in the UAE on Sept. 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hasaranga-chameera-david-in-rcb-squad/article36040584.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC bows out of AFC Cup||Bengaluru FC bowed out of the 2021 AFC Cup following a goalless draw against Bashundhara Kings in Male on Saturday. The result kept the Marco Pezzaiuoli-coached side third in Group D (one point), with Bashundhara and ATK Mohun Bagan both above. Pezzaiuoli made three changes to the side that lost to ATKMB, with Parag Shrivas, Danish Farooq and Bidyashagar Singh replacing Sarthak Golui, Ajay Chhetri and Udanta Singh. Both sides had periods where they held the upper hand but neither could prevail. On 24 minutes, Cleiton Silva’s ball into the box was met by a diving Yrondu Musavu-King but his header went straight into Bashundhara goalie Anisur Rahman’s gloves. At the other end, Gurpreet Singh Sandhu got his palms to Jonathan Reis’ effort from outside the box. On the stroke of halftime, BFC earned a freekick after a foul on Silva, but couldn’t capitalise. Bashundhara came close in the 57th minute through Brazilian winger Robinho whose effort deflected off Gurpreet’s foot and was sailing goalward until Naorem Roshan Singh’s acrobatic effort and Gurpreet’s outstretched arm kept the ball from going in. Towards the end, Silva, Jayesh Rane and skipper Sunil Chhetri all tried to break the game open, but Bashundhara’s defence held strong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-bows-out-of-afc-cup/article36040086.ece
22 August 2021||Karachi,||PCB puts camp, selection on hold||The Pakistan Cricket Board has put on hold a training camp that was scheduled to start on Saturday in Lahore and also the announcement of its squad for the ODI series against Afghanistan next month in Sri Lanka. With Taliban taking over the reins in Afghanistan and the country facing its worst crisis in last two decades, the PCB wants a confirmation from Afghanistan Cricket Board whether the series is on and only the will it announce the squad. The series is due to begin on Sept. 3 in Hambantota in Sri Lanka with the Sri Lanka board hosting the matches on behalf of the ACB. The official said the Afghanistan cricket authorities are yet to confirm when their players will leave Kabul for Colombo and also the schedule of the matches. “Once they give us the complete series travel plans and itinerary we will have the camp and also release our squad,” he said. The ACB is said to be in talks with the Taliban authorities and US troops which are controlling all flights in and out of Kabul airport.  The series is due to begin on Sept. 3 in Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pcb-puts-camp-selection-on-hold/article36040089.ece
22 August 2021||Hyderabad:,||Miracle showcases her class in feature event||Trainer P. Shroff’s champion filly Miracle, piloted by P.S. Chouhan, won the 47th running of the Deccan Fillies Championship Stakes (Gr. 3), the stellar attraction of Saturday’s (Aug. 21) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Miracle (Multidimensional–Khalila), kept calmly in fourth position by jockey Chouhan till the bend, cruised into the lead while homeward bound to win by a comfortable margin from stablemate Alicia.  1. OCEAN STAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m) 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): STAR RACER (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Max (Abhay Singh) 2, Brisbane (Surya Prakash) 3 and Mind Reader (B.R. Kumar) 4. 2, Hd and 1-1/2. 1m, 28.22s. Rs. 80 (w), 26, 13 and 17 (p). SHP: 51, THP: 73, FP: 748, Q: 423, Tanala: 4,554. Favourite: Mind Reader. Owners: Mr. Jitendra D. Parekh & Mr. Mamidi Bhudevi Dilip Kumar. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  2. RAZIA SULTANA PLATE (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): COSMIC RUN (Kiran Naidu) 1, Galwan (Akshay Kumar) 2, November Rain (R. Ajinkya) 3 and Total Darc (Afroz Khan) 4. 3/4, 2-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 14.55s. Rs. 324 (w), 46, 11 and 59 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 173, FP: 2,296, Q: 240, Tanala: 12, 724. Favourite: Galwan. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders Farm Private Limited & Mr. Teegala Vijender Reddy. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  3. SANDOWN PARK PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ALL TIME LEGEND (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Star Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 2, Different (Md. Ismail) 3 and Blue Valentine (Surya Prakash) 4. 4, 2 and 2. 1m, 14.19s. Rs. 13 (w), 11, 16 and 18 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 55, FP: 68, Q: 52, Tanala: 383. Favourite: All Time Legend. Owner: Mr. N.V. Rohin Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  4. NEWBURY PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): FALCON EDGE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Peaky Blinders (Sandesh) 2, Dandy Man (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Francis Bacon (Nakhat Singh) 4. 2-3/4, 5 and Nk. 1m, 39.58s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 10 and 22 (p). SHP: 25, THP: 48, FP: 41, Q: 28, Tanala: 298. Favourite: Falcon Edge. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R H Sequeira.  5. NAWAB MEHDI JUNG BAHADUR MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): RENO STAR (Abhay Singh) 1, Sovet Pride (Sandesh) 2, Ashwa Yashobali (Gaurav Singh) 3 and British Empress (Akshay Kumar) 4. 2, Sh and 2. 1m, 40.14s. Rs. 188 (w), 23, 11 and 11 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 39, FP: 827, Q: 348, Tanala: 1,552. Favourite: British Empress. Owner: Mr. Subodh Chand Bothra. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  6. SANDOWN PARK PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BLINK OF AN EYE (Afroz Khan) 1, City Of Passion (Ashad Asbar) 2, Appenzelle (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Castlerock (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 1/2, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 14.97s. Rs. 83 (w), 18, 21 and 12 (p). SHP: 69, THP: 64, FP: 1,072, Q: 636, Tanala: 5,017. Favourite: Appenzelle. Owners: Ms Meka Ahalya & Mrs. Rajini Meka. Trainer: L. D’Silva.  7. DECCAN FILLIES CHAMPIONSHIP STAKES (Gr.3) (1,600m) (Terms), Fillies 3-y-o only: MIRACLE (Multidimensional–Khalila) (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Alicia (Western Aristocrat–Heather) (Zervan) 2, Pecanwood (Win Legend–Woodberg) (Ashad Asbar) 3 and New Look (Sedgefield–Ballade Danon) (Nakhat Singh) 4. 3-3/4, 1 and 2. 1m, 39.82s. Rs. 12 (w), 12, 10 and 20 (p). SHP: 24, THP: 47, FP: 27, Q: 27, Tanala: 178. Favourite: Miracle. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. OCEAN STAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m) 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GREEN TURF (B.R. Kumar) 1, Once More (Nakhat Singh) 2, Nearest (G. Naresh) 3 and Linewiler (Abhay Singh) 4. 1/2, 2-3/4 and Nk. 1m, 27.90s. Rs. 85 (w), 28, 22 and 51 (p). SHP: 56, THP: 147, FP: 744, Q: 251, Tanala: 7, 666. Favourite: Dunkirk. Owner: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar. Trainer: G. Shashikanth. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 60,001 (7 tkts.) & 30%: 1,747 (103 tkts.); Treble: (i) 37, 598 (c/o), (ii) 834 (36 tkts.), (iii) 1,981 (43 tkts.); Mini Jackpot: (i) 36,480 (c/o), (ii) 49, 885 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-showcases-her-class-in-feature-event/article36040091.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||ATKMB rallies past Maziya||ATK Mohun Bagan scored three goals in the second half to beat Maziya S&RC 3-1 and climb to the top of the Group D standings with six points in the AFC Cup at the Maldives National Football Stadium, Male, on Saturday. With his side trailing by a goal, coach Antonio Habas brought in Ashutosh Mehta for Sumit Rathi after the break and he made an immediate impact. Ashutosh’s cross was nodded home by Liston Colaco, who had had a listless first half, in the 48th minute. Habas then introduced Hugo Boumous for David Williams in the 63rd minute. The move worked as the Frenchman’s assist saw Roy Krishna make it 2-1. Manvir Singh sealed the issue in the 77th minute when he scored off another Boumous assist.  The result: Maziya 1 (Aisam Ibrahim 25) lost to ATKMB 3 (Liston Colaco 48, Roy Krishna 64, Manvir Singh 77) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-rallies-past-maziya/article36040464.ece
22 August 2021||Kingston,||Rain affects play on day 2||Babar Azam and Fawad Alam combined in a 158-run stand to guide Pakistan to 212 for four at stumps after the West Indies took three wickets in the first four overs on the first day of the second Test on Friday. West Indies captain Kraigg Brathwaite won the toss and elected to bowl first, a decision rewarded immediately when Kemar Roach and Jayden Seales reduced Pakistan to two for three before skipper Azam and Alam rescued the visitors. Roach had Abid Ali (1) caught at slip and, six balls later, had Azhar Ali (0) caught behind in a hostile opening spell. Seales broke through when Imran Butt (1) pushed forward in defence and feathered an edge to wicketkeeper Joshua Da Silva. A confident appeal was rejected by the on-field umpire but a review showed a slight edge on Butt’s bat and the West Indies had a third wicket. Azam and Alam took the total to 160 before the latter had to retire hurt owing to cramps. He faced 149 deliveries for his unbeaten 76 before leaving the field. Azam’s innings ended when he got a thick edge to Roach and Jason Holder took a catch low to his left at second slip in the 61st over. Azam scored 75 from 174 deliveries. At close, Rizwan was unbeaten on 22 and Faheem Ashraf on 23. The West Indies used seven bowlers, with Roach (3/49) spearheading a weary attack.  The scores: Pakistan 212/4 in 74 overs (Babar Azam 75, Fawad Alam retd. hurt 76, Kemar Roach 3/49) vs WI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azam-and-alam-revive-pakistan/article36040077.ece
22 August 2021||UFA (RUSSIA),||Ravi, Narinder still in the hunt||Ravi Malik and Narinder Cheema remained in medal contention of Greco Roman competitions at the World junior wrestling championships here on Saturday. Ravi defeated Robin Uspenski of Estonia (6-0) and Zhenish Zhumabekov of Kyrgyzstan (18-9) in the 82kg category. He lost to Armenia’s Karen Khachatryan (0-9) in the semifinals and will figure in the bronze medal bout. Narinder got past German Anton Vieweg (6-5) and Uzbek Abrorbek Nurmukhammedov (11-6) before falling to Pavel Hlinchuk of Belarus (4-0) in the 97kg quarterfinals. As Hlinchuk entered the final, Narinder got into the repechage round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-narinder-still-in-the-medal-hunt/article36040078.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three Indian boxers assured of medals||Rohit Chamoli (48kg), Ankush (66kg) and Gaurav Saini (70kg) advanced to the semifinals of the ASBC youth and junior boxing championships in Dubai, assuring themselves of at least bronze medals. Chamoli outclassed Alhassan Qadous Sriya 5-0, Ankush blanked Bader Shehab 5-0 and Saini dominated Yaqoub Saadallah before he was declared the winner. Ashish (54kg), Anshul (57kg) and Preet Malik (63kg) were the other three to emerge victorious in their respective matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-indian-boxers-assured-of-medals/article36040087.ece
22 August 2021||Lucknow,||AICF, Chess Association of India announce merger||Putting an end to internal fighting, the All-India Chess Federation and the breakaway Chess Association of India on Saturday announced that they have merged into one single entity to administer the sport in the country. Players and administrators welcomed the move and said it would pave way for the development of the sport. AICF president Sanjay Kapoor said that the warring factions, not only at the national level but also in various States, have now come together under the umbrella of the federation. On the same platform “I have personally had several rounds of talks with all the stakeholders and have brought everybody on the same platform for the development of chess and all the chess players in the country,” Kapoor was quoted as saying in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aicf-chess-association-of-india-announce-merger/article36040794.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Buttler to miss IPL’s UAE leg for birth of child||Jos Buttler, England’s wicketkeeper-batsman, will miss the second leg of IPL 2021 due to the impending birth of his second child, his franchise Rajasthan Royals announced on Saturday. Royals signed New Zealand wicketkeeper-batsman Glenn Phillips, currently part of Barbados Royals in the Caribbean Premier League. The second leg of the T20 league is scheduled to take place in the UAE from Sept. 19. Royals will also be without England pacer Jofra Archer who is suffering from a stress fracture of his right elbow.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/buttler-to-miss-ipls-uae-leg-for-birth-of-child/article36040068.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Ellis is replacement player for PBKS||Punjab Kings (PBKS) has named Australia pacer Nathan Ellis as a replacement player for the remainder of Indian Premier League beginning in the UAE on September 19. Punjab Kings will miss Riley Meredith and Kane Richardson during the second phase of the IPL. Ellis recently set the T20 world ablaze as he became the first bowler ever to pick up a hat-trick on international debut. Ellis claimed figures of 3/34 on debut against Bangladesh earlier this month.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ellis-is-replacement-player-for-pbks/article36040073.ece
22 August 2021||BENGALURU,||RCB bolsters squad||Wanindu Hasaranga, in pic , Dushmantha Chameera and Tim David have been added to the Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) squad for the second part of IPL 2021, the team announced on Saturday. The side will miss the services of Finn Allen, Scott Kuggeleijn, Kane Richardson, Daniel Sams and Adam Zampa. In another personnel change, Australian Simon Katich stepped down as the Head Coach due to personal reasons. Mike Hesson, the Director of Cricket Operations, will additionally take on the role of Head Coach for the remainder of the season. “Hasaranga offers balance with his wrist-spin, and also with his batting,” Hesson said in a media interaction on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-bolsters-squad/article36040075.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, I div. final, Vijay vs Jolly Rovers, first day, MAC Stadium, 9 a.m.; TDCA league, I div. semifinal, Standard vs Mugappair CC (9.30 a.m.), Hindu ‘A’ ground; G.R. Kuppuswamy memorial tournament, IndusInd Bank vs Royal Enfield (8 a.m.), YSCA vs Equitas Bank (1 p.m.), GE ‘A’.  Motorsports: MRF MMSC FMSCI INMRC 2021, MMRT, Irungattukkottai, 9 a.m.  Tennis: TNTA MPTA ITF junior tournament, qualifying, MPTA-KTC courts, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36040505.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 08:58 IST,||Sudoku — August 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-22-2021/article36040991.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking a green journey||At the fag end of January, the SmartBike eco-mobility project offered additional sets of wheels for Chennai — one defined as electric bikes and the other as next-gen bikes (shaft-driven). The offering was an addition to the regular fleet of blue-coloured eco-bikes, a fairly familiar sight for residents of the metro. Untouched by the shadow of an emerging second wave, that period seemed perfect for chartering new courses. The public-private partnership project — involving the SmartBike Mobility Private Limited, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Chennai Smart City Limited (CSCL) — announced plans to achieve a five-fold increase in operations. Though the second wave slowed things down, the script for expansion reads the same. “We will go up to 500 stations and 5000 bikes. We would have achieved 25 p.c. to 30 p.c. of it by now if not for the pandemic,” Param Mandloi, chief operating officer, SmartBike Mobility, spells out the target for Chennai. “Now, we are starting again to do a recce to meet the target of 500 stations across Chennai.” Currently, Chennai has 92 SmartBike stations with around 1000 bikes in circulation. Param concedes that conversations about scripting eco-mobility into a city’s DNA would ring hollow unless the solution is more visible and part of the landscape. “After we have 500 stations, what we say will make real sense. Because, you go to be a place and if you do not find a bike station, you would be disappointed. It has to be very well connected with all the major spots and we need to cover all the feeder areas.” “It started as a smart city project, but now it is a city project. Being the custodian of the city, Greater Chennai Corporation checks and offers places where SmartBike stations can be set up. This coordination happens between SmartBike Mobility and GCC,” says Raj Cherubal, CEO of CSCL. The pauses caused by the pandemic are streaked with silver linings, ironically pacing things just right for learnings to happen. Param talks of data about usage patterns being captured. “Our strategy is to test different bike models. There is one eco bike, the regular one. There are two models of the electric bike. There is also the a next-gen bike. We have gathered sufficient user data for each bike. Based on this data, decisions pertaining to the purchase of the next 4000 bikes will be taken,” says Param. “Electric bikes are popular among the youth and also some elderly people.” He elaborates that while around 1000 bikes are deployed, another five hunderd are parked at the warehouse, enabling a “mix and match” approach that factors in evident preferences for any particular set of wheels at a station. During surges in coronavirus cases and the attendant lockdowns, these experiments obviously had to put on hold. “Now that things are opening up, we will deploy more electric bikes. I think the critical mass will come back,” says Param. An official with SmartBike points out that at present the electric bikes (which give 40 km for every charge) are taken to “the warehouse at Anna Nagar East” for charging. SmartBike also seems focussed on making it easy for people to hire a bike. “We also get feedback from customers, one valuable feedback had to do with KYC. Earlier, our bike sharing app required the user to furnish the Aadhar card details; and this was clearly cumbersome. Now, one can have a ride by just registering one’s mobile number and receiving an OTP,” says Param. Integrating projects Easy access and widespread coverage are always two watchwords in mobility solutions. Raj points out that integrating various city improvement projects could help achieve these ends. It particularly rings true when it comes to building cycling infrastructure across a metro. “The World Bank and the Tamil Nadu government are getting together for the Chennai city partnership project. Transport and water are the thrust areas; and under transport, there is a big piece called mega street. Non-motorised transport is a big component of that. It is about walking and cycling. They were impressed with some of the work like the pedestrian plaza and the idea is to replicate it across the city over the next five years, and this would mean properly designed cycle tracks and footpaths,” explains Raj. “And as part of Greater Chennai Corporation’s Singara Chennai 2.0, the area on the side of Buckingham Canal, between Tidel park and Madhya Kailash, is getting revamped and one can actually walk and cycle from end to end. This track must be up and running by October. The same thing can be done along the Couum and Adyar rivers. For example, as a Smart City project started last year, the Mambalam canal in getting revamped and that will offer about six kilometres of cycling and walking space in another year or so.” Raj continues: “Imagine every waterway having a cycle track along its banks, and the entire city being accessible by cycles. That idea gives the momentum and motivation to integrate many of these projects.”  We have gathered sufficient user data for each bike. Based on this data, decisions pertaining to the purchase of the next 4000 bikes will be taken||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tracking-a-green-journey/article36040370.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Field Notes An unlikely fighter||Courtly and suave on the ramp. Bawdy and uncouth around the hearthstone. That is a two-line bio of the adult black-winged stilt — before and after parenthood. The adult black-winged stilt ( Himantopus himantopus) has the air of a long-legged model with nary an inelegant step. Parenthood has a reverse-Cinderella effect on the bird, its quiet demeanour and fluid moves dissipating more quickly than acetone, and replaced by loud-mouthed cavilling and flying fits. The parent black-winged stilt would take off on extremely short almost-parabolic flights — more like a take-off from a trampoline — seeking to “brutalise” hangers-on around its nest. Descending a tad too slowly on its “targets” like a parachutist, it however does not quite achieve the intended fire-and-brimstone effect. Besides, just how terrorising can Jughead with his pencil-thin nose get? Add a pair of straw-thin legs, and the ludicrosity is complete. On August 3, at a reedy-grassy and boggy patch outside the Karapakkam section of the Pallikaranai Marsh — the same patch that is consistently contributing to citizen-science data via eBird — this writer was in the gallery lapping up the flying stunts of a parent-stilt. On this day — as would have been on the days that followed — there was a small scattering of black-winged stilts at this patch. A couple of them looked noticeably restless, cagey about the other species sharing the foraging grounds. One of them managed to frighten two greater painted snipes out of their wits. At one point, this stilt and and a snipe together seemed like a fleshy equivalent of an automobile mangle, as the latter let panic get the better of it and dissolved into a terrified clump of flesh and feathers. This raiding (imagine an amused smile going with this epithet) black-winged stilt was also hollering incessantly about the loss of privacy — good form for black-winged stilts blessed with parental duties. Unyielding in its intensity and consistency, these alarm calls caused this writer to even carry out an audio recording on his mobile phone. When not raising a family, the black-winged stilt is usually a bird of few words, that notwithstanding its hugely flocking behaviour during the non-breeding season. It seemed clear that the boggy patch had a black-winged stilt nest — or nests, as these birds usually nest in groups. Or, were there chicks that needed to be protected? On August 18, when the writer revisited the patch, the cause was out in the open. Two black-winged stilt chicks were foraging, seeming self-assured. Contrast this with broods of birds such as the bronze-winged jacana that forage with one eye firmly fixed on the parent (in the polyandrous jacana’s case, it would be the father). To what measure did the presence of their parents and other adult black-winged stilts nearby contribute to these two chicks’ confidence? Black-winged stilt chicks are known to wear the bib fairly early and show up at the table and help themselves to the meal. They are low maintenance — in avian terms, and for the terminologically-inclined, nidifugous. They are however probably not as quick out of the block as the chicks of many other ground-nesting birds like the red-wattled lapwing that, adding a tinge of hyperbole, arrive with a big part of their growing-up days spent as an eggling. ( “Field Notes” documents the various behaviours of the birds found in Chennai and surrounding districts, straight from their habitats. )  Black-winged stilt chicks are known to wear the bib fairly early and show up at the table and help themselves to the meal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/field-notes-an-unlikely-fighter/article36040367.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No regard for plastic ban’||A parcel of land near Taramani MRTS railway station can be seen littered with single-use plastic cups. A liquor outlet located on MGR Salai in Taramani is largely responsible for it. Two years ago, the Tamil Nadu State government issued a ban on the use of single-use plastic products. However, today no one pays any heed to the ban. Hence, I request the State to do the needful. (T. D. Babu is a founder of Spark, a citizens group based in Besant Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-regard-for-plastic-ban/article36040340.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The mask and the environment||With the pandemic having added masks to what residences discard as reject waste, apartment associations have a job on their hands. They have to tutor residents in safe disposal of masks. The Green Team at House of Hiranandani Upscale in Egattur has circulated an updated waste segregation chart, which among other things takes them through handling used or unwanted masks. Educating residents about scientific disposal of used masks, gloves and other COVID-related waste should be an ongoing exercise, repeated till the right action becomes a habit. Rajeswari Harish, a core member of Green Team, says, “We have tied up with a vendor who collects our dry and reject waste with the latter being taken to an incinerator,” says Rajeswari, adding that follow-ups and monitoring are particularly necessary to ensure residents get their part of the reject-waste handling process right. Following complaints, the management committee at Prestige Bellavista, a gated community at Porur, sent out a circular urging residents to adhere to the waste management guidelines. “Garbage removal will not be done unless it is segregated as wet waste, dry waste and sanitary waste. We request all the residents to view this very seriously and keep the garbage segregated failing which their garbage bins will not be emptied by the house keeping staff,” reads the note. Apartments complexes and independent houses that are dependent on Greater Chennai Corporation’s conservancy workers point out that the knowledge about reject waste is limited. “At my apartment complex in Mylapore, I flagged residents who had thrown masks in the open,” says Jennifer Ann, adding that carelessness by residents and poor enforcement by the residents’ welfare association can lead to mask pollution, which is a health hazard. Rajeswari also agrees that littering the open spaces residential complexes with masks has to be dealt with firmly. “With great struggle, we put various solid waste management practices and processes in place three years ago. One important step was to educate and empower our house-keeping staff. They inform us when there is non-compliance by residents, sometimes bringing it to our notice through photographs. You may not penalise these residents but constantly push them towards better waste-management behaviours. We send residents related messages through various platforms. The children at the community have also been trained to spread these messages,” says Rajeswari. The Green Team at House of Hiranandani Upscale has three to four members in every tower who are responsible for creating awareness about waste management and clarifying residents’ doubts in the matter. “And this also includes sending out messages on how to dispose of masks and other COVID-related waste for which we give special bags given to residents,” explains Rajeswari, who also makes a case for having a separate bin to dispose of masks in common areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mask-and-the-environment/article36040372.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||For a touch of tar||Residents of Tranquil Acres, a gated community on Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road in Periya Kovilambakkam have requested the Kovilambakkam Village Panchayat to take steps to relay Tranquil Acres Road, worn-out over the years and unfit for motoring. Around 10 days ago, members of the Tranquil Acres Owners Association Phase One and Phase Two pooled in money and filled two big potholes with debris. “For years, we have made representations to the Village Panchayat and elected representatives about the sorry condition of the road, even meeting them in person. But of no avail. After 2011, when it was laid by the promoters of the gated community, the road has not received any attention,” says L Muralidharan, treasurer, Tranquil Acres Owners Association Phase One. The Association has also sought that the height of the road be increased. “Tranquil Acres Road has to be raised so that it is on the same level as the Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road. Because Tranquil Acres Road is low-lying, the State Highways Department has excluded a section of the radial road that intersects with Tranquil Acres Road from a stormwater-drain construction exercise,” he says. To avoid flooding, residents have created rainwater harvesting pits on Tranquil Acres Road. The water from the Radial Road also flows into the pits, thus flooding is avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/for-a-touch-of-tar/article36040358.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers get digital devices for students||Teachers and alumni of Kesari Higher Secondary School in T Nagar have made sure a good number of underprivileged students do not miss out on classes for want of tablets. Teachers made individual contributions ranging between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 15,000 towards the purchase of 13 tablets. Last year, when online classes became the only option, the management did not expect the situation to drag on for an entire academic year. Apart from classes on Kalvi TV, teachers managed to teach with whatever devices the students had at home. “We did not think of approaching any donor as we thought the situation would get better soon,” says Nagula Gopalaiah, the government-aided school’s headmaster. But the digital divide was unbelievably wide. Some students accessed the lessons in the evening after their working parents returned home from work. “Some parents did not have a smartphone, which meant teachers had to explain the lessons over the phone,” says the headmaster. Before the school was getting ready for another year of online classes, the management wanted the teachers to upgrade themselves to take lessons on laptops. “We first organised an orientation class for all our teachers wherein they were taught the nitty-gritty of online classes as well as how to engage with students,” explains Gopalaiah. That is when they discussed how to bridge the digital divide among the students. Teachers planned a donation drive among themselves and pooled in money to buy 13 tablets. Priority was accorded to students who lost an earning family member, parents with no smartphone, single mothers and siblings having to share a device. Help from alumni The list of deserving students was greater the number of the devices that had been procured. The school then reached out to well-wishers and two alumni came forward to help. P. Bhagavathi, who retired from the school in 2017, contributed Rs. 55,000 from her pension amount to procure five tablets. “I worked in the school for 30 years and my affinity with the institution continues. This is a small way of giving back to the school that gave so much to me,” says Bhagavathi, a Pammal resident. Another old student, who did not want to be named, contributed nine desktop computers amounting to Rs. 2.5 lakh. The well-wisher took advice from his children and put a lot of thought into selecting the mini-desktop for the beneficiaries. “Desktop computers are more convenient to work on. We bought them for a class of 10 students, along with connectivity for five months and an extension box. As the school is a Telugu minority institution, we customised the keyboard to have both English and Telugu letters. Python programming and a few other essentials were incorporated so that the device will have long-term use with the students,” says the alumnus of the school who also gives scholarships to deserving students. The 75-year-old school is one of the oldest Telugu minority schools in the city, with 380 students studying from classes VI to XII. It has another branch at R.K Salai. “I am sure these gestures are going to go a long way to help us cater to the Telugu-speaking students in the city,” says Gopalaiah.  I worked in the school for 30 years and my affinity with the institution continues. This is a small way of giving back to the school that gave so much to me||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-get-digital-devices-for-students/article36040375.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Remove badminton court from park’||Since March, the park at Fourth Street at Karpagam Avenue in Raja Annamalaipuram is under lock and key. Karpagam Avenue Residents Association (KARA) got this done after obtaining Greater Chennai Corporation’s permission. Unruly vegetation at the park attracts snakes; and children’s play equipment are rusty and rickety, needing replacement — factors that have caused residents to seek this extreme move. Besides, the badminton court is being largely used by residents of the neighbouring localities in Santhome including Pattinapakkam and Rohini Gardens. We have even requested GCCto remove the badminton court and in its place, establish a facility suitable for senior citizens or children less than 12 years of age. We request GCC to appoint a watchman and a gardener for the park. (Shahul Appavu, vice-president, Karpagam Avenue Residents Association)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remove-badminton-court-from-park/article36040348.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘CMWSSB drags its feet on UGD work’||Last August, the Deputy Commissioner of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) chaired a meeting with the representatives of residents welfare associations at Rajiv Gandhi Salai and East Coast Road. The Commissioner assured the residents that the work on underground sewage drains would commence in January 2021, but it has not, to this day. Residents now rely on septic tanks, which they usually clear twice a month, which entails a huge expenditure. In addition, residents pay water and sewerage taxes to CMWSSB. I therefore request CMWSSB to start work on the sewage drain at the earliest. K. Srilakshmi Mohan Rao is the vice-president of Kazura Garden Welfare Association, Neelankarai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cmwssb-drags-its-feet-on-ugd-work/article36040349.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sociology department of Stella Maris steps into 50th year||The Department of Sociology at Stella Maris College is stepping into its 50th year and the golden jubilee celebrations got under way on August 19. The Minister for Higher Education, K Ponmudi, inaugurated the celebration. In his address, he highlighted the importance of empowering and educating women. He also mentioned about employment-based education and the importance of having an interdisciplinary approach in higher education, says a press release. The Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education, R Ravanan, also graced the occasion. In her address, Sr. Rosy Joseph, principal, Stella Maris College, delved into the importance of sociology. She said that sociology had a special significance in a diverse, multicultural society like India. According to J Maria Sasitha, the department head, there is a variety of career opportunities for undergraduates of sociology. Besides, a two-day virtual event was held in which eminent academicians from the University of Mysore, American University of Beirut, University of Mumbai and Jawaharlal Nehru University took part, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sociology-department-of-stella-maris-steps-into-50th-year/article36040381.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Perungudi lake bund weakening’||Around three to four months ago, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) dug up the bund around the Perungudi lake and laid pipes to let water treated at the sewage treatment plant into the lake on Corporation Road in Perungudi. Since then the lake bund has weakened. When I took up the issue with the CMWSSB, the officials concerned said the dug-up area would be refilled with the lake bund soil. However, this action has not been carried out, to this day. We also find the bund soil being excavated and carried for meagre landfill requirements. We once again request CMWSSB to strengthen the bunds before the north-east monsoon sets in. ( P. Sajeevan is a resident of Perungudi )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/perungudi-lake-bund-weakening/article36040338.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Sewage flows down the road’||For the last three to four weeks, a section of residents at Sadasiva Nagar Sixth Main Road in Madipakkam discharge sewage out in the open. Every second day, sewage from the septic tanks in their houses overflows and spills onto the road. As per the rules, residents are expected to clear the septic tanks. I request the authorities concerned to do the needful. ( S. Prashanth is a resident of Madipakkam )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sewage-flows-down-the-road/article36040346.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents fear arrival of monsoon||Residents of Baywatch Boulevard at Kaveri Nagar in Kottivakkam view the north-east monsoon with dread. For the last three years, they have witnessed a host of civic problems accompanying the monsoon and expect the horrow show to continue this year too. Rainwater enters their homes and leaves the streets inundated. Snakes and rats invite themselves to these homes. To keep rainwater from entering their homes, residents have requested the Greater Chennai Corporation to connect the collection pit of the stormwater drain network to the draining pipe through a cemented underground stormwater drain network. Currently, the collection pit receives rainwater from the stormwater network.The draining pipe is blocked with trash. In 2020, steps were taken to construct an underground stormwater drain network, connecting the pipe and the collection pit. Following an undertaking by the Greater Chennai Corporation to the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal that it will not continue work on the stormwater drains (SWDs) along the East Coast Road (ECR) till further orders, the work was stopped, say residents. Residents of Baywatch Boulevard allege that during the 2015 Chennai floods, residents of a neighbouring stretch cut open the road using an earthmover machine to discharge rainwater and sewage into the sea. A couple of months later, the Greater Chennai Corporation dug up the road for the laying of huge pipes, without constructing a collection pit. After three to four months, the road was re-laid without being milled or scrapped. The collection pit was constructed in 2018. But the pipe and the pit are not connected. Residents point out that they have taken up the issue with Corporation officials at periodical intervals, but no action has been taken till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-fear-arrival-of-monsoon/article36040352.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Parks in Velachery cry for attention’||The parks at Annai Indira Nagar, Bhuvaneshwari Nagar, and Seshadripuram need attention. The compound walls and gates need a fresh coat of paint. The dense vegetation has to be cleared. The slabs on the walkway are wornout. Play equipment and fitness equipment are damaged. I request the Greater Chennai Corporation to do the needful. S. Kumararaja is president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/parks-in-velachery-cry-for-attention/article36040344.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A trail on the city’s medical heritage||Chennai’s heritage cycling group Cycling Yogis never fails to keep its date with Madras on August 22 (the city’s founding day), offering a paean to its people and institutions. Though thin, the book would be lovingly and laboriously put together, with the focus kept steadily on a theme brought alive in a trail undertaken by members of Cycling Yogis, usually in the recent past. The pandemic posed huge challenges this year — recall the harrowing days of the second wave — but the group has managed to honour this tradition. On August 22, in an online event, Dr. Alby John, collector, Tiruvallur, would be releasing Cycling Yogis’ Madras by Cycle: Medical Heritage Trails of Chennai . Ramanujar Maulana, founder of Cycling Yogis, discloses that the original trail planned for this year’s edition was rudely truncated. Ramanujar explains: “Arvind Athreya, Gokul Santhanam and I were working on a food trail of Madras, and were more than half way into the project, when we realised we were heading into a cul-de-sac. While carrying out the offbeat food trail of Madras, a few of the enterprises that deserved attention were closed permanently. A book on a food trail is a bigger project than most others and would soak up more resources. With some of the enterprises in the food business that had helped us with advertisements in our earlier projects were now down in the doldrums, and it would be insensitive to go back to them now.” So, the Cycling Yogis team decided to present a trail about the medical heritage of Madras, around two months before Madras Day. Here is presenting some of the images from the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-trail-on-the-citys-medical-heritage/article36040376.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Tree planting marks World Photography Day||In commemoration of World Photography Day, Tamil Nadu Press Photographers Association organised a tree planting drive at Indira Nagar in Adyar. The Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, Gagandeep Singh Bedi, graced the occasion by planting saplings. Around 60 photographers took part in the event. The saplings were sourced from Communitree, a non-governmental organisation. Also, the association’s president, B. Jothi Ramalingam, handed over a handful of old photos of Madras before 100 years. They included Ripon Building, Fort St. George, harbour, Broadway, and Esplanade police station. “These photos were collected by D. Krishnan, former photo editor with The Hindu,” says Jothi Ramalingam. Photo: R. Ravindran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tree-planting-marks-world-photography-day/article36040379.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Marina stations were a big draw before Covid struck’||Ridership data puts the SmartBike station at the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza ahead of the rest by a whole wheel. If SARS-CoV-2 had never happened, the six-station facility at Marina Beach would have continued leading the pack. According to a source familiar with the Chennai operations of Smartbike Mobility Pvt. Ltd., before the pandemic set in, the six stations at Marina Beach enjoyed huge patronage — for obvious reasons. At present, 1000 bikes are parked at 92 stations across Chennai. The total fleet at disposal is 1470 bikes, with dozens of them kept at a warehouse in Anna Nagar East. Due to continuing restrictions on movement at the Marina, four stations on the service lane remain inoperative. The station at the bus depot opposite Madras University and another at Light House are alone open for business, the source points out, adding that the patronage in the morning is impressive. Manali Metro seems to be doing well too. The source rattles off a list of other worthies that includes the bike stations at “Ramakrishnan School, Multi-level Car Parking, Globus Building, AGS Theatre and Jeeva Park.” The response to a SmartBike station near a 2500-unit gated community in Korattur suggests vertical villages are places to go to. It requires little thought to figure out that Old Mahabalipuram Road has huge potential for growth. Around three days ago, a full stand of SmartBikes at Karapakkam remained full. “There are seven stations on OMR. Before the pandemic, IT professionals were hugely into using these bikes. As they are still working from home, there is not much of a footfall now,” the source explains the obvious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marina-stations-were-a-big-draw-before-covid-struck/article36040368.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Panchayat officials inspect mass cleaning exercise||Officials from the Chengalpattu District Collectorate inspected the mass cleaning activity of 15 Village Panchayats coming under St.Thomas Mount Panchayat Union, on August 19. They Village Panchayats are Medavakkam, Perumbakkam, Ottiyambakkam, Kovilambakkam, Nanmangalam, Vengaivasal, Madurapakkam, Moovarasampet, Sithalapakkam, Agaramthen, Thirusulam, Cowl Bazaar, Mudichur, Thiruvanchery and Pozhichalur, . According to N Murugan, Secretary, Perumbakkam Village Panchayat, the weekly mass-cleaning programme has been in existence for the past many years. It is conducted every Thursday where conservancy workers clean crowded public spaces such as bus stands, public toilets and markets. On August 19, the following officials from Chengalpattu District Collectorate inspected the cleaning exercise: R Anandham, Assistant Director, Panchayats; Y Karthikeyan, Block Development Officer, St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union, and S Venkatesh, Zonal Deputy Block Development Officer, Zone 3, St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/panchayat-officials-inspect-mass-cleaning-exercise/article36040360.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||At a glance||With only minor variations in breeding timelines, the black-winged stilt’s nesting season is neatly locked within the April-August time frame, as stated by Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan (Vol. 2) by Salim Ali and S Dillon Ripley.  The species seems to have achieved balance in terms of parental investment with both male and female setting aside sufficient time and efforts for nesting activities.  Just as many ground-nesting birds, the black-winged stilt creates a nest with a little more than a scrape in the ground, carrying it out in marshy patches. As the Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan (Vol. 2) by Salim Ali and S Dillon Ripley points out, pebbles or dead vegetation may be gathered up, giving the nest a semblance of a shape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/at-a-glance/article36040363.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Wrap it right before you drop it||A recent survey conducted by the Department of Community Medicine at Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital reveales that not many commercial establishments have facilities in place to ensure safe disposal of masks. As it is an interim study, it does not offer any recommendations on what the health department and other authorities can do for safer disposal of masks. R Jayanthi, the hospital’s dean, points out that the second phase of the survey could cover this aspect. She believes installing collection bins in different parts of Chennai to drop used masks is not a sustainable solution. “As far as possible, use the reusable cloth masks as doing so would considerably reduce our disposable-waste footprints,” says Dr Jayanthi. The mask has to be disinfected and then sundried, before being reused.  Dr Jayanthi says the mask should be folded into half, rolled and wrapped with the ear loops. It must then be wrapped with a paper before being disposed of. This process is fine except when the person has tested positive for COVID-19. Then, this waste must be treated separately, she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wrap-it-right-before-you-drop-it/article36040373.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36040341.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking a green journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tracking-a-green-journey/article36040354.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A trail on the city’s medical heritage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-trail-on-the-citys-medical-heritage/article36040356.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers get digital devices for students||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-get-digital-devices-for-students/article36040362.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Collecting raindrops||The Srinivasans would welcome the north-east monsoon when it arrives, but not with an air of desperation. The open well at their house offers water at just 4.5 feet below the rim. “We just need a bucket to draw water from the well,” says Bharath Srinivasan. Residents of Seethamma Extension Welfare Association (SEWA) in Teynampet are benefiting from a wise investment made last year — constructing 13 rainwater recharge wells on five roads (two main roads and three cross streets). While the exercise was aimed at checking water-logging, it has brought an added benefit their way. “Mapping the areas with water logging, we constructed rainwater harvesting pits,” says Bharath Srinivasan, Association secretary, adding that they sought Greater Chennai Corporation’s permission to undertake the work. Seventeen to twenty feet deep, the pits are fitted with a filter and chamber. Constructed in October 2000, they are cleaned every quarter. Once a year, before the monsoon, a deep cleaning of the wells is undertaken. “We do not have stormwater drains in our area, and water logging, especially on KB Dasan Road, was a stubborn problem. We are glad we found a solution with the construction of recharge wells,” says R.P. Rajkumar, president, SEWA. SEWA recently completed work on constructing three more wells, again based on observation by residents about water logging in certain streets. Rajkumar points out that they invested Rs. 1.5 lakh in the project and plan to spend more to ensure rainwater that collects at road corners does not go wasted. RWA takes cognisance of the fact that the pits need to be maintained continually, and therefore a part of the subscription amount collected from residents is salted away towards this end. The quality of the chamber and lid is a question members try to address. Says Bharath, “Some of them got damaged due to the movement of heavy vehicles and had to be replaced. We have ordered new chambers with better quality.”  Mapping the areas that suffer from water logging, we constructed rainwater harvesting pits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/collecting-raindrops/article36040396.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking a green journey||At the fag end of January, the SmartBike eco-mobility project offered additional sets of wheels for Chennai — one defined as electric bikes and the other as next-gen bikes (shaft-driven). The offering was an addition to the regular fleet of blue-coloured eco-bikes, a fairly familiar sight for residents of the metro. Untouched by the shadow of an emerging second wave, that period seemed perfect for chartering new courses. The public-private partnership project — involving the SmartBike Mobility Private Limited, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Chennai Smart City Limited (CSCL) — announced plans to achieve a five-fold increase in operations. Though the second wave slowed things down, the script for expansion reads the same. “We will go up to 500 stations and 5000 bikes. We would have achieved 25 p.c. to 30 p.c. of it by now if not for the pandemic,” Param Mandloi, chief operating officer, SmartBike Mobility, spells out the target for Chennai. “Now, we are starting again to do a recce to meet the target of 500 stations across Chennai.” Currently, Chennai has 92 SmartBike stations with around 1000 bikes in circulation. Param concedes that conversations about scripting eco-mobility into a city’s DNA would ring hollow unless the solution is more visible and part of the landscape. “After we have 500 stations, what we say will make real sense. Because, you go to be a place and if you do not find a bike station, you would be disappointed. It has to be very well connected with all the major spots and we need to cover all the feeder areas.” “It started as a smart city project, but now it is a city project. Being the custodian of the city, Greater Chennai Corporation checks and offers places where SmartBike stations can be set up. This coordination happens between SmartBike Mobility and GCC,” says Raj Cherubal, CEO of CSCL. The pauses caused by the pandemic are streaked with silver linings, ironically pacing things just right for learnings to happen. Param talks of data about usage patterns being captured. “Our strategy is to test different bike models. There is one eco bike, the regular one. There are two models of the electric bike. There is also the a next-gen bike. We have gathered sufficient user data for each bike. Based on this data, decisions pertaining to the purchase of the next 4000 bikes will be taken,” says Param. “Electric bikes are popular among the youth and also some elderly people.” He elaborates that while around 1000 bikes are deployed, another five hunderd are parked at the warehouse, enabling a “mix and match” approach that factors in evident preferences for any particular set of wheels at a station. During surges in coronavirus cases and the attendant lockdowns, these experiments obviously had to put on hold. “Now that things are opening up, we will deploy more electric bikes. I think the critical mass will come back,” says Param. An official with SmartBike points out that at present the electric bikes (which give 40 km for every charge) are taken to “the warehouse at Anna Nagar East” for charging. SmartBike also seems focussed on making it easy for people to hire a bike. “We also get feedback from customers, one valuable feedback had to do with KYC. Earlier, our bike sharing app required the user to furnish the Aadhar card details; and this was clearly cumbersome. Now, one can have a ride by just registering one’s mobile number and receiving an OTP,” says Param. Integrating projects Easy access and widespread coverage are always two watchwords in mobility solutions. Raj points out that integrating various city improvement projects could help achieve these ends. It particularly rings true when it comes to building cycling infrastructure across a metro. “The World Bank and the Tamil Nadu government are getting together for the Chennai city partnership project. Transport and water are the thrust areas; and under transport, there is a big piece called mega street. Non-motorised transport is a big component of that. It is about walking and cycling. They were impressed with some of the work like the pedestrian plaza and the idea is to replicate it across the city over the next five years, and this would mean properly designed cycle tracks and footpaths,” explains Raj. “And as part of Greater Chennai Corporation’s Singara Chennai 2.0, the area on the side of Buckingham Canal, between Tidel park and Madhya Kailash, is getting revamped and one can actually walk and cycle from end to end. This track must be up and running by October. The same thing can be done along the Couum and Adyar rivers. For example, as a Smart City project started last year, the Mambalam canal in getting revamped and that will offer about six kilometres of cycling and walking space in another year or so.” Raj continues: “Imagine every waterway having a cycle track along its banks, and the entire city being accessible by cycles. That idea gives the momentum and motivation to integrate many of these projects.”  We have gathered sufficient user data for each bike. Based on this data, decisions pertaining to the purchase of the next 4000 bikes will be taken||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tracking-a-green-journey/article36040403.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Field Notes An unlikely fighter||Courtly and suave on the ramp. Bawdy and uncouth around the hearthstone. That is a two-line bio of the adult black-winged stilt — before and after parenthood. The adult black-winged stilt ( Himantopus himantopus) has the air of a long-legged model with nary an inelegant step. Parenthood has a reverse-Cinderella effect on the bird, its quiet demeanour and fluid moves dissipating more quickly than acetone, and replaced by loud-mouthed cavilling and flying fits. The parent black-winged stilt would take off on extremely short almost-parabolic flights — more like a take-off from a trampoline — seeking to “brutalise” hangers-on around its nest. Descending a tad too slowly on its “targets” like a parachutist, it however does not quite achieve the intended fire-and-brimstone effect. Besides, just how terrorising can Jughead with his pencil-thin nose get? Add a pair of straw-thin legs, and the ludicrosity is complete. On August 3, at a reedy-grassy and boggy patch outside the Karapakkam section of the Pallikaranai Marsh — the same patch that is consistently contributing to citizen-science data via eBird — this writer was in the gallery lapping up the flying stunts of a parent-stilt. On this day — as would have been on the days that followed — there was a small scattering of black-winged stilts at this patch. A couple of them looked noticeably restless, cagey about the other species sharing the foraging grounds. One of them managed to frighten two greater painted snipes out of their wits. At one point, this stilt and and a snipe together seemed like a fleshy equivalent of an automobile mangle, as the latter let panic get the better of it and dissolved into a terrified clump of flesh and feathers. This raiding (imagine an amused smile going with this epithet) black-winged stilt was also hollering incessantly about the loss of privacy — good form for black-winged stilts blessed with parental duties. Unyielding in its intensity and consistency, these alarm calls caused this writer to even carry out an audio recording on his mobile phone. When not raising a family, the black-winged stilt is usually a bird of few words, that notwithstanding its hugely flocking behaviour during the non-breeding season. It seemed clear that the boggy patch had a black-winged stilt nest — or nests, as these birds usually nest in groups. Or, were there chicks that needed to be protected? On August 18, when the writer revisited the patch, the cause was out in the open. Two black-winged stilt chicks were foraging, seeming self-assured. Contrast this with broods of birds such as the bronze-winged jacana that forage with one eye firmly fixed on the parent (in the polyandrous jacana’s case, it would be the father). To what measure did the presence of their parents and other adult black-winged stilts nearby contribute to these two chicks’ confidence? Black-winged stilt chicks are known to wear the bib fairly early and show up at the table and help themselves to the meal. They are low maintenance — in avian terms, and for the terminologically-inclined, nidifugous. They are however probably not as quick out of the block as the chicks of many other ground-nesting birds like the red-wattled lapwing that, adding a tinge of hyperbole, arrive with a big part of their growing-up days spent as an eggling. ( “Field Notes” documents the various behaviours of the birds found in Chennai and surrounding districts, straight from their habitats. )  Black-winged stilt chicks are known to wear the bib fairly early and help themselves to the meal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/field-notes-an-unlikely-fighter/article36040408.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A sports arena only on paper?||Residents call it the “Kannappar Thidal playground” and the unintentional emphasis on the notion of a sporting arena (‘thidal’ means playground) makes the irony stark. This so-called playground is light years away from all those things that constitute one. For years, the Greater Chennai Corporation playground — in Ward 58, Zone 5 — has been using the space for lodging construction material Siva Gunasekaran, a long-time resident of Choolai and one who is determined to seeing this playground going back to being one, points out that in 2003, the Corporation parked its construction materials and cement concrete mixing plant for the construction of a stormwater drain network on Choolai High Road, on this ground. In 2008, the Corporation would refurbish the playground at a cost of Rs. 67.41 lakh , adding a gymnasium, a basketball court, a gallery and a walkers’ track to it. However, just a few fleeting days from the renovation, the playground was closed for the public as the Corporation had stocked materials for another stormwater drain project. Next, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) took over the playground for storing construction materials. When the Metro Rail work got completed in 2020, the playground should have been restored by the CMRL and handed over to the Corporation, but that did not happen. The Corporation used the ground for storing construction materials meant for the construction of a bridge at Elephant Gate. In March 2021, the Corporation’s solid waste management department made use of it for its waste-segregation work. Up in arms, residents of Choolai put an end to it, taking up the issue with the Deputy Commissioner of GCC, P. Akash. Siva recalls the High Court order passed on April 24, 2003 with respect to this playground. Siva explains the background to the order: “From 2002 to 2003, fish vendors were occupying the playground, refusing to vacate it when their lease came to an end. The matter being taken to the court, the ground was recovered by the Corporation following a High Court order on April 24, 2003. It was spelt out that the land should be used only as a playground.” In December 2020, the GCC finalised the contractor for restoring the playground at a cost of Rs. .716.91 lakh. However due to the construction of a bridge at Elephant Gate, a joint project of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Southern Railway, the restoration of the playground is yet to begin. On August 13, Siva met the top officials of the GCC submitted a petition in this regard. Says Siva, “The playground will be of use to residents of this area as well as surrounding Choolai and Vepery.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-sports-arena-only-on-paper/article36040394.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The mask and the environment||With the pandemic having added masks to what residences discard as reject waste, apartment associations have a job on their hands. They have to tutor residents in safe disposal of masks. The Green Team at House of Hiranandani Upscale in Egattur has circulated an updated waste segregation chart, which among other things takes them through handling used or unwanted masks. Educating residents about scientific disposal of used masks, gloves and other COVID-related waste should be an ongoing exercise, repeated till the right action becomes a habit. Rajeswari Harish, a core member of Green Team, says, “We have tied up with a vendor who collects our dry and reject waste with the latter being taken to an incinerator,” says Rajeswari, adding that follow-ups and monitoring are particularly necessary to ensure residents get their part of the reject-waste handling process right. Following complaints, the management committee at Prestige Bellavista, a gated community at Porur, sent out a circular urging residents to adhere to the waste management guidelines. “Garbage removal will not be done unless it is segregated as wet waste, dry waste and sanitary waste. We request all the residents to view this very seriously and keep the garbage segregated failing which their garbage bins will not be emptied by the house keeping staff,” reads the note. Apartments complexes and independent houses that are dependent on Greater Chennai Corporation’s conservancy workers point out that the knowledge about reject waste is limited. “At my apartment complex in Mylapore, I flagged residents who had thrown masks in the open,” says Jennifer Ann, adding that carelessness by residents and poor enforcement by the residents’ welfare association can lead to mask pollution, which is a health hazard. Rajeswari also agrees that littering the open spaces residential complexes with masks has to be dealt with firmly. “With great struggle, we put various solid waste management practices and processes in place three years ago. One important step was to educate and empower our house-keeping staff. They inform us when there is non-compliance by residents, sometimes bringing it to our notice through photographs. You may not penalise these residents but constantly push them towards better waste-management behaviours. We send residents related messages through various platforms. The children at the community have also been trained to spread these messages,” says Rajeswari. The Green Team at House of Hiranandani Upscale has three to four members in every tower who are responsible for creating awareness about waste management and clarifying residents’ doubts in the matter. “And this also includes sending out messages on how to dispose of masks and other COVID-related waste for which we give special bags given to residents,” explains Rajeswari, who also makes a case for having a separate bin to dispose of masks in common areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mask-and-the-environment/article36040404.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers get digital devices for students||Teachers and alumni of Kesari Higher Secondary School in T Nagar have made sure a good number of underprivileged students do not miss out on classes for want of tablets. Teachers made individual contributions ranging between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 15,000 towards the purchase of 13 tablets. Last year, when online classes became the only option, the management did not expect the situation to drag on for an entire academic year. Apart from classes on Kalvi TV, teachers managed to teach with whatever devices the students had at home. “We did not think of approaching any donor as we thought the situation would get better soon,” says Nagula Gopalaiah, the government-aided school’s headmaster. But the digital divide was unbelievably wide. Some students accessed the lessons in the evening after their working parents returned home from work. “Some parents did not have a smartphone, which meant teachers had to explain the lessons over the phone,” says the headmaster. Before the school was getting ready for another year of online classes, the management wanted the teachers to upgrade themselves to take lessons on laptops. “We first organised an orientation class for all our teachers wherein they were taught the nitty-gritty of online classes as well as how to engage with students,” explains Gopalaiah. That is when they discussed how to bridge the digital divide among the students. Teachers planned a donation drive among themselves and pooled in money to buy 13 tablets. Priority was accorded to students who lost an earning family member, parents with no smartphone, single mothers and siblings having to share a device. Help from alumni The list of deserving students was greater the number of the devices that had been procured. The school then reached out to well-wishers and two alumni came forward to help. P. Bhagavathi, who retired from the school in 2017, contributed Rs. 55,000 from her pension amount to procure five tablets. “I worked in the school for 30 years and my affinity with the institution continues. This is a small way of giving back to the school that gave so much to me,” says Bhagavathi, a Pammal resident. Another old student, who did not want to be named, contributed nine desktop computers amounting to Rs. 2.5 lakh. The well-wisher took advice from his children and put a lot of thought into selecting the mini-desktop for the beneficiaries. “Desktop computers are more convenient to work on. We bought them for a class of 10 students, along with connectivity for five months and an extension box. As the school is a Telugu minority institution, we customised the keyboard to have both English and Telugu letters. Python programming and a few other essentials were incorporated so that the device will have long-term use with the students,” says the alumnus of the school who also gives scholarships to deserving students. The 75-year-old school is one of the oldest Telugu minority schools in the city, with 380 students studying from classes VI to XII. It has another branch at R.K Salai. “I am sure these gestures are going to go a long way to help us cater to the Telugu-speaking students in the city,” says Gopalaiah.  I worked in the school for 30 years and my affinity with the institution continues. This is a small way of giving back to the school that gave so much to me||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-get-digital-devices-for-students/article36040406.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sociology department of Stella Maris steps into 50th year||The Department of Sociology at Stella Maris College is stepping into its 50th year and the golden jubilee celebrations got under way on August 19. The Minister for Higher Education, K Ponmudi, inaugurated the celebration. In his address, he highlighted the importance of empowering and educating women. He also mentioned about employment-based education and the importance of having an interdisciplinary approach in higher education, says a press release. The Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education, R Ravanan, also graced the occasion. In her address, Sr. Rosy Joseph, principal, Stella Maris College, delved into the importance of sociology. She said that sociology had a special significance in a diverse, multicultural society like India. According to J Maria Sasitha, the department head, there is a variety of career opportunities for undergraduates of sociology. Besides, a two-day virtual event was held in which eminent academicians from the University of Mysore, American University of Beirut, University of Mumbai and Jawaharlal Nehru University took part, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sociology-department-of-stella-maris-steps-into-50th-year/article36040385.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A trail on the city’s medical heritage||Chennai’s heritage cycling group Cycling Yogis never fails to keeps its date with Madras on August 22 (the city’s founding day), offering a paean to its people and institutions. Though thin, the book would be lovingly and laboriously put together, with the focus kept steadily on a theme brought alive in a trail undertaken by members of Cycling Yogis, usually in the recent past. The pandemic posed huge challenges this year — recall the harrowing days of the second wave — but the group has managed to honour this tradition. On August 22, in an online event, Dr. Alby John, collector, Tiruvallur, would be releasing Cycling Yogis’ Madras by Cycle: Medical Heritage Trails of Chennai . Ramanujar Maulana, founder of Cycling Yogis, discloses that the original trail planned for this year’s edition was rudely truncated. Ramanujar explains: “Arvind Athreya, Gokul Santhanam and I were working on a food trail of Madras, and were more than half way into the project, when we realised we were heading into a cul-de-sac. While carrying out the offbeat food trail of Madras, a few of the enterprises that deserved attention were closed permanently. A book on a food trail is a bigger project than most others and would soak up more resources. With some of the enterprises in the food business that had helped us with advertisements in our earlier projects were now down in the doldrums, and it would be insensitive to go back to them now.” So, the Cycling Yogis team decided to present a trail about the medical heritage of Madras, around two months before Madras Day. Here is presenting some of the images from the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-trail-on-the-citys-medical-heritage/article36040382.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Marina stations were a big draw before Covid struck’||Ridership data puts the SmartBike station at the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza ahead of the rest by a whole wheel. If SARS-CoV-2 had never happened, the six-station facility at Marina Beach would have continued leading the pack. According to a source familiar with the Chennai operations of Smartbike Mobility Pvt. Ltd., before the pandemic set in, the six stations at Marina Beach enjoyed huge patronage — for obvious reasons. At present, 1000 bikes are parked at 92 stations across Chennai. The total fleet at disposal is 1470 bikes, with dozens of them kept at a warehouse in Anna Nagar East. Due to continuing restrictions on movement at the Marina, four stations on the service lane remain inoperative. The station at the bus depot opposite Madras University and another at Light House are alone open for business, the source points out, adding that the patronage in the morning is impressive. Manali Metro seems to be doing well too. The source rattles off a list of other worthies that includes the bike stations at “Ramakrishnan School, Multi-level Car Parking, Globus Building, AGS Theatre and Jeeva Park.” The response to a SmartBike station near a 2500-unit gated community in Korattur suggests vertical villages are places to go to. It requires little thought to figure out that Old Mahabalipuram Road has huge potential for growth. Around three days ago, a full stand of SmartBikes at Karapakkam remained full. “There are seven stations on OMR. Before the pandemic, IT professionals were hugely into using these bikes. As they are still working from home, there is not much of a footfall now,” the source explains the obvious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marina-stations-were-a-big-draw-before-covid-struck/article36040402.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicraft fair||Sumathi Handicrafts is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of handicrafts and handloom products at Shop 7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. The sale ends on September 5. According to a press release, saris, dress materials, bedspreads, jute bags, and idols made from marble, clay, paper-mache, brass and wood are available. Chennapatna toys, terracotta dolls, and Etikopikka toys are also part of the collection. Food products and jewellery are available as well. A discount of up to 25 per cent on handloom products and up to 10 per cent on handicrafts are being offered, says the press release. For details, call 96293 74196 / 93837 40065.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicraft-fair/article36040384.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mylapore resident gets USPA’s skydiving licence||Vratesh Vijayakumar, a 19-year-old from the city skydived 33 times from 14,000 feet to get the USPA (United States Parachute Association) A Licence from Dropzone in Russia, organised by Skydive India. Vratesh spent a month in Russia to learn various aspects of skydiving. He was trained under Commander Rajesh Nandagopal, former Navy officer and chief instructor of DZIndia. “When the plane door opens and the chill air hits you, that’s when you really get nervous but then you learn through practice. In this intensive course known as Accelerated Free Fall (AFP) the body needs to quickly adapt to the skydiving environment by jumping out of planes,” says Vratesh, a resident of Mylapore who is currently pursuing Liberal Arts at Christ University. He says one needs to keep fit and train a lot to ace this adventure sport. “There are four licences and I cleared the basic and the next stage. At each level, you are supposed to acquire different skills,” he says. Vratesh wants to join the Defence and become a skydiving instructor for which he would need 5000 jumps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mylapore-resident-gets-uspas-skydiving-licence/article36040387.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Waste stays put’||For the past four days, dry waste is staying put at the apartments on Dr. Ranga Road in Mylapore. The reason: the dry waste that reaches the bins lacks recyclable value, a factor that does not impress private recycling agencies. Waste that carries monetary value is being sold by the householders, and what is left behind is “chaff”. Given this situation, GCC has to step in and ensure dry waste is collected regularly. Mixing wet and dry waste by conservancy workers is another issue. For the past four years, our residents’ association — Clean & Green Dr. Ranga Road — has been prevailing upon the residents to segregate the waste before disposal, another rule laid down by GCC. Residents of the apartments on Dr. Ranga Road follow this meticulously, thanks to campaigns by the Association. In the initial years, Association members would accompany the conservancy workers from door to door to promote waste segregation. Now, residents segregate the waste, but GCC fails to do its part. Residents therefore do not see any purpose in segregating waste. Another complain is that garbage bins kept on roads overflow with their contents. Waste is not cleared from these bins on a daily basis. (Report by D. Koilraj, member, Clean & Green Dr. Ranga Road, a residents welfare association in Mylapore)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/waste-stays-put/article36040398.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Encroachments tiptoeing into Kalvi Varu Street’||This July, the Greater Chennai Corporation did a good job by sprucing up a portion of Kalvi Varu Street in Mylapore. A children’s play area has been set up and a wall is adorned with paintings. However, on the other half of the street, there is a lot left to be desired. The encroachments removed by the Corporation a few months ago are gradually making a comeback and these include hutments and shops. I request the Corporation to do the needful and ensure the street is free of encroachments. (Report by Sekar Vishwanathan, a resident of Kalvi Varu Street)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/encroachments-tiptoeing-into-kalvi-varu-street/article36040399.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Wrap it right before you drop it||A recent survey conducted by the Department of Community Medicine at Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital reveales that not many commercial establishments have facilities in place to ensure safe disposal of masks. As it is an interim study, it does not offer any recommendations on what the health department and other authorities can do for safer disposal of masks. R Jayanthi, the hospital’s dean, points out that the second phase of the survey could cover this aspect. She believes installing collection bins in different parts of Chennai to drop used masks is not a sustainable solution. “As far as possible, use the reusable cloth masks as doing so would considerably reduce our disposable-waste footprints,” says Dr Jayanthi. The mask has to be disinfected and then sundried, before being reused.  Dr Jayanthi says the mask should be folded into half, rolled and wrapped with the ear loops. It must then be wrapped with a paper before being disposed of. This process is fine except when the person has tested positive for COVID-19. Then, this waste must be treated separately, she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wrap-it-right-before-you-drop-it/article36040405.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||At a glance||With only minor variations in breeding timelines, the black-winged stilt’s nesting season is neatly locked within the April-August time frame, as stated by Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan (Vol. 2) by Salim Ali and S Dillon Ripley.  The species seems to have achieved balance in terms of parental investment with both male and female setting aside sufficient time and efforts for nesting activities.  Just as many ground-nesting birds, the black-winged stilt creates a nest with a little more than a scrape in the ground, carrying it out in marshy patches. As the Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan (Vol. 2) by Salim Ali and S Dillon Ripley points out, pebbles or dead vegetation may be gathered up, giving the nest a semblance of a shape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/at-a-glance/article36040407.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||An unlikely fighter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-unlikely-fighter/article36040388.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A united fight against plastic waste||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-united-fight-against-plastic-waste/article36040390.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers get devices for students||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-get-devices-for-students/article36040397.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A united fight against plastic waste||Making common cause with artist B Gautham, they organised ‘Walk for Plastic’ in Broadway in July. Hundreds walked down the streets of Broadway to collect recyclable plastics. With this event offering just the right momentum, members of the Bohra Muslim community have started a slew of other green initiatives. Dawoodi Bohra Jamaat Trust Anjuman e Mohammedi is driving this series. On August 25, a virtual workshop is being conducted to educate people on how to take care of indoor and outdoor plants. “We already have 200 registrations for the event and some have come from outside the community,” says Nafisa Zahara, PRO-coordinator Dawoodi Bohra Jamaat Trust Anjuman e Mohammedi. On August 29, the group will be putting up posters at a sports event being held at a playground on SV Koil Street in Broadway. Its second plastic-free campaign will coincide with Coconut Day, on September 2. “As in the previous walk, we would be walking around collecting plastic bottles and also take a break by sipping tender coconut water,” says Nafisa. A good number of Bohra Muslims in Chennai live in and around Parrys, and hence this region gets the lion’s share of their attention. But other parts of Chennai also come within the scope of this exercise. “Our community members in Adyar, Santhome and Madhavaram are taking the initiative to their localities,” explains Nafisa. Gowtham, the artist who designed the Coronavirus-inspired helmet for the police last year, points out that they collected over 150 kilos of plastic through a single event. “The money raised from handing over plastics to the recyclers is used to support children of rag pickers,” he says. The community has been asking its members to set an example for others. Street representatives in the 17 odd streets of Broadway are asked to nudge shoppers into better waste management. Mufaddal Chanasmawala, who runs an outlet selling chemical cleaning items at Mooker Nallamuthu Street, points out that there are 1200 establishments in Broadway run by members of their community. “Our focus now is on educating our community on best green practices,” says Chanasmawala of Excellence Supply. The outlet discourages use of plastic in any form. “We only pack items in cloth bags and if a customer shops in bulk we would not charge him for the bag,” he says. Zainab Abnan, an interior designer, says the community is active on social media and there are different ways of encouraging members to go green. “Currently, our strength is our community and if each of us can make a difference through our lifestyle and habits, then others would get influenced,” says Zainab. The community put an end to the practice of serving food in disposable plates at their community kitchen. “This is our central kitchen and thousands of food packets are packed here to be sent to homes. A few years ago, we switched to containers,” says Chanasmawala. Greening drive In response to the Greater Chennai Corporation’s invitation to residents welfare associations and communities to adopt green spaces, the trust has planned to adopt a traffic island at Parrys. “This space is at the heart of the junction and it offers two small gardens that we will start beautifying soon,” explains Nafisa. Chanasmawala says they are also planning to take up beautification of the area around Moore Street.  Our focus now is on educating our community on the best green practices||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-united-fight-against-plastic-waste/article36040401.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The elephant in the room||In the late 1940s, when the Communists were making steady gains in the Chinese civil war, Jawaharlal Nehru sensed trouble in Tibet and on India’s northeastern borders. On September 10, 1949, the Prime Minister sent a letter to Finance Minister John Mathai in which he expressed the need to improve and develop communications in the border areas. He also wrote that India’s mission in Lhasa must continue, while avoiding “any action which may be considered [a] challenge to Communists”. Nehru knew that if the Communists took over Beijing, their policy towards Tibet would change — and that China would come face to face with India in the Himalayas. But he was confident that “whatever be the final shape of China’s policy in Tibet, there was ‘no chance of any military danger to India arising from any possible change in Tibet’,” writes A.S. Bhasin in Nehru, Tibet and China . Costly misjudgement Nehru had to pay a heavy price for this misjudgement. He bet big on Asian solidarity and India-China friendship. He reached an agreement with China on Tibet. He made unilateral moves on the border. But he never expected China to attack India in 1962. Bhasin, who retired from the Ministry of External Affairs in 1993 after 30 years of service as the head of its Historical Division, writes there were “too many contradictions in the policy that Nehru had enunciated”, which, of course, did not end well for India. Almost 60 years since the war, China still remains India’s largest foreign policy challenge. The long border between the two countries has neither been demarcated nor delineated. After a relative calm on the border for four decades, violence broke out again last year, at Galwan Valley in the western sector, one of the hotspots during 1959-62. Writing a book on the boundary dispute, without getting into the familiar us-versus-them narrative, is a daunting challenge. Bhasin is calm throughout the 403 pages and provides perhaps the most accurate account, based on primary sources and archival insights, on what went wrong between the two countries.  Bhasin doesn’t go into the Tibet-has-never-been-part-of-China argument. For centuries, China had enjoyed at least suzerainty over Tibet, and has been consistent on its Tibet position. China never recognised the Simla Convention, which produced the McMahon Line between British India and Tibet in the eastern sector. When, after initial military moves, the Communists hosted a Tibetan delegation in Beijing to discuss the future of Tibet, India had offered diplomatic support. But the Tibetan delegation stayed away from the Indian Embassy, and finally signed the 17-Point Agreement, which brought Tibet under the direct control of Beijing, and the People’s Liberation Army could move soldiers towards the region. Boundary issue In 1954, Nehru’s government signed the Tibet trade agreement with China. This was an opportunity for India to raise the boundary issue, but it didn’t. Nehru’s stand was that he had already publicly declared the McMahon Line as India’s international boundary. Contrary to the advice of Girija Shankar Bajpai, former secretary-general of the MEA, Nehru dismissed the idea of India discussing “our borders”. As part of talks with China on Tibet, India agreed to turn its mission into a consulate and withdraw its military escort, without discussing the boundary question. But “China’s game plan was to first end India’s special rights in Tibet and only then rake up the issue of borders, and it followed this strategy meticulously and successfully,” writes Bhasin. A wasted summit The Delhi summit between Nehru and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai in April 1960 was another opportunity for both countries to find a solution to the border crisis. As the border showed signs of conflict, Nehru’s views on China started changing. At the summit, Zhou “conceded India’s claim to the McMahon Line but in a renegotiated agreement.” In return, China wanted India to recognise its claims on the western sector — Aksai Chin — where “maps had until 1954 shown the border as undefined”. But Nehru rejected the proposal, and the talks, as then Foreign Secretary Subimal Dutt recalled, “failed to resolve even a single point of dispute.” Here, Nehru made two fundamental mistakes. One, he failed to take up the boundary issue with China and made unilateral moves — calling the McMahon Line the international border, changing the status of the border in the western sector and launching the forward policy. Two, after making unilateral moves, he did not move to build the defence capabilities to defend those changes. “Nehru was aware that India had to build up its strength. That strength, to Nehru, meant not so much the frontier outposts or the defence forces but internal strength — political and economy,” writes Bhasin. This book is not about villains and heroes, nor about the victor and the vanquished. It’s about how policies were made at a critical period of India-China relations and what drove those policies, the effects of which continue to impact both countries. As Bhasin writes in the preface, it is fundamentally a book of history. “History has no friends and foes. It traces the footprints of people who influence the events that make history.” He has traced those footprints meticulously in Nehru, Tibet and China .  Nehru, Tibet and China A.S. Bhasin Penguin/ Viking  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-elephant-in-the-room/article36040443.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A slippery saga||The humble slipper, as opposed to the ostentatious shoe, will perhaps never be a status symbol. Yet it’s a great leveller since everyone, rich and poor alike, needs it. Its sheer convenience makes it ideal as a walking aid, possibly more popular than the shoe. The cynic, however, may claim that nothing is more aptly named than the slipper. You slip into it so easily and it enables you to slip equally easily on a smooth surface if you’re not careful enough! That slippers sometimes do live up to their dubious name is undisputed. Occasionally, in unguarded moments, my own trusty pair has let me down and, what’s worse, unexpectedly. Last month, while pottering around my backyard, I suddenly found myself executing what looked like a cross between a jig and a jive before being unceremoniously grounded, luckily unhurt. I had stepped on an unseen patch of slush. Further, experience has taught me that rubber-soled slippers, unnoticed banana skin and a smooth-surfaced pavement are a risky combination for those in a hurry. One can end up “skating” involuntarily (and ungracefully) before coming a cropper. The same applies to many of our public conveniences where the damp, tiled floors are as treacherous as a skating-rink. Indeed, given the urgency with which people barge into a comfort station, it’s surprising that more unwary users aren’t literally floored. While the slipper may be a lowly accessory that we look down upon for no other reason than its location, it’s sometimes put to innovative though unlawful use. As a missile in the hands of a disgruntled agitator, it’s on a par with the hurled shoe in terms of discourtesy. I sometimes put my slippers to unconventional use — to clobber a cornered cockroach or pesky bluebottle despite my wife’s objections to the resultant mess. And once, lacking a better missile, I hurled a slipper at a fleeing mouse, hoping to “run it out”. Sadly, my accuracy isn’t what it used to be in my cricketing days. Dogs, of course, are known to “liberate” slippers from their life-partners by “lifting” those left unguarded. Once slippers and dogs figured hilariously at a wedding reception I attended. Raising a toast to the newly weds, the exuberant MC quipped, “Peter, you’ll know the honeymoon’s over when one fine morning, in a dramatic reversal of roles, the dog brings your slippers and Susan barks at you!” And, oddly enough, the ultimate compliment paid to slippers came from a marriage counsellor who quipped, “Perfect couples are found only in slippers, shoes and gloves!” gnettomunnar@rediffmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-slippery-saga/article36040420.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Well done, nose!||I fear I have not given enough thought to my nose. The role it plays in the appreciation of food figured prominently in a book I was reading recently, and I thought the time has come for an ode to the nose. “The most impressive, yet underrated, arsenal in our flavor-detection apparatus are the olfactory receptors in our noses,” writes Krish Ashok in Masala Lab: The Science of Indian Cooking . I had never really associated coriander leaves with the nose, but I do so now. The herb has been on my mind for a while. It caught my attention when there was a shortage of fresh coriander in the market. That got me thinking. Do we really need to put coriander leaves in our food, I asked anybody who would listen. Just what do we need the coriander for? That’s where the nose comes in. “Its name comes from koris , the Greek word for bedbugs, because the ancient Greeks thought that the seeds smelt like the insect,” writes Ashok. That’s not all. While most people find it citrusy or woody, some associate the smell with soap, he writes. Smells fishy “A sizeable section of the population has a visceral aversion to coriander (4-14 per cent depending on their ancestry) in its leaf form. It turns out that it is not an irrational personal choice but genetics. Coriander’s flavour molecules are a family of compounds called aldehydes, and the ones present in the coriander are also found in soap,” Ashok tells us. What’s interesting, he adds, is that when you crush or grind coriander leaves, an enzymatic reaction breaks down these soapy aldehydes — “which is why people who can’t tolerate the leaves as a garnish don’t mind coriander chutney in their chaat.” In a chapter called ‘Science of Spice and Flavour’, the author describes the role of spices and herbs, and how tastes and aromas can be enhanced (with the help of temperature, for instance). I found it particularly interesting, because it solved some age-old riddles. I had often wondered how my East Bengali mother could be fond of a preparation of shutki maachh or dried fish. It stank to high heaven when the fish was cooked, forcing everybody (barring my mother) to frantically rush out of the house. But there is a reason why some dishes may, well, smell fishy, but are delicious when eaten. Ashok explains that there are two types of olfaction or the sense of smell. Orthonasal olfaction is what you smell before you eat something. Then there is retronasal olfaction: “What you smell as a result of a ton of volatile flavour molecules hitting those receptors as you breathe out.” Grandmother’s dal Take the case of strong cheeses. You may recall what happened when Jerome K. Jerome carried some ripe and mellow cheeses for a friend in Three Men in a Boat . First, the horse pulling the carriage in which the writer was travelling with the cheeses went berserk. Then, in his train compartment, a gentleman went out without a word. A stout lady said it was disgraceful that a respectable married woman should be harried in this way, and left. A solemn-looking man, who looked like an undertaker, said it put him in mind of dead baby. “And the other three passengers tried to get out of the door at the same time, and hurt themselves.” But let’s not sneer at cheese (or shutki ), for more than taste, the reaction to aroma is highly culture-specific, Ashok reminds us. For instance, he says, roasted cumin powder smells like sweaty feet to people not used to the spice. “Malodorous feet and cumin aside, smell is the only sense that goes straight to the brain’s cortex — the olfactory nerve is close to the part of the brain that deals with emotions and memory, which is why the smell of food evokes nostalgia and memories, and also why no Michelin star chef can compete with your grandmother’s dal.” I tip my hat to my nose. It doesn’t find cumin malodorous. And, thankfully, doesn’t associate coriander leaves with soap or bedbugs. Well done, nose!  It stank to high heaven, forcing everybody (barring my mother) to frantically rush out of the house||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/well-done-nose/article36040424.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||One author in search of truth||The narrator of this novel is writer Arjun Kumar. Based in Delhi, he receives an unexpected call from his past. It is his ex-girlfriend, Anasuya, abandoned by him many years ago because he did not have the courage to breach caste lines and face up to his family in order to marry her. She is desperate for help: her husband has disappeared and the local police are refusing to register an FIR. Encouraged by his wife, Arjun catches a flight to the small town where Anasuya lives now. This brings him to Noma on the U.P.-Bihar border, a mofussil town where the road crossing the border is more run down on one side — the side carrying smuggled goods from Bihar to U.P. It also lands Arjun into matters far beyond his imagining because, as he discovers on his way to the place, Anasuya’s ‘missing’ husband is called Rafique Neel. Arjun realises later in the novel that words like “missing, lost, disappeared” are inappropriate, perhaps even monstrous: “These cold words used to describe objects sound grotesque when used for human beings.” This is just one of the many realisations that dawn upon Arjun and the reader, as the narrative traces, in Amitava Kumar’s words on the cover, “how truth goes missing in our land.” Facing the ‘system’ Rafique, a contract teacher in a local college, is not the only person who has gone missing. A young woman, Janaki, has also disappeared. She was Rafique’s student and an active member of his theatre group. Inevitably, rumours of ‘love jihad’ start floating, as do insinuations that Arjun has come to town just to meet his ex-girlfriend. Arjun’s first encounter with the local ‘system’ in the shape of three brutish policemen is not encouraging, and it could have gotten worse but for his editor in Delhi pulling a few political strings. Suddenly, the ‘system’ — in the shape of the culturally suave and politically savvy ‘circle officer’ — shows its charming face and its appreciation of a ‘great writer’ from the metropolis. Arjun is involved in ceremonies and felicitations, even as another member of the theatre group disappears. Subtle pressure is brought to bear upon him. The truth, despite an FIR being duly lodged, remains elusive. Attempts are made to foist ‘love jihad’ as an explanation on him. Celebrating the human spirit The blurbs on the covers of this novel, a competent translation of Chandan Pandey’s bestselling Hindi novel, Vaidhanik Galp , list many of its strengths: it is a gripping political thriller that stares unflinchingly into the eye of hate that has mesmerised so many Indians and still manages to speak the truth. It is a celebration of both the human spirit and literature, and an indictment of so many aspects of society. But for me, one of its greatest strengths is its intricate portrait of small-town India today. The small taluk or mofussil town has seldom been accessed in Indian English writing after R.K. Narayan’s Malgudi, and Malgudi belongs to its age. That age has passed. Noma is a town with a ‘Bigger’ Bazaar and traffic jams. It is a town of savvy officers and suave educator-businessmen politicians. Noisy, sanctimonious and crowded, it is also a town with an undercurrent of crime, violence and silence. Its public functions contain ‘leading citizens’ who live in the U.K. or the U.S. but come back every year for some annual events to display their untarnished ‘cultural’ worth. Its leading citizens do not drink in public, or do so, ah well, only to accompany an honoured guest like Arjun. At the same time, it is a town with a teacher who assigns Mayakovsky to his students, a theatre group that reads Jon Fosse’s The Girl on the Sofa . Dipped in irony These contradictions of the mofussil town usually stay un-narrated in metropolitan Anglophone fiction and, when narrated, stay unremarked by global ‘postcolonial’ criticism. Not only are these powerfully etched in this Hindi novel, but they are also used to good effect. For instance, when Arjun encounters some notes towards a proposed play in the papers of the missing Rafique and deciphers the title of the play as Bachane Wala Hai Bhagwan (‘The One Who Saves is God’), he is thoroughly disappointed. He had expected, he goes on to say, plays like Melancholia , The Girl on the Sofa , Charandas Chor , but Bachane Wala Hai Bhagwan ? The irony of this remark, which exposes the limitations of even an empathetic metropolitan observer like Arjun, needs no further commentary. Towards the end, Arjun, through an honourable Sikh policeman, now suspended, gets an idea of the truth behind the disappearances — though that, of course, need not imply justice or accountability. The reader is left to choose. I strongly urge everyone to buy this novel which, despite a typesetting error on page 135 (removed from the e-book, I am informed), is worth every naya paisa. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  Legal Fiction Chandan  Pandey, trs Bharatbhooshan Tiwari Harper Perennial India   Rs. 299      Noma is a town with a ‘Bigger’ Bazaar and traffic jams... Noisy, sanctimonious and crowded, it is also a town with an undercurrent of crime, violence and silence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/one-author-in-search-of-truth/article36040426.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Exiled by love||A ship leaves Genoa harbour. Suave men woo women over drinks and cigarettes at the bar, others play bridge, and there is entertainment interspersed with sightseeing at ports along the way. This could be a scene from a Hollywood classic or even a luxury cruise liner. Except, it is the beginning of the thought-provoking journey that is Vishram Bedekar’s novel, Battlefield , translated from the Marathi original Ranaangan by Jerry Pinto. A love story set against the backdrop of the Nazis’ rise to power and impending war, Battlefield has the romance of Casablanca and, in parts, the flavour of Austrian writer Thomas Bernhard’s novels, but what strikes one the most is its contemporaneity. Published in 1939, the novel is startlingly progressive for its time and prophetic about the concerns it raises — which were as relevant then as they are now. When Mumbai resident Chakradhar Widhwans meets Herta, a German Jew, aboard the ship that will take him home after a long stay in England, he is still hurting from a failed relationship. Like the other Jews aboard, Herta and her mother are seeking asylum in an alien country. The couple’s lives intersect briefly amid the good life on the ship — a “floating capsule of time and space” — that offers them temporary respite in a bubble away from the world of colonialism and anti-Semitism. Homes erased For Herta, love is an escape from the grief of loss and the grim reality of the present. With the gradual expulsion of Jews from sight, at first, then the erasure of their homes and homeland, love gives her the feeling that she is still alive in an era that has made her invisible (“Perhaps the worst thing for a human being is not to be recognized as one”). But the book is not merely about a love that transpires aboard a ship. It entwines romantic love with the love of nation — both doomed. With its mix of different nationalities and their unlikely collision at an important juncture of history, the ship is a microcosm of the world. “How does a country become one’s country? How many years or generations does it take before a land becomes a motherland?” wonders Chakradhar. For the Jews identified themselves as Germans, fought in the First World War as such, giving their lives to a country that soon after began to purge them as the enemy. Chakradhar draws an analogy with his own homeland: “Would this be repeated in the history of other countries? Muslims had once conquered and then made India their home...” War of emotions For Herta, in love with an Indian subject of the British empire, which is an Allied power, the headlines screaming that Britain is at war with Germany spell “the obituary of [their] dreams”. In the last hours of their ill-fated love affair, she seeks consummation of their relationship, defying the morality of the time by saying, “I have no people, so whose morality do I follow?” Interestingly, Bedekar introduces a love triangle with an Indian Muslim, Mannan. “If I had married him,” Herta writes in her final letter to Chakradhar, after the ship has left Mumbai port, “ I would have had to teach my children to hate your children.” Bedekar’s novel is a battlefield of emotions and ideas as much as it is of the war that looms in the background. Debating a variety of issues including nation, religion, language, race, gender, the role of commerce in war, even Palestine, it leaves no stone unturned. In a ship full of travellers, Bedekar illustrates what it means to be an alien and a refugee through Herta and Chakradhar. “We are both exiles,” Herta says, “and yet we are enemies.” Significantly, there is also the questioning of war as a gendered discourse: “A culture of war is a culture that hates women... This [power through war and destruction] is not what women understand as glory.”  Battlefield is a reminder that the more history repeats itself, the more lessons remain unlearnt. It speaks to us in this era of hypernationalism when it says: “Perhaps the boundaries of narrow patriotism need to be broken all over the world.” Jerry Pinto’s excellent translation is nuanced, as always, making it easy to forget that one is not reading the original. The reviewer is the author of several Mumbai-themed books including the novel,Wanderers, All.  Battlefield Vishram Bedekar, trs Jerry Pinto Speaking Tiger  Rs. 350    With its mix of different nationalities and their unlikely collision at an important juncture of history, the ship is a microcosm of the world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/exiled-by-love/article36040428.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The dream of utopia and its tragic consequences||It would not be an exaggeration to describe Akash Kapur’s methodical unravelling of the secrets and mythology that have gone into the creation of Auroville, the City of Dawn, at the arid edge of the South Indian plateau of Tamil Nadu, as being of a Homeric quality. It is epic. Kapur writes with the familiarity of a person who was born there, played as it were in the red mud of infancy, only to flee from its suffocating familiarity during early adulthood and still returning to seek, he does not know for what. Some of these experiences have already been recorded in an earlier book Auroville: Dream & Reality ,  edited and introduced by Akash Kapur. Search for truth   Kapur begins his treatise with a quote from Robert Musil, (1880-1942) the Austrian philosopher and writer, who was fierce in his denunciation of authoritarian movements, whether of the right or the left, in the first half of the 20th century. Kapur is not writing fiction. He is more of a historian. Perhaps even a seeker, since there are references to the “Truth”, the chimerical concept that has attracted so many of the persons through whom he re-creates the composite background to the Auroville saga. He refers to it at times as an “intentional community” rather than an ashram, or a monastery. The word Utopia is also bandied about. There is of course the Ashram itself at Pondicherry, with the twin personalities of Shri Aurobindo and the Mother as she is universally known, with its own set of adherents, the original elders, as Kapur often calls them. It’s the Mother’s visionary interpretation of Shri Aurobindo’s advocacy of what he defined as ‘integral yoga’; a means of kick-starting the next stage of humanity’s evolutionary process that led to the promise of Auroville. It is meant to be a laboratory of human aspirations created for and controlled by a chosen elite of people from all over the world. Now at its half-century mark, it has certainly become an example of the regeneration of the earth through multiple afforestation and water conservation programmes. Mirra Alfassa’s journey   This story has been told before in Anita Desai’s Journey to Ithaca, the sensitive, but not always sympathetic re-telling of Mirra Alfassa’s (1878-1973) trajectory from Cairo and Paris to Pondicherry where she would meet her soul-mate. As a spiritually hypersensitive girl and young woman, she had already read Swami Vivekananda’s Raja Yoga and Hermann Hesse’s Journey to the East ; met the French woman and Tibetan Buddhist explorer Madam Alexandra Neel, and was therefore ready for the next step in her evolution as the Mother. An interesting conclusion in Desai’s book is that renunciation, or deprivation of the senses, might also be a form of bondage. Reading Kapur’s account leads one to ask can that be true of hedonism as well? Dual promise It’s also instructive to remember that all through the early part of the 20th century with the trauma of the World Wars, the dual promises of an industrialised utopia, whether under capitalism, or communism, there were people trying to escape into other modes of thinking. What makes Kapur’s re-telling of the Mother’s vision is his focus on the lives of three main characters. There is the affluent son of the East Coast American elite John Walker; Diane, a free-spirited Belgian girl; and Satprem, the former French revolutionary who was tortured in the Nazi-era concentration camps. Do we see here a new version of the Holy Trinity? Certainly, there is the temptation of transcendence based on the Mother’s promise of eternal life, together with the suffering that is all too real and minutely described. Finally, however, there is also compassion and a clear-sightedness that makes the story timeless.  The Chennai-based writer is a critic and cultural commentator.  Better to Have Gone: Love, Death and the Quest for Utopia in Auroville Akash Kapur Simon & Schuster  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dream-of-utopia-and-its-tragic-consequences/article36040438.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On August 22, 1639, the village of Madraspatnam was purchased by the British East India Company (EIC). The sliver of land was bought from Damaria Venkatadri Nayaka, a viceroy of the Vijaynagar Empire. Here, the EIC built a harbour and a fort, and around the area grew settlements. Eventually the villages around it were brought together, with old and new towns linked up, which led to the city we now know as Chennai. Which fort, named after the day it was opened, started the growth of Chennai? 2 This entity is the oldest civic body in the world outside London. Formed in 1688 to control the powers of the Governor, Elihu Yale (primary benefactor of Yale University), it was created by a royal charter by King James II. It was inaugurated on September 29, 1688, with the power to decide on petty cases, and levy rates upon the inhabitants for building of schools, a town hall and a jail. What entity is this that has been active for 332 years? 3 In May 1932, The Madras University introduced a Bachelor’s degree course in a particular subject for the first time in India. With a mission to strive for excellence in artistic, academic and research pursuits it even has a peer reviewed bi-annual e-journal on Fine & Performing arts calledSmrti. What is this subject that Chennai is globally renowned for especially in the month of December? 4 The Royapuram railway station is located on the Chennai Beach–Katpadi section and was where, in 1853, the second-ever railway line in South Asia was laid. The station began operations in 1856 and is functional till date. Next to Howrah railway station, what distinction does this station hold in India? 5The MA Chidambaram Cricket stadium is the second oldest in the country. One of the most famous matches in the history of cricket was played on this ground in September 1986 when India, led by Kapil Dev, faced Australia, led by Allan Border. What happened in the match that has only happened twice ever in history? 6 On the still night of September 22, the SMS Emden, a German cruise ship, dropped anchor just 2,500 metres off the harbour, the starboard side with 22 guns facing Madras city. The commander, Karl Friedrich Max von Müller, wanting to cause panic in the city, ordered them to fire. Two tankers, packed with 5,000 tonnes of kerosene, caught fire and a merchant ship was struck killing five sailors. Thirty minutes later the ship was on its way out. This was the only instance of an attack on an Indian city during which world changing event? 7Built in 1855, the Madras Zoo was the first public zoo in the country. It began when the Nawab of the Carnatic donated his entire animal collection. Covering 1,490 acres, and housing more than 2,500 species, it is one of the largest zoological gardens in India. Named after the last Chief Minister of Madras State, who was also the first Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, it is abbreviated to AAZP. What is the full name of this excellent zoo in Vandalur? 8 Abel Joshua was born in Kannur in 1819 and eventually became a seaman. He hated life on a ship and was off-loaded in Madras. He then joined as a manager at the Wesleyan Book Depository where he realised he enjoyed talking about books and could track down rare, in-demand works. In 1844, he bought the depositary, which was running on a loss, and moved it to Mount Road. Naming the store after himself, he started what became India’s oldest bookshop. What was Abel’s full name? 9The Great Trigonometrical Survey (GTS) was done by the East India Company to survey the entire Indian subcontinent with scientific precision. Led by the Surveyor General, George Everest, this project was a monumental task, the results of which shaped the geography of India forever. The survey started on April 10, 1802, with the measurement of a baseline of 12 km at the base of a small hill in Madras. Named after an apostle of Christ, who is said to have visited the site, what is the name of the place where the GTS started? 10 When it was first opened to the public in 1864, this building, which had 80 individual departments, was the first of its kind in the subcontinent. After a fire destroyed the original building, a new one was built across a million square feet, in three phases, making it the largest in Southeast Asia at that time. Named after Spencer & Co Ltd, who originally owned the property, what is this building — the very first of its kind in India? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36040453.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Survival skills of the swamp deer||Some wildlife experts think of swamp deer, also known as barasingha, as “stupid”. Writing in the 2013-published Mammals of South Asia , researchers, who studied the species in Kanha National Park, Madhya Pradesh, describe the animals allowing humans to approach within 30 metres and being equally unconcerned of predators. Had the subspecies in western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand behaved like their Kanha brethren, Shrutarshi Paul’s work would have been simpler. A small group of the reddish-brown deer lives part of the year in Jhilmil Jheel Conservation Reserve near Haridwar, Uttarakhand. But they disappear with the onset of monsoon, the period of birthing. Why would they leave the safety of the protected wetland at such a vulnerable time? Could the riverside swamps southwards along the River Ganga offer better forage? In the dark The 130-kilometre stretch from Haridwar to Garhmukteshwar is chock-a-block with people, where many hadn’t seen the species. You’ve come to the wrong place, they declared when Paul showed them photographs of the barasingha. But the animals walked past his camera traps set in the marshes and meadows. How does the swamp deer survive amid humans? It’s not a small animal to escape detection. Stags often reach 150 to 180 kilograms with impressive 10 to 14-tine antlers, which explains their Hindi name, barasingha, or twelve-horned. Inside the protected Jhilmil Jheel, they are wary of people. Unlike their Kanha relatives, these animals would rather forgo grazing and flee than let a biped approach within a 200-metre radius. The swamp deer living near settlements were much more difficult to find. Paul and his field assistants huddled through the night at Nangal, along the Ganga close to Najibabad, with their torches switched off. Mosquitoes weren’t a concern since it was winter, but they kept a worried lookout for snakes. A barasingha approached within 50 metres. They sat still as tree stumps, and four more animals emerged. By then the researcher had been on their trail for six months, and he drank in the sight until 5 a.m., when they retreated into the riparian marsh. Small groups The small riverine wetlands can’t support great numbers as in Kanha, where a herd of 120 swamp deer grazing together wasn’t an uncommon spectacle. Instead, groups of up to seven feed at night, when people are out of the way, factors key to the barasingha’s survival. The next step in Paul’s study was to fix radio-transmitter collars on two animals. Catching deer is fraught with danger as they can die of a condition called capture myopathy. The researcher perfected a method using humans and goats. Working with a team of 50 to 60 people, he stretched a 150-metre-long net in the Jhilmil Jheel marsh. Then everyone took their places among the bushes and waited for nightfall. The hungry barasingha emerged unaware of the plans afoot. The crew guided them towards the mesh by standing up slowly, without alarming them. As soon as the net collapsed on the first animal, the rest of the herd leapt over it and disappeared into the wetland. In a swift operation, the researchers fixed a collar with a transmitter around the hind’s neck. Days later, they caught and freed another female swamp deer, which also vanished into the darkness wearing a transmitter neckband. These two does swam across the flooded Ganga, surprising Paul. “They were feeding on one bank, and two hours later, their locations showed up on the other bank. They are not aquatic, but they were able to swim against the strong current.” These animals provided the researcher with insights into their habits. During the monsoon, the Jhilmil Jheel grasslands submerge as the river swells. Paul speculates the deer probably emigrate to give birth on high ground and exploit the seasonal wealth of vegetation. These barasingha along the River Ganga may yet clear the unfavourable reputation their Central Indian relatives have given their kind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/survival-skills-of-the-swamp-deer/article36040461.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Championing women in print||The publishing industry was already struggling to acquire more readers when the pandemic struck. The small community of independent publishers was hit particularly hard and most have been trying to keep “paralysing despair” at bay as Ritu Menon writes in her slim candid narrative, Address Book: A Publishing Memoir in the time of COVID . Menon, who co-founded Kali for Women, India’s first feminist press in 1983, is founder-director of Women Unlimited, an associate of KfW. Weeks after the March 2020 lockdown began, Menon started to write a diary. Though she enjoyed the silence and the “enforced slowness of pace,” the distress all around shook her to the core. She found the response to COVID-19 as virulent as the disease: “Things are falling apart, and the Centre has self-isolated.” Discovery of writers As she looks back at her career, including a stint at Doubleday in New York, we get a glimpse of the whole process of feminist publishing, from writers to editors, and readers who are at the centre of it all. It was at Doubleday, for instance, that she learnt about “building obsolescence into pricing.” One of the points that kept recurring in her circle was that of volume, the “the number of books one needs to publish every year in order to be viable.” The problems confronting all ‘indies’, as she calls small publishers, are that there are “too many books, too little shelf space; high returns, warehousing and inventory.” Once Kali for Women was launched and through the international feminist book fairs, Menon had the chance of meeting a host of publishers, designers, booksellers, writers, librarians, opening up her world in the most charming way possible. Tucked between the covers are superb anecdotes — she found, for instance, a Post-It on the last page of an old address book, where Paul Brickhill, co-organiser of the Zimbabwe International Book Fair, had written a little note about a book that she must read, In the Eye of the Sun by Ahdaf Soueif. Years later Menon would invite Ahdaf to India who would introduce her to several Palestinian writers for publishing their work including Raja Shehadeh, Mourid Barghouti, Suad Amiry and so forth. Lunch with Taslima She writes about one of her oldest friends, Simone Manceau who translated Shashi Deshpande, Radhika Jha, Kunal Basu, Amit Chaudhuri, Neel Mukherjee and Bulbul Sharma into French as also the Pakistani writer Feryal Ali Gauhar, whose novel on Afghanistan, No Space for Further Burials , was published in 2007. She recalls in detail how a centenary edition of Attia Hosain’s work was put together. Menon writes about a lunch Taslima Nasreen cooked for her in exile in Delhi: “It’s my birthday and I wanted to cook for my friends. It was what I used to do in Dhaka.” In Menon’s possession are prized books including a signed copy of Svetlana Alexievich’s Zinky Boys: Soviet Voices from the Afghanistan War . She narrates fascinating tales about her experience of working with the two stalwarts of Urdu literature Qurratulain Hyder and Ismat Chugtai. How for instance a reluctant Aini Apa (Qurratulain Hyder) finally agreed to meet her Italian translator because he was a practising Sufi; or the delightful surprise of receiving a royalty cheque for $2491 from New Directions publishers for River of Fire ; and Ismat Apa readily agreeing to have her stories published in English. Menon’s memoir, encapsulating her career as publisher and writer, recording stories of women and their movements, is a testament to Vandana Shiva’s belief that ‘monocultures of the mind’ must be resisted at all cost.  Address Book: A Publishing Memoir in the time of COVID Ritu Menon Women Unlimited  Rs. 300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/championing-women-in-print/article36040440.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Larry’s entry problem||Hard Luck Louie was South, in the club’s Saturday night duplicate. Louie’s three no trump bid would not be everyone’s choice, but he certainly had the unbid suit stopped. Louie won the opening diamond lead with his nine and led a club to dummy’s queen, East took his king and returned a diamond to Louie’s ace. Louie had nine tricks – two spades, five diamonds, and two clubs – but he did not have the entries to take them. He was in his hand for the last time and had to cash his diamonds. What should he discard from dummy? Hoping clubs split 3-3, Louie discarded two hearts and a club. A club to the ace was followed by the jack, giving Louie the bad news. Louie exited with a club to East. He would still make his contract unless the opponents were able to take three heart tricks. Three heart tricks later, Louie conceded down one. “Will my luck ever change?” asked Louie. Lucky Larry declared the same contract with the same opening lead. He took a completely different line of play. He crossed to dummy’s ace of spades at trick two and then led dummy’s queen of clubs! East took his king, but Larry had nine tricks and enough entries to take them all. Nicely played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/larrys-entry-problem/article36040456.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Papaya for pass marks||Dear Agony Akka,  I am a young man from U.P. who is about to be married. My relatives are ready with shotguns for the celebrations and I am doing papaya facial twice a day. But suddenly I am getting the jitters seeing news articles and videos about belligerent U.P. brides. As you know, one bride called off the wedding when the groom could not recite the multiplication table of 2; another rejected the groom when he could not read without glasses; a third slapped her groom right after the wedding when she discovered his love affair and returned home promptly. I have consistently failed in maths since my schooldays, and I wear glasses (but for wedding I am going to wear coloured contact lenses). I have also had three love affairs (all unrequited). How will I get through the marriage rituals? I don’t want to get slapped on my papaya-enriched cheek. Please advise. —Trembling With Terror  Dear TWIT,  You are an enterprising young man. You have not only found a bride, you have managed to successfully hide both your educational qualification and eyeglass prescription from her. If you can carry on with the same creativity, you’ll sail through this wedding and even enter politics. The trick is to never answer any questions face to face. Tell her beforehand that you will recite the 2x table only on video chat. When the call goes through, simply read out the numbers from a carefully hidden chit. See how well prime ministers and all are doing this. Learn. What puzzles me, though, is why you are doing papaya facial. Your mail fails to regale me with the details of your visage that might have led you to take such extreme steps. But to willingly smear fruit over your face twice a day indicates a strength of resolve. I am assuming the sight of your papaya-flush face is calculated to strike the bride-to-be with instant love so that she will forget to ask you to recite the 2x table. But it’s a risky plan. Too much papaya might make you orange, which is okay for a traffic light, but might make the bride see red. She will again demand Maths viva. At that point, immediately change the subject to scooters. Ask her about her favourite brand and her father’s favourite brand. When you reel out numbers like the cost of a Komali XG 25 5Z and the EMI amount, your command of Maths will become clear and her father will head off to the nearest showroom. But chances are the bride will head back home from the venue. At this point, the shotguns can come in handy. Simply fire a shot or two in the air and kidnap the bride. Our great law-giver Manu has said that one can seize a maiden by force and marry her in the rakshasa style of marriage. Recently, I saw the trailer of a Tamil serial in which the man storms into the temple, pushes away the bridegroom, applies sindoor on the bride’s head, ties the taali around her neck in true hero style, then marches off. It was a thrilling scene and no doubt will soon be emulated by many young men. Not that the young men in our country need such inspiration. They are very manly. No pineapple facial or papaya pachadi for them. If a woman turns down a marriage proposal, they usually kill her off. But you seem to actually want a living spouse, so that may not work. You stick to the other ideas I have given.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/papaya-for-pass-marks/article36040451.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Heaven||Mieko Kawakami  Picador Rs. 699 A 14-year-old boy is ruthlessly bullied for having a lazy eye. The only person who understands what he is going through is a similarly suffering female classmate, Kojima, and the two young friends grow closer. But what is the nature of friendship when the shared bond between the two is terror?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/heaven/article36040422.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Once Upon a Time in Hollywood||Quentin Tarantino  Orion Publishing Group Rs. 499 Tarantino’s first work of fiction is based on his award-winning film. There’s the washed-up villain drowning his sorrows in whiskey; his stunt double, who might have gotten away with murder; the movie-star spending her salad days in the Hollywood Hills; and an ex-con who wants be a rock ‘n’ roll star.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/once-upon-a-time-in-hollywood/article36040430.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The Dangers of Smoking in Bed||Mariana Enriquez, trs Megan McDowell  Granta Books Rs. 599 In these dark tales, Buenos Aires is a city full of murderous intentions and morbid desires, where missing children come back from the dead and unearthed bones carry terrible curses. There is witchcraft and urban madness braided with stories of women who are not afraid of staring into the abyss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dangers-of-smoking-in-bed/article36040432.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Lonely Castle in the Mirror||Mizuki Tsujimura, trs Philip Gabriel  Doubleday Rs. 699 In a tranquil Tokyo neighborhood, seven teenagers are pulled out of their lonely lives into a wondrous castle. They are led to a room where one of them will be granted a wish. But there’s a catch: if they don’t leave by 5 o’clock, they will die. A tale about confronting anxiety and reaching out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lonely-castle-in-the-mirror/article36040434.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Narcissus or Machiavelli? Learning Leadership from Indian Prime Ministers||Nishant Uppal  Routledge India Rs. 695 Drawing on Indian prime ministers since Independence, the book traces personality traits and leadership skills. It examines a range of profiles, focusing on either Machiavellianism or Narcissism as a framework for study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/narcissus-or-machiavelli-learning-leadership-from-indian-prime-ministers/article36040436.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Opium Inc.: How a Global Drug Trade Funded the British Empire||Thomas Manuel  HarperCollins Rs. 699 In the 19th century, the East India Company traded opium from India to China, and from China to Britain, they took tea. From Britain to India, they brought empire. Manuel explores how the trade shaped the world we live in today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/opium-inc-how-a-global-drug-trade-funded-the-british-empire/article36040445.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mountain Tales||Saumya Roy  Profile Books/Hachette Rs. 699 A small community works among the vast piles of discarded things at the Deonar garbage mountain in Mumbai. As the mountain becomes toxic, the government wants to close it down. A journalist profiles the waste pickers whose lives have become vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mountain-tales/article36040447.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||An Economist at Home and Abroad||Shankar Acharya  HarperCollins Rs. 599 Shankar Acharya worked at the World Bank for a decade before serving as economic adviser to the government of India working under several ministers including V.P. Singh, Manmohan Singh, P. Chidambaram and Yashwant Sinha. In his memoir, Acharya writes about his journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-economist-at-home-and-abroad/article36040449.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3164||Across  1 Drinking quickly, setter unsteady somewhere in London (7,6) 8 Freaks of nature: mongrels ain’t regularly included (7) 9 A bit of ghastly cheese and fruit (7) 11 Greek character to provide roof for bird (8) 12 Perhaps hearing report of euro’s make-up (5) 14 Painter (grand), returned a casual greeting (4) 15 Novel about brash strongman (5,5) 17 Household devices prepared cold salmon (3,3,4) 19 To be heard, provoke ravens’ calls (4) 21 Light bike moved aimlessly (5) 22 I can be seen among bald men challenging part of bill (8) 25 What’s seen in a chest, or somewhere below one? (7) 26 Shelters knight in an annexe with son (7) 27 Mint tea I aim to turn into modern culinary proposition (9,4)  Down  2 Last longer than most of your stat might suggest? (7) 3 Hitman in Japan’s hidden? (5) 4 ‘Hulk’ not half succeeds on getting reboot: chance’d be a fine thing (2,4,4) 5 One mason’s silent, essentially (4) 6 Light vehicle strains to turn left (8) 7 With times moving on, that may be seen to become timeless (7) 8 Groom with ‘Mad Men’ stylings, like a fancy hanky? (11) 10 Pop quintet is short, stunted family group (11) 13 Fertiliser reserves upset man’s invested in somewhere in Cuba (10) 16 Timidity caught by ancient poetry (4,4) 18 Everyman, blood pressure rising in the French lake with Frenchman wanting protection from elements (3,4) 20 Adriatic land, Balkan? Assigned name: Illyria? Absolutely, at first! (7) 23 Material extracted from ground, sent up (5) 24 Listen to me: some apps stink (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3164/article36040459.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Grasping at straws: the race towards herd immunity||In the beginning of the pandemic, when vaccines were still undergoing clinical trials, the goal was to quickly reach herd immunity through vaccination and natural infection. Herd immunity — where a large percentage of the population is infected or vaccinated so that virus spread in the population is significantly slowed or stopped — was seen as an endgame of the pandemic. There have been instances in some countries where the virus spread has largely been under some kind of control at least for some duration. However, the emergence of highly contagious new variants, breakthrough infections even among the fully vaccinated and such people spreading the virus to others, and reinfections in the unvaccinated have made the race to reach the magical herd immunity threshold look like chasing a mirage. No magic number “If herd immunity is viewed as a magic number where, if we achieve X percent infection or vaccination, life will get back to normal then that is not going to happen in near term. In other words, attaining high levels of population protection to slow virus spread is an end goal, but is not the endgame,” Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore says in an email to The Hindu.  Immunologist Dr. Satjajit Rath, formerly with the National Institute of Immunology, is even more blunt in dismissing the notion of achieving herd immunity to control the SARS-CoV-2 virus spread. “Herd immunity is not, in fact, it cannot be, a prospective end goal for a public health policy, especially one aimed at a globally spreading new infection. We have no idea what percentage of population coverage will end up being effective [for] herd immunity,” he says in an email. “It is quite likely that any state of such ‘herd immunity’ in a given community will not be stable — people move, thereby changing the demography of the ‘herd’; variants emerge, thus making the ‘immunity’ less effective, and all of these changes can well lead to loss of herd immunity.” Dr. Rath adds: “The idea that we can aim for a stable situation of herd immunity and then just stop worrying about the pandemic has always been more wishful than real.” Role of variants If the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant was 60% more transmissive than the original strain, the Delta variant is even more contagious thus requiring an even higher herd immunity threshold to break the transmission chain. It is estimated that the Delta variant may have a basic reproductive number of between 6.5 and 8, which means that herd immunity will be 85% or higher. The next layer of complexity is seen when even fully vaccinated people get infected by the Delta variant, and such people shed virus at levels that resemble previously uninfected individuals and thus infect others. “But the duration of shedding may be shorter, which means that the overall ability of the virus to spread in previously infected or vaccinated individuals will be lower,” Dr. Kang says. Even if the duration of virus shedding in the vaccinated is short, it makes it harder to break the transmission chain even in a population that is highly vaccinated. Thus, even the theoretical possibility of protecting through herd immunity those individuals who cannot take a vaccine gets diminished. “There is no question of ending transmission until we end infections,” she adds. According to her, the data from Israel seems to indicate that there is strong protection from transmission with the mRNA vaccines shortly after vaccination, and this then declines with time. But she says that these are early data, and there is a lot to learn about the performance of other vaccines and over time. Help from vaccines “There are many more vaccines to come, and it is feasible that the next wave of vaccines or combinations of vaccines could help drive down transmission through lower levels of replication and better protection from infection,” says Dr. Kang. “Vaccines are needed for almost everyone. Expecting the benefit to pass on to the unvaccinated does not seem to be possible with this virus,” explains epidemiologist Dr. Giridhara Babu from the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. Dr Rath adds that except for very rare cases of someone who already has, for example, a major life-threatening allergy-related illness, there are really no individuals who cannot take a vaccine; there are only those who do not want to take a vaccine. Small surveys The over 63% average seroprevalence in the country combined with increased vaccination coverage can help reduce the speed of virus spread. But more importantly, natural infection and vaccination can decrease the risk of severe disease and death even when reinfected. But the over 63% seroprevalence is only an average and has been arrived at based on a survey of less than 30,000 people in less than 10% of India's districts. “It does not mean that two-thirds of every neighbourhood is seropositive; the reality is much more of a patchwork quilt, making any easy predictions misleading,” Dr. Rath clarifies. This makes quickly vaccinating a large percentage of people very important. Unfortunately, the pace of vaccination is slow in India — less than 33% are vaccinated with one dose and less than 9.5% fully vaccinated — and vaccine shortages in many States have become a norm. This makes reaching the imaginary herd immunity threshold anytime soon a big challenge. Even among the vaccinated, inequity in terms of geography and socio-economic strata is rampant. “This inequity means that the reality will be well-vaccinated and poorly-vaccinated communities living cheek-by-jowl, making any idea of stable herd immunity even less likely,” Dr. Rath notes. Lasting immunity Finally, by the time the entire country reaches very high seropositivity either through vaccination or natural infection to achieve herd immunity, it remains unclear if protection would last in those who have been infected/vaccinated early on. It is likely that protection from severe disease and mortality might last for several years. However, there is no data at the moment. While Dr. Babu feels that the endgame might be a situation where we would have to live with the virus with some level of endemicity but with reduced hospitalisation and lower mortality, Dr. Kang says it is too early to give up on herd immunity. “There are viruses that are much more infectious than SARS-CoV-2, such as measles. We have achieved reasonable control of measles and are striving to do better. We have not hit the herd immunity threshold in many parts of the world, and yet measles is no longer the major global killer it once was,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/grasping-at-straws-the-race-towards-herd-immunity/article36040168.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The colourful molecules of turmeric||Every kitchen in India makes use of turmeric in its meal, in one form or another. The actual turmeric slices or turmeric powder that we use every day in preparing our meals (as Haldi, Manjal, Pasupu, Arishina, Halud ) has about 3% of the active component molecule called curcumin, a polyphenol diketone (and not a steroid). Researchers point out that there is another molecule in turmeric called piperine, which is an alkaloid, responsible for the pungency of pepper that we use every day in our cooking, along with turmeric. Piperine enhances curcumin absorption in the body. It gives turmeric its multivariate healing and protective power. Curry powder Turmeric has been known for over 4,000 years in the Indian subcontinent, West Asia, Burma, Indonesia and China, and used as an essential part of our daily food – what the colonials called curry powder. It has also been known as a medicine for ages, and to have anti-bacterial, anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. Herbal medicine experts have used turmeric to treat painful symptoms of arthritis, joint stiffness and joint pain. They have also claimed that turmeric helps cure acute kidney injuries. Some of these claims need to checked using controlled trials. The site:https://www.healthline.comlists the following evidence-based benefits that turmeric and its products offer the body. Besides what has been mentioned, Curcumin, which is the active molecule in turmeric, is a substance with powerful anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties; it is a natural anti-inflammatory compound; chronic low-level inflammation affects your health, including heart diseases and metabolic syndromes. Thanks to its ability to cross the blood–brain barrier, Curcumin reduces or stops the build-up of insoluble protein tangles called amyloid plaques, which are responsible for Alzheimer’s disease. (However, we need further placebo-based studies, suitable animal models and humans). Curcumin boosts Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF), a gene which promotes neurons (nerve cells), thus helping in memory and learning. It may help prevent cancer, as some herbal medicine experts have held. As cancer cells die, the spread of cancer is reduced, and new tumour cells are stopped. In arthritis and joint inflammation, Curcumin has been shown to be very effective. Herbal medicine practitioners have also suggested this. It is useful for treating depression in people. Controlled trials on 60 people for 6 weeks show that conventional drugs (for example, Prozac) act even better when supplemented with Curcumin. It is here that a paper from Gary Small and colleagues from the University of California, the U.S., titled: ‘Memory and Brain Amyloid and Tau effects of a bioavailable form of curcumin in non-demented adults: A double-blind, placebo-controlled 18-month trial’, in the journal American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry (doi: 10.1016/j.jagp.2017.10.010). Here they studied 40 adults between the age of 50 and 90 years, who had mild memory complaints, and gave one group placebo and the other group 90 mg of Curcumin, twice daily for 18 months. All 40 received standardised assessment tests and the curcumin levels in their blood at start and at 18 months. All 40 were also tested with PET Scans to determine the levels of insoluble amyloid plaques, at start and after 18 months. They could conclude that daily Curcumin intake could lead to improved memory and attention in non-demented adults. Against COVID-19 Most recently, an exciting study has recently been published from a group in Mumbai which shows that turmeric aids in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The researchers did a trial of about 40 COVID-19 patients and found that turmeric could substantially reduce the morbidity and mortality. The paper by K. S. Pawar et al appears in the journal Frontiers in Pharmacology , titled: ‘Oral curcumin with piperine as adjuvant therapy for COVID- 19: A randomized clinical trial’. The paper is freely accessible (doi.10.3389/fphar.2021.669362.eCollection 2021). What K. S. Pawar and colleagues had done was to conduct a double-blind, randomised, control trial in a 30-bed dedicated COVID-19 Heath Centre in Maharashtra. Administration of oral curcumin with piperine as an adjuvant symptomatic therapy in COVID-19 treatment could substantially reduce morbidity and mortality, and ease the logistical and supply-related burdens on the heath system. (Incidentally, that curcumin is an excellent immunoadjuvant has been known, thanks to the detailed studies of G. Padmanaban of IISc, Bengaluru). This is a truly remarkable advance, and is well worth trying out in several other centres across India, where the pandemic is still prevalent, not only to confirm the findings, but also where no clear signs of herd immunity have come about. dbala@lvpei.org  That curcumin is an excellent immunoadjuvant has been known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-colourful-molecules-of-turmeric/article36040154.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. lab makes headway in nuclear fusion energy||Nuclear fusion is a clean and green route to producing energy, as it does not involve any remnant radioactive waste products. Fusion reactions power hydrogen bombs. However, so far, fusion devices that show a net energy gain have not been demonstrated in labs. An experiment at the U.S. National Ignition Facility (NIF), within the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California, comes close to demonstrating this. In this lab, using laser beams, tiny pellets of deuterium and tritium (heavier isotopes of hydrogen) have been fused to form helium and release energy that very nearly matches the amount of energy input using the lasers. The NIF has been trying to achieve this for nearly a decade. Now, the experiment has produced a yield that almost equals the laser energy input. To be functional, a reactor has to produce an output that is at least tens of times the input energy. A tiny pellet of the fuel (deuterium and tritium) is placed in a cylidrical thumbnail-sized vessel, known as a hohlraum that has holes on both faces. A total of 192 laser beams are directed through the holes to strike the walls of the hohlraum. This causes the hohlraum to emit x-rays which, in turn, impinge on the pellet and compress it. The heated core of the pellet reaches 100 million degrees temperature which starts the fusion reactions. Further, the pellet has to “ignite” and only then can it reach the stage of becoming a microbomb – a deuterium-tritium fusion reactor – and release energy that can be tapped. Laser facility The laser facility itself occupies a large area, equal to nearly three cricket fields, and the lasers can deliver up to 500 terawatts of power using its 192 individual laser beams. This is focused into the openings in the hohlraum which contains the pellet measuring some 2-3 mm. “The amount of laser energy used in these experiments is quite modest, 1.9 megajoule (MJ). This is approximately equal to the energy it takes to heat a large pot (8 litres) of water by 100 degrees Celsius. The amount of fusion energy produced in these experiments was approximately 1.3 MJ which is now for the first time comparable to amount of laser energy input,” says Arthur Kazdan Pak, Stagnation Science Team lead, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, in an email to The Hindu . This is the first time, in a controlled laboratory setting, that an inertial fusion system ( another name for a laser driven fusion system) has produced nearly as much energy was supplied to initiate the reaction. Dr Kazdan Pak further explains: “If we do the energy accounting we estimate that the fusion energy production is approximately 5 times the amount of energy coupled from the laser to target.” Tremendous progress “To make a fusion reactor, hundreds of pellet implosions have to happen per second and means have to be found to extract the neutron energy as heat and produce electricity. This [experiment] is far from that stage, but the researchers have made tremendous progress in the last decade,” says P. I John, Former Meghnad Saha Chair Professor, Institute for Plasma Research, Gandhinagar, and an expert in thermonuclear fusion. Several steps remain before a viable nuclear fusion reactor can be realised. Ignition, or energy break-even must be achieved. Many laser pulses must be made to act per second to increase the net yield to a sufficiently high value. Then the technology to convert the neutron energy into electricity has to be developed. Meanwhile, Dr Kazdan Pak makes a mind-blowing comparison: “The fusion energy produced is released in an incredibly short amount of time, approximately, 90 picoseconds producing close to 15 petawatts of power. This is approximately equivalent to some recent estimates of the total world power consumption, however the experiment only produces this power for an incredibly short period of time, whereas power is consumed continuously across the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/us-lab-makes-headway-in-nuclear-fusion-energy/article36040158.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Canines and colour||What controls the coat colour patterns in dogs? Researchers have successfully uncovered the secret behind the inheritance of coat colour patterns in dogs. A genetic variant responsible for a very light coat in dogs and wolves originated more than two million years ago in a now extinct relative of the modern wolf (Nature Ecology and Evolution).  Wolves and dogs can make two different types of pigment, black (eumelanin) and yellow (pheomelanin). Regulated production of these two gives rise to very different coat colour patterns. The so-called agouti signalling protein represents the body’s main switch for the production of yellow pheomelanin. If the agouti signalling protein is present, the pigment-producing cells will synthesise yellow pheomelanin. If not, black eumelanin will be formed. According to the University of Bern release, dogs have a ventral promoter, which is responsible for the production of agouti signalling protein at the belly. An additional hair cycle-specific promoter mediates the production of agouti signalling protein during specific stages of hair growth and enables the formation of banded hair. They also discovered two variants of the ventral promoter. While one of the variants conveys the production of normal amounts of agouti signalling protein, the other causes increased production of the protein. They also identified three different variants of the hair cycle-specific promoter. Thus dogs have a total of five different combinations, which cause different coat colour patterns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/canines-and-colour/article36040156.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||An act of love,||Is Sona Mohapatra and Deepti Gupta’s documentary Shut Up Sona the kind of story you only get to tell once? “Let me tell you, there’s a ‘Please Sing Sona’ sequel that’s happening,” Mohapatra says of the film based on her ‘unrelenting fight for an equal space in modern day India’. Irony and wit are among the narrative devices of Shut Up Sona , which is currently getting its Australia premiere at the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne this month. Originally slated to take place in theatres, a worrying wave of Covid-19 cases in the city caused organisers to launch it virtually. For Mohapatra — who had her own billboard at Times Square, New York, in July as part of the Spotify ‘Equal’ global campaign — and filmmaker-cinematographer Gupta, this was an addition to the tumultuous four-year journey of making, editing and showcasing the documentary. Slated to release on an OTT platform later this year in India, it shines the spotlight not just on the musician and the pushback she receives for being an outspoken, sometimes mercurial woman in India, but also the state of cultural discourse.  At the festival circuit   Gupta says it originally started with just the two friends taking on the project, being joined by Mohapatra’s partner, composer Ram Sampath, as well as editor Arjun Gourisaria. “We were both learning everything for the first time. All the well-wishers came up saying, ‘Oh, you did an India premiere, now (so) none of the big international festivals are going to take up your film’. That was heartbreaking, because we didn’t know any better,” says Mohapatra of the film (produced by her) that had its premiere at the Mumbai Academy of Moving Image (MAMI) Film Festival in Mumbai in 2019. Nevertheless, the team persevered to take it to the International Film Festival Rotterdam in 2020 and several other countries.  Battling the system   Counting the film as a “symbolic catharsis” for both of them, Gupta was driven by not just Mohapatra’s music but also her continual battle against systemic, patriarchal issues. “There are many notes that the film is hitting, like how when we protest as an artist for equality, what is the price to pay for it professionally,” says Gupta, referring to the times Mohapatra has taken the music industry to task. The singer recounts, “I was being accosted and literally ambushed in my house by a reporter from a news channel.” Gupta was coincidentally at Mohapatra’s house, after they had wrapped up shooting a music video, gathered around for tea time on a Sunday evening. Mohapatra recounts, “Deepti thought this was an opportunity for the documentary. But that camera person who had come with the reporter started telling Deepti which is a better place for her to shoot me from, and started directing her. She captured that.”  This, along with the sequence of Mohapatra watching a male-dominated mixed doubles match featuring Roger Federer, are left in Shut Up Sona to “leave an unconscious impression on the viewer”, according to Gupta. Mohapatra feels documentaries are not that well understood in India among the masses, but the popularity of OTT platforms is changing that and Shut Up Sona fits right in. “It’s not one of those artsy, niche documentaries. It’s a fully masaledaar , musical, gaali-galoch film… everything else that you would not expect,” concludes Mohapatra. Shut Up Sona premieres at the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne on August 26      Watch the duoin conversation with Anurag Tagat on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-act-of-love/article36040754.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Nine ways to say nothing||Much has been written about the cinematic disaster that is the anthology film Navarasa , now showing on Netflix. And while one usually dismisses bad films with a shrug, these nine shorts come from Tamil cinema’s supposedly top filmmakers, which makes the mediocrity a bit inexplicable. Worse, the series is created by star director Mani Ratnam, about whose cinematic mojo the less said the better after this outing. But what stood out for me after the four-hour anthology was the extraordinary aridity of the cinematic imagination on display. And this, I believe, comes from the great cultural vacuum we now occupy where all creative energy is expended on negotiating what, for want of a better word, I will call the ‘middle’. Nothing else explains why the segment on ‘Wonder’ could not frame a 30-minute futuristic plot about a time machine without dragging in astrology and God and feeling compelled to name its protagonists Vishnu, Krishna and Kalki. The inability of Indian artists and writers to go beyond mythology might at one level be looked at simply as artistic failure but I would argue that this bogging down also explains our continuing lack of creativity in, for instance, engineering or pharmacology or even dance, where bold, original, cutting-edge ideas still elude us. A society that continuously harks back is ill-equipped to meet the future and that gets reflected in this anthology as well, whether in its decision to rake up the ancient Natyashastra or in its failure to craft a critical and contemporary lens to explore the ninerasas. The episode on ‘Disgust’, for example, is intent on perfectly reproducing a Brahmin village in 1965. So you get authenticity of a photographic kind, admirable no doubt, but one can’t evoke something as primal as disgust when drowning in sweet nostalgia, especially when disgust itself is such a strong and subjective emotion, varying across cultures and across generations. The film is unreal, blank, like a pretty ad forkanjeevaramsaris, its social setting limited, its transgression too petty for horror. In ‘Anger’, where a single mother is forced to sleep with her employer for a loan to tide her family over, the responses the filmmaker dredges up are rage and humiliation. Not respect, not understanding, not even just love, but the same tired, violent responses that drive honour killings. If murder and an unforgiving daughter are the only things a film can conjure up in 2021, if one must still ‘judge’ a woman’s bodily choices and not just shut up, it exposes not only the project’s creative poverty, but the barrenness of the cultural landscape it inhabits. It comes as no surprise, therefore, that not one of the nine episodes has a woman director. One suspects a woman might have at least had a different sense of humour. In ‘Haasya’, Priyadarshan not only lazily decides that the mere presence of a large, dark, unkempt personage will generate laughter, but that spinsterhood is the ultimate defeat for a woman. Indian society’s deep discomfort with dark skin, academic failure, human waste, impurity, single women, all come together in this sad excuse of an episode that any self-respecting creative director would have thrown out. Artistic uncertainty of this magnitude can only be the reflection of a tottering society — one where we feel compelled to equate religion with science to prove our ‘ancient’ credentials; where not a day goes by without women being bullied on social media, often by violent male fans of the same film industry; where the worst ‘insults’ against women still question her ‘virginity’ and ‘chastity’; where people can still be labelled ‘unclean’ and thus excluded; where caste is an obsession and public humiliation honed to perfection; where we are so obsessed by a romanticised past that we have lost the ability to question an unpleasant present. Such an uneasy, unsure and underconfident society will invariably inspire bizarre art as well. And, not least, result in the kind of clueless impotence that marks the last Navarasa segment, ‘Romance’. Directed by Gautham Menon, the segment’s emotional emptiness and vacuity, the artifice it substitutes for candour, the verbosity it chooses over action is in many, many ways a simulacrum of society today. The hollow men of this anthology are no accident, but wholly a product of our times. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nine-ways-to-say-nothing/article36040751.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping up with Kirby||Whether as the young Franciscan novice Adso, playing Watson to Sean Connery’s Baskerville in The Name of the Rose (1986) or as strait-laced Riley to wildly grandstanding John Travolta in John Woo’s Broken Arrow 10 years later, Christian Slater always radiates positive energy in his roles. And that energy is evident as the 51-year-old actor talks about his latest role in Dr Death over a video call. The mini-series — based on a podcast that focusses on medical malpractice — released globally last month and had its India premiere this week. It tells the harrowing true story of a neurosurgeon, Christopher Duntsch (Joshua Jackson), who maimed and killed his patients. Slater plays Dr Kirby who, alongside Dr Henderson (Alec Baldwin), brings down Duntsch. Speaking of their time on set for the medical drama, Slater recalls a scene with Jackson when they were in the operating theatre. “When you are shooting these types of uncomfortable scenes, you tend to find humour. Both Josh and I are so inept as surgeons that I found those moments to be quite humorous,” says the actor, who will also star in Army of the Dead: Lost Vegas that is currently in production.  Baldwin on set   Though Slater had plans to meet Kirby, Covid-19 made it impossible. For the surgical aspects, he says he spent time with his brother-in-law who is also a vascular surgeon like Kirby. Admitting to playing characters that possess energy and charisma, Slater says he and Kirby are similar in a few ways. “I enjoy life; I have a good time. I do have an energy that I think I need to taper a little bit. In order to play this character, I needed a certain amount of freedom, and I am grateful to Patrick [Macmanus, creator] for allowing me to be creative in the moment. That lent to the type of energy that came across.” Working with Alec Baldwin was a blast according to Slater. “I found him to be a hilarious human being. As an actor, he brings so much to each character he plays.”  Duntsch in the dark   While Slater had fun playing high-energy Kirby, Jackson, 43, had to go into some dark spaces as Duntsch. “For a large part of the show he does not know that he is the bad guy. He did not have the ability to see the effect of his actions,” says the actor, who rose to fame as Pacey Witter in Dawson’s Creek . The show, with criss-crossing timelines and disturbing content, is a gripping one and credit for that goes to Macmanus, he says. “Patrick had the entire show, every image of it catalogued in his mind. He was an unbelievable resource,” he concludes.  Dr Death is streaming on Lionsgate Play||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/keeping-up-with-kirby/article36040753.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Torrential rain breaks 14-year record, IMD issues ‘yellow’ alert||The national capital received 138.8 mm of rainfall over 24 hours (from 8.30 a.m. on Friday to 8.30 a.m. on Saturday) — the highest for a single day in August since 2007. Sunday is expected to be generally cloudy with light rain, said the India Meteorological Department. The all-time highest amount of rainfall on a single day in the month was 184 mm on August 2, 1961. Saturday’s reading is the ninth highest in the list. Safdarjung observatory, which is considered as representational data for the city, recorded 138.8 mm of rainfall, The Ridge observatory registered 149.2 mm of rainfall over 24 hours. Narela station recorded 11 mm of rainfall. The minimum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 23.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below average, while the maximum temperature was 32.6 degree celsius, a notch below normal. Delhi’s air quality on Saturday evening was in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The IMD had issued an ‘orange’ alert for Saturday, a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supplyand. A ‘yellow’ warning has been issued for Sunday, indicating severely bad weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/torrential-rain-breaks-14-year-record-imd-issues-yellow-alert/article36040603.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Will changes in AERA Act help smaller airports?||The story so far: In the monsoon session, Parliament passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The Bill, tabled in March this year and sent to a standing committee, seeks to broaden the category of airports for which the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) of India can determine tariff by amending the definition of major airports. Why has the definition of a major airport been amended? The AERA regulates tariffs and other charges for aeronautical services rendered at ‘major’ airports. Under the AERA Act, 2008, a major airport is one which “has, or is designated to have, annual passenger throughput in excess of three-and-a-half million or any other airport as the Central Government may, by notification, specify”. However, it does not provide for determination of tariff for a group of airports. The Amendment Bill has amended the definition of a major airport to include “a group of airports” after the words “any other airport”. The government hopes the move will encourage development of smaller airports and make bidding for airports with less passenger traffic attractive. It plans to club profitable airports with non-profitable ones and offer them as a package for development in public-private partnership mode to expand connectivity. Was there a need to amend the AERA Act? The Airports Authority of India (AAI) awarded six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati — for operations, management and development in public private partnership mode in February 2019. Later that year, the AAI Board, in its 190th meeting held on September 5, approved leasing of another six airports — Bhubaneswar, Varanasi, Amritsar, Raipur, Indore and Tiruchi — for undertaking operations, management and development in public private partnership mode. The Ministry of Civil Aviation plans to club each of these airports with nearby smaller airports for joint development. The move follows Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget Speech this year, in which she said the government planned to monetise airports in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. How did AERA come into existence? What tariffs does it determine?   The AERA Act was enacted in 2008 and an independent economic regulator, i.e., the AERA, was established in 2009 for determining the tariff for aeronautical services rendered at major airports. The initial benchmark passenger throughput to qualify as a major airport was 1.5 million passenger per annum (mppa), which was amended in 2019 to 3.5 mppa. According to the AERA website, there are 25 major airports. For the remaining non-major airports owned by AAI, the Ministry of Civil Aviation approves the charges for aeronautical services. There are a total of 154 airports in the country. Among these, AAI owns 136 airports and provides air traffic services over the entire Indian airspace and adjoining oceanic areas. What are the apprehensions? “Though this Bill proposes to make changes which appear to be lucrative for the aviation sector, however, there is a lack of clarity regarding what will be the criterion for deciding which airports get clubbed together. Will it be passenger traffic of more than 3.5 million or some other factors too? This clarity needs to be brought in to achieve the objective of the Bill,” says Poonam Verma, Partner, J Sagar Associates, adding that the government will also have to ensure that a monopoly situation is not created in the airport operating business while awarding a group of airports to the same entity. “Balancing the interests of the private sector and the government’s objective of privatising smaller airports will be a tightrope walk,” says Jagannarayan Padmanabhan, Practice leader and Director, Transport and Logistics, CRISIL Limited. “Whether the government succeeds will also depend on how the airports are packaged and if there are enough growth prospects, economic activity or tourist attractions near the non-profitable airports that will be clubbed.”  Balancing the interests of the private sector and the government’s objective of privatising smaller airports will be a tightrope walk, says Jagannarayan Padmanabhan of CRISIL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-changes-in-aera-act-help-smaller-airports/article36040094.ece
22 August 2021||New Delhi,||Waterlogging complaints flood PWD||The Public Works Department received over 334 complaints of waterlogging between midnight on Friday and throughout Saturday as all critical points identified by the agency were flooded for the most part of the day.  Guard electrocuted According to Delhi Police officials, a 60-year-old guard died on Saturday due to electric shock in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar area allegedly due to waterlogging. Medicines at a State-run hospital in Rohini were allegedly damaged as the rainwater entered the pharmacy, a government official said. According to data from the three civic bodies, at least 14 incidents of tree felling were reported in the city. Meanwhile, commuters had a harrowing experience as vehicles crawled on important stretches across the city. Vikas Tyagi, a commuter, said it took him over four hours to reach Burari from Hapur due to waterlogging. The trip usually takes two hours, he added. Traffic movement was also disrupted on the Mehrauli-Badarpur road in south Delhi. People were also seen wading through waterlogged streets across the Capital. According to a senior PWD official, Minto Bridge, which was cordoned off by the traffic police on Saturday morning, was among the first points to get flooded. The situation there was, however, brought quickly under control as water was pumped out and the stretch was reopened to traffic. “The PWD control room began getting complaints of waterlogging as soon as rain started lashing the city on Friday. Most of the vulnerable and critical points around the city got waterlogged,” said a PWD official. Most complaints of waterlogging came from Azadpur, several points on the Ring Road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Lajpat Nagar, ITO, Mathura Road, and more. The average rainfall that the drainage network of the city can cater to is 50 mm per day but Delhi received 138.8 mm of rainfall in 24 hours, the PWD said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/waterlogging-complaints-flood-pwd/article36040600.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hindu Army chief held in sloganeering case||The police arrested Hindu Army chief Sushil Tiwari in connection with raising anti-Muslim inflammatory slogans during a rally at the Jantar Mantar on August 8. A senior officer on Saturday said Tiwari (40) from Lucknow was arrested on Friday night. “A video surfaced in which he could be heard using foul words for members of minority community,” the officer said. The police had earlier arrested six people, including advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, Save India Foundation’s reet Singh alias Sundar Pal, Hindu Force’s Deepak Singh, Hindu Raksha Dal’s Deepak Kumar, Sudarshan Vahini’s Vinod Sharma, and one Vinit Bajpai. A Delhi court had granted bail to Mr. Upadhyay and two others while rejecting the plea of Preet, Vinod and Deepak Kumar On August 8, a rally was called to demand the end of ‘colonial era laws’ by Supreme Court advocate and former Delhi BJP Spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. The event was attended by several right-wing organisations. Subsequently, a video among several others went viral wherein a group of men led by a man wearing a saffron T-shirt could be heard raising anti-Muslim inflammatory slogans. The police registered a case on charges of promoting enmity and for flouting Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines.  A video surfaced in which Sushil Tiwari can be heard using foul words for members of the minority community Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hindu-army-chief-held-in-sloganeering-case/article36040597.ece
22 August 2021||August 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Power play||The story so far: Opposition parties and several organisations have objected to certain features in the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021. the Kerala Assembly has unanimously passed a resolution urging the Centre to withdraw the Bill. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reiterating her opposition to the “much-criticised” Bill. In Karnataka, farmers held demonstrations against the draft legislation. The proposed legislation, according to critics, goes against the federal structure of the Constitution as electricity is in the concurrent list. Those opposing the Bill contend that it will lead to more private players in the power sector, making electricity unaffordable for vulnerable sections, but the Centre says it has its reasons for proposing the changes. What prompted the Centre to propose changes in the Electricity Act? For years, electricity distribution has remained the sore point in the country’s power network. Thirty years ago, when the Centre opened up the power sector, experts argued that distribution should have been covered initially. The Electricity Act, 2003, led to thermal generation getting delicensed and States unbundling the vertically integrated State Electricity Boards into generation companies and distribution companies (discoms). Though the idea is to promote competition and efficiency, the discoms have, by and large, remained under the control of the States. At the end of June 2021, the discoms owed over Rs. 90,000 crore to power producers. Thirty-six out of 56 discoms reported aggregate losses of around Rs. 32,900 crore as on March 31, 2020. With the discoms saddled with structural challenges in governance and regulation, combined with the chronic problems of underinvestment, line losses and issues in billing, metering, and collection, the government has been trying to amend the Electricity Act. The present version of the draft Bill was drawn up in April 2020. Recently, Union Power Minister R.K. Singh said the revised draft, prepared in consultation with stakeholders, had been sent to the Cabinet Secretary. What are the contours of the draft Bill? The broad objectives of the legislation, as articulated by Mr. Singh a year ago, are: ensure consumer-centricity, promote ease of doing business, enhance sustainability of the power sector and promote green power. The draft Bill has covered nearly a dozen areas, such as distribution franchise and sub-licence, subsidy, and cost-reflective tariff. Among the remedies presented by the government through the initiative are direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidies, reduction of cross subsidies, role for distribution sub-licensees with regulators’ nod, the adoption of a national renewable energy policy and the establishment of the electricity contract enforcement authority. On August 10, the Union Minister informed the Rajya Sabha that after the announcement in the 2021 Union Budget on the need for enabling consumers to choose among discoms, the Centre held discussions with a range of stakeholders. As this required an amendment to the law, the “desired procedures are being followed”, he said. Why have several States opposed the Bill? The proposed de-licensing of distribution has unnerved many States, from Tamil Nadu to West Bengal and Maharashtra to Punjab. The States feel that a greater role for private distribution companies and franchisees would only lead to “cherry-picking of remunerative areas” by them, leaving it to the State discoms to serve social sector obligations and rural areas. This, they feel, will lead to the States incurring massive losses. Ms. Banerjee, in her letter to Mr. Modi, argues that while the Electricity Act, 2003, had struck a “fine balance” between the Centre and the States in the management of the sector, the proposed amendment “strikes at the root of the federal structure”. The objective of providing choices to the consumers would “end up in profiteering” by new service providers through tariff hikes. The draft Bill is also being opposed by many political parties and farmers on the ground that DBT will do away with the heavily subsidised or free power supply to the farm sector. This is why, it is one among three pieces of legislation against which agitating agriculturists’ bodies have been  carrying on a campaign. One of the complaints of Tamil Nadu against the draft Bill is that hydro-power purchase obligation cannot be fixed separately as hydro-power generation is seasonal, monsoon-dependent and not in the control of its discom. What is the way forward? If the Centre and the States can arrive at a broad consensus, at least on two crucial areas of DBT and giving space for private distribution companies and franchisees, the proposed amendment can be a game-changer for the power sector, according to experts.  The States feel that a greater role for private distribution companies and franchisees will lead to ‘cherry-picking of remunerative areas’ by them, leaving it to State discoms to serve the poor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/power-play/article36040463.ece
22 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teenager falls into drain, dies||A 17-year-old boy died on Saturday after he fell into a drain in north-east Delhi’s Seelampur, the police said. The police said they received a PCR call at around 12.50 p.m. about the incident near Nag Devta Mandir in Seelampur. On reaching the spot, the youth was rescued by fire tenders and divers. He was then shifted to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. The boy — Naveen from Nabi Karim — was a ragpicker and lost his balance while crossing the drain. Legal action will be taken, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teenager-falls-into-drain-dies/article36040604.ece
22 August 2021||new delhi,||Delhi markets, malls to stay open beyond 8 p.m.||Markets, malls, restaurants and bars in the Capital can stay open beyond 8 p.m. from August 23 with the Delhi government announcing on Saturday that restrictions are being lifted following the decline in the number of COVID-19 cases. “In view of the coronavirus situation, the markets were presently allowed to stay open till 8 p.m. With the decline in COVID-19 cases, this time limit is being done away with from Monday. The markets can stay open according to their normal timings,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet. Delhi reported only 19 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, the lowest since April 15 last year, taking the tally to 14,37,293, said a bulletin released by the government. No new COVID-19-related death was reported and the toll stood at 25,079. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-markets-malls-to-stay-open-beyond-8-pm/article36040797.ece
