26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Separate probe by Bengal into snooping can wait, observes SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday urged the West Bengal government to wait and not go ahead with a separate judicial inquiry into the Pegasus snooping allegations when the apex court is already seized of the issue. A Bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant did not pass a formal order staying the work of the government-appointed commission of inquiry after senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi gave an oral assurance to convey the top court’s message of “restraint” to the government. The commission of inquiry comprises retired Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B. Lokur and retired Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the petitioner, an NGO called ‘Global Village Foundation’, submitted that there cannot be a parallel inquiry when the top court was hearing the issue. The petition has challenged the government notification, which appointed the commission in July. It said the commission had no jurisdiction to embark on such an inquiry. Mr. Salve submitted that a public notice was issued by the commission of inquiry and proceedings were taking place on a day-to-day basis. The Bench said it may take up the Pegasus cases next week and pass a comprehensive order. It tagged the petition with the Pegasus cases pending before it. ‘Pan-India impact’ “We expect some restraint... We expect you to wait,” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Mr. Singhvi. Justice Kant said any decision in the Pegasus issue would likely have a pan-India impact. The Supreme Court issued a pre-admission notice to the Centre on August 17 on petitions seeking an independent inquiry into the charges that the government used the Israeli spyware to snoop on journalists, activists, dissenters, parliamentarians, Ministers and other citizens. After issuing the notice, a Bench of the CJI and Justices Kant and Aniruddha Bose said it would consider the further course of action, including the formation of a committee, to inquire into the allegations, in due time. The notice was issued after the government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, stood firm by its two-page affidavit, denying “all and any” allegations. Mr. Mehta said any revelation about any software allegedly used by the government to counter terrorism would compromise national security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/separate-probe-by-bengal-into-snooping-can-wait-observes-sc/article36109852.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Dharmadam link in tree-felling case dogs govt.||Speculations about the so-called ‘Dharmadam’ link in the illegal felling of rosewood trees in South Muttil in Wayanad appeared to dog the State government and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Wednesday. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan sought to weaponise a recent Forest Department inquiry that pointed to an ‘influential’ journalist’s ‘suspicious’ role in the plunder. The television reporter represented a Malayalam news channel in Kozhikode and used the place name Dharmadom on his byline. It did not help the government that the television reporter had posted pictures of himself with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other CPI(M) leaders on Facebook. Moreover, Mr. Vijayan represented the Dharmadom Assembly constituency. Hence, Mr. Satheesan alleged that the ‘Dharmadam’ link had come to the rescue of the forest mafia. The government had let off forest officials who tried to protect rosewood thieves with a mild rap on their knuckles. CPI(M) leader A.K. Balan made light of Mr. Satheesan’s allegations and said the party shunned wrongdoers. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran said the Crime Branch would follow up on the findings in the report. Current controversy The current controversy has provenance in an investigation by Rajesh Raveendran, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Forest, Land and Resources), Kozhikode, into the loot. The crux of the report is that Forest Conservator, Kozhikode, N.T. Sajan, had allegedly plotted with the accused in the South Muttil case to falsely implicate M.K. Sameer, forest officer, Meppady, who is pursuing the rosewood felling case, in an old tree felling offence at Manikunnimala. The inquiry found that Mr. Sajan had relied on questionable documents handed over to him by the accused in the South Muttil case to ensnare Mr. Sameer in a fabricated case. It said the officer had ‘trained his guns’ on diligent subordinates and attempted to frame them in an ‘absurd and baseless’ case to protect the vested interests of the forest mafia. Mr. Sajan and the rosewood case suspects had allegedly roped in the journalist to give credence to the ‘fabricated report.’ The inquiry report said the journalist had contacted Divisional Forest Officer, Flying Squad, Kozhikode, P. Dhanesh Kumar and pressurised him to inquire into the ‘false’ Manikunnimala case spotlighted by Mr. Sajan. However, Mr. Sameer was innocent of the offence, which had occurred before he assumed as Meppady Range Officer.  Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has said the Crime Branch will follow up on the findings in the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharmadam-link-in-tree-felling-case-dogs-govt/article36110232.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,||State revises testing strategy with focus on children||In the wake of a possible third wave of COVID-19, Karnataka has revised its testing strategy. The daily target has been fixed at 1.75 lakh for the State, with special focus on testing children. According to a circular issued by Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, 70% of the daily tests should be using the RT-PCR method, considered the gold standard with negligible chances of a false report. “As part of this revised strategy, the focus should be on the 0-19 age group. At least 10% of the daily tests should be focussed on this category,” the circular issued on Wednesday stated. Peripheral areas “To monitor the spread of infection in rural areas, 50% of the total tests should be done in remote peripheral areas of every taluk. In villages and towns, where the positivity rate is less than 5%, testing of asymptomatic cases will be done through pooled sampling. Besides, for every positive case detected, at least 15 primary and household contacts should be tested,” the circular states. On Wednesday, as many as 1,95,966 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,60,463 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,24,58,269.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-revises-testing-strategy-with-focus-on-children/article36109875.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,||EAMCET results released in Telangana||Students from Andhra Pradesh dominated the top 10 ranks compared to Telangana students in the engineering stream of the Telangana State Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (TS EAMCET) 2021 while Telangana students bagged maximum ranks in the agriculture and medical stream. The results were declared here on Wednesday by Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy in the presence of EAMCET Convenor A. Goverdhan; TSCHE Chairman Prof. R. Limbadri; former Chairman T.Papi Reddy and JNTU Vice-Chancellor Katta Narsimha Reddy. Satti Karthikeya of West Godavari district, Andhra Pradesh bagged the first rank in engineering stream followed by Duggineni Venkata Paneesh of Kadapa, AP and Mohammed Abdul Muqeeth of Hyderabad. Other rankers include Ramaswamy Santosh Reddy (4th) from Nalgonda, Josyula Venkata Aditya (5th) from Hyderabad, P. Chetan Manogna Sai (6th) from Chittoor, and M. Pranay (7th) from Vizianagaram in AP. In the agriculture and medical stream Mandava Karthikeya of Hyderabad was the topper while Emani Srinija of Ranga Reddy and Terupally Sai Koushal Reddy of Hyderabad secured the second and third ranks respectively. Other rankers are R. Srinivasa Karthikeya (4th) Ananthapur; Chandam Vishnu Vivek (5th) from Rajamundry; K.S.V.V. Satyanarayana Raju (6th) from East Godavari; K. Lasya Chowdary (7th) from Khammam; P. Venkata Kaushik Reddy (8th) from Vijayawada; Ravi Abhiram (9th) from Ranga Reddy and B. Veeraswamy (10th) from Nalgonda. The Minister said that 85.70% qualified out of 2,27,000 candidates who had appeared for the examinations conducted in the CBT mode. In the engineering stream 82.08% out of the 1,47,991 candidates qualified and in the agriculture and medical stream 92.48% candidates have cleared the test out of 79,009 candidates. Results are available on the website ‘https://eamcet.tsche.ac.in/’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-eamcet-results-out/article36110149.ece
26 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Afghan returnees looking to start a new life||Having missed the company of his family members for 11 long years, Desmond D’souza, a native of Kinnigoli here, is taking a break for a while and wants to enjoy this festive season with his family members. Shravan Anchan, a native of Bejai in the city, is trying to find a job here and continue earning. Both of them returned home from Afghanistan on Monday. They are among the seven from Dakshina Kannada who have returned leaving their jobs at the NATO Support Agency functioning at the NATO Military Base in Kabul, Afghanistan. All seven met Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar on Wednesday. “While spending the last 11 years in Afghanistan, I missed the company of my family members. This is a good break I have now and I am making the best use of it to revive my bonding with family members,” Mr. D’Souza said. He worked as a warehouse asset administrator at the NATO Support Agency. Mr. Anchan, who worked in the procurement section of the NATO Support Agency, said that he has already started looking for placements in the city. “I cannot afford to relax and I am continuing to search for an opening here. With the pandemic, the job market is also gloomy but I am trying,” he said. Asked whether he needs any help from the government, Mr. Achan said, “I am grateful to the government for safely bringing me back. I have energy and I will make every effort to find a job.” Dinesh Rai, a native of Kasaragod in Kerala, who moved to Bajpe five years ago, said that he will take up electrical jobs. “I had an inkling about losing my job in Afghanistan and hence, I had taken on rent a commercial space in the city in May itself. I will start working from there now,” Mr. Rai said. He worked in the electrical maintenance section in the NATO Support Agency since 2011. He had worked in Iraq between 2008 and 2011. Melwyn from Uliya in Ullal, who also worked in the electrical maintenance section in NATO Military Base, is also searching for a rented office space in the city from where he can take up electrical work. His younger brother, Demcy, who worked as an AC technician in the Military Base, said that he is not thinking of resuming work yet. All seven thanked the Union and State governments for safely bringing them back home. Mr. Kumar and Mr. Shankar said that if there are any people from Dakshina Kannada in need of help in Afghanistan, they can contact the police who will arrange to get the issues addressed through the Additional Director-General of Police Umesh Kumar. Mr. Umesh Kumar is the nodal officer of the State government to coordinate on issues related to Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghan-returnees-looking-to-start-a-new-life/article36110301.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State formulates strategy to augment testing||The Health Department has formulated a plan of action for augmented COVID-19 testing in the State, now that the case graph is clearly on a surge post Onam. Augmented testing drive is being employed to detect as many infectious people from the community as possible and isolate them. Testing would be intensified in districts where the vaccination coverage has been comparatively lower. The focus will be on testing the maximum number of people from areas reporting disease clusters. More tests would be done on health workers, COVID front-line workers, traders and in various care homes. The Health Department is trying to propagate the message that everyone voluntarily test themselves early, as soon as they experience any symptoms so that not just the individual, the entire family can be saved. COVID testing could be done free of cost at all government hospitals, an official release here said. The department has taken steps for collecting test samples through camps and in localities from where clusters are being reported. Results would be given without any delay. Influenza-like symptoms Any person experiencing influenza-like symptoms, such as fever, sore throat or cold as well as those who may have come into contact with known COVID patients should test themselves without delay. Persons with any lung conditions and those with serious co-morbidities should test themselves without delay even when the symptoms are very mild as the disease can take a turn for the worse in these persons. People who attended public functions or weddings should also test themselves if anyone who took part in the function tested positive. Testing facilities have taken quite a leap in the State from the time the first COVID case was reported last year in January. Over 120 government and private labs and 14 mobile labs are now equipped to perform RT-PCR tests. Rapid Antigen Tests are available in all government hospitals. An official release issued here said the State had always increased the number of tests in proportion to the increase in reported cases. All COVID tests performed in the public and private hospitals are coordinated through the Laboratory Diagnosis Management System portal of the government, which records the details of every individual undergoing tests as well as the particulars of the test. The system sends the results to the person directly on the registered mobile number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-formulates-strategy-for-augmented-testing/article36110212.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Wait for Vanniyar quota benefits for final ruling: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered that every admission made to educational institutions or appointment made to public posts by implementing the 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniakula Kshatriyas, will be subject to the result of cases filed against the reservation. The Second Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Kannammal passed the interim orders on a batch of cases that had challenged the validity of a law passed in February this year providing the internal reservation within the 20% meant for Most Backward Classes (MBCs). The judges made it clear that the interim order must be made known to every beneficiary of the law and that those beneficiaries in education and employment could also get impleaded in the huge batch of cases filed in the High Court against the law and put forth their arguments in favour of the law. The court also allowed the impleading petitions filed by advocate K. Balu of the PMK and others and permitted them to submit their pleadings in support of the law. It directed the High Court Registry to list the main writ petitions for final hearing from September 14. The judges made it clear that the court would be at liberty to pass appropriate orders in its final verdict with respect to the admissions and appointments made in the interregnum by implementing the internal reservation. Earlier, senior counsel K.M. Vijayan, representing one of the writ petitioners, urged the court to injunct the State government from implementing the internal reservation in admissions to educational institutions since it would be difficult to reverse those admissions in the future. However, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram informed the court that some educational institutions had already implemented the law in admissions. He opposed the grant of any kind of interim order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/those-who-claimed-vanniyar-quota-benefits-have-to-wait-for-final-ruling-high-court/article36109955.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,||PCV immunisation drive for infants launched||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday launched Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) immunisation drive for infants at his camp office here. Mr. Jagan said TD (tetanus-diphtheria) vaccine was being administered to about nine lakh pregnant women every year and 8.50 lakh children were immunised for 12 other vaccine-preventable diseases. Six lakh routine immunisation sessions were conducted annually. This Herculean task of vaccinating children across the State was done with the help of 17,000 ANMs. He said as part of the routine immunisation, the government was providing vaccines for Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B, polio (oral polio vaccine and inactivated polio vaccine), Japanese encephalitis, measles, Rubella, DPT, tetanus toxoid and diphtheria toxoid. Apart from them, pentavalent and Rotavirus vaccines were also administered. He pointed out that the Cebntre had introduced PCV in 2017 in Bihar, MP, UP, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. A.P. was included in the PCV drive this year for reducing Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and under-five mortality (U5) which were important child health indicators. Mr. Jagan said pneumonia had been a major cause of infant and child mortality. It was estimated that the disease affected around 16 lakh children and caused the death of nearly 68,700 children aged between 1 and 59 months across the country in the year 2015. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-launches-pcv-immunisation-drive-for-infants/article36109801.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccinate school staff on priority basis: govt.||The Union government has allocated more than two crore additional COVID-19 vaccines to the States to vaccinate schoolteachers and non-teaching staff on a priority basis in the run-up to Teachers Day on September 5. These additional doses will be sent from August 27 to 31, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday. This drive comes even as a technical advisory group on immunisation recommended a strategy to vaccinate children aged 12-17 who have comorbidities by October, followed by a roll-out for all children in that age group once adults have been vaccinated. There are almost 97 lakh teachers and though they were not listed among the frontline workers who received initial priority doses, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul claimed earlier this month that almost 50% had already been vaccinated. The government’s top medical advisers have said it is crucial for teachers, parents and school support staff to get vaccinated in preparation for the return of 25 crore children to school. A majority of States have reopened schools for Classes 9 to 12 or plan to do so over the next month, while Gujarat has announced plans to restart schools from Class 6 onwards. National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation chief N.K. Arora said there is a definite push to open schools in a phased manner. “In schools, teachers, employees, bus drivers, whoever is coming in contact [should be vaccinated] so that there is a protective ring around children,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinate-school-staff-on-priority-basis-govt/article36109854.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. clears 9 names for SC judges||The government is learnt to have cleared all nine names recommended by the Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, for appointments as judges of the top court. One of the names, Justice B.V. Nagarathna of the Karnataka High Court, may be in line to become the first woman Chief Justice of India, thus scripting history. It is learnt that the files have been forwarded to the President for further formalities and issuance of warrant of appointments. If all goes to plan, the Supreme Court will have the nine new judges sworn in early next week. The nine names include eight judges and one lawyer from the Supreme Court Bar. They are Karnataka Chief Justice A.S. Oka, who is the senior-most Chief Justice among all High Court Chief Justices; Gujarat Chief Justice Vikram Nath; Sikkim Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari; Telangana Chief Justice Hima Kohli, who is also the only serving woman Chief Justice of a High Court; Justice Nagarathna; Kerala High Court judge, Justice C.T. Ravikumar; Madras High Court judge, Justice M.M. Sundresh; Gujarat High Court judge, Justice Bela M. Trivedi; and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, in that order. The Collegium, also comprising Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice L. Nageswara Rao, had met on August 17 to zero in on the names. The Collegium had for the first time, in one single resolution, recommended three women judges. It had also sent a strong signal in favour of representation of women in the highest judiciary. Three of the nine — Chief Justice Nath, Justice Nagarathna and Mr. Narasimha — will go on to be the Chief Justices of India. Mr. Narasimha, who had served as Additional Solicitor General, may become the ninth lawyer to be ever appointed directly as judge in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-clears-9-names-for-sc-judges/article36109880.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Physical presence mandatory for marriage registration: Delhi govt.||The Delhi government on Wednesday informed the High Court that the physical presence of a couple, seeking registration of their marriage, before the authority concerned is mandatory and it cannot be done through videoconferencing. The government’s counsel said the process of marriage registration includes a photograph of the couple being taken at the SDM’s office. Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea by a couple who got married in 2012 and are currently residing in the U.S., said the process to be undertaken only pertained to the registration of a marriage that has already happened. “You are only registering something. They are not marrying in your presence,” the judge remarked. The court will hear the case again on September 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/physical-presence-mandatory-for-marriage-registration-delhi-govt/article36109998.ece
26 August 2021||Mysuru/Bengaluru,||Student gang-raped near Chamundi foothills||In a shocking incident, a college student was allegedly gang-raped and her male friend assaulted near Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on Tuesday night. The gang of four to five persons assaulted the male friend, who was accompanying the girl, before raping her. The incident occurred around 7.30 p.m. in the wooded area near the helipad, in the Alanahalli police station limits. The student and her friend were admitted to a private hospital around 1.30 a.m.. Both of them are out of danger. An FIR has been filed at Alanahalli police station. The accused were believed to be under the influence of alcohol. A team of police personnel, including senior police officials, visited the deserted area on Wednesday as part of the investigation. Tried to rob them Police sources said the victims told the police that the gang first tried to rob them, and when they did not find any valuables, attacked them. While they assaulted the man, they sexually abused the girl, sources said. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said in Bengaluru that a special team has been formed to nab the culprits. “ADGP C.H. Pratap Reddy has already gone to Mysuru to oversee the probe. I will also visit Mysuru on Thursday,” he said. Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru, convened a meeting with senior police officials and people’s representatives on Wednesday evening to take stock of the situation. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Pradeep Gunti, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Geetha Prasanna, MP Pratap Simha, MLAs G.T. Deve Gowda, S.A. Ramdas and L. Nagendra were present at the meeting. Meanwhile, activists of National Students Union of India gathered near the law court complex in Mysuru and protested against the State government for its failure to protect the student and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. Former chairperson of State Women’s Commission and Congress leader Manjula Manasa urged the commission to take up the case suo motu and conduct an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/student-gang-raped-near-chamundi-foothills/article36109876.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet clears Rs. 15,000 cr. NMP-linked FDI proposal||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Wednesday cleared a foreign direct investment (FDI) proposal entailing an investment of up to Rs. 15,000 crore in Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding (AIIH) Ltd., a company incorporated to invest in the infrastructure and construction development sectors. The government said the investment would prove to be a “significant boost to the recently announced National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP)” as AIIH had proposed downstream investments in some of the sectors covered under the NMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-clears-rs-15000-cr-nmp-linked-fdi-proposal/article36109997.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. asked to institute inquiry against officials||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to take initiative for an inquiry and take action against officials concerned for granting permission for construction of buildings in the 40-m no- construction zone near Kaup on the National Highway 66 stretch between Mangaluru and Udupi. Also, the court directed the authorities to demolish the structures built on the property owned by four persons based on illegal permission granted in violation of the provisions of the Karnataka Highways Act 1964. A Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while disposing of a public interest litigation petition which was converted into a suo motu proceedings of the court after it was found that the original petitioner was the neighbour of the property owners. It was said in the petition that illegal permission for construction was granted for construction in the property belonging to Sujatha V. Karkere and three others. The Bench said that the Chief Secretary or other officers should institute a fact-finding inquiry to identify those responsible for grant of permission for construction of buildings in the no constriction zone despite a clear bar in law and initiate both departmental and criminal prosecution, if necessary, as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-asked-to-institute-inquiry-against-officials/article36110297.ece
26 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Udupi CMC resolves to wind up beach panel||Udupi City Municipal Council in its meeting on Wednesday resolved to recommend the Udupi Deputy Commissioner to wind up the Malpe Beach Development Committee. The council took the decision after some members said that rules pertaining to the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) are being flouted in the guise of development of the beach. In addition, when the beach is under the jurisdiction of the city municipality, there is no need for a committee to oversee its development. Leader of Opposition in the council Ramesh Kanchan from the Congress, who raised the matter, said that a restaurant is being built on the beach by flouting rules which stipulate that there should be no new permanent structure. Supporting Mr. Kanchan, a ruling BJP member Yogesh Saliyan said that a permanent structure of the restaurant building is being built on the beach, though licence has been granted for a temporary structure. As many as 16 persons have lost their lives on the beach, by getting into the sea water, in the last five years. The committee, headed by the Deputy Commissioner, has not taken any steps to prevent such deaths, Mr. Saliyan said. Many members demanded that when there is a city municipality to look after the beach, there is no need for a committee to oversee its development. Commissioner of the municipality Udaya Shetty said that if the structure is being built permanently, action will be taken against the builder. Following demands made by members, municipal president Sumithra R. Nayak said that the resolution will be sent to the Deputy Commissioner. Some members pointed out that the LED street lights installed in the city have been stolen in some places. Responding to this, Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat suggested that the members file complaints with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-cmc-resolves-to-wind-up-beach-panel/article36110299.ece
26 August 2021||Rameswaram,||Fishermen to go on strike||All Mechanised Boats Association of Rameswaram has resolved to go on one week strike from Saturday in protest against increase in diesel price and demanding more supply of diesel with subsidy, The fisherman are given 1,800 litres of diesel with a subsidy of Rs. 17 per litre every month. “Of late, the price of diesel has increased phenomenally but the quantum of catch does not match with expenditure incurred on fuel,” said fishermen association leader P. Sesuraja. Stating that mechanised boats required around 4,000 litres to 6,000 litres of diesel every month, the association urged the government to either deduct excise duty and road tax on the fuel supplied to the fishermen or increase the quantum of diesel given at subsidised rate to 3,000 litres a month. The meeting resolved that no new mechanized boat would be allowed to the existing fleet of 750 boats in the island. Since the existing number of boats is very high and the fishermen were not able to make both ends meet, no new boat bought from other coastal villages will be allowed in Rameswaram, the association resolved. Nineteen mechanised boats that were renovated and modified in other villages in the past have not been given permission for venturing into the sea for the last one year. Besides, those fisherman were denied diesel at subsidised rate. “The officials mistook the renovated boats for new boats and did not permit them for fishing. We urge officials to allow these boats as the fishermen have suffered enough during last one year of lockdown,” Mr. Sesuraja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fishermen-to-go-on-strike/article36110075.ece
26 August 2021||Srinagar,||All is not well in J&K Cricket Association||Once the posterboy of cricket in Kashmir, earning praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the captain of the Jammu and Kashmir team, Parvez Rasool, is distraught by an e-mail written by a member of a Board of Control for Cricket in India-appointed sub-committee, seeking to “nail him down”. “I fail to understand why I am being targeted. It’s clear the intention is to tarnish my image and ruin my future. It seems there are forces who want to end my career. The mail of a sub-committee member talking about ‘nailing me down’ has disturbed me mentally,” Mr. Rasool, the first cricketer from Kashmir to play for India, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-is-not-well-in-jk-cricket-association/article36110340.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||200 more to be evacuated||An Indian Air Force aircraft is expected to evacuate at least 200 stranded individuals from Kabul in one of the final Indian airlift flights from Afghanistan. The passengers, who include Indian nationals as well as Sikh and Hindu citizens of Afghanistan, are likely to arrive on Thursday. The aircraft is operating under difficult circum- stances as the Taliban have refused to extend an August 31 deadline for the U.S. control of Kabul airport, which has led to a scramble among several countries to evacuate as many persons as possible.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/200-more-to-be-evacuated/article36110081.ece
26 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Candidates being pressured to withdraw, says AAP||With just a day left for withdrawal of nomination papers in the elections to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders have said that their candidates are being pressured by BJP leaders and have complained to the Returning Officer and the Police Commissioner. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, State co-convener of AAP Shanthala Damle and district unit president Santosh Naragund said that AAP candidates Mallikarnjunaiah Hiremath (Ward 36) and Mallappa Tadasad (Ward 38) are being pressured to withdraw their candidature by BJP workers and leaders. They said that AAP believed in strict adherence to the laws of the land and contesting in elections is a right bestowed on every citizen of the country by the Constitution. However, some members and leaders affiliated to the BJP are pressuring AAP candidates in Ward No 36 and 38 to withdraw from the contest. Ms. Damle said that multiple attempts have been made so far to make Mr. Hiremath and Mr. Tadasad to withdraw their nomination papers. Such tactics amounted to violation of law of the land and nobody had the right to prevent or force another from contesting an election. Mr. Hiremath said that on Wednesday too a group of people claiming to be supporters of BJP candidate Rajanna Koravi came to his residence and wanted him to withdraw from the contest. Mr. Naragund said that Mr. Hiremath’s family members residing in other localities are also being asked to exert pressure on him to withdraw from contest. He said that Mr. Tadasad was asked to withdraw from the contest and people who claimed to be supporters of the BJP candidate Thippanna Majjagi even offered him money to take back his nomination papers. Ms. Damle and Mr. Naragund said that they have already complained to the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad who is also the Returning Officer and the Police Commissioner of Hubballi-Dharwad seeking necessary action and also protection for both their candidates. Later in the day, the AAP office-bearers also filed a complaint with Vidyanagar Police under whose jurisdiction Ward No 36 and 38 fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/candidates-being-pressured-to-withdraw-says-aap/article36110108.ece
26 August 2021||Anantapur,||Fee structure fixed for private schools, colleges||The AP School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission has notified three categories of fee structure for students of nursery to 10th Standard and Intermediate enrolled in private unaided institutions for the academic years 2021-22, 2022-23, and 2023-24. In a major jolt to corporate/unaided tutorial colleges, the commission has put a cap on them from collecting high amounts of fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fee-structure-fixed-for-private-schools-colleges/article36110425.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,||BJP suspends YouTuber Madan Ravichandran||A day after YouTuber Madan Ravichandran released a sleaze WhatsApp video involving BJP State general secretary K.T. Raghavan, the party expelled him and his associate Venba on Wednesday. Mr. Ravichandran had joined the party last year. BJP general secretary Karu. Nagarajan issued a statement, expelling the two members from the party and asking the cadre not to have any ties with them. Mr. Nagarajan said Mr. Ravichandran and Ms. Venba met party president K. Annamalai and assured him that they would cooperate with the committee formed to investigate the allegations against Mr. Raghavan. Mr. Raghavan resigned from his post on Tuesday after the video was released. In his video, Mr. Ravichandran also claimed that he had many such videos of at least 15 other BJP leaders. Mr. Ravichandran’s YouTube account, Madan Diary, was terminated “due to multiple severe violations of YouTube’s policy prohibiting content designed to harass, bully or threaten”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-expels-youtuber-madan-ravichandran-associate/article36109959.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tight race||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tight-race/article36110103.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS to attend KRMB meet on Sept.1||Telangana government has decided to attend the 14th meeting of Krishna river management board here on September 1. The meeting was earlier scheduled to take place on August 27 but postponed subsequently. It will have an agenda of 14 issues, including the gazette notification issued by the Centre defining the scope of the river boards on the Krishna and the Godavari, water sharing between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as well as issues raised by the two States. The decision to attend the KRMB meeting was taken at a meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with irrigation officials on Wednesday. A release of CMO later said Mr. Rao asked irrigation officials to put up a strong argument seeking the rightful share of Telangana in Krishna river water. The State government had earlier written to the KRMB to implement provisions of Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-I (KWDT-I) without any further delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-to-attend-krmb-meet-on-sept1/article36110147.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Chhattisgarh compromise on the cards||A day after Congress’s Chhattisgarh in-charge P.L. Punia announced that Bhupesh Baghel will continue as the Chief Minister, sources on Wednesday said the last word has not yet been spoken on the matter. The Chhattisgarh crisis is brewing at a time when the party is trying hard to put off a fire in Punjab. Mr. Baghel and Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo, who has also staked claim to the Chief Minister’s chair, had a long meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. Party general secretary-organisation, K. C. Venugopal has been assigned to work out a compromise formula between the two, according to the sources. This may see Mr. Deo as the Deputy Chief Minister, induction of his supporters, and weeding out of those opposed to him. In a show of strength, a strong contingent of supporters welcomed Mr. Baghel on his return to Raipur on Wednesday. Food Minister Amarjeet Bhagat tweeted a photo of the rousing welcome that Mr. Baghel received, along with a comment: “Those who want to destabilise the government should understand that this is the government of farmers, tribals and common people.” Mr. Deo has invoked an assurance made by Mr. Gandhi, who was leading the party in 2018, that he [Mr. Deo] will be handed over the reins of the State halfway through the Chief Minister’s tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-working-out-chhattisgarh-compromise/article36109850.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Decide plea on Asthana in two weeks: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi High Court to decide the legality of the appointment of Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner “pre- ferably” within two weeks. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, allowed NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, to intervene in the case in the High Court. The order was passed when Mr. Bhushan’s case, also challenging the appointment, came up for hearing before the top court Bench. The “identical” case pending before the High Court has been filed by a Delhi-based advocate, Sadre Alam. As soon as the hearing began before the CJI Bench, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the Supreme Court about Mr. Alam’s case in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-asks-hc-to-decide-legality-of-asthanas-appointment/article36109855.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||Gail Omvedt, researcher and author, passes away||Researcher, author and one of the intellectual voices of the Bahujan movement Gail Omvedt died on Wednesday. She was 81. Dr. Omvedt was an American-born Indian scholar who authored books on Dalit politics, women’s struggle and anti-caste movement. She also took part in various people’s movements, including that for the rights of people displaced by the Koyna Dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gail-omvedt-researcher-and-author-passes-away/article36110312.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP mapping black spots across city||Though the city has door-to-door collection of garbage, there are still thousands of black spots where mixed waste continues to be indiscriminately dumped. Clearing them is proving to be a challenge for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, which has now taken up an exercise to map all of them. According to senior civic officials, over the past few years, several attempts have been made to clear the black spots, and the BBMP eliminated nearly 1,000 of the 2,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-mapping-black-spots-across-city/article36109878.ece
26 August 2021||Guwahati,||Ex-Meghalaya MLA gets 25-yr. jail in POCSO case||A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences court in Meghalaya sentenced an extremist-turned-former MLA to 25 years in jail for raping a minor five years ago. Special Judge Febroneous Silkam Sangma also imposed a fine of Rs. 15 lakh on Julius Dorphang. Three others were sent to life imprisonment, for trafficking the minor for Dorphang, and imposing a fine of Rs. 1 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-meghalaya-mla-gets-25-yr-jail-in-pocso-case/article36110269.ece
26 August 2021||Kolkata,||NMP is govt. move to retain power: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday criticised the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) policy, saying the assets which the Union was in the process of monetisation were not the personal assets of the PM. “For holding on to power, they are selling everything,” she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nmp-is-govt-move-to-retain-power-mamata/article36110271.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||No one can do anything to me, says defiant Rane||A day after his arrest and bail for his comment on Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Union Minister Narayan Rane said the Jan Ashirward Yatra will resume on August 27. “No one can do anything to me. I have remained unaffected by attempts to checkmate me politically,” he said at his Juhu residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-one-can-do-anything-to-me-says-defiant-rane/article36110314.ece
26 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Train traffic hit||Train traffic between Mangaluru Junction and Konkan Railway route was affected for about eight hours due to a rail fracture detected near Kulashekara early on Wednesday. Traffic, which was disrupted at 1.10 a.m., was restored at 9.04 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/train-traffic-hit/article36110298.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,||Gang rapes student after assaulting her friend||In a shocking case, a girl was allegedly gang-raped and her male friend assaulted near Chamundi foothills on Tuesday night. The gang of four to five persons assaulted the male friend, who was accompanying the girl, near Chamundi foothills in Alanahalli police station limits before raping her. The girl, a college student, and her friend were admitted to a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gang-rapes-student-after-assaulting-her-friend/article36110316.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu reports 1,573 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,573 fresh cases, as against a total of 1,56,386 persons tested. All except three districts reported less than 100 fresh cases on Wednesday. Chennai reported 170 cases and Coimbatore 181.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-reports-1573-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36110031.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe agencies too hit by lack of manpower: CJI||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said probe agencies such as the CBI suffered from the dearth of manpower and infrastructure that the judiciary too faced. “Everybody says ‘CBI, CBI…’ We don’t want to demoralise the investigative agencies. They are overburdened...,” CJI N.V. Ramana, remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-agencies-too-hit-by-lack-of-manpower-cji/article36109995.ece
26 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU to probe posters condemning V-C||Aligarh Muslim University has ordered an internal inquiry into the appearance of posters on the campus that said the condolences by Vice-Chancellor Prof. Tariq Mansoor on the demise of former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh had “brought disgrace to the Aligarh fraternity, its traditions, and the Aligarh Movement that believed in justice and fairness”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amu-to-probe-posters-condemning-v-c/article36109996.ece
26 August 2021||BELAGAVI,||468 left in the fray||Election officials rejected seven nomination papers filed for the Belagavi City Corporation elections, citing non submission of documents and other technical reasons. Some candidates withdrew their nomination papers on Wednesday. Now, there are 468 candidates in the hustings for the 58 wards. The number is expected to reduce further on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/468-left-in-the-fray/article36110107.ece
26 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Lapses will be treated seriously, says EC||State Election Commissioner B. Basavaraju has urged officials to ensure strict adherence to guidelines issued by the Election Commission at all levels for facilitating free, fair and peaceful municipal elections in Hubblali-Dharwad, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and other places. He was chairing a meeting in Dharwad on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lapses-will-be-treated-seriously-says-ec/article36110110.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe agencies too hit by lack of manpower: CJI||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said probe agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) suffered from the dearth of manpower and infrastructure that the judiciary too faced. Both were overburdened. “Everybody says ‘CBI, CBI…’ We don’t want to demoralise the investigative agencies. They are overburdened… Similarly, one trial court handles 1,000 cases. How do you expect them to function? We had asked for special courts to hear exclusively cases under specific legislation… but nothing,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, heading a Special Bench of three judges, remarked orally. Pending cases The Bench, including Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant, was hearing a petition about the hundreds of criminal cases pending against MPs and MLAs, both sitting and former, for years together. Some of these cases, investigated by agencies such as the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), have been pending for over a decade. A report submitted by the court’s amicus curiae , senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita, said 51 MPs and 71 MLAs were accused of offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. Similarly, out of the 121 cases pending trial against MPs and MLAs before the CBI courts across the country, 58 were punishable with life imprisonment. In 45 cases, even the charges have not been framed, though the offences were alleged to have been committed several years ago. A total of 37 CBI cases against legislators were continuing in the stage of investigation for years on end now. One of these cases, according to the CBI, was “expected” to be completed by 2030, the report said. “In some cases, you have not filed a chargesheet in 10 or 15 years… In one case, you have attached assets worth over Rs. 200 crore, but not filed a chargesheet. Simply attaching property will not serve any purpose,” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for both the CBI and the ED. “The information given by the ED and CBI present a really, shocking, disturbing and gloomy picture,” Mr. Hansaria submitted. The Chief Justice reasoned with Mr. Mehta to complete the trial in these cases quickly rather than have them hanging over the heads of the accused like a Damocles sword. Plea for directive The Solicitor-General urged the Bench to pass a judicial order directing lower courts to complete the pending trial proceedings in a “mandatory time-bound manner”, possibly within the next six months. He submitted that in some cases, the High Courts intervened and granted stay of the trial. But the CJI did not agree, saying the High Courts had stayed trial in only seven cases and the Supreme Court in one. Mr. Mehta then said ED cases were held up because they spanned to tax havens abroad, which refused to cooperate with investigations. The CJI stated efforts would be made to “rationalise” the number of cases before each trial court. The judiciary was slowly but surely dealing with the problem of scarcity of judges — High Courts have 455 judicial vacancies as on August 1. Besides, lower courts also have other urgent cases of bail, custody matters and so on to hear and decide. The Bench said a mechanism would be put in place soon to monitor the progress of criminal trials involving legislators soon. This would include special courts. In the previous hearing, the apex court questioned the Centre’s commitment towards the speedy trial and prosecution of criminal politicians. It also directed that a criminal case against an MP or MLA could be withdrawn only after getting the consent of the High Court concerned. “We deem it appropriate to direct that no prosecution against a sitting or former MP or MLA shall be withdrawn without the leave of the High Court… Various State governments have resorted to withdrawal of numerous criminal cases pending against MP/MLA by utilising the power vested under Section 321 CrPC. The power under Section 321 CrPC is a responsibility which is to be utilised in public interest, and cannot be used for extraneous and political considerations. This power is required to be utilised with utmost good faith to serve the larger public interest,” a three-judge Bench led by the CJI had directed in its last order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-agencies-too-hit-by-lack-of-manpower-cji/article36109764.ece
26 August 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Disgruntled Cong. leaders meet Rawat||A day after raising the banner of revolt against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, four Ministers and a few Congress MLAs on Wednesday met All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, to apprise him of their concerns and disappointment against the Chief Minister. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), meanwhile, said the ongoing infighting within the Congress was harming the interests of the State. Charanjit Channi, one of the Ministers who met Mr. Rawat, told The Hindu that all their concerns were shared with Mr. Rawat and he promised to take up the issues with the central leadership. “All the issues that were raised and discussed by us yesterday [at a meeting in Chandigarh] were conveyed to Mr. Rawat. He assured us of taking up our concerns with the high command and getting back to us,” said Mr. Channi. The four Ministers — Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Mr. Channi — apart from close to 20 MLAs, on Tuesday, expressed a lack of faith in the leadership of the Chief Minister in fulfilling the party’s 2017 election promises. However, within hours, seven of the 20 MLAs and ex-MLAs purported to have been party to the demand for removal of Capt. Singh, categorically disassociated themselves from any such move. ‘Unfortunate for State’ Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema termed the ongoing rift in the ruling Congress as unfortunate for the State and its people. He said the allegations levelled by a faction of the Congress MLAs and Ministers, who were advocating for “Punjab” against their own government, were absolutely correct. “We have been raising all the issues, be it the transport mafia, the liquor mafia, the mining mafia or other public-centric issues. Now, the Congress members are also raising them, thus vindicating the AAP. For the last four-and-a-half years, these rebel Congressmen have also been part of the ‘mafia rule’. These Ministers are equally responsible for every good or bad decision. When the MLAs and Ministers have been silently or mainly advocating, they cannot blame the failures of the government on any one person or faction,” he stated. The AAP leader asked Congress State chief Navjot Singh Sidhu that when the AAP was seeking answers from the State government on the “mafias” and other important issues related to Punjab inside or outside the Assembly, then why did all these Congressmen shield the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disgruntled-cong-leaders-meet-rawat/article36109784.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delta sub-lineage AY.12 found in India||Some cases of the novel coronavirus Delta variant, the most widely prevalent variant of concern in India, are being “reclassified” to another sub-lineage that has been associated with a large number of cases in Israel, the India SARS-CoV-2 Genome (INSACOG) Consortium said in a report on Monday. The Delta variant (B.1.617.2) has birthed several sub-lineages called ‘Delta plus’ variants that bear most of its characteristic mutations but are different in other ways. One of these sub-lineages, called AY.12, has all the characteristic Delta mutations except one. The spike in cases in Israel is of concern because it is a country with nearly 60% of its adults fully vaccinated and reports that the Pfizer vaccine’s effectiveness in that country is significantly less than what emerged over clinical trials. “The reclassification is primarily to assist micro-epidemiology and is not based on acquisition of significant mutations. Thus, it is not currently known whether AY.12 is clinically different from Delta,” the INSACOG report noted. “No new mutations of concern are noted in the spike protein (S). However, its rapid growth in Israel means that it should be examined further.” The Delta variant, because of its preponderance in coronavirus cases globally, has several sub-lineages, making it necessary to reclassify them as not doing so would make naming them unwieldy, said Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. “A large number of cases in Israel have been linked to AY.12. In India, there are several micro-lineages and some of them are AY.12. We need to wait and watch to see how significant this micro-lineage is in driving infections in India. But as of now, it has exactly the same risk classification, no more and no less, than Delta,” he told The Hindu . Making an estimate A complete reclassification and estimating the prevalence of AY.12 in India is expected to take some time, according to the INSACOG. “Since the AY.12 definition is inconsistent, final numbers will take some time. AY.12 analysis will be added to the portal (a public website), along with other new lineages, once there is greater consensus,” the report noted. So far, according to INSACOG, about 70,000 coronavirus samples have been sequenced for their genomic structure, of which 50,000 have been allotted to various lineages. About 60% of them consist of international variants of concern or interest (VoC or VoI) that are globally tracked and linked to outbreaks as well as instances of vaccine breakthrough and reinfections. Within these VoC, the Delta variant comprises 70% of samples. The Delta plus cases, in which AY.12 is included, only number 67, though this is expected to swell after the reclassification. Though the overall trajectory of daily cases in India is downwards, Kerala has reported nearly 31,000 cases on Wednesday, which accounts for nearly all of India’s caseload.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delta-sub-lineage-ay12-found-in-india/article36109794.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||Gail Omvedt, researcher and author, passes away||Researcher, author and one of the intellectual voices of the Bahujan movement Gail Omvedt passed away on Wednesday. She was 81. Dr. Omvedt was an American-born Indian scholar who authored books on Dalit politics, women’s struggle and anti-caste movement. She also participated in various people’s movements, including the one for the rights of people displaced by the Koyna Dam. Ms. Omvedt co-founded Shramik Mukti Dal with her husband and activist Bharat Patankar. The couple’s daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter are settled in the U.S. “Dr. Gail Omvedt not only contributed as a researcher in social movements, saints’ literature, traditions but also actively participated in movements for rights of women, deprived sections. She will remain as a scholar who became an integral part of society,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. As a college student in the U.S., Ms. Omvedt was part of the anti-war movement there. She visited India during her doctoral research work to study social movements here and studied the work of Mahatma Phule. Her thesis was on the “Non-Brahmin movement in western India”. After deciding to live in India, her association with veteran social worker Indutai Patankar led to her studying and participating in women’s struggles. Ms. Omvedt authored over 25 books, including In Colonial Society – Non-Brahmin Movement in Western India, Seeking Begampura, Buddhism in India, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, Mahatma Phule, Dalit and the Democratic Revolution, Understanding Caste, We Will Smash the Prison and New Social Movement in India . She was the head of Phule-Ambedkar chair in the Department of Sociology of the University of Pune; Professor at the Institute of Asian Studies, Copenhegan; and the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library in New Delhi. The last rites will be conducted on Thursday at Kasegaon in Sangli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gail-omvedt-researcher-and-author-passes-away/article36109773.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghans can enter India now only on e-visas||In a move that could affect hundreds of Afghans desperate to leave the country, India decided on Wednesday to “invalidate” or cancel all visas issued to Afghan nationals, including about 2,000 issued in the last few months, as the Taliban began to make advances across the country. The Union government announced that all Afghans must enter India now only on special e-visas applied online. “Keeping in view some reports that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced, previously issued visas to all Afghan nationals, who are presently not in India, stand invalidated with immediate effect. Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in,” said a statement issued simultaneously by the Union Home Ministry and the External Affairs Ministry. The news has come as a blow for Indian national Ashiya Iqbal, who is married to an Afghan, and received visas for her husband and in-laws in the hours before the Taliban claimed Kabul on August 15. Ms. Iqbal was able to return on the evacuation flight operated by the government from Kabul, but not her family. With the new rule, Ms. Iqbal said they would have to reapply for visas. When asked about the announcement, officials said the government was concerned that passports deposited by Afghan nationals for visas, which were being stored at the Indian Embassy and the Indian visa centre in Kabul, could get into the hands of anti-India terror groups. As a result, the Home Ministry decided to cancel them. However, the processing of “e-Emergency X-Misc visas” also appears to be delayed, and sources said “very few” e-visas have been issued more than a week after the launch. Only about 20 of those “closely associated” with India have been allowed to travel on evacuation flights, the sources said. ( Names changed to protect identities )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghans-can-enter-india-now-only-on-e-visas/article36109782.ece
26 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Cong. should do its homework: Sitharaman||Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday castigated the Congress and its leader Rahul Gandhi for “misleading” people and “telling” untruths by accusing the government of selling the country’s assets created over the last 70 years. She was responding to a question from a TV channel journalist on the flak the government received after announcing the Rs. 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP). “I wish the Opposition questions with some homework done. Who actually monetised the Mumbai– Pune corridor,” she asked. “Was it not done by the Congress party which was headed by Sonia Gandhi and Rs. 8,000-odd crore raised by that?” she said, at a media conference organised on the review of public sector banks. “New Delhi Railway Station... who called the RFP [Request for Proposal] on it? Was it not the Congress Party in 2008?” she asked. “In 2008, who was the Prime Minister? Who was the Finance Minister then? And I would definitely ask Shri Rahul Gandhi when the PM was abroad and when he [Mr. Gandhi] thought that one of the ordinances was so outrageous that he tore it up in front of the media, did he tear up this RFP call for the New Delhi Railway Station to be monetised?,” she queried. Delhi railway station “Is this not monetisation? They sold off the New Delhi Railway Station and it is owned by jijaji [brother- in-law Robert Vadra] now,” said the Minister, adding that she could give more examples of asset monetisation during the UPA regime. “Does he understand what is monetisation?....We are not selling off. They [the assets] will be handed back to the government,” she asserted. “He [Mr. Gandhi] said we sold everything that was built in 70 years... 70 years... what happened during the Commonwealth Games? With one Commonwealth Games, they finished off all which can be creamed out into the accounts of their cronies,” she declared. She said that in the National Monetisation Pipeline there would be no change of ownership. “It [assets] will remain with Government of India. They are brownfield assets, which are almost completed but are underutilised,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-should-do-its-homework-sitharaman/article36109796.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre raises fair price of sugar cane||The Union government has increased the minimum price that sugar mills must pay to sugar cane farmers by Rs. 5 a quintal, setting the fair and remunerative price (FRP) at Rs. 290 a quintal for the 2021-22 sugar season, which runs from October to September. Despite demands from sugar mills, however, the Centre refused to hike the minimum price at which they can sell the processed sugar, citing consumer interests. Wednesday’s decision by the Union Cabinet comes a day after Punjab cane farmers wrested an additional Rs. 35 a quintal price hike from their government, and amid demands from Uttar Pradesh farmers for a similar hike after three consecutive years of unchanged rates. Both the States go to the polls next year. The Rs. 290 a quintal national FRP will apply for a recovery rate of 10%. “The decision will benefit five crore sugar cane farmers and their dependents as well as five lakh workers employed by sugar mills and related industries,” Food Minister Piyush Goyal said at a press conference after the meeting. This was the highest ever FRP so far, he noted. The Centre had hiked FRPs by 38% since the Rs. 210 a quintal rate of 2013-14. He pointed out that this year’s hike was only half the Rs. 10 increase seen last year. ‘Quite reasonable’ Sugar mills welcomed the decision as “quite reasonable”, but demanded that the minimum selling price (MSP) also be hiked. “The MSP of sugar has remained static for over 30 months, though the cane FRP was increased by Rs. 10 a quintal in 2020-21 season,” said a statement from Abinash Varma, director-general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, seeking a hike from the current MSP of Rs. 31 a kg to Rs. 34.50 or Rs. 35. However, Mr. Goyal made it clear the Centre had no intention of increasing the MSP at this time, arguing that the mills received governmental support for exports and to divert surplus sugar to ethanol production. “The delicate balance of the interest of farmers and consumers, as well as the industry, has been maintained in this decision,” he said. Mr. Goyal also addressed the problem of late payment of dues to farmers, which is a thorny political issue, especially in western Uttar Pradesh’s sugar belt, noting that Rs. 91,000 crore was being paid to the farmers in the current sugar season. The payout for 2021-22 was expected to cross Rs. 1 lakh. The largest sugar producer, U.P., had also managed to clear all pending dues till 2019-20, and had paid out Rs. 27,000 crore for the current season until August 14, he observed. Most major sugar-producing States have set their own cane prices over and above the national FRP and a sore point for the U.P. farmers had been that the State had not hiked its price of Rs. 315 a quintal for the past three years. Over the last week, Punjab’s farmers took to the streets for an increase in the State price and negotiated a Rs. 50 a quintal hike to Rs. 360. Priyanka’s charge On Wednesday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter to accuse the U.P. government of failing to match up. “The Congress government of Punjab listened to the farmers and raised the price of sugar cane to Rs. 360/quintal. The U.P. BJP government, which came with a promise of Rs. 400/quintal for sugarcane, has not raised a single penny on the price of sugar cane for 3 years and threatens to “see” if farmers raise their voices,” she tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-raises-fair-price-of-sugar-cane/article36109768.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||No coercive action against Rane till Sept. 17: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that no coercive action would be taken till September 17 against Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Narayan Rane in the First Information Report (FIR) registered at Nashik for making a “slap” remark against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Mr. Rane moved a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar to quash the FIR registered at the Nashik cyber police station on Tuesday. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Mr. Rane, told the court that there were multiple FIRs against him, and he would amend the petition with all the details. Senior advocate Amit Desai, representing the government, said no action would be taken against him in the Nashik FIR till September 17. Mr. Rane, in the petition filed through advocate Aniket Nikam, said he was falsely implicated in this crime. “The investigation in the said crime is completed and nothing remains to be investigated. Crimes at various police stations against Mr. Rane for the same series of transactions is nothing but causing harassment and multiplicity of litigation,” the plea said. He has been charged with Sections 500 (punishment for defamation), 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-coercive-action-against-rane-till-sept-17-maharashtra/article36109780.ece
26 August 2021||Srinagar,||BCCI-appointed panel to ‘look after affairs’ of JKCA met with criticism||The sub-committee appointed by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) “to look after the affairs” of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) has met with quite a bit of criticism. The sub-committee is headed by Brigadier Anil Gupta, a BJP spokesperson according to his Twitter account. It also comprises advocate Sunil Sethi, a BJP leader who shot into limelight during the Amarnath land row agitation of 2008, and former cricketer Mithun Manhas, who owns the Jammu Cricket Club (JCC). Strict compliance A joint letter by members of the JCC to Brig. Gupta demanded strict compliance with the Lodha Committee recommendations, “which bars any politician from being a member of the BCCI committees”. “It is to bring on record that your email dated 26/06/2021 seeking a plethora of information from various clubs affiliated with the JKCA is needless to say is beyond your mandate as the member of the sub-committee and in contempt of the Division Bench of the J&K High Court at Srinagar,” the letter read. Brig. Gupta, however, brushed aside the criticism. On being a politician and a member of the BCCI sub-committee, Brig. Gupta said, “The Lodha Committee does not bar a politician but a Minister or a politician who holds any official position from being a member.” ‘A proverb’ “Wasn’t [National Conference president] Dr. Farooq Abdullah a politician and a member of the JKCA? These accusations are being made as those who looted the JKCA are getting exposed now,” he added. On using the term “nail him down” in reference to the captain of the Jammu and Kashmir team, Parvez Rasool, Mr. Gupta said it was “a proverb, which means if we have enough evidence to back what we are writing”. “There is no dispute with Mr. Rasool except that he should return the machinery. After checking the stocks, we realised a pitch roller and a pitch cover worth lakhs [of rupees] were being used by individual clubs and cricket academies. We will not allow it. We have many options. A disciplinary committee will also be constituted in case he [Mr. Rasool] fails to return it,” he added. “JKCA should approach the affiliated body in districts for recovery of any machinery and not me. If the JKCA wants any help in that direction I can try my best but don’t drag my name in this,” Mr. Rasool insisted. When asked how many pitch rollers the JKCA has in Kashmir and how many were missing, Brig. Gupta said, “I do not possess the number right now.” Eligibility criteria The sub-committee is also facing criticism for changing the eligibility criteria for selectors and coaches in J&K, which are tougher than that in Punjab and Uttarakhand “in a bid to sideline many young talents from a particular region”. “The National Cricket Academy’s selection of local coaches for training is also being scuttled,” an insider said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bcci-appointed-panel-to-look-after-affairs-of-jkca-met-with-criticism/article36109774.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Google, Amar Chitra Katha to offer Internet safety lessons||Google on Wednesday launched its global “Be Internet Awesome” programme for children in India in partnership with Indian comic book publisher Amar Chitra Katha to offer Internet safety lessons in eight Indian languages. The tech giant has also launched an enhanced Google Safety Centre in the eight languages. The launch of the newly expanded safety centre in Hindi, Marathi, Malayalam, Kannada and Telugu, and in Bengali, Tamil, and Gujarati by the year-end, will serve as a single destination that will cover important topics like data security, privacy controls, and online protection. The ‘Be Internet Awesome’ campaign includes an interactive experience called ‘Interland’, where children can participate in a series of fun and challenging games and learn how to safeguard valuable information, defeat cyber bullies, and spot what’s real and what’s fake when online. Google has significantly increased its resources dedicated to India’s trust safety teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/google-amar-chitra-katha-to-offer-internet-safety-lessons/article36109786.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India anticipated Taliban takeover’||India anticipated the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban, said the Chief of the Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, here on Wednesday. Speaking at a think tank event, he observed that India was ready to deal with a possible upsurge in terror activities that may be an indirect outcome of the victory of the Taliban. “Everything that has happened was something that had been anticipated, only the timelines have changed. From the Indian perspective, we were anticipating the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan,” said Gen. Rawat at the event titled, “The India-US Partnership: Securing the 21st Century” and organised by the Observer Research Foundation. The event was attended by Commander of U.S. Indo-Pacific Command (US-INDOPACOM) Admiral John C. Aquilino, who also met the tri-service chiefs and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar. Gen. Rawat expressed India’s concern over a possible increase in terror activities following the arrival of the Taliban fighters in Kabul. India’s “contingency planning” had been ongoing and the Indian forces were “prepared for that”, he asserted He expressed surprise over the fast pace in which the Taliban moved into various cities of Afghanistan and captured Kabul. “The timeline has surprised us because we were anticipating this happening, may be a couple of months down the line.” The visit of Admiral Aquilino came ahead of the 25th edition of MALABAR, which will be held during August 26-29 in the Philippines Sea. The Indian Navy said, “The aim of the exercise is to increase interoperability amongst the participating navies, develop common understanding and SOPs for Maritime Security Operation”. The MALABAR-21 would witness exercises covering all three domains of maritime warfare, including live weapon firing, anti-surface, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drills, joint manoeuvres and tactical exercises, it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-anticipated-taliban-takeover/article36109842.ece
26 August 2021||Srinagar,||All not well in J&K Cricket Association||Once the poster boy of cricket in Kashmir, earning praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the captain of the Jammu and Kashmir team, Parvez Rasool, is distraught by an e-mail written by a member of a Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI)-appointed sub-committee, seeking to “nail him down”. “It’s clear the intention is to tarnish my image and ruin my future. It seems there are forces who want to end my career. The mail of a sub-committee member talking about ‘nailing me down’ has disturbed me mentally,” Mr. Rasool, the first cricketer from Kashmir to play for India (in 2014) and also join the Indian Premier League (IPL) teams, told The Hindu . Mr. Rasool, who hails from the small town of Bijbehara in south Kashmir, was referring to the e-mail he received inadvertently from Brigadier Anil Gupta, member, administration, J&K Cricket Association (JKCA), on July 26, in which he addressed Srinagar in charge of cricket Majid Dar with a short message: “Do we have any proof to nail him down”, a copy of which is with The Hindu. In a subsequent email, though, Brig. Gupta praised Mr. Rasool, saying, “JKCA has high regards for your cricketing achievements and wish you all the best for the future.” However, Brig. Gupta also accused Mr. Rasool of “not returning equipment belonging to the JKCA”. Earlier, in another mail, Brig. Gupta asked Mr. Rasool to return a pitch roller or face “police action”. “Please keep me out of this as I reiterate that I have not taken any machinery from the JKCA. In case you have any receipt, please enlighten me... I assure you my support for the betterment of J&K cricket, as a cricketer who has given his life to it,” read the reply from Mr. Rasool. Long-pending dispute Three months ago, a three-member administrative sub-committee was constituted by the BCCI “to look after the affairs of the JKCA and resolve the long-pending dispute between 30 cricket clubs and 20 district-level teams” in the Union Territory. The sub-committee is headed by Brig. Gupta, a BJP spokesperson according to his Twitter account. It also comprises advocate Sunil Sethi, a BJP leader who shot into limelight during the Amarnath land row agitation of 2008, and former cricketer Mithun Manhas, who owns the Jammu Cricket Club (JCC). However, the committee’s functioning came in for criticism from several members of the JCC. A joint letter by them to Brig. Gupta demanded strict compliance with the Lodha Committee recommendations, “which bars any politician from being a member of the BCCI committees”. “It is to bring on record that your email dated 26/06/2021 seeking a plethora of information from various clubs affiliated with the JKCA is needless to say is beyond your mandate as the member of the sub-committee and in contempt of the Division Bench of the J&K High Court at Srinagar,” the letter read. Brig. Gupta, however, brushed aside the criticism. “The Lodha Committee does not bar a politician but a Minister or a politician who holds any official position from being a member,” he said. On using the term “nail him down” in reference to Mr. Rasool, Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that it was “a proverb, which means if we have enough evidence to back what we are writing”. The sub-committee is also facing criticism for changing the eligibility criteria for selections in different categories of teams in J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-not-well-in-jk-cricket-association/article36109844.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Google and Amar Chitra Katha to offer Internet safety lessons||Seeing a heightened need to strengthen Internet safety post the pandemic, Google on Wednesday announced ramping up of resources in India to respond to online threats, including the launch of an updated Google Safety Centre, and introducing the global kids safety program in the country. The company has launched the global ‘Be Internet Awesome’ program for kids in India, wherein it will partner with Indian comic book publisher Amar Chitra Katha to offer Internet safety lessons through popular comic book characters across eight Indian languages. It added that launch of the newly expanded Safety Centre in Hindi, Marathi, Malayalam, Kannada and Telugu, and in Bengali, Tamil, and Gujarati by the end of the year, will serve as a single destination that is dedicated to educating and empowering Google’s users on the importance of digital safety covering important topics like data security, privacy controls, and online protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/google-and-amar-chitra-katha-to-offer-internet-safety-lessons/article36109845.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No curbs on inter-State travel, says Centre in new guidelines||The Health Ministry, in its revised ‘Guidelines for domestic travel (flight/train/ship/ bus inter-state travel)’ issued to States and Union Territories on Wednesday, has said that there shall be no restrictions on inter-State travel by air, rail, water, or road. The revised guidelines, according to the Ministry, has been issued following a “declining trajectory of COVID cases across the country after a peak in reported cases during mid-May as part of the second wave”. “...To facilitate inter-State travel, while observing required precautions, the guidelines for domestic travel (flight/train/ship/bus inter-state travel) are revised so as to have a uniform protocol for domestic travel across the country,” said the Ministry. It added that in case RT-PCR or RAT tests are required prior to entry into a State, as notified by the State government, it must be publicised widely to maximise traveller convenience. As per the revised guidelines, the requirement of a negative RT-PCR or RAT test report can be done away with for asymptomatic persons who have taken both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, on the condition that 15 days have gone by since the administration of the second dose. Such persons must be able to show the vaccine certificate from the Co-Win portal. It added that previously States were allowed to develop their own protocols with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment of the local COVID-19 situation. According to the revised guidelines, passengers who are found symptomatic on arrival shall be subjected to Rapid Antigen Test at the terminal to aid early identification. “In the event of an unusual surge in cases in any State or Union Territory, the States or Union Territories may institute appropriate public health measures promptly and States may implement additional restrictions, based on local requirements,” the Ministry added. Meanwhile, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday with representatives from the States and Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-curbs-on-inter-state-travel-says-centre-in-new-guidelines/article36109791.ece
26 August 2021||Kolkata,||Trafficking survivors write to Bengal CM||Twenty-nine survivors of human trafficking, who were awarded compensation by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in West Bengal over the past three years, are yet to receive it. The survivors have now approached the West Bengal Chief Minister and urged her to release the funds. A letter dated August 24, addressed to the Chief Minister by three survivors’ collectives — Bandhan Mukti, Utthan and Bijoyini — says, “Eventually, the DLSA has given orders allowing compensation to 29 of the survivors who had applied. When they approached the SLSA [State Legal Services Authority] to release the victim compensation amount which has been awarded between 2019 till date, they were told that the SLSA does not have the necessary fund[s], and the recipients of the compensation need to wait until SLSA does get the funds.” It goes on to add: “At this point when we are told by our State government that they don’t have the funds, it leaves us feeling anxious, angry, and in despair.” The survivors’ collectives have also sought an appointment with the Chief Minister. Their letter emphasises the importance of compensation to the survivors: “Some of us want to start microbusinesses to earn, for some of us the money will help in continuing education, for health treatment, for building a house of our own, for securing our future by putting part of the money in some term deposits, etc.,” the letter said. The award of compensation varies from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 6.50 lakh; most of the victims have been awarded Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh. “Compensation is not a gratis or benevolent thing which the State is doing for the survivors. Once the amount is awarded, it becomes statutory right of the person,” a senior lawyer of the Calcutta High Court, who has represented several trafficking survivors, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trafficking-survivors-write-to-bengal-cm/article36109798.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IAF to evacuate 200 from Kabul||A special Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft is expected to evacuate at least 200 stranded individuals from Kabul in one of the final Indian airlift flights from Afghanistan following the takeover by the Taliban. The passengers, who include Indian nationals as well as Sikhs and Hindu citizens of Afghanistan, are likely to arrive early on Thursday. The aircraft is operating under difficult circumstances as the Taliban has refused to extend an August 31 deadline for the U.S. control of the airport in Kabul, which has led to a scramble among several countries to evacuate as many persons as possible within the next few days. ‘Provide assistance’ Vikramjit Singh Sahney, international president of World Punjabi Organisation, told The Hindu that his organisation would provide assistance to rehabilitate needy families under a scheme, ‘My Family, My Responsibility’.  The Hindu had reported earlier that apart from the 210 Sikhs, there were some more Indians who were likely to be evacuated later. Third country It is possible that a third country could also step in to evacuate these vulnerable individuals. There are reports that some of the stranded Sikh citizens of Afghanistan have approached Canada for evacuation. Canada’s Minister of National Defence Harjit Sajjan announced on Wednesday that the country had carried out its largest evacuation of 530 persons from Kabul airport on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-to-evacuate-200-from-kabul/article36109777.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||Defiant Rane says he can’t be checkmated||A day after his arrest and subsequent bail for his comment on slapping Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Union Minister Narayan Rane on Wednesday said the Jan Ashirward Yatra will resume on August 27. “No one can do anything to me. I have remained unaffected by attempts to checkmate me politically. I have played a major role in the Shiv Sena’s growth. Those who want to protest, let them do that,” Mr. Rane said at his Juhu residence. He remained unapologetic about his controversial remarks on Mr. Thackeray, claiming that he had done it “for national pride”. When reminded that former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had disapproved of such remarks against the Chief Minister, Mr. Rane said, “If he says so, then I will follow, as he is my margadarshak [guide].” Earlier, his son and BJP MLA Nitesh Rane had tweeted that the President’s Rule was the “only option in Maharashtra”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defiant-rane-says-he-cant-be-checkmated/article36109775.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Hackathon to find out solutions for intel bodies||The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), in coordination with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), will launch an online hackathon “Manthan 2021” on Thursday, for identification of innovative concepts and technology solutions to address the challenges faced by intelligence agencies. BPR&D Director-General V.S.K. Kaumudi and AICTE Chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe will launch the programme, following which the applicants can register themselves for the event through its official website manthan.mic.gov.in. Manthan 2021 will be held in two phases. In the first phase, the participants will submit their concepts against the problem statements which they want to solve on the portal. The ideas will be evaluated by a group of experts and only the innovative ideas will be selected for the second round scheduled from November 28. “During this 36-hour online hackathon, scheduled from November 28 to December 1, 2021, the selected youth from education institutions across the country and registered start-ups will participate to offer strong, safe and effective technology solutions using their technical expertise and innovative skills. Total prize money worth Rs. 40 lakh will be given to the winning teams,” said a government release. The participants will have to develop digital solutions under six themes for 20 different challenge statements mentioned in the website, using new technologies like artificial intelligence, deep learning, augmented reality and machine learning. They must prove to the jury that the solution is technically feasible and, more importantly, implementable. Registration is expected to start on August 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hackathon-to-find-out-solutions-for-intel-bodies/article36109761.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Probe by Bengal into Pegasus can wait: SC||The petition by the NGO has challenged the government notification, which appointed the commission in July. It said the commission had no jurisdiction to embark on such an inquiry. Mr. Salve submitted that a public notice was issued by the commission of inquiry and proceedings were taking place on a day-to-day basis. The Supreme Court issued a pre-admission notice to the Centre on August 17 on petitions seeking an independent inquiry into the charges that the government used the Israeli spyware to snoop on journalists, activists, dissenters, parliamentarians and Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-by-bengal-into-pegasus-can-wait-sc/article36109840.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Decide plea on Asthana in two weeks: SC tells HC||He said the top court should allow the High Court to decide that petition first. Mr. Bhushan initially resisted. He said the petition in the High Court was filed after his client had moved the apex court. It was a “word to word, copy-paste” of the CPIL’s plea. “There is this spectre of ambush petitions filed in collusion with the government in order to disable genuine petitions,” he submitted. Mr. Mehta retorted, “Less said the better about professional PIL litigants who file surrogate petitions”. However, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud assuaged the situation by highlighting how the court has given Mr. Bhushan’s client permission to intervene in the High Court proceedings. “We have given you the liberty to file a substantive petition in the High Court so that you don’t have to, if such a situation arises, wait for the other petitioner [Alam], though he is the dominus litis , to file an appeal in the Supreme Court,” he explained to Mr. Bhushan. Meanwhile, the CJI raised the issue of his participation in the CPIL case. He referred to how the CPIL petition alluded to the fact that his views based on law in a high-powered meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Opposition leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had led to Mr. Asthana’s exit from the list of contenders for the CBI Director post in May. The CJI had at the time informed the committee about the Supreme Court judgment that only officers with a minimum residual tenure of six months ought to be considered for appointment as CBI Director. Mr. Asthana was scheduled to retire in July, leaving him with less than six months of service. “I want to raise a couple of issues… One is about my participation in this case. You [CPIL] have said in your petition that I expressed my views on law which concerned this particular gentleman…” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Mr. Bhushan, before adjourning the case by two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decide-legality-of-asthanas-appointment/article36109770.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccinate school staff on priority basis: govt.||“In schools, teachers, employees, bus drivers, whoever is coming in contact [should be vaccinated] so that there is a protective ring around children. Children don’t get severe disease or get very sick with COVID,’’ he said. He said ZyCoV-D will be made available for 12-17 year olds in addition to adults by October and the idea is to vaccinate really sick children first. “Healthy children will be given vaccines only after adult immunisation is complete.’’ According to a senior Health Ministry official, India has around 12 crore adolescents in the age group of 12-18 years, of whom 1% are susceptible to severe COVID-19 infections and will be given priority for inoculation of the three-dose vaccine. Dr. Arora confirmed that talks are also under way to chalk out the roadmap to introduce the DNA based Zydus Cadila vaccine in the general population. Welcoming the allocation of doses for teachers, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan indicated that this would be key to restoring the school education system. “Along with securing our future generation against corona, this will prove to be a decisive step towards removing the obstacles in their studies due to this pandemic. I also request all the State governments to give their support and cooperation to this campaign,” he tweeted. The Ministry has previously said it did not plan to set any deadline for mandatory vaccination of teachers, though some States have put requirements in place for teachers before they start teaching classes. “States and Union Territories have been asked to use Unified District Information System of Education (UDISE) data and coordinate with State Education Departments, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Sangathan etc. to provide necessary fillip to this vaccination programme,” said the Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccinate-school-staff-on-priority-basis-says-govt/article36109769.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Campaign for one million soak pits in 100 days||The Jal Shakti Ministry has launched a campaign to create a million soak pits in villages across the country over the next 100 days, to help manage grey water and prevent the clogging of waterbodies. Though the Central government does not have any comprehensive estimate of the total number of soak pits needed countrywide, the States have been asked to develop their own targets. “The household or community soak pit is the simplest solution for grey water management,” said Additional Secretary Arun Baroka, who heads the flagship Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM). “With modernisation, people feel that the only solution is to have drains for waste water, which is then dumped in a common village pond. However, that is not the best solution for most villages which are generally dry, where grey water can be safely and inexpensively filtered through a soak pit,” he said. A household soak pit could be constructed for Rs. 3000-5000 in most cases, he noted. The Swachh Bharat Mission’s first phase was to achieve open defecation free (ODF) status by constructing a toilet in every rural household and persuading all villagers to use it. The second phase, termed ODF+, aims to sustain and extend these sanitation gains by focusing on solid and liquid waste management. ‘Sujalam’ campaign Unlike the toilet construction phase, however, where targets were uniform across the country, the second phase has required a more nuanced approach. In a letter to the States regarding the launch of the 100-day ‘Sujalam’ campaign on Wednesday, Mr. Baroka asked them to “develop ambitious and measurable targets” of their own. In regions such as Punjab where the water table was high, the soak pit would not be viable. So, there was no nationwide estimate of the number of pits required. A dashboard would be made public within the next two weeks to enable proper monitoring of ODF+ work, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-for-one-million-soak-pits-in-100-days/article36109766.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Government clears nine names for SC judges||The nine names include eight judges and one lawyer from the Supreme Court Bar. They are Karnataka Chief Justice A.S. Oka, who is the senior-most Chief Justice among all High Court Chief Justices; Gujarat Chief Justice Vikram Nath; Sikkim Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari; Telangana Chief Justice Hima Kohli, who is also the only serving woman Chief Justice of a High Court; Justice Nagarathna; Kerala High Court judge, Justice C.T. Ravikumar; Madras High Court judge, Justice M.M. Sundresh; Gujarat High Court judge, Justice Bela M. Trivedi; and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, in that order. The Collegium, also comprising Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice L. Nageswara Rao, had met on August 17 to zero in on the names. The Collegium had for the first time, in one single resolution, recommended three women judges. It had also sent a strong signal in favour of representation of women in the highest judiciary. Three of the nine — Chief Justice Nath, Justice Nagarathna and Mr. Narasimha — will go on to be the Chief Justices of India. Mr. Narasimha, who had served as Additional Solicitor General, may become the ninth lawyer to be ever appointed directly as judge in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/government-clears-nine-names-for-sc-judges/article36109841.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS-affiliated trade union slams monetisation plan||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated trade union, was opposed to the Union government’s plan to monetise assets worth Rs. 6 lakh crore over four years and was planning to protest against the same, BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha said on Wednesday. Mr. Sinha told The Hindu that the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) launched by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday was akin to “selling the family silver”. “We understand that the government needs funds, but this is not the way. They should come up with an alternative plan. We are considering our next course of action, including protests,” Mr. Sinha said. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) also came out against the plan on Tuesday, terming it the government’s design for “loot of national assets”. “The NMP is a pipeline of corruption while handing over public assets to private hands. It is a project of destroying the national economy and bringing untold miseries to the workers and other sections of the toiling people,” CITU general secretary Tapan Sen said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-affiliated-trade-union-slams-monetisation-plan/article36109792.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Chhattisgarh compromise could be on the cards||A day after a group expressing no-confidence in Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd) met the party’s State president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress’ Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat is individually meeting the legislators to resolve the issue in the poll-bound State. Mr. Baghel and Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo, who has also staked claim to the Chhattisgar CM’s chair, had a long meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. Show of strength Party general secretary-organisation, K. C. Venugopal, has been assigned to work out a compromise formula between the two, according to the sources. This may see Mr. Deo as Deputy Chief Minister, induction of his supporters, and weeding out of those opposed to him. In a show of strength, a strong contingent of supporters welcomed Mr. Baghel on his return to Raipur on Wednesday. State Food Minister Amarjeet Bhagat tweeted a picture of the rousing welcome that Mr. Baghel received, along with a comment: “Those who want to destabilise the government should understand that this is the government of farmers, tribals and common people.” Mr. Deo has invoked an assurance made by Mr. Gandhi, who was leading the party in 2018, that he [Mr. Deo] will be handed over the reins of the State halfway through the Chief Minister’s tenure. On the balance is also the credibility of Mr. Gandhi’s word. In 2018, when the Congress won an overwhelming majority by winning 68 seats in the 90-seat Assembly, there were three claimants for the Chief Minister’s post. Mr. Baghel, who was heading the party in the State; Mr. Deo, who was the leader of Opposition in State Assembly; and Tamradhwaj Sahu, who was only Congress MP to win from the State in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls (he resigned from Parliament after contesting and winning in the Assembly polls). Sources close to Mr. Deo said that when both Mr. Baghel and Mr. Deo felt that Mr. Sahu could possibly win the race to chief ministership, they together came up with the formula of rotating the post between them. Mr. Baghel, who has completed 2.5 years in the post, has denied that any such commitment was made. Mr Baghel is counting on his two major strengths — one, he belongs to an OBC (Other Backward Class) community, and second, he enjoys popular support among MLAs. “At a time when even the BJP is looking for an OBC face in the State, it would be suicidal to sideline a strong OBC leader of the Congress,” a senior leader said. The Congress leadership will also have to ascertain that a majority of the party legislators are on board with whatever decision it takes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-working-out-chhattisgarh-compromise/article36109771.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Mahabali’s justification||Mahabali’s guru Sukrachaya sees through Vamana’s disguise. He is able to see that the One who has come as a Brahmachari is Lord Narayana, the Supreme One. He, therefore, warns Mahablali. He tells the king that the One before Him can take away everything that belongs to him, said Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. With one step He can measure this world, and with another He can measure the world above. With Mahabali having promised Him land measured with three steps of His, where will He place the third step, wonders Sukracharya. If Mahabali were to promise to give what Vamana asks and then goes back on his promise, he will go to naraka. So he must think before making rash promises, Sukracharya warns. But Mahabali says he has already promised the Brahmachari that he will give Him whatever He asks for. Having made such a promise, to refuse to give the land that has been asked for would be equal to lying. And isn’t lying a sin? Bhooma Devi Herself has said that She can support many burdens, but cannot bear liars. And so Mahabali says he will keep his promise to Vamana. “Even if I were to lose my wealth and my position by giving this daana, I will still go ahead. Anyway, when a man dies, he is no longer going to enjoy his wealth. Nothing will be of use to him when he dies, whether it is fame or relatives. So, let me give now. I will be giving to a learned One. You must give daana to a good recipient, and here we have One such. Why hesitate to give? You say that Vamana is the Supreme One. He is the One we worship through yagas. That being the case, I should give what He wants. Even if this Brahmachari is an enemy, I will still give Him what He wants,” says Mahabali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahabalis-justification/article36109785.ece
26 August 2021||Pune,||‘Court decision akin to slap on face of govt.’||After a local court in Raigad district granted bail to Union Minister Narayan Rane following his arrest for his “slap” remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP’s State unit president Chandrakant Patil said the court’s decision was akin to a slap on the face of Mr. Thackeray’s Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which, he alleged, operated solely on the strength of strongmen and by misusing the police machinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-decision-akin-to-slap-on-face-of-govt/article36109778.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI files charges in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against businessman Anoop Bartaria, a chartered accountant and 16 others, for allegedly cheating the Syndicate Bank of about Rs. 209 crore. Among those arraigned are chartered accountant Bharat Bomb, bank officials Adarsh Manchanda and Mahesh Gupta, and three companies — JLN Metal House, Riddima Infratech LLP and Samriddhi Siddhi Builders & Developers Private Limited. According to the investigating agency, the accused private persons conspired with the bank officials to get various credit facilities based on forged documents. Earlier, in a money laundering case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had attached assets worth Rs. 450 crore in connection with a Rs. 1,267.79 crore bank fraud case involving the same chartered accountant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-files-charges-in-graft-case/article36109762.ece
26 August 2021||Kolkata,||Govt. move to retain power, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday criticised the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) policy, saying the assets which the Union was in the process of monetisation were not the personal assets of Prime Minister Narendra Modi “I have already said these are not Mr. Modi’s assets. He cannot sell public assets like this. It is not the BJP’s party affairs; it’s the country’s affairs. We are really shocked. It is an unfortunate decision. Not only me, the whole country will join me in condemning this,” she stated. The Trinamool Congress chairperson alleged that the Centre was selling everything from rail, ports, public sector and insurance in the name of the newly announced policy. “They are selling everything. I do not support this government. After selling everything, they will keep the money in reserve and use it for elections and remain in power. For holding on to power, they are selling everything,” she accused the Centre. The Chief Minister was also critical of certain Central teams visiting the State. “Parliamentary Committees can come but the Centre sends some people without informing us,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-move-to-retain-power-says-mamata/article36109797.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.25 lakh doses ready for today’s drive||The Greater Chennai Corporation has kept 1.25 lakh doses ready for its mega vaccination drive on Thursday at 400 places across the city. The number of doses included one lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and another 25,000 doses of Covaxin. The civic body has made elaborate arrangements to reach as many people as possible on the day, officials said. They said although they had kept 1.25 lakh doses ready with the expectation of a huge turnout, they were conservatively targeting to administer at least 75,000 doses on Thursday as part of the drive. The highest number of doses administered in the city on a single day previously was 49,010 doses on April 16, 2021. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that 400 medical teams, with each team comprising a medical officer, nurse, data entry operator and a helper, had been kept ready for the drive. He said that all those who were yet to get their first or second dose of vaccine could get the benefit. According to officials, each of the 200 wards will have two vaccination centres, one static and one mobile. The details of the 400 vaccination camps can be found athttp://covid19. chennaicorporation. gov.in/covid/mega_camp/. People can walk-in to get vaccinated from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Lukewarm response Meanwhile, the initiative recently launched by the Corporation to vaccinate elderly people aged 80 and above at their homes has evoked a lukewarm response with only 657 people registering to make use of the service till Tuesday. However, despite poor registration, the Corporation managed to keep its target of administering around 700 doses a day to elders at home. Since launch of the initiative on Sunday, 2,702 doses, including 2,168 first doses and 534 second doses, had been administered till Tuesday. A senior official said this was possible because the Corporation proactively took a list of roughly 4,500 senior citizens aged 80 and above ahead of the drive. Elders lagging Around 50% of the elderly population aged above 60 were yet to get its first dose of vaccine. Mr. Bedi said that families with members aged above 80 should use the facility. “It is an easy process. They just have to call one of our helplines to register,” he said. People can call 044-25384520 or 044-46122300 to register to get vaccine at home for those aged above 80.  It is an easy process. They just have to call one of our helplines to register Gagandeep Singh Bedi Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/125-lakh-doses-ready-for-todays-drive/article36109936.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||8 kg of drugs seized, three persons arrested||The officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Chennai Zone, busted a drug syndicate involved in trafficking methamphetamine from the India-Myanmar border to the city, and arrested three traffickers with 8 kg of the contraband. The contraband was estimated to be worth Rs. 7 crore in black market. The traffickers were smuggling the drug in a truck to the city. Acting on specific intelligence input, a team of officers from NCB, Chennai, intercepted a truck near Karanodai toll plaza, and seized eight packets of high quality methamphetamine from a wooden box in the vehicle. The contraband was concealed in eight tea packets of one kg each, with markings in a foreign language. Driver of the vehicle V. Jagadeeswaran has been arrested. The methamphetamine, in white crystalline form, was sourced from the India-Myanmar border by M. Mariappan and G. Ramesh, both residents of Chennai. On immediate follow-up, the two were arrested from a tea stall near Minjur toll plaza, Chennai. They confessed to having procured the contraband from Myanmar through Manipur-based drug traffickers. It was brought to Chennai in the truck and was meant for sale in Chennai city. They have trafficked drugs using same modus operandi in the past, said Amit Ghawate, Zonal Director of NCB. Methamphetamine is a potent and dangerous stimulant drug. It is used as a party drug. Continued usage can lead to heart problems, including heart attack, memory lapses, hallucinations and seizures.  Acting on specific intelligence input, a team of officers from the NCB, Chennai, intercepted a truck near Karanodai toll plaza||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-kg-of-drugs-seized-three-persons-arrested/article36109941.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dept. of Cooperation to open direct procurement centres||The Tamil Nadu government is planning to open direct procurement centres in all districts through the Department of Cooperation, Minister for Cooperation I. Periasamy announced in the Assembly on Wednesday. In the first phase, the direct procurement centres will be opened in districts other than those in the Cauvery delta region. Committees, led by the Collectors, have been constituted for this purpose, he said. As on July 31, the Food Department has 2,654 direct procurement centres for paddy, primarily in the Cauvery delta region. “In 19 districts, 68 direct procurement centres are to be set up through the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies, and they will be expanded later,” Mr. Periasamy said. He said the number of medical shops, run by the Department of Cooperation, would be increased from 300 to 600 in the next five years. He said the government intended to strengthen self-help groups (SHGs) and their functions. The rate of interest for loans up to Rs. 3 lakh would be reduced from 12% to 7%. “This would benefit 43,39,780 members of 3,63,881 groups across the State.” The government would also lend at 5% to widows and women deserted by their spouses. “This would help about 7,40,173 widows and those who have been deserted by their husbands,” he said. The government would bear the educational expenses of students studying at ITIs run by the Department of Cooperation in Bargur and Pattukkottai. It would open an institute at Mannavanur in Kodaikanal for training employees in cooperative management. Food Minister R. Sakkarapani said a control room would be set up to monitor the movement of civil supplies. He said the government would create two more zones of the Civil Supplies-CID with the headquarters in Tiruchi and Coimbatore. They would be headed by Superintendents of Police. The Minister said units of the Civil Supplies-CID would be set up in the newly created districts of Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Mayiladuthurai, Tenkasi, Tiruppattur and Ranipet. A total of 140 direct procurement centres for paddy would be built at a cost of Rs. 50 crore with assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dept-of-cooperation-to-open-direct-procurement-centres/article36109925.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More cinemas to reopen this week||Around 30% of the cinemas across Tamil Nadu, including multiplexes, will open their screens to patrons on Thursday and Friday. Only 20% of the theatres opened on August 23, from when the government allowed cinemas to reopen. Industry sources say the remaining 50% of the cinemas, especially in rural areas, will reopen only after new Tamil films are released or during Vinayaka Chaturti. A source at a cinema in Madurai, who has decided to wait until September, said, “The market here is different. People prefer more Tamil films. So, I have decided to wait until the first week of September. The news about the third wave is all around social media, so we are very cautious.” But Abishek Eashwaran, partner, Priya Complex, Madurai, said he would open one of the screens on Friday with The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It . In Coimbatore, exhibitors would begin with The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It and Bell Bottom (Hindi). Even in this zone, a few are in a wait-and-watch mode. The biggest fear is whether audiences will return and whether they will have to face the third wave of COVID-19, thus incurring more losses. Even when they were closed, the theatres had to spend a huge sum on maintenance. Some of them had to spend Rs. 5 lakh-Rs. 10 lakh a month on safeguarding projectors, seats and other electronic items. Archana Kalpathi, CEO, AGS Cinemas, which started the shows on August 23, said business was good, especially at the property on G.N. Chetty Road, T. Nagar. “We opened up only one screen here, and looking at the response, we opened up another,” she said. On day one, the morning shows saw 15% occupancy and the evening shows had 20%. The rate was gradually increasing every day, she noted. Udeep B, Managing Director of Mayajaal, said, “We are opening with seven films this weekend across English, Hindi and Telugu.” PVR Cinemas, which has a portfolio of 83 screens at 13 properties in Chennai, Vellore and Coimbatore, reopens on Thursday. “We are not opening our theatres now,” said ‘Rohini’ Panneerselvam, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association. When asked for an overview of the market, he said, “20% of the theatres have opened, 40% will open this weekend, and the rest in the coming days.” Tamil Nadu has 1,213 screens, with more than 6.36 lakh seats. A one-day closure of all theatres will lead to an average loss of Rs. 8 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-cinemas-to-reopen-this-week/article36109954.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 1,573 fresh COVID-19 cases||Except for three districts of Tamil Nadu, all others reported less than 100 fresh cases each on Wednesday. The State recorded 1,573 fresh cases, as against a total of 1,56,386 persons tested, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. Coimbatore (181), Chennai (170) and Erode (130) recorded the most number of cases. Perambalur reported the lowest number of cases, at five. Seven cases each were reported in Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar. So far, 26,05,647 persons have contracted the infection. As many as 18,352 patients are undergoing treatment, either at home or at healthcare facilities. As many as 1,797 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of those discharged to 25,52,507. In each of the districts of Thanjavur, Salem, Erode and Chengalpattu, over 1,000 persons are under treatment. Coimbatore has 2,132 active cases and Chennai has 2002. Of the 27 deaths (6 at private hospitals and 21 at government hospitals), three persons had no co-morbidities, while 24 others succumbed to the infection. So far, 34,788 persons have died of the infection. The fatalities include deferred reconciled deaths reported from Ranipet and Tiruppur related to the month of May. Among the dead was a 31-year-old woman from Kanniyakumari, who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and hypothyroidism. She was admitted on August 2 to Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. She tested positive on August 12 and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on August 24. A 36-year-old man from Ranipet, who tested positive on April 29, was admitted to the Walajapet government headquarters hospital with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 9. So far, 4,04,78,188 persons have been tested. Of the 50,90,402 passengers who have arrived in the State as on date, 8,672 have tested positive. On Wednesday, 3,71,804 persons were vaccinated in the State. At 2,568 sessions held to administer Covishield and Covaxin, 502 healthcare workers and 1,781 frontline workers were inoculated. As many as 2,30,858 persons in the 18-44 age group and 1,03,879 persons with co-morbidities in the 45-59 age group were also vaccinated. A total of 34,784 senior citizens received the shot. So far, 4,19,692 sessions have been held to administer Covishield and 72,101 sessions to administer Covaxin. As on date, 2,75,66,581 citizens have received the shot.  Perambalur reported the lowest number of cases, at five. Seven cases each were reported in Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-1573-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36109932.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rules against quota for poor in AIQ medical seats||The Madras High Court has ruled that the Centre ought not to have provided 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) of society in the All-India Quota medical seats without obtaining the express approval of the Supreme Court. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu held that the Centre’s July 29 notification was permissible only with respect to the 15% reservation for Scheduled Castes, 7.5% for Scheduled Tribes and 27% reservation for other backward classes (OBCs). They also said that the horizontal reservation provided to the differently abled was also in accordance with law. However, “the additional reservation provided for EWS cannot be permitted, except with the approval of the Supreme Court in such regard,” they ordered. The orders were passed while closing a contempt plea moved by the DMK against top bureaucrats for not having implemented a July 27, 2020, order to provide reservations for other backward classes (OBCs) in AIQ medical seats. After the present first Division Bench observed that the non implementation of such reservation from the academic year 2021-22 would certainly amount to contempt of court, the Centre came up with the notification providing 27% reservation for OBCs and 10% for EWS. Senior Counsel P. Wilson opposed the notification and insisted that the State reservation policy of 69% must be implemented for AIQ seats too. He also questioned the authority under which the Centre had provided the EWS quota. Concurring with him on the issue of the EWS quota, the judges said the Supreme Court in Indra Sawhney’s case (1992) had held that vertical reservation should not exceed 50%, and therefore, the EWS quota ought not have been implemented without the top court’s approval. The Bench said it would be absurd to implement the State-specific reservation policy to AIQ seats, since it would defeat the object behind the Supreme Court creating such a quota so that meritorious candidates could secure medical seats. In the footnote to the judgment, the Chief Justice wrote: “It may, however, be observed that the entire concept of reservation that appears to have been addressed by the Constituent Assembly... may have been turned on its head by repeated amendments, and the veritable reinvigoration of the caste system — and even extending it to denominations where it does not exist — instead of empowering citizens so that merit may ultimately decide matters...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rules-against-quota-for-poor-in-aiq-medical-seats/article36109957.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soon, quality boiled rice at ration shops||The ration cardholders will soon get quality boiled rice as the government has directed all 376 hulling agents to install colour-sorter machines, Food and Civil Supplies Minister R. Sakkarapani said on Wednesday. Responding to Congress member S. Rajeshkumar who complained about the poor quality boiled rice being sold at ration shops in Kanniyakumari district, he said the AIADMK government had procured 1,50,000 tonnes of rice. “When we visited 24 districts for an inspection, people made similar complaints. Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj also brought the issue to my notice many times. We called a meeting of hulling agents and asked them to install colour-sorter machines.” He said the agents had sought time till September, but the government insisted that it be done before August 31. “We are also taking steps to install colour-sorter machines at the 21 modern rice mills under the Department.” As for the other complaint of Mr. Rajeshkumar that five types of ration cards remained a problem, especially to the poor, Mr. Sakkarapani said the Chief Minister had advised him to sort out the issue. “We will take appropriate action.”  Congress member S. Rajeshkumar complained about the poor quality boiled rice being sold at ration shops in Kanniyakumari district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soon-quality-boiled-rice-at-ration-shops/article36109919.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rules against EWS quota in All India Quota medical seats||The Madras High Court has ruled that the Centre ought not to have provided 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS) of society in the All India Quota medical seats without obtaining the express approval of the Supreme Court. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu held that Centre’s July 29 notification was permissible only with respect to 15% reservation for Scheduled Castes, 7.5% for Scheduled Tribes and 27% reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs). They also said that horizontal reservation provided to the disabled was also in accordance with law. However, “the additional reservation provided for EWS cannot be permitted except with the approval of the Supreme Court in such regard,” they ordered. The judges observed that the Supreme Court had already held that overall reservations should not exceed 50% and therefore, the Centre should have obtained the sanction of the top court before implementing 10% reservation for the EWS in the AIQ medical seats. The orders were passed while closing a contempt of court petition filed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) against top bureaucrats. The party had insisted that the Centre must implement 50% reservation for OBCs since the AIQ seats were contributed by State government-run medical colleges. Senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, had also questioned the authority of the Centre to implement EWS reservation when the party had filed a case and obtained orders only for implementation of OBC reservation. The present contempt too, had been filed only seeking enhanced reservation for OBCs. While the first Division Bench did not agree with his arguments with respect to OBC reservation and found 27% for OBCs to be permissible, it agreed with him on the aspect of impermissibility of the EWS reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rules-against-ews-quota-in-all-india-quota-medical-seats/article36110051.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. publication captures history of Cauvery delta||Nearly 190 years ago, Sir Arthur Thomas Cotton (1803-1899), a celebrated British irrigation engineer, called the idea of building an anicut across the Cauvery “visionary.” At that time, he was toying with the proposal of building, what is now called the Upper Anicut at Mukkombu, about 18 km from Tiruchi, after studying the Grand Anicut or ‘Kallanai'’ in Tamil, which was said to have been built by Karikala Chola in the second century CE. In an account, he made a reference to the Grand Anicut by saying how it was done by “the natives hundreds of years ago” and “with their little science and poor means”. Completed in 1836, the Upper Anicut remains a vital structure to regulate the flow of Cauvery water in the delta. This description of Cotton on the Grand Anicut, drawn from a publication authored by his daughter Lady Hope, about him, forms part of a coffee-table book brought out recently by the Water Resources Department, which has been carved out of the Public Works Department. The publication captures measures taken by the present DMK regime in the last 100-odd days in the water sector, especially the Rs. 65.1 crore project of removing silt in the Cauvery delta and safeguarding the State’s interests of the Cauvery water. Quotes of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan on the role of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in defending the State’s position on the Cauvery water issue and an account of the execution of various projects for dams, tanks, canals and other irrigation structures during different spells of the DMK regime (1967-76, 1989-91, 1996-2001 and 2006-11) figure in the publication. Pictures of the Big Temples in Thanjavur and Gangaikonda Cholapuram of Ariyalur district besides a bird sanctuary in Vaduvoor of Thiruvarur district make the book more colourful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-publication-captures-greatness-of-cauvery-delta/article36109922.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chargesheet against sports coach filed||All Women Police, Flower Bazaar station, have filed a chargesheet against P. Nagarajan, 59 and coach of a sports academy, who was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting girls whom he trained for athletic events. Nagarajan was arrested in May under five sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) following a complaint from a 19-year-old girl. She was trained by him between 2013 and 2020 at Pachiyappa’s School Grounds in Broadway. Subsequently, seven girls had accused the coach of abusing them over the years, when they were minors. Wrapping up the probe, the investigation officer filed the chargesheet and related documents containing 250 pages in a special court inside the High Court premises on Monday. It has statements of the victims who were allegedly abused by the coach. The chargesheet has statements from witnesses and other evidence, said the police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chargesheet-against-sports-coach-filed/article36109949.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC identifies five key areas for CSR projects||Five key areas have been identified for implementing projects in the city in collaboration with private companies, through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, and charitable organisations. The five areas identified during the meeting between GCC top brass and representatives from private and charitable organisations on Wednesday included planting of trees, rejuvenation and beautification of waterbodies, improving infrastructure of GCC-run schools, beautification of public places, and improving the infrastructure of public toilets. A release by the Corporation said execution of these projects with the help of CSR funds under the Namakku Naame scheme of the State government was discussed. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, who chaired the meeting, said interested companies could identify the projects they would like to collaborate with and take them up with the respective Regional Deputy Commissioners of the Corporation. The corporation has hosted an online form for private companies to provide details on the projects they would like to work on and the money they would be willing to commit. The form is available athttp:// tinyurl.com/azfyh252.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-identifies-five-key-areas-for-csr-projects/article36109934.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Clauses on phone use, leave irk BMW workers||Workers at the BMW plant housed inside Mahindra World City alleged that they were not allowed inside the premises unless they signed an undertaking with several clauses, including non-usage of personal cellphones at workplace. The workers told The Hindu that an email was sent to all the employees which said, “The drop in attendance is affecting production and in turn causing impact on business. Also there has been a constant increase in mobile usage in the shop floor.” The letter pointed out that the discipline inside the shop floor and workplace safety are violated. “Production norms that have been agreed for improving productivity are not being adhered to,” it added. “We were asked to sign a paper which listed six points, including – I shall only avail leave with prior authorisation, I shall keep the personal mobile in the locker, I shall support productivity requirement,” said S. Kannan, deputy general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Tamil Nadu. He clarified that there was no protest but employees were sitting outside the gate. He pointed out that there was a difference of opinion on a few issues between the management and the workers which could be resolved. A few other workers said that there were issues pertaining to wages too which had been pending for a very long time. The last wage settlement came to an end on March 31, 2020. A source said that several meetings were held but nothing had progressed. One of the workers said that nine employees were given a letter which said that they would be granted leave of absence from August 24 until further notice. But the letter mentions that they were not placed under suspension. They had been told that they could report to work when the company wants them and until then their salaries would be given. The BMW spokesperson said that the Chennai plant was in the process of settling the wage agreement with BEU (BMW Staff and Employees Union). Some of the key points of the settlement were: the new wage agreement would be effective for three years and that it will benefit over 270 permanent employees, who are classified under the “workmen” category at BMW Plant Chennai. However, the spokesperson did not comment about the current issues at the plant. Located at Chengalpattu, the BMW plant started operations in 2007 and produces 12 different car models.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clauses-on-phone-use-leave-irk-bmw-workers/article36109937.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.38 kg of gold seized at Chennai airport||About 1.38 kg of gold worth Rs. 60 lakh was seized by Chennai Air Customs at Chennai airport and one passenger was arrested. The passenger, who arrived from Dubai, was arrested after officials found gold in the form of a cylindrical rod in the hollow portion of kitchen shelves made of stainless steel in his baggage. When officials dismantled them, they found 1.38 kg of gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/138-kg-of-gold-seized-at-chennai-airport/article36109938.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One-year-old undergoes bilateral lung transplant||Doctors at MGM Healthcare here have performed a bilateral lung transplant on Tuesday on a one-year-old boy from Chennai, who suffered from bronchopulmonary dysplasia, a chronic lung disease affecting newborns. A statement by the hospital said the boy was probably one of the youngest patients to undergo a bilateral lung transplantation. K.R. Balakrishnan, chairman, cardiac sciences, and director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation and Mechanical Circulatory Support (HLTMCS) at the hospital, who led the 30-member team that performed the surgery, said it was a herculean task to perform a bilateral lung transplant for such a young child. He said the patient had been diagnosed with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and was put on a ventilator since birth as his oxygen saturation was extremely low. K.G. Suresh Rao, co-director, HLTMCS, at the hospital, said as the child’s lungs were not recovering, the doctors had to go for a bilateral lung transplantation. After facing several challenges, the statement said the child received a pair of lungs from a brain-dead paediatric patient. “This is one of the youngest children on whom we have done a lung transplant. The child is stable in the intensive care unit at the moment,” he said. Taking care of the child who was on ventilator support since birth and the successful transplantation was a testimony to the sincerity and skill of the nurses at the hospital, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-year-old-undergoes-bilateral-lung-transplant/article36109945.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raise procurement rate for sugarcane: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Wednesday said the sugarcane procurement rate, fixed at Rs. 2,755 per tonne, was not sufficient, and must be raised to Rs. 4,500 per tonne by the Centre and the State government to ensure that farmers make a profit. Dr. Ramadoss pointed out that the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University determined that a farmer takes Rs. 2,985 to produce a tonne of sugarcane. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that while Centre had fixed Rs. 2,900 per tonne as the procurement rate, the State government was giving only Rs. 2,755. “This is insufficient,” he said, adding, “The Centre has also increased the rate by only Rs. 50 per tonne compared to Rs. 2,850 per tonne that it had fixed last year for sugarcane, that has 10% capacity to produce sugar. For sugarcane that has only 9.50% capacity to produce sugar, the rate was increased from Rs. 2,707.50 to Rs. 2,755, which is an increase of just Rs. 47.50. Since Tamil Nadu’s sugarcane capacity is less than 9.5%, this price is insufficient. This will result in loss for sugarcane farmers.” The Centre should increase the rate to Rs. 4,000 per tonne, he said. The procurement rate fixed by Centre and the guidelines used by State government to determine the rate were affecting the farmers in Tamil Nadu, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raise-procurement-rate-for-sugarcane-ramadoss/article36110377.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Every page of RTI replies should be attested, signed, orders High Court||The Madras High Court has ordered that while replying to Right to Information (RTI) Act applications, the public information officers, appellate authorities as well as officials of Information Commission must sign in every page and provide their Aadhaar number too so that action can be taken for furnishing false information. Justice S. Vaidyanathan wrote: “In case of any falsification or erroneous statement, the authorities can be proceeded against for furnishing false information both departmentally and also by invoking relevant penal provisions.” He expected the State Information Commission to issue a circular in this regard. The orders were passed while disposing of a writ petition filed by an individual M. Sittarasu in 2020. Petitioner’s grievance The petitioner was aggrieved against the information provided to him by Metropolitan Transport Corporation. The petitioner sought a direction to the Information Commission to dispose of a complaint lodged by him under Section 18(3) of the RTI Act of 2005. After finding that the Information Commission had already disposed of his complaint, the judge said the litigant would be at liberty to challenge the Commission’s decision if he was still aggrieved against its actions.  In case of any falsification or erroneous statement, the authorities can be proceeded against for furnishing false information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-every-page-of-rti-replies-should-be-attested-signed/article36109958.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHRC takes up plea on details of Vivekh’s death||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) New Delhi, on Wednesday, took on file a complaint seeking a direction to the State government to disclose the cause of actor Vivek’s death. Cardiac arrest It may be recalled that Vivek died of a cardiac arrest on April 17, a day after he received his vaccine and later the Health Department clarified that his death had nothing to do with the vaccine he received on April 16. ‘Disclose healthcomplications’ Under such circumstances, N.S. Saravanan, a social worker from Villupuram, had filed a complaint before the NHRC seeking to direct the government to disclose the health complications which led to the death of the actor and a direction to conduct proper medical check up of all members of the public before vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhrc-takes-up-plea-on-details-of-vivekhs-death/article36109950.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No plans to demolish Pennycuick memorial’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday told the Assembly that there was no basis for the allegation that the government had plans to construct a Kalaignar memorial library on the premises in Madurai, where Colonel John Pennycuick, the architect of the Mullaperiyar Dam, had lived. Responding to former Minister and AIADMK member Sellur K. Raju who alleged that the government had decided to demolish the memorial, the Chief Minister said an erroneous campaign was being carried out, which had now reached the Assembly. Ready to change “The Minister of the Public Works Department has already clarified this issue. If there is any basis to this allegation, we are ready to change it. I am making this statement because wrong information should not be recorded in the Assembly,” he said. Mr. Stalin said Mr. Raju had served as Minister twice and had been elected to the Assembly for the third time and such a baseless charge would not do any justice to his standing in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-plans-to-demolish-pennycuick-memorial/article36109920.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK revamps Cuddalore district units||The AIADMK on Tuesday announced the re-organisation of its units in the Cuddalore district. Till now, the Cuddalore district had three district units — East, West and Central. Without disturbing the unit for West, the party restructured the other two units — East and Central into three — North, South and East. A release issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator, stated that the new units would have former Minister M.C. Sampath for north, former MLA Sorathur R. Rajendran for south and Chidambaram legislator K.A. Pandian for east as secretaries. Each district unit would have two Assembly constituencies to look after. Administrative convenience had been cited as the reason for the change. With this, the number of district units in the AIADMK went up to 75. The Cuddalore (west), which has three Assembly seats under it, continues to have A. Arunmozhithevan, Bhuvanagiri MLA, as its district secretary.  With this, the number of district units in the AIADMK has gone up to 75||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-revamps-cuddalore-district-units/article36109923.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to ensure proper paddy storage||Precautionary measures are being taken to ensure proper storage of paddy bags at the direct procurement centres, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani informed the Assembly on Wednesday. During the debate on the demand for grants for the Food and Consumer Protection Department, AIADMK MLA R. Kamaraj (Nannilam) said several bags of paddy, procured from farmers, could not be stored properly at the direct procurement centres, and were lying in the open. The Minister said the godowns of other Departments and government agencies were being used for paddy storage. “After media reports, the Chief Minister directed me to resolve the issues,” he said. When Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami asked whether the government would grant compensation to the affected farmers, Mr. Sakkarapani said it did not receive any plea. The Minister said all varieties of paddy would be procured after Mr. Kamaraj voiced concern that the TKM variety was not being bought. Irregularities Mr. Sakkarapani said irregularities were reported in paddy procurement when the AIADMK was in power. In Ranipet district, he pointed out, irregularities at four direct procurement centres resulted in a loss to the government. “Eight officials have been placed under suspension, and the CB-CID probe is under way,” he said. He said the government had constituted a committee to identify places for opening full-time and part-time ration shops based on the need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-ensure-proper-paddy-storage/article36109926.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen concerned over time restrictions||Fishermen have expressed concern over time restrictions being placed on boats. “Cases are being filed in Cuddalore against fishermen who have stayed at sea for over 12 hours. Such restrictions have never been placed on fishermen except on those in Rameswaram and Thoothukudi where boats have to fish amidst dangers of being fired at,” said K. Bharathi, South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. Selvam, a fisherman from Cuddalore said officials of the Fisheries Department and police were implementing the time restrictions mentioned in the Tamil Nadu Marine Fisheries Act which would not be suitable for those who stay at sea for longer durations. “We travel to our chosen spot for about 5-10 hours, cast the net and wait overnight and if the catch is good, return to the shore. A 12-hour-long window would hardly suffice for trawl and gill net vessels,” he said. If that rule was applied to all fishing harbours in the State, it would ruin the entire marine fishing industry, said Ko. Su. Mani, a community leader. “The issue in Cuddalore has to do with purse siene nets and nothing else. These fishing hamlets took to the now-banned fishing mode since their livelihood was affected. A fresh study must be done to see whether all forms of ‘surukku valai’ fishing are harmful,” he said. Mr. Bharathi said the Act must be amended to remove the time restriction clause. Fisheries Department sources said steps would be taken to ensure fishermen are not put to trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-concerned-over-time-restrictions/article36109927.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,100 cases of smuggling of civil supplies in three months||The Civil Supplies CID has registered cases and seized 1,255 MT of rice meant for the Public Distribution System and 7,673 litres of kerosene during the past three months, Food Minister R. Sakkarapani informed the Assembly on Wednesday. Between May 7 and August 17, as many as 2,144 cases were registered by various units of the Civil Supplies CID, he said in a policy note tabled in the House. “As many as 1,918 cases of smuggling of PDS rice, 66 cases of smuggling of PDS kerosene, 109 cases of usage of domestic LPG for commercial purposes and 51 other cases were registered,” he said. The total value of the goods seized is Rs. 2.02 crore. Further, a total of 360 vehicles, including 231 four-wheelers, 20 three-wheelers and 109 two-wheelers, which were used for smuggling, were seized. “A total of 27 people were detained under the Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-registers-over-2100-cases-for-smuggling-pds-goods-in-three-months/article36109928.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Worker buried alive in rainwater harvesting pit||A 22-year-old construction worker died and two others were injured when soil around a recharge well collapsed at an under construction hospital in Tondiarpet police station limits on Wednesday evening. The accident occurred while they were setting concrete rings in the pit they had dug for rainwater harvesting. The police gave the name of the victim as Chinnadurai from Nallampalayam, Villupuram district. The injured were identified as Veerappan, 55, and Aakash, 22, from Villupuram and all three were staying in Kodungaiyur. The police said Mani, a mason, engaged them to build a rainwater harvesting structure at an under construction hospital in Thandavarayan Street in Old Washermanpet. Mani had called the three others and all the four were involved in digging a pit in front of the construction site. They dug a 6x15 feet pit. At around 2 p.m. The three were setting up concrete rings in the pit and were trapped when the soil caved in. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Tondiarpet and Sembium reached the spot. Veerappan and Aakash were rescued and sent to a nearby hospital. Chinnadurai was buried alive and it took more than four hours to take out his body. Chinnadurai was declared dead later at the hospital while Veerappan and Aakash are under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-buried-alive-in-recharge-well/article36109948.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi man held in money doubling racket||The Job Racket Wing of the Central Crime Branch(CCB) on Wednesday arrested a 43-year-old accused who cheated many gullible victims in the city after receiving money on the pretext of getting their money doubled. The name of the accused had been given as S. Thiyagaprakasam, 43, a native of Tiruchi district, who had obtained law degree in Andhra Pradesh. Nadarajan of Kovil Pathagai, Avadi, had lodged a complaint against him in 2019 and more than 45 persons had complained that they were cheated by him after receiving money from them promising to double their investment in 100 days. In all, he had received Rs. 1.5 crore. The police said the accused had been running a firm called Angel Trading' in Kotturpuram. He also engaged intermediaries to introduce new customers and paid them commission. After collecting the money from gullible public, he closed his shop and fled in 2019. Inspector K. Murugesan investigated the case and arrested the accused from a hideout. During the interrogation, the accused confessed to have cheated more 30,000 people in the money doubling scheme, the police said. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-man-arrested-in-money-doubling-racket/article36109946.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Development policy council renamed||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday renamed the State Development Policy Council as the State Planning Commission. The government issued an order making the change with immediate effect. In 2020, consequent to the abolition of plan, non-plan distinction, orders were issued replacing the State Planning Commission, which was constituted in 1971, with the State Development Policy Council (SDPC). The SDPC was tasked with preparing short, medium and long-term plans and strategy documents, monitoring, evaluation and policy advocacy, creating policy coherence and implementation of special programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-renames-development-policy-council/article36109961.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools to hold revision classes||After schools reopen for students of Classes IX to XII from September 1, the first few days will be dedicated to revisions and bridge courses in government and private State board schools in Tamil Nadu. Along with the announcement for a prioritised syllabus, the School Education Department had released a refresher course module for Classes II to XII, prepared by the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), to bridge learning gaps as a majority of the children had not attended physical classes for over a year. “For students of Classes IX to XII, who will be back in school from September 1, we will have refresher courses in the initial weeks. Since it has been a long time since they attended physical classes, we will plan their schedule in a way that they do not have to sit for prolonged hours,” said G. Shanmugavel, headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, MGR Nagar. Mr. Shanmugavel said that for students who could not attend online classes regularly, the revision would be of great help. The refresher courses prepared by the SCERT will deal with foundational concepts in the subject as well as important concepts pertaining to the previous class. The department has said that an assessment could be conducted after its completion to identify areas where reinforcement would be needed. “For many teachers, all our focus will be on ensuring that students are not daunted when they come back to school. For Class XII students in particular, they had attended school only for two months during their previous academic year and having a bridge course and revision of fundamental concepts will be important,” said K.P.O. Suresh, president, Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers’ Association.  While private schools had steady online lessons all through the previous academic year, several schools will dedicate at least the first two weeks to revisions and clarifying doubts of students. “For the first two weeks, we are planning to have a thorough revision of the syllabus completed from June to August this academic year,” said K. Vasudevan, chairman, Prince Matriculation Higher Secondary School.  For many teachers, all our focus will be on ensuring that students are not daunted when they come back to school after a long gap K. P. O. Suresh Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers Association president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-to-hold-revision-classes/article36109942.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A.P. resumes bus service||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation has resumed bus services from Madhavaram terminus in Chennai to various destinations in Andhra Pradesh like such as Tirupati, Tirumala, Sriklahasti and Nellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ap-resumes-bus-service/article36110386.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for SOPs ahead of Vinayagar Chaturthi||Hindu Munnetra Kazhagam (HMK) president K. Gopinath of Tiruppur has moved the Madras High Court, seeking a direction to the State government and the Director General of Police to lay down standard operating procedures (SOP) for Vinayagar Chaturthi celebrations this year. In an affidavit filed in support of his writ petition, the litigant said he had been working for the promotion and protection of the Constitutional rights of Hindus through HMK, an unregistered body. He said Vinayagar Chaturthi fell this year on September 10. Stating that celebrations for the festival generally started at least three days in advance, he stressed the need for SOPs since the threat of a third wave of COVID-19 was looming large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-sops-ahead-of-vinayagar-chaturthi/article36109962.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Audience gallery, stage inaugurated||A gallery and a stage was inaugurated at the Corporation playground on Trustpuram First Main Road in Teynampet zone on Wednesday by Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru. The work was carried out from Dayanidhi Maran’s MP Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh. The construction of the audience gallery and the beautification of a roadside park nearby was carried out with a funding of Rs. 55 lakh from the Greater Chennai Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/audience-gallery-stage-inaugurated/article36109943.ece
26 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TWAD Board acquires more than 30 acres for Pilloor III water project||Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board through the Revenue Department had acquired more than 30 acres of the 158.50 acres required for the execution of the Pilloor III drinking water project. Sources in the board said that of the 158.50 acres, 35.5 acres were revenue land requiring no acquisition. Of the remaining 123.23 acres, the board had acquired a little more than 30 acres and was on course to complete acquisition of the remaining land. To lay pipeline The board required the 158.50 acres to lay pipeline from the raw water treatment plant to the master storage reservoir in Pannimadai and from there to seven master balancing reservoirs in the city. The Pilloor III project that has a few other components as well was proceeding as per plan and the board hoped to complete the project before the October, 2022 deadline. Another component of the project was digging a tunnel through the Kattan Hills to lay pipeline to convey water. The tunnelling project, estimated to cost Rs. 60 crore, formed part of Package III of the Pilloor III drinking water project worth Rs. 964 crore. The board is implementing the project for the Coimbatore Corporation to supply 178 million litres water a day in the initial days and 350 million litres a day by 2050 to the city. Borewell The sources also said the digging of borewell in River Bhavani bed, construction of raw water treatment plant and laying of pipeline to convey the raw water from the river bed to the treatment plant, all of which formed part of Package I, were also progressing as scheduled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twad-board-acquires-more-than-30-acres-for-pilloor-iii-water-project/article36109973.ece
26 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Unauthorised hoardings removed||Tiruppur Corporation on Wednesday commenced a drive to remove unauthorised hoardings in all the four zones following complaints from residents. Officials said that Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati ordered the Assistant Commissioners of all four zones to organise the removal of the hoardings and flex banners. Residents of the city have complained that the hoardings were blocking pavements and road traffic at several locations With Tiruppur receiving rains frequently, there is also a danger of these unauthorised hoardings falling on the roads and causing accidents, according to the officials. On the first day of the drive, 245 unauthorised hoardings and banners were removed in the Corporation limits comprising 98 banners in Zone-I, 26 banners in Zone-II, 54 in Zone-III and 67 banners in Zone-IV. These include banners on pavements and on rooftops, the officials said. As many as 25 Corporation staff members were involved in the drive. The drive to remove unauthorised banners and hoardings is expected to continue for the next one week, according to the Corporation officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unauthorised-hoardings-removed/article36109984.ece
26 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Job camp held for differently abled||As many as 22 differently abled persons received placement orders from private companies at a job fair held here on Wednesday. According to an official press release, the district’s department for the welfare of the differently abled and non-governmental organisation ‘We Are Your Voice’ organised the camp in which 113 people took part. Of this, 22 speech or hearing impaired candidates got placement. The District Collector G.S. Sameeran handed over the placement orders to them. A private job placement counselling centre for the disabled will be inaugurated at the Collectorate next month, the press release added. The centre will be managed by the district administration and the NGO. Those with disabilities who need job can approach the centre. The centre will try to find them jobs according to their skills and qualification. The Collector distributed Rs. 13.85 lakh assistance under various schemes to 30 beneficiaries at a function held here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-camp-held-for-differently-abled/article36109979.ece
26 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Council to decide on reopening college||The administrative council of Government Arts College, Coimbatore would take a call on Thursday on reopening the institution for students. Sources said though the State Government had announced that colleges would reopen on September 1, the council was yet to take a call as the institution housed a COVID Care Centre and triage centre. One of the centres was on the playground and the other on basketball ground. Both the centres were still functional, perhaps in anticipation of the third COVID-19 wave. One of the two centres was close to the block housing the Political Science and the Geography departments. If the students were to return and COVID-19 positive persons were to get admission to the care centre or visit the triage centre, it could result in quick spread of infection among students. Therefore, the council wanted to thoroughly evaluate the consequences of all the possibilities that would arise with the students’ return, discuss with the district administration, Health Department and other government institutions before taking a call on asking the students to return to classes. The options before the council was whether to allow all students to return to classes or ask all students to continue attending online classes or continue online classes only for those students whose classrooms were in proximity to the care and triage centres, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/council-to-decide-on-reopening-college/article36109967.ece
26 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Schools, colleges with COVID Care Centres allowed to function’||Schools and colleges with COVID Care Centres or triage centres shall also start functioning from September 1, Collector G.S. Sameeran said here on Wednesday. In a direction to the Coimbatore Corporation, Chief Education Officer and other officials, he said the managements should, however, disinfect the hostel or classrooms used for treating COVID-19 positive persons and then close those rooms. After the schools, colleges resume classes from September 1, the administration would not temporarily treat or send COVID-19 positive persons to the schools and colleges. And, if the administration required the hostels or classrooms for COVID-19 management, it would once again take possession of the facility, Mr. Sameeran. The managements were free to use all other rooms other than those disinfected and closed, he added. The Collector had also asked the Health Department officials to shift to the COVID Care Centre in CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex any COVID-19 positive persons in the COVID Care Centres in schools and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-colleges-with-covid-care-centres-allowed-to-function/article36109971.ece
26 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment unit workers to be trained under govt. scheme||The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association will train 16,000 workers under the Samarth (Scheme For Capacity Building in Textile Sector) programme in the garment units in Tiruppur in two years. Raja Shanmugham, president of the association, said almost 100 garmenting units in Tiruppur are expected to benefit from the scheme. The government pays Rs. 14,000 to a candidate during the 45-day training period. The training is on select activities such as quality checking and sewing. Each batch will have maximum 30 workers and the workers receive the stipend directly from the government. The association got approval from the Union Ministry of Textiles last August to implement the scheme. Initially, 75 units had applied. However, following relaxation of lockdown restrictions that were imposed to control the spread of the pandemic last year, inflow of workers to the garment units reduced and the number of workers who were employed at the units dropped. Further, many of the 75 units that had evinced interest in the scheme initially were unable to recruit new workers as business had slowed down. Hence, the association appealed to the government to relax the norms of the scheme and permit more units to be added. The government has permitted more units to be covered under the scheme and the interested units, catering to domestic or export markets, are approaching the association. “About 95 candidates were trained and received the certificates on Tuesday,” he said. With demand reviving and more workers finding employment in Tiruppur, the association is confident of training the targeted number of workers in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-unit-workers-to-be-trained-under-govt-scheme/article36109974.ece
26 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 200 kg tobacco products seized||The City Police on Wednesday seized nearly 230 kg of banned tobacco products in Rathinapuri and arrested two persons for selling it. 1,333 packets According to the police, 1,333 packets containing tobacco products worth nearly Rs. 2 lakh were found stocked in a residence at Rathinapuri by M. Vignesh (26) and Y. Alwin (29) allegedly for selling it to shops in the city. Apart from the banned tobacco products, the police also seized nearly Rs. 1.45 lakh cash, three smartphones and a two-wheeler during the search. The Saibaba Colony police booked the two accused under sections 273 (Sale of noxious food or drink) and 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA). They were later remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-200-kg-tobacco-products-seized/article36109982.ece
26 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Operate Mettupalayam-Rameswaram trains: MP||The Nilgiris MP A. Raja has appealed to Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to operate trains between Mettupalayam and Rameswaram via Pollachi, Udumalpet, Palani and Madurai. In his letter on Tuesday, he wrote that a new daily express train service is required “to meet the demand of the people in our region.” Noting that train no.06618 Coimbatore-Rameswaram weekly special train is being operated via Tiruppur, Erode, Karur, Tiruchi, Manamadurai and Paramakudi, Mr. Raja said that the service was “not sufficient.” He also suggested that the broad gauge and meter gauge platforms at the Mettupalayam Junction could be made as a “mixed gauge” and the pit lines (maintenance lines) at the junction could be renovated to ensure the accommodation of an additional train. “Now that there is a broad gauge line up to Mettupalayam and the electrification work is completed, there should not be any operational difficulty in extending the train up to Mettupalayam,” he wrote. D.L.S. Rajendran, a member of the Divisional Railway Users' Consultative Committee, Salem Division, noted that the Coimbatore-Rameswaram express trains that were operated via Pollachi were stopped during the broad gauge conversion of Podanur-Pollachi-Dindigul section and yet to be resumed. By reintroducing this train and extending it up to Mettupalayam, many tourists from the southern districts would be able to reach Udhagamandalam.he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operate-mettupalayam-rameswaram-trains-mp/article36109980.ece
26 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||As many as 2,157 government school teachers in Coimbatore district have enrolled for a five-day online training programme on basic computer skills, which commenced at 158 government schools on Monday. Officials said that the programme was organised by Samagra Shiksha and State Council for Educational Research and Training. Teachers were being trained on virtual classes, use of hi-tech labs on campus and hands-on practice on the EMIS portal. A total of 22 resource persons and one coordinator per school are involved in the training and the teachers will be assessed at the end of the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36109981.ece
26 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||No deaths in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district reported nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. As many as 54 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the overall tally to 62,062. The district saw 60,631 recoveries and 543 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 32 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 44,648. Kallakurichi district reported 35 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 29,953.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-deaths-in-cuddalore/article36110381.ece
26 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Go for solar power plants, farmers told||The district administration has invited applications from farmers to install solar power plants with a subsidy of Rs. 3 lakh that would provide them electricity supply for 24 hours and help them generate income by selling solar power to Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. The scheme under PM-KUSUM would be jointly implemented by Departments of Agriculture and Horticulture and Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency, said Collector, S. Visakan. Farmers can install the grid-tied solar panels to generate power and operate 7.5 HP of motorpumps. These pumps would continue to get electricity from TNEB. “Continuous power supply will ensure uninterrupted irrigation that can help increase their income generation,” the Collector said. All farmers who have got free power supply for lift irrigation can benefit under the scheme. A 11 KV solar unit could produce 58 units of power a day and the farmers can sell around 25 units of power a day to TNEB that would fetch them Rs. 2.28 per unit. EB would also offer them an incentive of 50 paise per unit. Farmers can generate Rs. 3,300 a month and Rs. 40,000 additional income in a year through the scheme, he added. While the cost of the solar-power plant is Rs. 5 lakh, the farmers can get 30% subsidy from the Centre and 30% subsidy from the State Government. A bank loan of Rs. 1.5 lakh can be arranged for the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-for-solar-power-plants-farmers-told/article36110073.ece
26 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 130 cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 130 new cases, taking the tally to 97,707. While 157 persons were discharged, 1,616 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 73 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 95,763. While 103 persons were discharged, 1,071 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 52 cases taking the tally to 48,517. While 38 persons were discharged, 538 continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 31 cases and one death, while 23 persons got discharged.The total number of cases in the district stood at 256 as of Wednesday. A total of 41,972 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 16 cases, and 20 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 209. As of date, a total 26,714 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-130-cases/article36110089.ece
26 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to insure crops for Kharif season||The district administration has asked the farmers in the district to insure crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme) for Kharif season 2021 so that they can get relief for crop loss due to natural calamities, pest attack or disease outbreak in the current rabi season. District Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that the scheme is implemented in all the districts, except Chennai, from 2016 and for insurance scheme for the current year was being implemented through the Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited. Crops covered were maize, pigeon pea, groundnut, ragi, sesame, banana, tapioca, onion, turmeric, ladies finger, cabbage and potato. Farmers who have cultivated these crops can pay the premium under the scheme. Farmers can register their crop insurance through the primary agricultural cooperative banks, nationalised banks or common service centres by producing photocopy of adangal, cultivation certificate issued by the village administrative officer, first page of bank pass book, Aadhaar card and chitta. The insurance premium for maize is Rs. 616 per acre, Rs. 342 for pigeon pea, Rs. 621 for groundnut, Rs. 275.50 for ragi, Rs. 275 for sesame, Rs. 4,272.50 for banana, Rs. 1,849 for tapioca, Rs. 2,104 for onion, Rs. 4,375 for turmeric, Rs. 925 for ladies finger, Rs. 1,100 for cabbage and Rs. 2,342.50 for potato per acre. The last date for paying premium for maize, pigeon pea, groundnut, ragi, sesame, onion, potato, ladies finger and cabbage is August 31, while for banana, turmeric and tapioca, it is September 15, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-urged-to-insure-crops-for-kharif-season/article36110090.ece
26 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Paddy cultivation begins in Kalingarayan ayacut area||A month after release of water from the Bhavanisagar Dam into Kalingarayan Canal, farmers have begun preparing their paddy field and transferring of paddy nurseries to field in the ayacut areas. Water was released into the canal on July 21 to irrigate 15,743 acres of farmlands spread across Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi taluks. While turmeric is cultivated in over 50% of the ayacut areas, paddy, sugarcane and banana are grown in the remaining areas. The canal passes through Vairapalayam and Karungalpalayam in the city, where farmers prepared the land for cultivating paddy. Paddy nursery was raised in a small field and hundreds of workers were involved in transplanting seedlings to the main field. Farmers said that water needs to stagnate in paddy fields and were hopeful that adequate rain and water storage in the dam would ensure continuous water supply to them. The farmers in Modakkurichi and Kodumudi taluks, who have taken up cultivation of turmeric and banana crops, expect better productivity this season. “The price of turmeric was disappointing in the past few years as it was sold at Rs. 6,500 to Rs. 7,000 a quintal”, said a member of the Kalingarayan Pasana Sabai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-cultivation-begins-in-kalingarayan-ayacut-area/article36110093.ece
26 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Krishna darshan’ at Erode Poompuhar showroom||The Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation Limited has organised an exhibition titled ‘Krishna darshan’ at the Poompuhar showroom on Mettur Road.. Idols of Lord Krishna made of papier mache, clay, bronze, brass, sandalwood and teak are on display. Idols of Krishna with a cow, Radha Krishna, crawling Krishna, Santhana Krishna made of papier mache and clay are also on display. G. Saravanan, manager, Poompuhar showroom, said that idols are priced between Rs. 100 to Rs. 15,000 and added that 10% discount is offered on selected idols. The exhibition is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all days till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishna-darshan-at-erode-poompuhar-showroom/article36110095.ece
26 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vetiver cultivation yields good returns to tribal families||Cultivation of the indigenous variety of vetiver (Chrysopogon zizanioides), which wards off wild animals, yields good returns to the residents of Ramaranai tribal settlement in the Talamalai Panchayat in Talavadi Hills. The settlement has 22 families comprising 67 members belonging to the Sholaga community. As part of a pilot project, an Erode-based company -- East Valley Agro Farms-- distributed 2,000 vetiver and 2,000 lemongrass saplings to the people for cultivation in January 2019. Saplings were procured from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) and cultivated in the farm lands in the settlement. “Since vetiver grows in warm climate and wards off wild animals, we encouraged the people to cultivate it”, said K. Prabhu and S. Naveen Kumar, managing directors of the company. Vetiver also plays a significant role in checking landslides and controlling soil erosion in hill areas, they added. The grass has a wide range of applications in the pharmaceuticals, aromatic and cosmetic industries and its root fetches good prices in the market. Recently, the grass was harvested and the company procured 60 kg vetiver for Rs. 40,000 from the tribal families. TNAU coordinator Maria Francis, village head Raman, company managing directors and manager Moorthy were present during the procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vetiver-cultivation-yields-good-returns-to-tribal-families/article36110098.ece
26 August 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||Tree felling, conspiracy to be probed, says Minister||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran on Wednesday said the criminal conspiracy in the Muttil tree-felling case and the attempts to sabotage the investigation would be probed by the special investigation team (SIT) appointed by the government. Mr. Saseendran told mediapersons here that legal action would be taken against the forest officers involved after getting the final report of the SIT. He said the inquiry was still going on. ‘Guilty will face action’ “Whoever is part of the case will face action. The government will not have any issue or anxiety in seeing the names of any suspected official or person in the final investigation report,” Mr. Saseendran said. He also denied any contact with a visual media journalist who was suspected to be part of the conspiracy. The Minister’s remarks come against the backdrop of the investigation team’s reports that Anto Augustine and Roji Augustine, two arrested in the tree-felling case, had contacted Forest Conservator N.T. Sajan, who was recently suspended from service for his alleged involvement in the case, 86 times over the phone. Suspected link The call records had also brought to light the suspected links of a visual media journalist with the arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tree-felling-conspiracy-to-be-probed-says-minister/article36109812.ece
26 August 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Rural job scheme workers to clean school campuses ahead of reopening||Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers along with the workers of urban local bodies, town panchayats and village panchayats would be engaged to clean up the school campuses, disinfect overhead tanks, toilets and classrooms ahead of the proposed reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 1. Presiding over the meeting, the Collector reviewed the preparedness of the School Education Department and the arrangements to be made on school campuses in coordination with various departments, including the departments of School Education, rural development, public health, public works, transport, and Tangedco. According to the Collector, Health Department authorities are directed to ensure vaccination compliance in schools to verify teachers are fully vaccinated; arrange for periodic testing of students for any symptoms; and provide for the distribution of vitamins in the classrooms. The Public Works department has been directed to inspect classrooms, verify the structural safety of buildings; the transport authorities shall inspect the safety of school buses, ensure buses are equipped to follow physical distancing norms and also verify if the schools have installed CCTVs in the school buses. Tangedco staff shall inspect schools and check the safety of electrical structures; and the noon-meal staff shall adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols in the preparation of noon-meal and serving of the food, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-job-scheme-workers-to-clean-school-campuses-ahead-of-reopening/article36110087.ece
26 August 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Training programme on juvenile laws held||A special training programme on juvenile laws and the community level interventions for the protection of children was organised here for the village administrative officers. The programme, with the objective of sensitising the officials to the government order of the Social Welfare Department that calls for setting up of six- tier committees in each district for the protection of children. This entails child protection committees at the district level, block level, and at the village level. According to V. Ramraj, member, SCPCR, the VAOs are secretaries of the village level child protection committees. This entailed impart of training for VAOs of all 337 villages in the district. The programme has been envisioned in a phased manner in various blocks. As part of the programme, the VAOs of Krishnagiri, Bargur, Kaveripattinam, Uthangarai and Pochampalli blocks were provided orientation on child protection. Similarly, in phase -two of the programme, public in the villages who are part of the village child protection committees shall be trained in child protection laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme-on-juvenile-laws-held/article36110083.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Parks in city slowly come back to life||After parks in the city were opened to the public on Monday, a moderate number of people have been visiting them. N. Gunasekaran, a regular visitor to Sundaram Park in K.K. Nagar, said the walking lane in the park was kept open for the past one month and people were already using it. “The park was opened only on Monday, but the walking lane was kept open even before that. People start coming from 5 a.m., but the number of visitors has reduced now. The exercise facilities used to be occupied all the time, but now they mostly remains unused,” he added. He also suggested that the parks be kept open round the clock. While some of them were happy to get back to their morning walk routine, others were worried about the maintenance of the park. Founder of a volunteer group Thirunagar Pakkam P.R. Vishwanath said the Corporation Park in Thirunagar required repairs. “This is the most-used park in the vicinity with around 60 families visiting it on a daily basis. The slides and swings are not in a good condition and they need to be repaired considering the safety of the children. Lights are dysfunctional and people are unable to walk after 6 p.m.” Two of the city’s major parks — Eco Park and Rajaji Children’s Park — were also opened to the public, but without rides. They are kept open from 6-9 a.m, 5-9 p.m. and 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. respectively. “Thorough cleaning of the premises and toilet facilities at both parks has been carried out. Instructions about Covid-19 safety protocols are also given to visitors,” said Arokkia Xavier, Assistant Engineer, Zone Two. Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan said that one round of cleaning of parks was completed last week and another round on Tuesday. “We usually get phone calls from locas if there are any complaints regarding maintenance of parks. We have not received any in the past three days as most of them have been cleaned. Some old parks in the city need repair works to be undertaken. They will be done in a phased manner,” he added. Rides at the Rajaji Children’s Park would be opened only after safety checks were done since the machines had remained idle for a long time. Tenders for the rides would be taken up on Friday, the civic body chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parks-in-city-slowly-come-back-to-life/article36110295.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP: educational loan to the tune of Rs. 500 crore will be disbursed||Efforts will be taken to provide educational loans for students to the tune of Rs. 500 crore this year in the district, said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan on Wednesday. Talking to reporters here after chairing a meeting of district and bank officials, Mr. Venkatesan said that around 42,000 students passed out of Plus Two from 400 schools in the district this year. “Assuming that 50% of them will end up pursuing higher education, 20,000 students will be joining colleges. A situation where these students cannot get educational loans should not arise in the district,” he said. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan and officials from the department of education and Lead Bank Manager took part in the meeting. Vidya Lakshmi portal through which loans were being applied asked students to get pan card, Aadhaar card and a bank account. This was not easy for students from rural areas and disadvantaged backgrounds. To resolve the issue and to assist students in getting loans from banks without any difficulties, three initiatives were announced. Every higher secondary school in the district would have an officer to guide students to obtain loans. A nodal officer for each block in the district and for each zone in the corporation would also be appointed for easing the loan procedures. A support centre for applying educational loans would be started next week at the district collectorate, with a separate phone number and mail ID. In the coming week, students would be made aware of the developements. Mr. Venkatesan also insisted that banks should not ask for surety for educational loans below Rs. 4 lakh. “We will review the progress of loan distribution every week and the official concerned has to provide reason for rejecting any educational loan application,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-500-cr-loans-to-be-disbursed/article36110064.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘State considering appointing prosecutors in Central Prisons’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was informed on Wednesday that the Home Secretary had been advised to appoint a prosecutor or legal aid counsel in all Central Prisons in the State so that they could go through court orders and provide necessary instructions to prison authorities. The State was considering the same, it was informed. State Public Prosecutor Hasan Mohammed Jinnah told Justice G. Ilangovan that the State had been advised to make the appointments, and the government was considering the same to avoid keeping people in custody even after they had been acquitted. The court was hearing a case where a man was kept in illegal custody for over nine months after being acquitted. During the course of the hearing, the State Public Prosecutor told the court that there was a mistake in the communication sent to the Madurai Central Prison authorities on the acquittal. This was not properly conveyed to the authorities. Disciplinary action had now been initiated against some prison authorities, he submitted. The mistake was not intentional, he said. Taking note of the submission, Justice Ilangovan directed the State to file a counter affidavit in the case and adjourned the hearing till September 21. The court was hearing a petition filed by Rathinam of Andipatti in Theni district. He said due to the negligence of Madurai Central Prison authorities, his son Chokkar remained in the prison even after acquittal. The High Court had acquitted him in a murder case after setting aside a life sentence imposed by a trial court. Police attached to the Varusanadu station arrested Chokkar in 2011 and he was named the second accused in the case. The Additional District and Sessions Judge in Theni sentenced the accused to life imprisonment in 2016. The first accused in the case, Mayilraj, preferred an appeal before the High Court against the trial court judgment. Both accused were acquitted in 2019. The first accused was released, but Chokkar languished in prison even after his acquittal. Only after a representation in 2020, was he released. The petitioner sought an appropriate compensation from the State government for the dereliction of duty on the part of the Madurai Central Prison authorities, resulting in his son suffering mental agony due to the illegal custody.  The government is considering such appointments to avoid keeping people in custody after their acquittal Hasan Mohammed Jinnah State Public Prosecutor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-may-post-prosecutors-in-central-prisons/article36109960.ece
26 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court denies bail to accused in Tirunelveli priest murder case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the bail petition filed by one of the accused in the Tirunelveli temple priest murder case. The priest, Chidambaram, and his friend Nataraja Perumal were attacked by an armed gang over a commercial dispute. The priest was murdered and his friend was grievously injured. Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that the offence was of serious nature and a substantial portion of the investigation was yet to be completed. All accused in the case conspired to eliminate the priest. In the brutal attack, the priest sustained 26 injuries all over the body and died on the spot, the judge said. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Elangamani, a village headman, one of the accused in the case. The petitioner said that he had been falsely implicated in the case. The State opposed the grant of bail to the accused. The case of the prosecution was that the incident took place due to a commercial dispute between two groups. There was an arrangement between the two groups with regard to sharing the income of the Seevalaperi Sudalai Madasamy temple. One group was running shops in the temple and the other was engaged in performing other activities. The income from the shops in the temple would go to one group and income from temple activities to the other group. Due to COVID-19 pandemic situation, the two groups were unable to earn proper income and a commercial dispute arose between them. Chidambaram and Nataraja Perumal were attacked by an armed gang, the court was told. Considering the facts and the circumstances in the case, the court declined to grant bail to the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-denies-bail-to-accused-in-tirunelveli-priest-murder-case/article36110063.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench grants bail for couple accused in illegal adoption case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted bail to a couple accused of illegal adoption of a child sold to them by Idhayam Trust director G.R. Sivakumar. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail to the couple with conditions. The court took into account the fact that the couple were childless and had applied for adoption through various modes. They believed that the adoption was legal. The key accused in the case were Sivakumar and his associate Madarsha. A woman who was unable to maintain her children had handed them over to the home run by the trust. Sivakumar claimed that one infant died of COVID-19 and then sold that infant. He said the infant was infected with COVID-19 and said he was taking it for treatment to the hospital. Later, he told the woman that her baby died and the final rites were performed as per COVID-19 protocol. Suspecting the activities of Sivakumar, the woman lodged a complaint. It was found out that the infant was sold to a childless couple. During the investigation it was brought to light that another infant was sold to another couple. The petitioners said they were innocent and had submitted applications to hospitals and orphanages to adopt a child legally. Sivakumar sold the child to them and said all legal formalities would be completed. Sivakumar told them that there was a delay in completing the formalities as courts were not functioning due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation. Believing him they signed the documents and took the infant with them. The court was told that the investigation was yet to be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bench-grants-bail-for-couple-accused-in-illegal-adoption-case/article36110290.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Make changes in scheme’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has appealed to the Centre to provide question papers in Tamil, allocate additional examination centres in Tamil Nadu and reduce examination fee under the Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) scheme. In a memorandum addressed to Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Science and Technology and Earth Sciences, Jitendra Singh, he said the scheme was designed to encourage students having scientific temper by providing fellowships and grant to pursue higher education and take up research. The changes suggested would make the scheme more purposeful. While most of the students would be studying class 10 and higher secondary education with regional languages as medium of instruction, KVPY question papers were set in English and Hindi only. “It is inherently biased against students having a regional language as medium instruction. Naturally, it would affect students belonging to the oppressed sections in large numbers by keeping them out of the fray in the initial round itself. I strongly feel that language has nothing to do with scientific temper,” the CPI (M) MP said. He wanted the Centre to include all regional languages for setting question papers. With Tamil Nadu being a big State, the number of examination centres should be increased beyond the nine centres now. Similarly, the fee for the examination had been fixed at Rs. 1,250 for general candidates and Rs. 625 for SC/ST category and the disabled. part from this, candidates had to bear transport charges, food expenses and lodging if the centre was outside their town. The higher fee was a deterrent for students belonging to poor families to avail the benefit, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-changes-in-scheme/article36110291.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to pay premium for crop insurance in Madurai district||Farmers in the district have been asked to pay premium for crop insurance under Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme by August 31. The agriculture department has been implementing the scheme for 2021-22 at the firka level. Landowners and farmers who have cultivated paddy, green gram and urad dal, sorghum, cotton, maize, groundnut, toor dal and pearl millet can apply for the crop insurance. Farmers who have obtained crop loans can get insurance coverage through the same banks. Other interested farmers who have not availed themselves of crop loans can also benefit under the scheme. The insurance amount and the premium charge are same for both the categories. They can register for the scheme through common service centres, branches of nationalised banks and primary agriculture cooperative credit societies by submitting copies of documents such as land documents along with patta, the first page of savings bank passbook and Aadhaar card. The insurance premium per acre is Rs. 495 for maize, Rs. 341 for toor dal, Rs. 475 for groundnut, Rs. 400.67 for cotton, Rs. 243 for sorghum and Rs. .251 for pearl millet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-asked-to-pay-premium-for-crop-insurance-in-madurai-district/article36110293.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘State considering appointment of legal officials at central prisons’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was informed on Wednesday that the Home Secretary had been advised to appoint a prosecutor or legal aid counsel in each Central Prison in the State so that they could go through the court orders and provide necessary instructions to prison authorities. State Public Prosecutor Hasan Mohammed Jinnah told Justice G. Ilangovan that the State was advised to make the appointments and the government was considering the same in order to avoid keeping people in custody even after they had been acquitted. The court was hearing a case where a man was kept in illegal custody for over nine months after acquittal. During the course of the hearing, the State Public Prosecutor told the court that there was a mistake in the communication sent to the Madurai Central Prison authorities on the acquittal. It was not properly conveyed to the authorities. Disciplinary action had now been initiated against some prison officials, he submitted. The mistake was not intentional, the court was told. Taking note of the submission, Justice Ilangovan directed the State to file a counter affidavit in the case and adjourned the hearing till September 21. The court was hearing a petition filed by Rathinam of Andipatti, Theni district. He said that due to the negligence of Madurai Central Prison authorities his son Chokkar remained in illegal custody in the prison even after acquittal. The High Court had acquitted him in a murder case after setting aside the life sentence that was imposed by the trial court. Varusanadu police arrested Chokkar in 2011 and he was named the second accused in the case. The Additional District and Sessions Judge in Theni sentenced him to life imprisonment in 2016. The first accused in the case, Mayilraj, preferred an appeal before the High Court against the trial court judgment. Both accused were acquitted in 2019. The first accused was released, but Chokkar languished in prison even after acquittal. Only after a representation was made in 2020, he was released. The petitioner sought an appropriate compensation from the State government for dereliction of duty on the part of the Madurai Central prison authorities that resulted in his son suffering mental agony due to illegal custody after acquittal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-considering-appointment-of-officials-to-assist-prison-authorities-hc-told/article36110062.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sentence suspended||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has suspended the sentence imposed on two men by the Madurai Mahila Court in a 2011 murder case. The body of the woman victim was found in a trunk box near a waterbody. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu allowed the petition filed by Sakthivel Murugan and Saravanan. They had appealed against the Mahila Court verdict, which was pending before the High Court and, therefore, they sought the suspension of the sentence imposed on them in 2020. The court said the incident took place in 2011 and thereafter both men were arrested after four years based on phone call details. Except for these details, there were no strong circumstances available. A special team conducted a probe into the murder. It was said that Murugan, a medical representative, had befriended the woman and developed physical intimacy. It was alleged that he asked her to cooperate with his friend Saravanan. When both men tried to assault her, she resisted and fainted. She was then strangled to death, it was said. It was alleged that they took gold from the body. They packed the body in a box and dumped it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sentence-suspended/article36110288.ece
26 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bicycle expedition||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) team on a bicycle expedition from Kanniyakumari to New Delhi to commemorate the country’s 75th Independence Day left Madurai on Wednesday. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran cheered the 20-member contingent as they pedaled towards Dindigul. Dindigul Superintendent of Police VR. Srinivasan greeted the CRPF men at Kamalapuram in the neighbouring district later in the day. “Our rally, which began in Kanniyakumari on August 22. will culminate in New Delhi on Gandhi Jayanthi on October 2. It has been organised in commemoration of Azadi Ki Amrit Mahotsav,” said CRPF Assistant Commandant Mohammed Faiyaz. The contingent is led by Assistant Commandant V.K. Pradeep. “We selected a group of volunteers for the cycle expedition and they were given training for a month,” Assistant Commandant Faiyaz said. Every day, the team pedals around 90 km. Besides interacting with the local people, the members also visit memorials of freedom fighters on the way. “We paid our respects at the memorial of Veerapandiya Kattabomman at Kayathar,” he added. The team also engages local folk dancers as part of the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crpf-team-pedals-through-dindigul/article36110061.ece
26 August 2021||Palani,TAMIL NADU||Abandoned baby rescued||A 20-month-old girl baby who was abandoned near Palani bus stand on Monday night has been rescued by police and handed over to Child Welfare Committee. A couple, purportedly parents of the child, who arrived here by a TNSTC bus from Madurai around midnight left the child on Palani Foothills Road. “The couple getting down from the bus with the child has been recorded by the CCTV cameras installed at the bus stand. They left by the same bus proceeding towards Rajapalayam. Enquiry with the conductor has revealed that they had got down at Tirumangalam,” said Inspector of Police (All Women Police Station – Palani), P. Kavitha. After leaving the baby to sleep near the bus stand, they boarded the same bus, she said. The police in southern districts have been alerted about the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abandoned-baby-rescued/article36110074.ece
26 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet finalises L-G’s address, Budget speech||The Cabinet which met under Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Wednesday finalised the customary address of the Lieutenant Governor and the Budget speech. The Lt. Governor would commence her address around 9. 30 a.m. when the house re-convenes for the first session of the National Democratic Alliance government on Thursday. According to a government source, the Speaker would announce the name of the next Deputy Speaker after the Lieutenant Governor concludes her customary address. Deputy Speaker Former Minister and All India N. R Congress legislator representing Nettapakkam Assembly segment, P. Rajavelou, was the lone legislator to submit nomination papers for the Deputy Speaker’s post. Prior to the commencement of the Cabinet meeting, Mr. Rajavelou, who was accompanied by Mr. Rangasamy, Ministers K. Lakshminarayanan, C. Djeaucoumar and Chandira Priyanga, submitted the nomination papers. According to the source, the Assembly session is likely to continue till September 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-finalises-l-gs-address-budget-speech/article36110379.ece
26 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Start-ups get a helping hand from CII||In a bid to encourage youngsters to set up start-ups in the Union Territory, the Confederation of Indian Industry has joined hands with Atal Incubation Centre - Pondicherry Engineering College (AICPEC), Department of Industries and Commerce and Department of Higher Education to launch an innovation contest targeting students from all streams in the Union Territory. The innovation contest is open to students of engineering, medical and arts and science colleges. Even students who have passed out from the colleges in the Union Territory and between the age group of 18 and 30 could participate. After the students get short-listed and online presentation of ideas is completed, the jury, comprising experts from the industry, officials and AICPEC, an institution that assists in developing business model, would mentor the selected group or individual for the final pitch. The process will go on till next month and the selected candidates will have an opportunity to present their concept at the start-up summit scheduled to be held in October. The winners would get a prototyping grant of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh and will be incubated by AICPEC to convert their ideas into business models, convenor for the event and past chairman, CII, M. Kalaiichelvan told The Hindu . According to him, after the start-up policy was launched in 2019, youngsters in the Union Territory have shown a keen interest in entrepreneurship. “In the last one-and-a-half years, two start-ups got incubated and another 16 are getting incubated for venturing into business. Apart from AICPEC, we have incubation centres at Sri Venkateshwaraa Medical College and Pondicherry University. We want more institutes to set up incubation centres,” Mr. Kalaiichelvan added. Chairman of CII, Vijay Ganesh, said an innovation-based economy is possible through start-ups. To achieve the government’s objective to make Indian economy a 5 trillion USD economy by 2025, besides accelerating the existing business model, it was important to kick start innovation-based business, he said. CII past chairman M. Nandakumar said the start-up ecosystem got a fillip with launch of the policy in 2019. “Colleges are introducing courses on entrepreneurship and encouraging more students to have sustained interaction with the industry. All these are significant achievements for the Union Territory,” he said.  The winners will get a prototyping grant of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh and will be incubated by AICPEC to convert their ideas into business models M. Kalaiichelvan, Convenor of the event||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-ups-get-a-helping-hand-from-cii/article36110384.ece
26 August 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||L-G nod for staggered schedule for reopening schools in U.T.||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday approved a staggered schedule to reopen schools for Classes IX to XII in Puducherry and Karaikal districts on September 1. The schools will function for six days during forenoon (half day) from 9.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. on alternate days, for the academic year 2021-22, by adopting standard operating procedures (SOP) for COVID-19, a press note from the Raj Nivas said. For students from class IX, classes will be held on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, for Class X on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, Class XI on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and Class XII on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Preparatory work to reopen schools will begin on Thursday. At the moment, offline classes are aimed at students who want to come to schools voluntarily. VAT cut on fuel Among the other key decisions taken by the Lt. Governor was to approve the Cabinet decision to reduce 3% VAT on petrol sold in Puducherry and Karaikal regions. The price of petrol will be reduced by Rs. 2.43 a litre. Accordingly, the estimated price for a litre in Puducherry and Karaikal is as follows: Puducherry- Rs. 99.52 and Karaikal- Rs. 99.30. The Lt. Governor also accorded approval to a proposal of the Social Welfare Department for amending rules relating to the grant of financial assistance to differently-abled persons, enhancing the quantum of aid. Assistance has been enhanced from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 3,500 for differently-abled persons (86%-100% disability), from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500 for those with 66%-85% disability and from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 for permanent disablement (40% to 65%). Another important decision pertains to the approval for re-engagement of 688 healthcare personnel, on short-term contract basis, for a further 90 days. Ms. Soundararajan also approved the notification of the Puducherry Consumer Protection (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of President and Members of the State Commission and District Commission) Rules, 2021, and the constitution of the selection committee for selecting the First Registrar of the Pondicherry Technological University. A sum of Rs. 3.33 lakh has been sanctioned as grant-in-aid under the SCSP component to the Puducherry Un-organised Labourers Welfare Society for and Rs. 184.80 lakh to the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department for the phase II construction of 573 houses by SC beneficiaries under the beneficiary-led construction component of PMAY.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-nod-for-staggered-schedule-for-reopening-schools-in-ut/article36110388.ece
26 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||University professor in MHA’s Hindi advisory panel||C. Jaya Sankar Babu, faculty member and Head of the Department of Hindi, Pondicherry University has been nominated as a member of the Hindi Advisory Committee of Ministry of Home Affairs. The Government of India had reconstituted the committee and issued a notification to this effect, a press note from Pondicherry University said. The tenure of the Committee chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah will be three years. Ministers of State (Home Affairs) Nityanand Rai, Ajay Mishra, Nisith Pramanik are the Vice Chairmen of the committee which also includes MPs and top officials across various departments. Review policy The functions of the Committee will be to review the implementation of the Official Language Policy as envisaged in the Constitution of India and render advice in regard to increasing the use of Hindi in working of the Ministry of Home Affairs and its attached and subordinate offices. V-C offers felicitations Pondicherry University Vice Chancellor Gurmeet Singh felicitated Mr. Babu on the prestigious nomination, the press note said. According to the University, Mr. Babu has been playing a vital role in spreading e-literacy in the area of computing in Indian languages and floated several multi-disciplinary technical and job-oriented courses in Hindi at the University. Besides, he is the Chief Editor of 58-year-old Hindi Journal Antar Bharati and founder editor of Yug Manas, a literary journal. He has authored five books, edited more than 20 books and has to his credit over a hundred research articles.  Mr. Babu has been playing a vital role in spreading e-literacy in the area of computing in Indian languages and floated many job-oriented courses in Hindi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-professor-in-mhas-hindi-advisory-committee/article36110385.ece
26 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||TPR rises above 3%||The daily Test Positivity Rate of COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory crossed 3%, the highest in recent weeks, as 71 new cases were reported from about 2,250 tests on Wednesday. With no death recorded in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll remained at 1,809 — Puducherry (1,429), Karaikal (235), Yanam (105) and Mahe (40). Puducherry accounted for 42 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,254 tests, followed by Karaikal (15), Yanam (1) and Mahe (13). The number of tests in the last 24 hours is also the fewest in recent weeks. The TPR was 3.15%, case fatality rate 1.47% and recovery rate 97.91%. With 76 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 936. This comprised 199 hospital patients and 737 home isolation cases. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,22,203 cases against 1,19,463 recovered patients. Of an estimated 15.74 lakh tests administered so far, over 13.35 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,583 persons took the vaccine against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The vaccinated population in the Union Territory aggregated to 7,57,568.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpr-rises-above-3/article36110380.ece
26 August 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Sea cucumber seized||Forest Protection Squad on Tuesday seized 250 kg of sea cucumber that was stealthily stocked on the seashore in Devipattinam. The contraband, worth Rs. 1 lakh, was handed over to the Forest Range Office in Ramanathapuram. The squad found sea cucumber packed in 19 bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-cucumber-seized/article36110032.ece
26 August 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||NDRF organises mock drill on rescue operations||Twenty-six personnel from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) - 4th Battalion, Arakkonam, and the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, Ranipet, conducted mock drills in Wallajah on Wednesday. The drills were part of the campaign by the Ranipet district administration to create awareness among public to safeguard themselves against natural disasters ahead of the north-east monsoon. The programme, which was inaugurated by Collector A.R. Gladstone Pushparaj, was organised near the lake in V.C. Mottur village in Wallajah near Arcot to demonstrate various lifesaving skills. The NDRF personnel, as specialised disaster responders, made a presentation on flood response, rescue, evacuation and first aid to people caught in floods. Mr. Pushparaj, who attended the drill, said the exercise was conducted to check the disaster preparedness of different departments and agencies. Such disaster management exercises, especially ahead of nort-heast monsoons, would help residents living along the waterbodies including Palar river, lakes and ponds to protect themselves and others by learning some lifesaving skills. The Collector said each village in the newly formed Ranipet district has First Responders, who are volunteers to help the local administration during such natural disasters. Work profile Their job is to rescue residents, alert the local administration and coordinate relief work with the government agencies. The Collector also urged residents not to use plastics in any form as they clogged water channels and drains. He distributed relief kits containing essential items like clothes, mirror, brush, paste, towel and soap to 30 families. District Revenue Officer (DRO), M. Jayachandran; Arakkonam NDRF vice-president, Vaithiyalingam; Ranipet District Fire Officer, Lakshmi Narayanan, and Tasildar (Wallajah), A. Anandhan, took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndrf-organises-mock-drill-on-rescue-operations/article36110412.ece
26 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Kurumbapatti zoological park reopens after four months||The Kurumbapatti zoological park was reopened to the public on Wednesday, four months after it was shut due to surge in coronavirus cases during the second wave. Visitors wearing masks were allowed inside and the Forest Department officials checked the temperature of visitors. Also, visitors were asked to sanitise their legs in a tub filled with potassium permanganate solution. Since it was the first day, the crowd was very less and the visitors were given instruction to ensure personal distance. Also, they were advised not to carry plastic bottles or eatables into the park. The crowd is expected to increase in the coming days and during the weekends as the daily COVID-19 cases in the district dropped below 100 mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kurumbapatti-zoological-park-reopens-after-four-months/article36110100.ece
26 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camp for teachers held||With teaching and non-teaching staff in schools are required to be fully vaccinated before resumption of offline classes for 9 to 12 from September 1, special camps were held at all the Urban and Rural Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district during which they received their shots here on Wednesday. Since there is a significant drop in the daily COVID-19 cases, the State government had announced reopening of schools and asked both teaching and non-teaching staff to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camp-for-teachers-held/article36110097.ece
26 August 2021||Salem/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Mettur, Bhavanisagar dams||The water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam stood at 66.08 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet here on Wednesday. Public Works Department officials said that at 8 a.m. the inflow was 8,789 cusecs while the discharge was 8,000 cusecs in River Cauvery and 550 cusecs in canal. The storage was 29.424 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. The water level at Bhavanisagar Dam stood at 101.42 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet here on Wednesday. Currently, 500 cusecs was discharged into the Kalingarayan Canal while 100 cusecs was discharged into River Bhavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-mettur-bhavanisagar-dams/article36110085.ece
26 August 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||High-yielding cassava, Chinese potato introduced to farmers||The Thiruvananthapuram-based Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI) has demonstrated the capacity of new high-yielding and pest-resistant variety of cassava and Chinese potato (Sirukizhangu) by planting these varieties in two villages in the district. While ‘Sree Reksha’ cassava variety was planted in the ranches of five farmers from Kanakkupillaivalasai, the Chinese potato’s efficacy was proved in the fields of eight farmers of Kuththapaanjaan. Both the experiments have demonstrated the high-yielding capacity of these two new varieties and a good number of farmers have opted to cultivate these tubers in their farms. According to G. Byju, Principal Scientist and Head, Department of Crop Production, CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, the new variety of cassava gives the yield of 45 tonnes per hectare with very good ‘keeping quality’ and has resistance to cassava mosaic disease. “With overwhelming response from the farmers, the planting materials of ‘Sree Reksha’ and customized fertilizers were distributed to ten farmers at Thaenpoththai on Tuesday for establishing seeds of this high-yielding variety which will certainly increase considerably their income,” Mr. Byju said. Chinese potato is another commercially grown crop in Tenkasi district with most of the farmers in Kadayam Union going in for this crop, for which demand would be high round-the-year. Planting materials of improved variety released from CTCRI, ‘Sree Dhara’ were supplied and demonstrated at Kuththapaanjaan wherein eight farmers raised this crop on their fields. “This variety gave 50% higher yield than the local variety when we planted it in the demonstration fields. The huge size, shape and good keeping quality of the tubers fetched good price in the market, the farmers say. The variety is being expanded to nearby villages and blocks covering an area of 300 acres through seed entrepreneurs since 2017 with the guidance of Indian Council of Agriculture and Research - CTCRI and Department of Horticulture, Tenkasi,” said R. Muthuraj, Principal Scientist, CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram. During their visit to the fields at Kuththapaanjaan on Tuesday to formulate the action plan for strengthening the tuber crops development in the district, the scientists received positive feedback from the growers. Dr. Byju emphasized that new variety, good quality planting materials, scientific cultivation, post-harvest processing and marketing techniques prescribed by the scientists should be strictly followed for making significant profits in their venture. Dr. Muthuraj and Dr. D. Jaganathan, Senior Scientist, CTCRI, handled the sessions on scientific cultivation of tuber crops. Critical inputs and agricultural implements were distributed to the farmers during the interface and field visits. Assistant Director of Horticulture, Tenkasi, Ramachandran, explained various schemes being executed for horticultural crop growers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-yielding-cassava-chinese-potato-introduced-to-farmers/article36110077.ece
26 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Improper execution of Grand Anicut Canal rejuvenation alleged||Alleging improper execution of the Grand Anicut Canal rejuvenation work, Nasuvini Riverbed Farmers Welfare Association called upon the State government to initiate steps for course-correction. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister, M.K.Stalin, the association president, V. Veerasenan pointed out that the GA Canal was formed during the period 1928 to 1934 with a carrying capacity of 4200 cusecs of water. The canal passes through Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts for a length of 148.65 kilometres (109 kilometres in Thanjavur district and 39.65 kilometres in Pudukottai district) before draining the water in Mumbalai Lake in Pudukottai district. The canal provides the surface water irrigation facility to around 2.27 lakh acres in the two districts. It also serves as a feeder to 694 lakes in both the districts ensuring the tank irrigation facility to around 82,000 acres of agriculture fields in the Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts in addition to the 2.27 lakh acres fed by the canal, he said. However, the canal bund and the regulators and other structures of this irrigation channel had weakened as it had served as the reliable source for irrigation for over eight decades. The farmers were unable to take up `samba’ or `kuruvai’ followed by `thaladi’ with confidence in the recent past. The previous AIADMK government launched the Rs. 2798.75 crore rejuvenation project during the financial year 2020-21 and tenders for five works at a total cost of Rs. 1036.70 core were finalised in January 2021, he said. Contractors commenced the work before the water for irrigation from Mettur dam was released on June 12 this year. As the water flowed through the canal subsequently, breaches have occurred at some of the places where the work was going on, he claimed and added that the condition of the cement concreting of the GA canal bed could not be assessed in view of the water flow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improper-execution-of-grand-anicut-canal-rejuvenation-alleged/article36110057.ece
26 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Annual rent from 17 shops quadruples||The annual rent realisation by the Thanjavur Corporation from 17 shops in the New Bus Stand premises has quadrupled in the auction held here on Wednesday. According to official sources, the civic body called for bids from interested persons to take 82 shops on rent out of 122 on the New Bus Stand premises since there were interim injunctions against the auctioning of the remaining 40 shops. A total of 33 persons took part in the auction wherein the process relating to 17 shops (9 in ‘B’ block, 3 in ‘D’ block, 4 shops located on the outside and one inside) was completed and the successful bidders remitted the required deposits. While the highest bid scaled up to Rs. 96000 from the previous highest rent of Rs. 25185 collected by the civic body from a shop, Rs. 11000 was recorded as the lowest rent bid compared to Rs. 2431 received in the past. The competitive bidding reflected a fourfold increase (from Rs. 13 lakh to Rs. 59.50 lakh) in the annual rent realisation from these 17 shops on the New Bus Stand premises, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-rent-from-17-shops-quadruples/article36110044.ece
26 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Agri-tourism on the anvil at Marunkulam||The stage has been set for the launch of agri-tourism in Thanjavur district with the allocation of five acres for the purpose at the Government Horticulture Farm at Marunkulam near Thanjavur town. According to the Collector, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, five out of 26.44 acre farm with fruit-bearing tree saplings and young trees and vegetable nurseries would be utilised to create real-time terrace and home vegetable gardens under the Agritourism project conceived by the government in order to encourage people to take up vegetable cultivation on their own at their dwelling units. Apart from getting familiarised with the home vegetable garden concept and practices, the visitors could also learn about the horticulture techniques in raising and maintaining horticulture crops such as mango, jackfruit, moringa and others in their courtyards, he said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agri-tourism-on-the-anvil-at-marunkulam/article36110033.ece
26 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||12 huts gutted||Twelve huts were gutted in a fire that broke out at Melathirupoonthurthi on Wednesday. Fire from a hut along Pudu Theru spread quickly to the adjoining huts. On noticing the fire, the dwellers rushed out to safety and attempted to douse the blaze. The blaze was brought under control by fire service personnel attached to the Thanjavur, Thiruvaiyaru and Thirukattupalli stations. A resident, Bhoopathi (50) had sustained minor burns. All materials inside the huts were gutted, police said. The Naducauvery police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-huts-gutted/article36110045.ece
26 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against “illegal transport of ilmenite||A group of persons affiliated to various organisations submitted petition to the Collector and the Superintendent of Police on Wednesday seeking action against those who “illegally had taken ilmenite from sealed godown and transported it” to a factory on SIPCOT Industrial Complex. In a petition submitted to Collector K. Senthil Raj and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar on Wednesday, the petitioners said ilmenite stored in 9 sealed godowns had been taken illegally after breaking the seals to be transported to a private factory in SIPCOT Industrial Complex on August 20. Though the people who transported the ilmenite were claiming that they had taken imported ilmenite to the factory with the proper GST E-Way Bills, the veracity of the claim could be cross-checked with the documents of the transporters and the documents of the VOC Port to find the origin of the ilmenite. Those who transported the rare earths illegally should be booked, said the petitioners including M.S. Raja of Groundwater Conservation Movement, Krishanmurthy of Confederation of Anti-Sterlite Movements and a few others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-illegal-transport-of-ilmenite/article36110065.ece
26 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner escapes from Thoothukudi hospital||A remand prisoner escaped from Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on Wednesday even as he was undergoing treatment. Police said M. Balamurugan, 37, of Kalyanipuram near Kadayam in Tenkasi district was arrested on August 16 in connection with various burglaries reported in Puliyampatti police station limits. He was lodged in the Peroorani prison after getting remanded in judicial custody. As he had health issues, he was admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for treatment. Even as he was in the third floor of the TKMCH for treatment, he managed to escape from the ward in the guise of going to the toilet. After the four armed reserve policemen, who were guarding Balamurugan, alerted the police, vehicle checks were conducted in various parts of the district, but in vain. A special team has been formed to nab Balamurugan after Thoothukudi South Police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-escapes-from-thoothukudi-hospital/article36110034.ece
26 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||New medical scheme launched||The ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme was launched at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital here on Wednesday. As Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched this scheme for the benefit of the patients suffering from non-contagious diseases to give treatment for their ailments at their doorsteps, it was introduced in the medical college hospital here by Dean, D. Nehru in the presence of Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani, Medical Superintendent Paalan. Dr. Nehru said the patients coming to the TKMCH for treatment for diabetes, blood pressure, breast cancer, uterine cancer, obesity etc. would get registered under this scheme and the data would be handed over to the officials attached to the Department of Public Health, who would make arrangements for the team to visit the patients at their doorsteps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-medical-scheme-launched/article36110407.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lukewarm response to 24-hour vaccination drive in Tiruchi||The response for the 24x7 COVID-109 vaccination centre at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has been lukewarm. The initiative which began on Monday needed to be promoted for people to make use of it, officials at the GH said. The State government on Monday announced that all medical college hospitals would have a 24x7 vaccination centre for the perusal of workers unable to take the jab during the day on weekdays. "A significant number of people from the 18 to 45 age group was yet to take the jab as many of their workplaces had not opened, due to which they were not asked to take the jab. These people would work from morning to evening and did not have any time to visit the vaccination centres. For their benefit, these special camps have been set up," a senior official at the Tiruchi MGMGH said. On Monday, a total of 103 people took the shot, while on Tuesday around 500 people took it. More awareness is required for an increase in participation, they said One staff nurse, an assistant and a data operator have been deputed to the vaccination centre per shift. Three shifts are in operation - morning, evening and night. While there is a significant footfall in the morning and evening, the number of people visiting the centre at night is negligible. "We can keep the centre open until midnight and open again in the morning," the senior official said. According to data provided by the district administration, 8,37,736 people have taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine as of August 24 in the district out of a total 20.93 lakh eligible population. All efforts are being made to ensure at least 50% of the population gets at least one shot to protect themselves from the viral infection. Meanwhile, Tiruchi City Corporation will hold round-the-clock vaccination centres in four Urban Primary Healthcare Centres from August 27 to ensure that the COVID-19 vaccine is available to people at all times. The initiative was in line with the efforts made by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian at all Medical College Hospitals. In Tiruchi city, Primary Healthcare Centres in the following localities will provide the vaccine from Friday onwards: Woraiyur, Teppakulam, Subramaniyapuram and Kattur. Arrangements have been made for the availability of both Covaxin and Covishield at the four centres, a release from the civic body said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lukewarm-response-to-24-hour-vaccination-drive-in-tiruchi/article36110036.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Coal-fired steam loco flagged off||The first coal-fired 'X' class steam locomotive manufactured at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here for operation in the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section was flagged off on Wednesday by Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas. Mr. John Thomas also flagged off the 444th diesel locomotive belonging to a public sector undertaking and the 123rd LHB coach both of which were overhauled at the workshop, besides the 200th Guard Van manufactured at the workshop. Accompanied by the Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, Southern Railway, S. Srinivas, Principal Heads of Departments, Chief Workshop Manager, Golden Rock Railway Workshop Shyamadhar Ram, Divisional Railway Manager, Tiruchi Manish Agarwal, and other officials, Mr. John Thomas inspected various shops inside the railway workshop during his annual inspection. The supervisors and technical staff demonstrated their technical prowess, their expertise in several processes and product improvements made inside the workshop. IOT (Internet of things) based condition monitoring system installed in a 3-tier AC coach now running in the Tiruchi - Howrah rake and also in a LHB power car were demonstrated to the General Manager and other top officers. Newly developed Epoxy flooring in doorways and gangways of ICF coaches, introduction of standard patches in the longer lower berths in ICF sleeper coaches and introduction of PVC coated GI sheet panel in a Nilgiri Mountain Railway coach were exhibited, an official press release said. The General Manager was also showcased several gadgets and tools which were made in house including universal manipulator for welding all types of wagon underframes, scissor lifts and rotary jig fixture for drilling holes in the wagon centresills for increasing the productivity and improving the quality of workmanship. During the course of his inspection inside the workshop, Mr. John Thomas inaugurated the renovated Heritage Square housing one narrow gauge coach along with one old metre gauge steam loco; a sculpture park consisting several thematic models developed out of scrap and a herbal garden. In his brief address to the officers and staff on the occasion, Mr. John Thomas commended the workshop for its outstanding works. He complimented the staff for the innovations they had brought in the wagons keeping in mind the demands of the new customers including the automobile manufacturers. He exuded confidence that the workshop would rise up to the occasion to overhaul Vande Bharat express trains in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coal-fired-steam-loco-flagged-off/article36110047.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College team wins award||A team of three students of Holy Cross College bagged the Tamil Nadu Student Innovators Award (TNSI) 2020 organised by Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute (EDII) Tamil Nadu. A sum of one lakh rupees will be awarded to the three students to develop their idea into an evolutionary prototype and a complete product. S. Hafila Khairun, A. Alphin Punitha, D. Charithra Iswarya, students of third-year B.Sc. Chemistry, developed Swachata Sewormtricity, a waste management system that utilises toilet waste to generate electricity while turning the effluents into compost and recyling water for reuse. Mentored by J. Felicita Florence and J. Amala Infant Joice, Assistant Professors, Department of Chemistry, the students took part in the competition where over 2,000 teams across Tamil Nadu had submitted their ideas. The competition had four rounds, and of the 2,000 teams, 495 went on to the ideation round, 150 to the boot camp round and 48, to the finals. Of them, 25 teams won the fellowship and award, including the team from Holy Cross College. With the support of the Holy Cross Innovation and Incubation Centre led by Principal A. Christina Bridget, the students will utilise the fellowship fund to develop the product.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-team-wins-award/article36110055.ece
26 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||COVID-19 vaccines will be administered at the following vaccination camps in the city on Thursday. Covishield Covishield would be administered in the following camps: Corporation School, North Devi street, Srirangam; Schwartz Nursery & Primary School, Nandi Kovil Street; Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Thiruvanaikovil; Thiraviam Pillai Park, Big Bazaar Street; Alanga Vilas Singarampillai-Sivabakiyathammal Memorial Middle School, Tharanallur; Sri Yadhukula Sangam Middle School, Eda Street; Corporation Middle School, Subramaniyapuram; Orchard High School, KK Nagar; Corporation School, Kali Amman Temple Street, Edamalaipatti Pudur; Selva Damodaran Higher Secondary School, Keezhapudur; Seventh-day Adventist Matriculation Higher Secondary School; Hindu Mission Hospital, Anna Nagar; K. A. P. Viswanathan Higher Secondary School, Thillai Nagar. Covaxin Covaxin would be administered in the following camps- SIT College, Ariyamangalam and Mukkulathor Higher Secondary School, Thiruverumbur The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m, according to a press release from the Tiruchi City Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article36110037.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IECD honours SUITS toppers||Toppers in the SUITS (School-University-Industry Tie-up Scheme) programme conducted by the Institute for Entrepreneurship and Career Development (IECD), Bharathidasan University, to disseminate Information Technology skills, were honoured on Wednesday by Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam on Wednesday. Nine toppers from eight schools received gold medals from the Vice-Chancellor during the 11th passing out ceremony. Ten schools conducting the SUITS programme were given Outstanding School Award for 2019-20. About 1,37,529 students form Grade V to IX in 462 schools across the State appeared for the examinations pertaining to different IT skills conducted by the university during 2019-20, E. Ramganesh, IECD Director, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iecd-honours-suits-toppers/article36110041.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sanitation professionals narrate their stories||A virtual meeting held as part of the annual World Water Week (WWW) conference hosted by Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI), Sweden, on Monday threw the spotlight on the struggles and achievements of women sanitation professionals in Tamil Nadu, with special reference to Tiruchi. Titled ‘Women in Sanitation: Glimpses from across the chain,’ the half-hour session featured the stories of K. Aravalli, who runs a de-sludging business in the city, A.P.Yakoppu, a transgender who manages a community toilet complex in Srirangam, V. Muthulakshmi, Assistant Engineer, Tiruchi Corporation and Susmita Sinha, a water, sanitation and hygiene (WaSH) expert. The webinar was organised by Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme (TNUSSP) that works with the Government of Tamil Nadu to scale inclusive sanitation throughout the State, and the Indian Institute of Human Settlements (IIHS). “Each day is different for sanitation professionals, because the working hours are unpredictable. Generally women who try to make their way in this field find that they are first ignored and then ridiculed before they fight for their rightful place in the profession,” said Ms. Muthulakshmi, a person with disability. Yakoppu said transgender persons should take up job opportunities in sanitation. “There are many aspects in this field that offer a respectable way to earn a living which can benefit transgender people; this is why I have decided to stay on in Srirangam and manage the toilet complex. Even though society tends to shun transgenders, my mother (now deceased) and I were entrusted with maintaining the toilet even before its construction,” Yakoppu said. Recounting her start in the profession, Ms. Aravalli said that overcoming the scepticism about her choice was a major challenge. “Now that I am well-established in sanitation, I still have to face problems like dealing with heavy equipment and appropriate work clothes.” The lack of policies regarding women in sanitation has made it difficult to sustain progress, said Ms. Sinha. “Women are not encouraged to join, and in cases where they take maternity leave, they find it harder to resume because their work would have gone to someone else. We have to come around these issues in a comprehensive manner, to make women continue working in this sector,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitation-professionals-narrate-their-stories/article36110042.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan Airlines will resume Tiruchi-Colombo service on Sept. 2||After a gap of nearly one-and-a-half-years, Sri Lankan Airlines will resume flight services in the Colombo- Tiruchi- Colombo sector from September 2. However, the airline will operate the service once a week instead of two services every day which it used to operate before the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Airport Director, Tiruchi S. Dharmaraj, on Wednesday said that a communication regarding the resumption of the service has been conveyed to the Tiruchi international airport by the airline. The airline has also conveyed that it would be operating Airbus A-320 / 321 flight in the Colombo - Tiruchi - Colombo sector. Timings  As per the timings, the flight from Colombo will arrive at Tiruchi at 10 a.m. and leave for the island nation at 11 a.m. The airline had suspended flight services in the Colombo - Tiruchi - Colombo sector since March 2020 when the nation-wide lockdown was announced by the Centre due to COVID-19 pandemic. The outbreak of the pandemic led to suspension of overseas flight services all over the country. The trade partners here received a communication from the airline regarding the resumption of flight services in the Colombo - Tiruchi- Colombo sector from September 2. In the communication conveyed to the trade partners, it said Sri Lanka had resumed acceptance of Indian passengers travelling on Tourist Visa. The trade partners here have also been circulated with the latest COVID-19 guidelines in detail issued by the Ministry of Health - Sri Lanka, including PCR test requirement, and the guidelines to be followed by the travellers. The airline had earlier proposed to restart the flight services on the Colombo - Tiruchi - Colombo sector from May 2 after an air travel bubble was established between India and Sri Lanka. However, the flight services did not take off then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-airlines-will-resume-tiruchi-colombo-service-on-sept-2/article36110056.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in fresh COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 276 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, reflecting a further dip in cases reported over the last few days. Five deaths were reported in the region. Three patients succumbed to the illness in Tiruchi, while one each died in Ariyalur and Karur. The number of cases reported in most districts in the region had witnessed a slight dip. On Wednesday, 84 fresh cases were reported in Thanjavur and 45 in Tiruchi. Pudukottai recorded 29 fresh cases, Tiruvarur, 28 and Nagapattinam, 27. In neighbouring Mayiladuthurai district, 24 patients reported COVID-19 positive and in Karur, 18. In Ariyalur district, 16 fresh cases were reported. Perambalur continued to report the least number of fresh cases among the central districts with five fresh cases reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36110038.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trichy Tourism Federation to hold contest||The Trichy Tourism Federation has come up with a one minute film contest on the theme ‘Mesmerizing Trichy’ in connection with the World Tourism Day which is to be celebrated on September 27. The contest is being organised to create awareness of tourism attraction in Tiruchi region and its importance. The competition is open to all and it should be filmed on either of the two themes: ‘Culture and Lifestyle’ and ‘Temples and Attractions’. The videos should be submitted online atwww.trichytourism.in/ contest/mesmerizing. trichybefore September 15, a press release from S.A. Mubashir, vice-president, Trichy Tourism Federation, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trichy-tourism-federation-to-hold-contest/article36110039.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 65.97 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 5470 cusecs and the discharge 7748 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36110048.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New mechanism to convert degradable waste into manure||The corporation has introduced cost-effective mechanism for converting the degradable waste getting generated in every house into manure for using it in the home garden. According to an estimate by the Corporation, urban civic body generates over 170 tonnes of waste including 102 tonnes of degradable waste everyday. Even as the quantum of waste getting generated within the corporation limits grows every month, the urban local body struggles to deal with the existing solid waste management system with less number of sanitary workers. A group of local youths, who have formed ‘V.M. Chathram Development Organisation’ for this purpose, have joined hands with the corporation in implementing the scheme in 500 houses in their area. As per this method, the degradable waste getting generated in the house is put everyday in a 5-feet-tall PVC pipe with 5-inch diameter installed vertically, allowing the waste to degrade. Bitter curd may be added to catalyse degradation of the waste which will become a manure after 45 days. After collecting the manure to be used in the homestead garden, the pipe may be installed in the same point. “Besides giving you the manure for your garden, it will give you immense satisfaction as you have managed the degradable waste generated in your own premises,” said Collector V. Vishnu while appealing to all the residents to install this cost-effective mechanism. Commissioner, Tirunelveli Corporation, B. Vishnu Chandran, was present. Even though the ‘source segregation’ of waste from the houses has enabled the Corporation to establish micro compost centres (MCC) at 45 places within the Corporation limits to convert the degradable waste into manure, the number of personnel available with the Corporation to collect and take the waste to the Ramaiyanpatti compost yard never matched the 170 tonnes of garbage getting generated for every 24 hours. After creating MCCs to deal with the degradable wastes, the Corporation has introduced the system of converting this waste into the manure at the source itself. In other words, the urban civic body has introduced the scheme of converting degradable waste into manure with the help of the residents. “The system will create a sense of responsibility among the residents on handling the degradable waste safely and converting it into manure to be used in their garden itself. Besides ensuring safe nutrition for the plants, this arrangement will also save environment,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-mechanism-to-convert-degradable-waste-into-manure/article36110069.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Seven booked for sale of two children||Mukkoodal police are on the lookout for seven persons in connection with sale of two children. The accused include the mother of the children. The police said a pregnant woman, R. Devi, 27, of Tirupur district, came to the house of her relative Viyagammal Mary in Mayilappapuram near Mukkoodal in March along with her two-year-old daughter after her husband deserted her. Since she feared that she could not raise the children without a considerable income, she reportedly discussed with Viyagammal the idea of selling the children. After selling the two-year-old daughter to a childless couple from the same area, Devi, who gave birth to a female baby again in a hospital in Surandai in Tenkasi district five days ago, sold the newborn to a couple from Veerakeralampudhur in Tenkasi district. As Mukkoodal police came to know of the sale of the children for about Rs. 2 lakh, they alerted District Child Protection Unit (DCPU). Rescued Subsequently, the children were rescued on Tuesday. The children were handed over to ‘Saranalayam’, a child reception centre in Tirunelveli Junction. Based on the complaint from the DCPU, Mukkoodal police have registered case against seven persons, including Devi, who are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-booked-for-sale-of-two-children/article36110052.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure safe environment in schools’||Members of Students’ Federation of India staged a demonstration here on Wednesday urging the government to ensure safe environment on school and college premises when the educational institutions reopened after the prolonged pandemic-induced lockdown.  Besides improving infrastructure facilities in the government schools and the colleges, the vacant teacher posts should be filled without further delay. Students’ drop-out issue should also be addressed properly, the protestors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-safe-environment-in-schools/article36110070.ece
26 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested under POCSO Act||The Udumalpet police on Tuesday arrested a 22-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district. The police said that the girl’s parents reported to the police on August 10 that she was missing. Investigations revealed that the accused abducted the victim on the pretext of marrying her and had sexually assaulted her. He was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-under-pocso-act/article36110106.ece
26 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two Bangladeshi nationals arrested in Coimbatore for illegal stay||The City Police on Wednesday arrested two Bangladeshi nationals on charges of illegal stay without possessing valid documents. According to the police, Azizul Islam (29) a two-wheeler rider was stopped by the police at Velampalayam during a vehicle check. He was allegedly unable to produce any documents such as driver’s licence or Aadhaar card, the police said, following which he was picked up for inquiry. It was revealed during questioning that he and Mujibur Rahman (28) were from Bangladesh and were staying in a rented room at Chettipalayam in the city for over a year without passport, visa and other documents. They were working in a private garment company, the police said. Following this, the Velampalayam police arrested the second person in the evening. The two were booked under sections of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and sent to Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai to be remanded in judicial custody, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-bangladeshi-nationals-arrested-in-coimbatore-for-illegal-stay/article36109968.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Tea dust seized, sent for lab test||Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) officials seized nearly 116 kg of tea dust at Avinashi in the district for suspected adulteration on Wednesday. A release said that a team comprising FSSAI’s Designated Officer (Tiruppur) B. Vijayalalithambigai and Food Safety Officers S. Sathishkumar and S. Kesavaraj searched the residence of Subramanian at Thomaspuram based on a tip-off. The samples seized were sent for laboratory testing and further action will be initiated based on the report, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-dust-seized-sent-for-lab-test/article36109972.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Kuruvai harvested in 17.5% of cultivated area||Harvest of ‘kuruvai’ paddy has been completed in about 24,025 acres so far, accounting for about 17.5% of the sown area of 1.37 lakh acres in Tiruvarur district during this season. Disclosing this at the agriculture grievance meeting held at the Collectorate on Wednesday, the Collector, P.Gayathri Krishnan said that 4,270 farmers had availed loans through cooperative societies to the tune of Rs. 24.50 crore (Rs. 14 crore as crop loan and Rs. 10.50 as agriculture jewel loan) against this year’s loan disbursement target of Rs. 300 crores for agriculture operations through the societies. For the commercial banks, oan disbursement target of Rs. 2,900 crore was fixed and out of this Rs. 1000.33 crore (Rs. 17.33 crore as crop loan and Rs. 983 crore as agriculture jewel loan) had been disbursed to 68515 farmers till date, she added. Meanwhile, 32687 farmers out of 41778 who have registered themselves for `kuruvai’ package assistance have received 3391 tonnes of urea, 1884 tonnes of DAP and 941 tonnes of potash through the societies. Stating that `samba’ cultivation had commenced on about 17,500 hectares, the Collector said that nurseries were being raised in 355.15 hectares for transplantation. A total of 389.40 tonnes of seeds had already been distributed to the farmers and the department has 1,045 tonnes as stock. Further, 3851 tonnes of urea, 2088 tonnes of DAP, 2319 tonnes of potash and 283 tonnes of `complex urea’ were available, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kuruvai-harvested-in-175-of-cultivated-area/article36110043.ece
26 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Traders protest after municipality seals shops for failure to pay rent||Around 500 traders at the Municipal Market here staged a protest and tried to block roads in the town after the Udhagamandalam Municipality (UMC) sealed shops for failure to pay rent. According to UMC officials, the merchants had failed to pay the revised rent fixed more than four years ago for 1,587 shops in the market and surrounding areas which have been leased to them. Officials said that the previous rent being charged from the merchants was extremely low, and that many of the merchants who had taken the stalls on lease had sub-leased their spaces to other businesses. Due to the municipality not receiving the revised rent amount from the merchants, the UMC owed money to other government services such as the Tamil Nadu Electricity Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), which runs to many crores in arrears, officials said. On Wednesday, UMC officials arrived at the market and began sealing the shops which had failed to pay rent to the civic body. As a result, the merchants staged a protest and threatened to block the surrounding roads, leading to the police arresting them. After the arrest of the merchants, officials sealed a few shops inside the market. They have given a few days' time to pay the revised rents, failing which the civic body has threatened to seal more shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-protest-after-municipality-seals-shops-for-failure-to-pay-rent/article36109985.ece
26 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore goes for bamboo plantation in parks to boost oxygen levels||In an effort to boost oxygen levels in residential areas, the Vellore Corporation has started to plant bamboo seeds in all the parks within its jurisdiction. Initially, seeds were planted in a group of parks at Vigneshwara Nagar near Sathuvachari. The Corporation has more than 120 parks within its four zones covering all 60 wards with a population of around 10 lakh. Currently, most of the parks are maintained by the local resident welfare associations monitored by the civic body. Corporation officials said each bamboo tree would generate over 300 kg of oxygen every year. It also has the capacity to absorb 80 tonnes of carbon dioxide per acre every year. In fact, officials said more than four-year old bamboo trees could absorb over 400 kg of carbon dioxide annually from the surrounding areas. As part of the initiative, which was started on Tuesday by the Corporation Commissioner, N. Sankaran, the civic body has procured bamboo seeds from farmers and Agriculture department in the district. Initially, parks in zone-2 (Sathuvachari) are being covered mainly due to the active role by residents’ welfare associations. Later, the initiative will be extended to the rest of the three zones. “The entire planting will be done before the northeast monsoon. Also, local residents’ associations will be roped in to ensure bamboo saplings growth in the parks,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-goes-for-bamboo-plantation-in-parks-to-boost-oxygen-levels/article36110375.ece
26 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 34 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,752 with 34 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total of 47,290 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 356. The district's death toll is 1,106. In Ranipet district, 17 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,467. In Tirupattur district, 11 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,526. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 30, taking the total number of cases to 53,158. Out of this, 52,103 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 405.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-34-new-cases/article36110410.ece
26 August 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Banned gutkha and tobacco products seized, three held||The police on Wednesday arrested three persons, including a juvenile and seized six gunny sacks containing banned gutkha and pan masala products here. Following a tip-off on the movement of the contraband, a special police team intercepted a car at Valavanur on the Puducherry-Villupuram Road. The police team conducted a thorough search of the vehicle and found the bags containing gutkha and pan masala. The police identified the accused as M. Nitish Kumar, 19, and A. Shahul Hamid, 55, of Madukarai. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-gutkha-and-tobacco-products-seized-three-held/article36110383.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Courtesy call||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courtesy-call/article36109952.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Irregularities in loan waiver caused loss’||Requesting Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami not to take offence at his remarks, Mr. Periasamy said that though the cooperative banks were computerised during the DMK government, the loans repaid by farmers were not deposited in banks at the end of the day when the AIADMK was in power. “Receipts of funds have not been fed into computers. Why do you have these computers? To be offered poojas,” he asked during a debate on the demand for grants for the Department of Cooperation. Listing the kind of irregularities, Mr. Periasamy said six Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies in Erode district and 12 in Salem district had lent beyond any rational limit. “Loans were granted about five times more than the norm.” He said he had the list of beneficiaries, and was willing to give it to Mr. Palaniswami. Loans were also granted for barren land, and to farmers for some other crop while their ‘adangal’ (a revenue record) indicated that they had grown a different crop, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-in-loan-waiver-caused-loss/article36109933.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Coimbatore reports 181 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 181 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally of the district to 2,34,820 cases. The Health Department reported four deaths, taking the death toll to 2,249. The district had 2,132 active cases of the disease and 228 patients were reported to have recovered on Wednesday. Tiruppur district reported 72 fresh cases, which took its tally to 89,880 cases. The reporting of two new deaths took the overall toll to 922. The district had 836 active cases and 65 patients recovered from COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, 37 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,582. The number of deaths in the district stood at 193. Highest vaccination on a single day By administering 47,800 vaccines on Wednesday, Coimbatore district had achieved the highest one-day vaccination figure, said a release from the district administration. On Wednesday, it received 50,470 vaccines and administered 47,800 of those. In the last four days, it had administered 1.18 lakh vaccines and so far, 22,15,472 vaccines, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-coimbatore-reports-181-new-cases/article36109969.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Commerce and Management, webinar on Placement with Ultralight Aircrafts in India and Abroad, Arjunan Vinodh Kumar, Pilot Instructor, guest speaker, 11 a.m.  Sri Vasavi College (Self Finance Wing): Inauguration of First year classes – 2021 through virtual mode by S. Ramamoorthy, Managing Partner, RGS Kamadhenu Feeds, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article36110091.ece
26 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||468 candidates in the fray||Election officials rejected seven nomination papers filed for the Belagavi City Corporation elections, citing non submission of documents and other technical reasons. Some candidates withdrew their nomination papers on Wednesday. Now, there are 468 candidates in the hustings for the 58 wards. The number is expected to reduce further as Thursday is the last day for withdrawals. As many as 519 had filed their nomination papers. Ward No 4 has 21 candidates, the highest. Before withdrawals, it had 24. There are only two candidates each in Ward No 21 and 26. The polls promise to be interesting because this is the first time that they are being held on the basis of party nominations. This has led to senior leaders of various parties campaigning for their followers in a simple, door-to-door manner. Dhananjay Patil, writer and political observer, says that the issue of language affiliation has not faded away, despite the distribution of ticket on party lines. Half the city, especially the Old City areas, is still dominated by Marathi speakers, who will tend to prefer Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) candidates. The new Belagavi area, with extension areas on Gokak Road, Kanabaragi Road and Bauxite Road may be influenced by the party affiliation more than the Old City areas, he says. Finally, the personality of the candidate may matter to the voter. A candidate has to meet between 3,000 and 4,000 voters. They can easily be covered by individual candidates within a week. The possibility of the voters knowing the candidate is also high in such elections, Mr. Patil says. MES, a major player in the politics of the city corporation, won 60% of seats in the last corporation council. With delimitation, wards have increased by about 40%, with older, bigger wards being divided into two or three new wards. Voting is on September 3 and counting the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/468-candidates-in-the-fray/article36110112.ece
26 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CII Indian Green Building Council unit inaugurated||Visvesvaraya Technological University Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa inaugurated the local chapter of CII Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) in Belagavi on Wednesday. It will work closely with the stakeholders in facilitating the adoption and promotion of green building concepts, sustainable solutions and offer a platform for sharing, learning and exploring new growth opportunities in the sector. IGBC has 28 chapters across the country. The Karnataka chapters are in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mangaluru. Set up in 2001, IGBC has succeeded in facilitating emergence of green buildings and green-built environments. It aims to make India a leading power in the sector by 2025. An IGBC-rated green building will have 40% to 50% savings in electricity consumption, 20% to 30% savings in water consumption, enhanced ventilation and uninterrupted daylight and increased health and productivity of occupants. Growth IGBC has facilitated the growth of India among the first five countries in the world in terms of the largest registered green building footprint. There are over 6,781 green building projects, amounting to over 7.86 billion square feet in India. It is hoped that this will increase to 10 billion square feet by 2022, the 75th year of Independence. Commissioner of Belagavi Urban Development Authority Preetam Naslapure, IGBC national chairman V. Suresh and others were present during the inauguration. Director of SENECA Rajendra Belgaumkar and Managing Director of Chaitanya Associates and CREDAI Karnataka President Chaitanya Kulkarni will lead the Belagavi IGBC chapter.  Set up in 2001, IGBC has succeeded in facilitating emergence of green buildings and green-built environments and it aims to make India a leading power in the sector by 2025||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cii-indian-green-building-council-unit-inaugurated/article36110115.ece
26 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||M.K. Nambyar moot court contest from tomorrow||Karnataka Law Society’s Raja Lakhamgouda Law College, Belagavi, will organise the 11th M.K. Nambyar Memorial National Level Moot Court Competition 2021, patronised by Attorney General of India K.K. Venugopal. The Padma Vibhushan award-winning advocate is an alumnus of the college. As many as 12 teams from five different States will participate in this competition, which will be held online this year due to the pandemic. As many as 30 advocates and academics will be acting as Moot Judges to judge the participants. Prizes Prizes worth Rs. 80,000 will be awarded to the winners in different categories and an award of Rs. 5,000 will be given to the Best Mooter in the name of Ashok Potdar, Advocate, Belagavi. The inaugural function of the competition is scheduled at 4.30 p.m. on Friday. Advocate and Chairman, Karnataka Law Society, P.S. Sawkar will be the chief guest. Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe will be the guest of honour. The valedictory function is scheduled at 5 p.m. on Sunday. Dean, PES University, Bengaluru, Sandeep Desai will be the chief guest. Advocate and Chairman, Governing Council, Raja Lakhamgouda Law College, S.V. Ganachari will preside over the two functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mk-nambyar-moot-court-contest-from-tomorrow/article36110116.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka plans to vaccinate over 5 lakh people daily||Karnataka, which stands sixth in the country in terms of vaccine doses administered so far, plans to ramp up the drive to achieve its target of covering the entire 4.97 crore adult population by December end. To meet this target, the State needs to inoculate over five lakh people daily, which translates to supply of at least 1.5 crore doses every month as against the average 60,000 doses received monthly now. Chief Minister Basvaraj Bommai, who had requested a higher allocation of vaccine from the Centre soon after assuming charge this month, has again gone to Delhi to seek regular and increased supply of at least 1.5 crore doses every month. With erratic supply of vaccines by the Centre till early this month, the greatest challenge for the State was to sustain the same level of vaccinations every day. “But our supply has stabilised in the last 10 days. We have been able to administer over four lakh doses daily on an average for the last few days and hope to further increase this to five-six lakh doses daily in the coming days,” said Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission. Pointing out that the State now has an available stock of 15 lakh doses (including nine lakh in transit), she said that eight lakh more doses were expected by Thursday. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the State had so far been receiving an average of 45-50 lakh doses a month. “The supply slightly improved last month when we got 55 lakh doses and this month (so far) we have already got 65,47,530 doses and eight lakh doses are expected on Thursday,” he said. The State had administered the highest number of doses in June (88,12,850 doses). This included a record 11.52 lakh doses that were administered in the State on June 21. However, with supplies dwindling subsequently the daily number of vaccinations also dropped and hovered around one to two lakh on some days till mid-August. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said vaccination is a dynamic process and numbers vary from day to day. “But, we need to look at the overall picture. We did have a few days of low daily numbers but we are well on our way to achieve the highest number of vaccines for any month in August,” he told The Hindu on Wednesday. “I am very confident that we will breach the June figure of 88 lakh doses this month.” “With more and more vaccine brands coming to the market and vaccine production picking up pace, we are in a comfortable position,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-plans-to-vaccinate-over-5-lakh-people-daily/article36109889.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body mapping black spots across Bengaluru||Though the city has door-to-door collection of garbage, there are still thousands of black spots where mixed waste continues to be dumped indiscriminately. Clearing them is proving to be a challenge for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, which has now taken up an exercise to map all of them. According to senior civic officials, over the past few years, several attempts have been made to clear the black spots, and the BBMP eliminated nearly 1,000 of the 2,500. This was done with assistance from The Ugly Indians, marshals, and pourakarmikas. “While the 1,000 black spots that were eliminated, have not come back, we had installed CCTV cameras in a few others. However, the black spots only got shifted to areas not covered by the cameras. We decided to take up mapping these spots to get to the root of the problem and ensure that these spots do not come back,” said Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP’s Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management).  To reduce dependency on the landfill, the BBMP is contemplating installing segregation machines in different parts of the city. Officials said that this was done in a few towns in Tamil Nadu, such as Kumbakonam. “Just from the black spots, we collect around 300 tonnes of mixed waste. Even a small effort such as this will go a long way in reducing dependency on the landfills,” said a civic official. Mr. Khan, confirming the development, said the BBMP had recently floated tenders for installing segregation machines of smaller capacities, either at the ward or division-levels. “We have identified some locations where these segregation machines can be installed, such as Jakkur, Jayanagar and even the recovered land at the Bellahalli quarry,” he said.  That apart, the BBMP is also working towards increasing segregation levels from 40% to at least 70%. “This is an achievable target and we are working with various stakeholders for the same,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-mapping-black-spots-across-bengaluru/article36109881.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five members of chain-snatching gang from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi arrested||The Vijayanagar police, on Wednesday, nabbed five members of the notorious Bawaria gang for their alleged involvement in a series of chain-snatching cases in the city . According to the police, the accused hail from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. “They would fly down to Bengaluru and rent a house on the outskirts of the city for one to two months. They even transported a motorcycle from their hometown by train to Bengaluru, which they would use to target victims,” said a police officer, adding that their planning was so detailed that they worked in ‘shifts’. While two of the accused used the bike to look for potential victims, primarily senior citizens walking alone, the others would take care of daily chores like cooking and cleaning. “When the first team returned, another would set out. They often changed the registration number of the motorcycle and their clothes to evade detection,” police claimed. After committing a series of robberies, they would return to their hometown where they would sell the stolen items. After a few days, they would then hit other metro cities. However, luck ran out for the accused when, after a series of chain snatching cases, the police formed a special team to track them down. With footage from CCTVs, the police nabbed the gang members before they could leave Bengaluru. The arrested accused have been identified as Rahul, Nitin, Tulsi, Kamal and Riyaz Ahmed. However, the leader of the gang managed to escape. With their arrest, the police claim to have solved as many as six cases of chain snatching and a house break-in. They recovered gold jewellery worth Rs. 13 lakh from them. “We are on the lookout for their leader who escaped to Delhi,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-members-of-chain-snatching-gang-from-uttar-pradesh-delhi-arrested/article36109896.ece
26 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM looks at high command for dousing dissatisfaction||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in New Delhi to discuss various irrigation and developmental issues with Union Ministers, is also expected to broach the issue of dissatisfaction among a few Ministers about their portfolios and heartburns among disappointed ministerial aspirants. However, party senior leaders are of the view that the central leadership is unlikely to allow anyabrupt change in portfolios. “It appears that any change may be effected only when ministerial expansion takes place,” said a senior functionary. Any expansion exercise may take at least a month as the State legislature session too is about to commence. “There is a likelihood of the high command suggesting a reshuffle along with ministerial expansion. One need not be surprised if one or two Ministers are dropped,” said the leader. “Changing the portfolios of dissatisfied Ministers immediately will send a wrong message and trigger a similar demand by more Ministers,” said a leader. Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh has been sulking over the portfolio allotted to him and embarrassed the party as well as the Chief Minister by delaying taking charge of his ministerial responsibilities. There is a feeling among senior leaders in the party that one or two ministerial berths of the total four vacant may be kept vacant in a bid to keep the hopes alive for ministerial aspirants. There is no clarity on whether B.Y. Vijayendra, son of the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, is still in the race for the ministerial post. However, several leaders in the party State unit believe that he may not get a ministerial post for now as he is not a member of the House. Meanwhile, indication of the pressure building on the Chief Minister from ministerial aspirants was visible with MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi, who is camping in Delhi, demanding a ministerial berth for his brother Ramesh Jarkiholi and associate Srimath Patil. On Wednesday, the Chief Minister met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Later in the evening, Mr. Bommai called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-looks-at-high-command-for-dousing-dissatisfaction/article36109905.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shuchi Mitras: A step towards decentralisation of SWM||Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), batted for a decentralised system for solid waste management, calling it far more effective. “There is a new Act for BBMP and the government has also set up a separate company for solid waste management. However, the primary responsibility of waste management will continue to remain with the BBMP,” said Mr. Gupta at the launch of the Citizen Participation Programme on Wednesday. Under this programme, a decentralised system with zonal/divisional/ward-level coordinators, a Shuchi Mitra at the block level and volunteers at the lane level will be put in place to maintain cleanliness across the city. Mr. Gupta said junior health inspectors and marshals were working actively and urged citizens to join hands with civic officials to keep the city clean. Subhash B. Adi, chairman, NGT State-Level Monitoring Committee for SWM, urged citizens to segregate waste at source. Most of the waste produced in the city is being dumped in landfills which pollutes the environment, he noted. Under the Citizen Participation Programme, the zonal/constituency/ward level coordinators will track block performance on segregation, complaints received from citizens, penalties levied, and monitor the performance of SWM units in the ward. They will also identify gaps and conduct training sessions as ‘Master Trainers’. At the block level, the Shuchi Mitras will take inputs from lane volunteers and work with autorickshaw drivers, supervisors, link workers and marshals, report on the door-to-door collection, conduct awareness sessions on segregation at source, and track the black spots in the block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shuchi-mitras-a-step-towards-decentralisation-of-swm/article36109882.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yettinahole: HDK objects to change in plan||Taking objection to a proposal to reduce impounding capacity of the Byragundlu reservoir, conceived as part of Yettinahole project, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has said that the reduction in capacity would severely hamper drinking water supply to Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, and Chickballapur districts. A proposal has been mooted to reduce holding capacity of the reservoir from 5.78 tmcft to 3.78 tmcft., which will severely affect the Rs. 8,200-crore project, he said in a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday. He pointed out that already the holding capacity of the reservoir had been brought down from 10 tmcft when it was first proposed near Devarayanadurga and to 5.78 tmcft. when the reservoir location was shifted to Byragundlu in Koratagere taluk of Tumakuru district. He said, “Though Byragundlu reservoir was proposed in 2014, the project has not been able to take off due to stiff resistance from farmers in Koratagere taluk. The government stand is that an increase in compensation to Koratagere farmers will entail Rs. 319 crore from the exchequer.” In light of the problem, the former Chief Minister said the Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam has proposed to reduce the impounding capacity and proposed an alternative to supply water to these districts. “It is now learnt that the revised proposal costing Rs. 23,251 crore is in advanced stage and in the process of getting government approval.” ‘Consider demand’ Mr. Kumaraswamy said the people of the region had lost faith in the project due to frequent changes in the project. “The new design is damaging and can attract serious agitation any time. We urge you to consider the demand of Koratagere farmers for higher compensation and take up the Byragundlu project as per the previous proposal,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yettinahole-hdk-objects-to-change-in-plan/article36109906.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister flags off ‘Vaccination on Wheels’||Complementing the efforts of the Karnataka government, Volvo Group in partnership with Narayana Health, under the aegis of the Confederation of Indian Industry, launched a free vaccination drive on Wednesday through a specially repurposed Volvo bus. This bus will operate as a mobile vaccination clinic and provide enhanced and easy vaccine accessibility to people across several districts in rural and semiurban areas in Karnataka. The mobile clinic, called “Vaccination on Wheels”, was flagged off by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai; Chairman of Narayana Health Devi Shetty; President and MD of Volvo Group in India Kamal Bali; and Chairman of CII Karnataka Ramesh Ramadurai. According to a press release, the vaccination bus will operate for four to six months with a capacity to administer 700-800 doses per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-flags-off-vaccination-on-wheels/article36109891.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Farmer-centric panel to implement policies’||In order to make Karnataka the first State to double farmers’ income by 2023–24, the State government has decided to set up a farmer-centric committee to prepare a report and implement farm policies, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. Addressing reporters after a two-hour-long discussion with Ashok Dalwai, CEO of the National Rainfed Area Authority and chairman of a committee on doubling farmers’ income set up by the Centre, Mr. Bommai said the Karnataka government had a detailed discussion on the report submitted by the Centre. The committee would comprise farmers from the State, who would bein regular touch with Central government officials to prepare a comprehensive Karnataka-specific report on farmers’ income. The report would be implemented by Karnataka, Mr. Bommai said. The Chief Minister added that another committee would be set up under Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil to focus on seeds, pest and fertiliser management, and improving fertility of the soil with help from agricultural universities of Karnataka. A second agriculture directorate would be set up to make drastic changes in agricultural sector for improving farm productivity and doubling farmers’ income. The Chief Minister said a task force would be set up to improve food processing and provide value addition to agricultural products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-centric-panel-to-implement-policies/article36109911.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,224 new cases, 22 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,224 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,42,250. Bengaluru Urban reported 309 cases and three deaths on Wednesday. With 22 deaths, the toll rose to 37,206. This is apart from 22 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,668 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 28,85,700. The State now has 19,318 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.62%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.79%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1224-new-cases-22-deaths/article36109886.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vehicle taxation, incentives should be based on energy efficiency: Vikram Kirloskar||To realise India’s goals of energy security and to counter climate change, the county must broaden its horizon to take a more holistic and systems-based approach on the impact of products on CO2 emission, said Vikram Kirloskar, vice-chairman, Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM). Addressing SIAM’s 61st annual convention on Wednesday, he said an impact analysis of the “life cycle” of all products was critical to creating a “well to wheel” environment. “This will help us address the entire value chain as well as for efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle materials,” he said. “The country must lay equal emphasis on enhancing energy efficiency as we do for fossil fuel substitution. Also, it is important to leverage all technologies as an enabler, ever-evolving and a means to the end.” On the future of mobility, Mr. Kirlosakar said, “For a faster shift to sustainable mobility policies, the country must promote energy efficiency as the basis for determining product taxation, i.e. by adopting a merit-based taxation structure that incentivises consumers to choose more energy efficient appliances, gadgets and vehicles, which were otherwise more expensive due to higher technology costs.” India has set a target to become “energy independent” by 2047.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicle-taxation-incentives-should-be-based-on-energy-efficiency-vikram-kirloskar/article36109903.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Baby girl found abandoned||The Byadarahalli police rescued a newborn baby abandoned on the side of a road on Wednesday. Passersby had heard the baby crying. The police took the infant to Vani Vilas Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/baby-girl-found-abandoned/article36109893.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Withdraw penal action against RTC employees’||The Karnataka State Road Transport Employees’ League, which spearheaded the transport strike in April, met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday and appealed to the government to withdraw all penal action that RTCs have taken against employees who participated in the strike. A total of 2,110 employees of various RTCs, including those on the verge of retirement, have been dismissed. Another 1,399, including women and physically challenged, were transferred to far away locations - some as far as 500 km. Over 400 were booked in over 200 criminal cases, with ‘95% of them fake’, claimed Mr. Chandrashekhar, one of the leaders of the league, who was dismissed from BMTC five days ago. Thousands of families have been suffering without pay for four months now, struggling to make ends meet, in already stressed times due to the pandemic, he said. Some in the delegation said the CM romised to withdraw all penal action at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-penal-action-against-rtc-employees/article36109895.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nod for gram procurement||Union Agriculture Ministry has approved the procurement of green and black gram in Karnataka under the price support scheme for kharif 2021–22 season. In an order issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, the government approved maximum quantity of 30,000 tonnes of green gram and 10,000 tonnes of black gram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nod-for-gram-procurement/article36109898.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress smells a scam||The State Congress has alleged irregularities in purchase of sweaters by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) during the COVID-19 pandemic and sought a clarification from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. During pandemic KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar told reporters here that the BBMP had floated tenders and purchased sweaters to be distributed among school students during the pandemic. “But, where are the sweaters? Which schoolchildren wore those sweaters? When were schools opened?” He added, “No children went to schools during the pandemic. None of the children received the sweaters. The BBMP Commissioner has called a meeting to convince protesters that there was no scam in the purchase of sweaters. The government is full of scams and corruption.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-smells-a-scam/article36109907.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivakumar criticises JD(S)||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Wednesday criticised the Janata Dal (Secular) for its failure to support the Congress in the mayoral elections in Mysuru. He told reporters here that the Congress sought the Mayor’s post but the JD(S) failed to honour the agreement. “The local leaders decided the matter. Our party had sought the mayor’s post, promising to help the JD(S) in the future. In the past too we had understanding. But the JD(S) was not interested,” Mr. Shivakumar said. On the question of keeping the BJP out of power and unity of secular-minded parties, the KPCC president replied, “It is left to the JD(S). What can we do?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivakumar-criticises-jds/article36109908.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 1 cr. doses administered||On Wednesday, Bengaluru, which includes BBMP and Bengaluru Urban district, achieved a landmark with more than one crore citizens vaccinated. BBMP’s chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that 73% of the eligible population in the city have been vaccinated with at least the first dose. Over the past three to four days, vaccine allocation has increased. At every vaccination site, 200 to 400 doses can be administered. “Around 86 lakh citizens in the city have been vaccinated with at least the first of the two doses. We are also coordinating with RWAs, apartments’ associations and leaders of slum-dwellers to improve coverage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-1-cr-doses-administered/article36109884.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents threaten to stop metro work||Residents of Anchepalya, who recently staged a protest over a long-pending demand for either a Namma Metro station or an access road, have threatened to block work till their demand is fulfilled. A delegation of residents met BMRCL MD Anjum Parvez on Wednesday, and appealed to him to meet either of their demands. “Mr. Parvez sought a week to resolve land acquisition issues that the road work is stuck in, amicably, or to take up a legal fight. We have said we will not allow metro work till then,” said Akash Gowda, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-threaten-to-stop-metro-work/article36109892.ece
26 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat||The BWSSB will hold a water adalat today from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. to address grievances related to water billing, delay in water supply and sanitary connections, delay in converting domestic to non-domestic connections, and other issues. It will be held at the following sub-divisions: South Village 2, South East 5, West Village-1, South West 4, East Village 3, East Village 1, North West 5, North East 3, North 1 sub-divisions. Consumers can contact helpline number 1916 or WhatsApp no. 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat/article36109883.ece
26 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||ASI workers complain of pay disparity||Casual workers of the Archaeological Survey of India have urged the Director-General of ASI to ensure they get fixed pay regularly. The workers alleged that the outsourcing agency, through which they have been recruited, was paying them less than the fixed amount. ASI Non-Permanent Workers Union has written to the DG of ASI in this regard. Union president Dharmesh and secretary Nagaraju said, in response to their petition the Karnataka High Court ordered the ASI to pay salary to the casual workers directly, without the intervention of a private agency. However, the ASI floated a tender for the agency, through which the payments were being made. “The outsourcing agency is not paying the salary as per the tender agreement. In place of over Rs. 11,000 per month, the workers were getting between Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 8,500. There is pay disparity across sub-circles in the State,” Mr. Nagaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asi-workers-complain-of-pay-disparity/article36110318.ece
26 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE reviews Smart City works||RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who is also in charge of Shivamogga district, has instructed officers and contractors to complete the ongoing works under the Smart City project in Shivamogga city at the earliest. He inspected the footpath work near the tourists’ bungalow with senior officers of the Shivamogga City Corporation recently. “The works were delayed due to COVID-19 for several months. The officers and contractors have been instructed to speed them up”, he told presspersons. The Minister said the quality of work was being monitored regularly. The progress would be reviewed once a week. “There is a constant progress in completing the projects,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-reviews-smart-city-works/article36110319.ece
26 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man ends life by jumping into canal||An employee of the Revenue Department allegedly committed suicide by jumping into Bhadra reservoir canal near Lakkavalli in Tarikere taluk on Wednesday. Somashekhar, 45, was working as Revenue Inspector in Tarikere taluk. He has left behind a note naming Dhanapal, Ramesh, and Sanjeev Kumar responsible for his death. He was deeply hurt due to the torture of these persons. Dhanapal is said to be a member of the Bagarhukum committee in the taluk. The Lakkavalli police have registered a case.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-ends-life-by-jumping-into-canal/article36110322.ece
26 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lapses will be treated seriously: Election Commissioner||State Election Commissioner B. Basavaraju has urged officials to ensure strict adherence to guidelines issued by the Election Commission at all levels for facilitating free, fair and peaceful municipal elections in Hubblali-Dharwad, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and other places. Chairing a meeting of the District Election Officer, Police Commissioner, other officials, election observers and nodal officers in Dharwad on Wednesday, Mr. Basavaraju said that conducting the elections in an open, transparent and unbiased manner is the responsibility of everyone. And the Election Commission will treat any lapse on the part of any officer while on election duty as a serious one, he said. Mr. Basavaraju said that now that the nomination papers filing and scrutiny have been completed in Hubballi Dharwad, canvassing will pick up and the Excise Department will have a major role to play in preventing election malpractice. “Collect daily information on liquor stock, supply and consumption and verify carefully. On getting any information on illegalities, take action immediately,” he said. He said that expenditure limit for each candidate has been set at Rs. 3,000 and the candidates should mandatorily submit details of their daily expenses in the required format. “The Election Commission has already issued Standard Operating Procedure in the wake of COVID-19. Only five persons are allowed to canvass. Crowding, procession, use of vehicles, rally and public meetings are banned. However, the candidates are allowed to utilise social media platforms, print and electronic media, distribute pamphlets and display posters,” he said. District Election Officer Nitesh Patil spoke about the steps taken so far and officials deployed for overseeing various works. “There are a total of 8,11,537 voters, including 4,03,497 male and 4,07,954 female voters and 86 others, as per the electoral list. A total of 842 polling stations will be set up for the elections to 82 wards. And, 4,210 officials and employees will be deployed for poll duty,” he said. Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale, Assistant Commissioner and Nodal Officer for Model Code of Conduct B. Gopalkrishna and other officials were present. Subsequently, Mr. Basavaraju, along with Mr. Itnal and Mr. Gopalkrishna and others, visited the mustering and demustering centres set up at Lamington High School in Hubballi and inspected the preparations done so far. Meanwhile, in Dharwad, a training programme was held for the sector officers, with Election Trainer N.V. Shirgaonkar and Master Trainer S.N. Rudresh elaborating on the things to be kept in mind by the officials and the usual problems that may crop up during elections and the precautionary measures to be taken.  Excise Department told to collect daily information on liquor stock, supply and consumption and verify carefully and to take immediate action ongetting information on illegalities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lapses-will-be-treated-seriously-election-commissioner/article36110127.ece
26 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway employees should work with ‘Safety First and Safety Always’ motto, says SWR General Manager||General Manager of South-Western Railway (SWR) Sanjeev Kishore has emphasised the need for employees to work with the motto of ‘Safety First and Safety Always’ and has advised frontline staff to be always alert. He was chairing a review meeting on safety and freight loading of the railway zone at Rail Soudha in Hubballi on Wednesday. Reviewing the status of safety drives being conducted over the zone for the smooth running of trains and safety in train operations, Mr. Kishore said that officers, supervisors, and construction staff concerned should be sensitised on all aspects of safety during the course of inspections. He directed the officers to conduct regular inspections of railway stations and assets to ensure norms of safety were strictly adhered to. He praised the efforts of the officials and employees for their good performance in freight loading. The zone carried 13.97 million tonnes of freight from April to July 2021 with an increase of 36.1% when compared to the previous year. During the review, the punctuality of train services was also discussed. The cumulative punctuality performance of South Western Railway from April 1 to August 22 is 97.1% and SWR stands fourth in Indian Railways. Mr. Kishore asked business development units to work on a mission mode to capture additional streams of traffic to widen the freight basket of Railways. During the review meeting, progress of various works on infrastructure development and passenger amenities were discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-employees-should-work-with-safety-first-and-safety-always-motto-says-swr-general-manager/article36110129.ece
26 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Develop Kalaburagi as a satellite town: HKCCI||Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), a body of industrialists and traders, demanded that the State government to develop Kalaburagi as a satellite town of Hyderabad along the lines of Gurugram on the border of Delhi. In a media release here, HKCCI president Sharanabasappa Pappa, secretary Prashant Manakar and chairman of Information Technology Sub-Committee of the trade body Veerendra Basareddy put a set of demands before the government as a prerequisite to developing Kalaburagi as a satellite town of Hyderabad metropolis. They also suggested acquiring large tracts of land near Sannur village off Kalaburagi-Sedam Road abutting the Kalaburagi Airport for the development of new amenities for the purpose. “We request to sanction and open Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM) fourth office in Kalaburagi to strengthen the city in digital mode. There is a need to expand New Age Incubation Network (NAIN) Scheme now under way at PDA College of Engineering Kalaburagi to all post-graduate institutions in Kalaburagi. To encourage bio-technology students to acquire new skills needed, we request to start Kalaburagi-Tech Innovation Hub powered by IKP at Kalaburagi which will pave the way for promotion of start-ups and encourage entrepreneurs for innovation aimed at the use of technology to propagate solutions in multiple sectors,” the office-bearers said in the release. Keeping in view the Union government’s promise of doubling farming income, they also requested for application of bio-technology in the agriculture sector in the district. Bio-technology-driven value addition to cultivation of pigeon pea, chickpea, millets such as bajra that are grown on a large scale in the district will help the government realise its target. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Pappa said that the development of Kalaburagi as a satellite town of Hyderabad by putting world-class infrastructure in place and offering impressive incentives will attract bigger companies to invest in the city. “To develop Kalaburagi into a satellite town of Hyderabad, we need to develop technology-driven infrastructure and amenities in the first place. Kalaburagi already has air, rail and road connectivity. Its close proximity to Hyderabad can be exploited for attracting huge investments and earn good revenues from the private sector by developing it as a satellite town of the Hyderabad megacity,” Mr. Pappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/develop-kalaburagi-as-a-satellite-town-hkcci/article36110111.ece
26 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||High Court asks govt. to take decision on paediatric cardiology wing in Kalaburagi||The High Court of Karnataka recently passed an order asking the State government to take a decision on starting a paediatric cardiology wing and appointing a paediatric cardiologist either in the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) or the newly constructed Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Kalaburagi. A Division Bench of Justices Abhay S. Oka and N.S. Sanjay Gowda passed the order on August 16 through videoconferencing on a petition filed by a Kalaburagi-based activist and president of Know Your Rights Association Abdul Razak. The petitioner stated that establishing a paediatric cardiology wing will help in reducing child mortality rate in the Kalyana Karnataka region. The State government in turn filed an objection stating that there is space constraint in establishing an additional paediatric cardiology unit in the existing hospital complex. The statement further said that a new 350-bed Jayadeva hospital is under construction and once it becomes operational, paediatric cardiology services can be introduced. The court further directed the State government to take an appropriate decision on establishing a paediatric cardiology wing either in GIMS or in the Kalaburagi branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. “We are sure that while taking a decision, the State government will bear in mind that the right to health is also an integral part of the right to life guaranteed by Article 21,” it said. The court directed the State government to take an appropriate decision within a month from the date of the order and place it on record before the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-asks-govt-to-take-decision-on-paediatric-cardiology-wing-in-kalaburagi/article36110120.ece
26 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man killed in road accident||A 30-year-old person was killed after a motorcycle he was travelling on collided with a car near Aralihalli Cross at Kanakagiri village of Gangavati taluk in Koppal district on Tuesday night. The deceased has been identified as Hanumesh Eshappa Hudejali, a resident of Katagihalli in Yelburga taluk. The victim was heading back home from the Gangavati-Kanakagiri route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-road-accident/article36110121.ece
26 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police personnel give a facelift to heritage structure in city||The police pooled in money and secured donations from philanthropists to give a new look to the Mangaluru North Police Station, which is a heritage structure that was built in 1889. This police station, which is popular as Bunder Police Station and located in the heart of the city, is the oldest police station in the city. It is housed in a colonial structure that was built at a cost of Rs. 16,000. Govindaraju B, who was Inspector of the police station in 2019, took up the initiative of giving a new look to the structure, which had leakages and other maintenance issues. Apart from pooling funds from personnel, the police managed to get donations from philanthropists, which included a few owners of malls in the city. As part of the renovation work taken up at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh, several portions of the old structure were re-plastered. The leakage was plugged and the old electrical fittings were replaced. The structure received a new coat of paint to give it a look similar to Ravindra Kalabhavan, which is another heritage structure on the premises of University College. The vehicle parking area also got a makeover. Appreciating the initiative of the police personnel from the North Police Station, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that more works will be taken up at the station to retain its heritage value. Mr. Kumar said that Mangaluru Smart City Limited is constructing a new building on the premises. A part of the area of the police station is proposed to be acquired for widening Bunder Road, he said. As many as 64 personnel, including Police Inspector Raghavendra M. Byndoor and five Police Sub-Inspectors, work in the police station located in 0.69 acres of land. Adjacent to the heritage structure is the office of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) P.A. Hegde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-personnel-give-a-facelift-to-heritage-structure-in-city/article36110306.ece
26 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train traffic hit for about eight hours owing to rail fracture near Kulashekara||Train traffic between Mangaluru Junction and Konkan Railway route was affected for about eight hours due to a rail fracture detected near Kulashekara early on Wednesday. Traffic, which was disrupted at 1.10 a.m., was restored at 9.04 a.m., Palakkad Division of Southern Railway said in a release. Track Maintainer Chandankumar noticed that that some clips between Kulashekara and Padil were broken at 1.10 a.m. Hence, Train No 06098 Yog Nagari Rishikesh-Kochuveli Express Special was stopped on the section. “The Assistant Divisional Engineer, Mangaluru, who visited the spot, observed hit marks on the track. Clips on the outer side of the outer rail were holding the rail but clips inside of the outer rail were in damaged condition for 500 m. Bottom flange in the Gauge Face (inner side) was dislocated and tilted,” the release said. “With the damaged clips, a rail fracture was also observed and the train wheel set was just ahead of the fracture,” it said. The train was cleared from the section at 6.13 a.m. and it arrived at Mangaluru Junction at 7 a.m. Train traffic was restored in the section at 9.04 a.m., the release said. Hence, Train No 06098 Yog Nagari Rishikesh-Kochuveli Express was stranded between Kulashekhara and Padil section for 315 minutes. Train No 06602 Mangaluru Central-Madgaon Intercity Special was cancelled for the day. Train No 02431 Thiruvananthapuram-Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express Special left Mangluru Junction with a 405-minute delay. The release said that Train No 06585 KSR Bengaluru-Karwar Express Special left Mangaluru Junction with a 382-minute delay. Train No 06336 Nagercoil-Gandhidham Express was regulated at Manjeshwaram and further, the train was allowed to run with a 312-minute delay. Train No 06345 Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai-Thiruvananthapuram Netravathi Express was detained at Surathkal and further, the train arrived at Mangaluru Junction with a 278-minute delay. Train No 02283 Ernakulam Junction-Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto Weekly Special was detained at Kasaragod and the train arrived at Mangaluru Junction with a 255-minute delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-traffic-hit-for-about-eight-hours-owing-to-rail-fracture-near-kulashekara/article36110309.ece
26 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination today||COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held at six sites in Udupi on Thursday. They are St. Cecily’s School, primary health centre, near Alankar cinema, Madhava Krupa School, Manipal, Kamalabai School, Kadiyali, higher primary school in Indiranagar and at BRS Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-today/article36110307.ece
26 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru mayoral polls: Sign of JD(S)–BJP bonhomie again?||The collapse of the understanding between the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) in the mayoral polls of Mysuru on Wednesday, leading to the installation of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Sunanda Palanetra in the coveted post, has come after months of uneasy political relationship between the two “secular” partners, whose leaders have often exchanged barbs. With stakes high for both the Congress and the JD(S) in many parts of Old Mysore region, where the saffron party is yet to firmly establish itself, the “natural allies” turn out to be “bitter rivals” during elections, be it to the Lok Sabha, the Assembly, or local bodies, to retain their respective political identities. Bitter-sweet partnership Even if the Congress and the JD(S) join hands at the State level for political exigencies, the partnership has remained bitter-sweet in Old Mysore region, which is not only the main support base for the JD(S), but also the political stronghold of the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. On many occasions earlier, the JD(S) has preferred to tie-up with the BJP in local bodies that have thrown up fractured mandate. The JD(S) had shared power with the BJP in both zilla panchayat and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), among other local bodies, earlier. The collapse of the Congress–JD(S) understanding in the mayoral polls on Wednesday, which led to the BJP capturing the post of Mayor for the first time in the corporation’s history, already has Congress leaders accusing the JD(S) of entering into a “secret pact” with the saffron party. With the next Assembly elections less than two years away, political observers are unwilling to rule out the mayoral election being an indicator of realignment of political forces. Congress leaders do not rule out the possibility of the JD(S) cosying up to the BJP in the coming days, particularly in the wake of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s recent courtesy call on the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda at the latter’s residence and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s greetings to the JD(S) patriarch on his 89th birthday. During Assembly polls The accusations of a pact between the JD(S) and the BJP in Mysuru region are not new. Mr. Siddaramaiah had himself accused the two parties of joining hands with each other during the last Assembly polls by strategically fielding weak candidates in a number of constituencies, including Chamundeshwari and Varuna, to ensure the defeat of Congress candidates. During Wednesday’s Mayoral polls, the JD(S) fielded its candidate Ashwini Ananthu against BJP’s Ms. Palanetra and Congress’ Shantakumari. The BJP, which is the single-largest party in the MCC council, emerged victorious in the three-way split of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-mayoral-polls-sign-of-jdsbjp-bonhomie-again/article36109900.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP’s Sunanda Palanetra is Mayor as JD(S)-Cong. coalition falls apart||Sunanda Palanetra of the BJP was on Wednesday elected as the Mayor of Mysuru after the tie-up between JD(S) and the Congress, whose coalition was in power in the 65-member Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), fell apart. The JD(S) preferred to stay neutral in the mayoral polls at the last minute even as the Congress councillors staged a walk-out protesting against its coalition partner’s “sudden” change in stand. With the election of Ms. Palanetra of ward number 59 (Kuvempunagar ‘M’ block) as the 35th Mayor, the BJP has come to power in the MCC for the first time since 1983, the year when the first mayoral election was held. The Mayor post was reserved for general category (woman). BJP is the single largest party in the MCC with 22 councillors followed by the Congress, which has 19 councillors. The JD(S) has 17 councillors. There are five Independents and one councillor from BSP. The mayoral poll had become necessary as the election of Rukmini Made Gowda of the JD(S), who was elected Mayor a few months ago, from ward no. 36 was annulled on the grounds she had submitted a false asset affidavit. Until the last minute, there was speculation that the JD(S) and the Congress would continue their coalition. The Congress had sought the Mayor’s post while reportedly offering the top post to the JD(S) for the remaining two years. The BJP leaders led by Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar had met JD(S) leader and former Minister S.R. Mahesh in the run-up to the election and sought the party’s support for their candidate. The JD(S) was said to have been inclined to go with the Congress. However, the sudden change in JD(S) strategy on the day of the election startled the Congress leaders. Congress leaders, including KPCC working president R. Dhruvanarayan and MLA Tanveer Sait, who played a key role in the last election, had met the party councillors and worked out plans for Wednesday’s poll. Ms. Palanetra and H.M. Shantha Kumari of the Congress (ward no .32) filed their nominations besides Ashwini Ananthu of the JD(S) (ward no. 37). Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash conducted the poll. Ms. Palanetra secured 26 votes while Ms. Kumari and Ms. Ananthu polled 22 votes each. The votes of BJP MLAs S.A. Ramdas and L Nagendra, MP Pratap Simha, and Independent member M.V. Ramprasad went in favour of Ms. Palanetra. Nineteen Congress councillors, Mr. Sait, and two Independents voted for Ms. Kumari. Besides the votes of its 17 councillors, the JD(S) got the votes of MLCs K.T. Srikante Gowda and Maritibbe Gowda, two Independents, and a BSP member. JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda and MLC Sandesh Nagaraj stayed away from the polls. “No BJP member had become the Mayor since the last 38 years. The party leadership is happy about the development,” said Mr. Somashekar. He, however, denied any tie-up or “secret pact” with the JD(S). “The BJP candidate had filed her nomination and won after securing the highest votes,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-sunanda-palanetra-is-mayor-as-jds-cong-coalition-falls-apart/article36110326.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||66 kV line sought for Kabini project at Bidaragod||Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Wednesday urged Minister for Energy and Kannada and Culture V Sunil Kumar to lay 66 kV transmission line to the Bidaragod pumping station near Mysuru from where Kabini water is pumped to Mysuru for distribution of drinking water to parts of the city. Mr. Somashekar, who met Mr. Kumar here, submitted a memorandum in this regard and sought his immediate intervention to upgrade the respective power station. “Only if Bidaragod was linked with a 66 kV line, 180 MLD water can be pumped to the city from the present 60 MLD,” he added. The Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board implemented the Bidaragod project in Nanjangud taluk. A similar appeal was made by Pratap Simha, MP, after meeting the Minister on Wednesday. He demanded 66 kV line for Bidaragod jackwell, Kembalu water treatment plant, and the intermediate pumping station at Pinjrapole, and 3 sub-stations. The estimated cost for the works was Rs. 30 crore. Mr. Simha also sought a 66 kV line drawn from 66/11 kV station at Devanoor to the pumping stations at Rammanahalli and Melapura under the Melapura Drinking Water Project, for expanding water supply under Centre’s Amruth scheme. The estimated cost of this project was Rs. 35 crore. G.T. Deve Gowda, MLA, also met the Energy Minister for taking immediate steps for establishing sub-stations at five places in Mysuru city and the district for improving electricity transmission. The sub-stations had been sought at D. Salundi and Udbur (66/11 kV sub-station); Marashettihalli (66/11 station), Vasantha Nagar (66/11 kv), K. Hemmanahalli (66/11 kV) and 400 kV transmission station at Kadakola.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/66-kv-line-sought-for-kabini-project-at-bidaragod/article36110327.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||14 jumbos from four camps chosen for Dasara tasks||Even as the State government was mulling over celebrating this year’s Mysuru Dasara in a simple manner in view of the prevailing pandemic, the Forest Department has done its job of identifying 14 elephants for the Dasara tasks. Though it is not finalised how many elephants would actually be used in the Jamboo Savari this year, elephants from four elephant camps have been identified and the list will be placed before the department’s meeting here shortly for shortlisting them based on government orders. Last year, five elephants, including howdah elephant Abhimanyu and its two companions, had taken part in the Dasara procession that was confined to the palace premises in view of the low-key Dasara. The department has proposed to keep at least two to three elephants as standby this year. Forest veterinarians have certified the health of 14 elephants, including 11 males and three female jumbos, and all of them are said to be fit and in good health for the ensuing tasks. The 14 elephants identified include Abhimanyu, Gopalaswamy, two jumbos named Bheema, and Magendra, all from Mattigodu camp in Nagarahole; Vijaya and Vikrama from Ane Kadu in Kodagu; Dhananjaya, Prashantha, Gopi, Harsha, Lakshmana, and Kaveri from Dubare in Kodagu, and Chaitra from Bandipur. “Once finalised, we will make arrangements for the elephants’ journey to Mysuru, mahouts and kavadis, their stay, tenders for supplying feeds to elephants in Mysuru and so on,” said K. Karikalan, Deputy Conservator of Forest, Mysuru. He said 95% of the mahouts and kavadis had been vaccinated and all necessary precautions would be taken in view of the pandemic situation. “We will ensure vaccinated staff (at least one dose) accompany elephants to Mysuru,” the DCF added. The Forest Department is also readying the second line young tuskers for the roles being performed by the aging elephants, including Abhimanyu, who is 57-and-half year old.  Arjuna’s heir Abhimanyu was chosen as the lead elephant last year as it was considered the right choice as Arjuna’s heir. Besides jumbos like Gajendra, Srirama, Vikrama and Harsha, other young jumbos like Dhananjaya, Gopalaswamy and Gopi are said to be in focus. These elephants possess the skills to capture wild elephants besides adding grandeur to the festivities every year. Abhimanyu is considered an “all-rounder” because of its expertise in tracking the target jumbo. Subduing wild elephants without these six tuskers becomes tough as they promptly obey the instructions of their masters and perform the job with finesse. Abhimanyu is best known for its astuteness in the operations for capturing errant elephants and aged and injured wild tigers straying out of forests. The strong point on why Abhimanyu got the call last year was its experience as a Dasara jumbo for two decades and the weight carrying training it undergoes every year as a standby for Jamboo Savari. Arjuna had taken over from Balarama which had carried the howdah for 13 years in a row before attaining superannuation from the role of lead elephant. Prior to Jamboo Savari, the lead elephant undergoes weight carrying training with sandbags and a wooden replica of the howdah having the same mass as ‘Ambari’ on its back as a part of rehearsal for the big day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-jumbos-from-four-camps-chosen-for-dasara-tasks/article36110321.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Set up electric vehicle charging stations along highway: Minister||Minister for Energy and Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar on Wednesday told officials of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) to work towards establishing charging stations for electric vehicles on the Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway. Electric vehicles (EVs) are the future and action plan for developing the infrastructure for charging such vehicles are necessary. The xcarging stations can be set up in at least 100 locations along the highway, he said. Speaking after chairing a meeting of CESC officials here, Mr. Kumar, who arrived in Mysuru for the first time after taking charge, said the rise in fuel prices, launch of new zero emission vehicles and other factors are prompting people to shift to EVs. With the Mysuru-Bengaluru National Highway being expanded into a 10-lane highway, it is time to plan for the future and establish infrastructure like EV charging stations. Pratap Simha, MP, supported the Minister’s view. He urged the Minister to expand Dasara illumination this year. CESC Managing Director Jayavibhavaswamy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-up-electric-vehicle-charging-stations-along-highway-minister/article36110324.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||New Mayor to focus on city’s cleanliness||Newly elected Mayor Sunanda Palanetra said she would lay emphasis on the city’s cleanliness and work towards bringing back the cleanest city tag for Mysuru. She thanked the party leaders for giving her the opportunity and added that she would live up to the party’s expectations. Ms Palanetra extended her gratitude to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and Minister S.T. Somashekar for choosing her for the post. There is no clarity yet on whether Deputy Mayor Anwar Baig, a Congress councillor, will continue in power with the coalition of JD(S) and Congress falling apart and the BJP coming to power on its own in the 65-member MCC. Mr. Baig was elected as the Deputy Mayor in February after JD(S) and Congress joined hands to rule MCC. After Rukmini Made Gowda was disqualified, he functioned as the acting Mayor. He too joined the Congress councillors when they walked out of the poll in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-mayor-to-focus-on-citys-cleanliness/article36110317.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three drown in Hemavati canal||Three persons from Mysuru who went missing in K.R. Pet taluk of Mandya district on Tuesday were found dead in Hemavati canal on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Manju, 20, of Kumbarkoppal, Ravi, 27, of Mogarahalli, and Ravi, 22, of Lokanayaknagar in the city. They were part of a larger group on a visit to a local temple at Beeruvalli following which some of them went for a swim in the canal. As the three did not return for a long time, an alert was sounded and a search operation was launched on Tuesday evening. But it was disbanded at night and the search commenced in the morning. Fire service personnel and the local police who scoured the area discovered the bodies floating in the canal and retrieved them. The bodies have been sent to the hospital for postmortem. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-drown-in-hemavati-canal/article36110328.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP will be in power for next 20 years because of good administration, says Kateel||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel claimed in Mandya on Wednesday that the party will be in power in Karnataka for the next 20 years because of good administration. Speaking at a State-level office-bearers’ meeting, Mr. Kateel said this would put an end to the infighting within the Congress. Mr. Kateel said people of Mandya have witnessed dynastic politics and rowdyism and the BJP will end such practices. The State government is performing well and has the public’s appreciation, he added. Lashing out at the Congress, Mr. Kateel said it was prone to infighting and there were difference of opinions as to who would be the CM in case the Congress returned to power. “However, the BJP will be in power for the next 20 years and Siddaramaiah and D.K. Shivakumar can sit back without having to slug it out for the CM’s chair,” said Mr. Kateel. He added that there are differences over candidates for the post of Congress office-bearers as well. Mr. Kateel said that the Union government was evacuating every Indian stranded in Afghanistan. The UPA government would have assisted members of Taliban outfits to enter India, he alleged. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam alleged that the country’s treasury was empty during the tenure of the UPA government and the government used to function like brokers charging commission. There were no units manufacturing personal protective equipment kits nor was oxygen manufacturing units. All these have received an impetus under the current government, claimed Mr. Gautam.  Earlier in the day, BJP supporters took a bike rally from the Visvevsavaraya to the venue of the conference which led to traffic jam along the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-be-in-power-for-next-20-years-because-of-good-administration-says-kateel/article36110330.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Udupi CMC to wind up beach panel||As many as 16 persons have lost their lives on the beach, by getting into the sea water, in the last five years. The committee, headed by the Deputy Commissioner, has not taken any steps to prevent such deaths, Mr. Saliyan said. Many members demanded that when there is a city municipality to look after the beach, there is no need for a committee to oversee its development. Commissioner of the municipality Udaya Shetty said that if the structure is being built permanently, action will be taken against the builder. Following demands made by members, municipal president Sumithra R. Nayak said that the resolution will be sent to the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-cmc-to-wind-up-beach-panel/article36110303.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festive season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-season/article36110114.ece
26 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ginger farmers stare at an uncertain future||Uncertainties in the market triggered by the pandemic have cast a pall over thousands of farmers who have cultivated ginger in Wayanad and parts of Karnataka. Besides, low demand for the produce and crop diseases are reasons for poor prices, sources said. A sharp fall in export to Bangladesh and very few enquiries from north India have also contributed to the crisis. An average of 30 trucks used to transport the produce from ginger growing regions in Karnataka to Bangladesh, but the number has dropped to five to 10 a day, said Praveen Antony, a trader from Chennai. The demand in the domestic market too is low, he added. The spot price of old ginger in Wayanad on Saturday was Rs. 1,500 a bag (60 kg) as against Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 4,200 during the corresponding period last year. There is no demand for fresh ginger rhizomes in the Wayanad market, but it was trading in Periyapattana and Hassan in Karnataka at Rs. 700 a bag on Wednesday as against Rs. 1,200 during the corresponding period last year . “The area under ginger cultivation has declined by nearly 20% this season owing to the low price of the produce from November to January. An average yield of ginger from an acre is 18 to 25 tonnes. It declined to 12 to 15 tonnes this season owing to poor rain in Karnataka,” said K.K. Mathew, a farmer. P.V. Sandeep, a farmer from Meenangadi, said he had invested nearly Rs. 60 lakh on the crop on 10 acres of leased land at Sargur in Mysuru last year. But he could not recoup half of it owing to the low price and crop diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ginger-farmers-stare-at-an-uncertain-future/article36110217.ece
26 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Mission Plus One launched in Wayanad||The Wayanad district panchayat in association with the Career Guidance and Adolescence Counselling Cell (CG and AC), Wayanad, under the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education, has launched Mission Plus One project to assist students in Plus One admission. District Panchayat President Samshad Marakkar inaugurated the project. The project, being implemented with the support of the Scheduled Tribe Development Department, envisages providing free assistance to students and ensuring admission to all of them, including tribal students, by helping them register for Plus One courses through the single-window admission system, Mr. Marakkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mission-plus-one-launched-in-wayanad/article36110228.ece
26 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Train service to restart||The Palakkad division of the Southern Railway has decided to operate unreserved daily express special trains from August 30. Train No 06477 Kannur–Mangaluru Central daily unreserved express special train will leave Kannur at 7.40 a.m. from August 30 and reach Mangaluru Central at 10.55 a.m. Likewise, train No. 06478 Mangaluru Central –Kannur daily unreserved express special train will leave Mangaluru Central at 5.05 p.m. and reach Kannur at 8.40 p.m. The train services will continue until further advice, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-service-to-restart/article36110221.ece
26 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Congress leadership gives clean chit to municipal Chairperson||Ernakulam district Congress party leadership, which met with Chairperson of the Thrikkakara Municipality Ajitha Thankappan and chairpersons of the standing committees in the municipal council on Tuesday, has virtually given a clean chit to the Chairperson in connection with the allegations that the chairperson had paid Rs. 10,000 each to the 43 councillors in municipal council. The Congress party is of the opinion that the allegations were politically motivated, party sources said. Vice president of the Congress party in the district Mohammed Shiyas was among those who met the municipal Chairperson and others on Tuesday at the DCC office as part of the inquiry instituted by the party district leadership into the allegations. No hearing held Congress party sources said the effort was to find the facts behind the allegations and to establish whether there was a case against the municipal Chairperson. Though there was a talk of the Congress party leadership questioning 16 other party councillors in the municipal council, no hearing was held on Wednesday, party sources added. A report on the basis of the inquiry is expected to be submitted to the district party leadership. The party had said earlier that stringent action would be taken against those involved if any wrongdoing was detected. The municipal Chairperson had denied the allegations and called them a ploy by the Opposition Left Democratic Front. The Opposition had, in the meanwhile, demanded that CCTV footage allegedly revealing the payment of money to councillors be protected. They had submitted a complaint before the municipal secretary and the police alleging that there was a plot to erase the visuals. M.K. Chandrababu of the CPI(M), Opposition Leader, was among those who have sought a Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau investigation into the allegations. Meanwhile, V.D. Suresh, Congress member in the council, said he stood firm in his accusation that the municipal Chairperson had paid money to the councillors. He said he had conveyed his opinion to the party leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-leadership-gives-clean-chit-to-municipal-chairperson/article36110238.ece
26 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Detailed site inspection mooted to study pollution issues at Kochi refinery||A technical committee appointed by the State Pollution Control Board has recommended a detailed site inspection to assess the allegations of air, water and noise pollution owing to the various expansion projects of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd’s (BPCL) Kochi refinery. Besides board officials, the committee consisted of experts from the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Central Pollution Control Board, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), and the District Development Commissioner. Residents staying near the expansion projects had alleged pollution and raised safety concerns before the authorities. Some of them had also approached the National Green Tribunal seeking remedial action. The report by the committee observed that the proximity of the flare stack in the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) was a matter of grave concern. The higher noise level, continuous lighting, foul smell, and smoke emission during flaring affect normal life. The high noise level in the residential zone was a clear violation of the EC/Consent conditions, it said. The technical committee pointed out that the absence of green belt provided in the PDPP/IREP project area was not in compliance with the specific condition under environment clearance (EC) related to the development of green belt. This has to be referred to the EC issuing authority for further necessary actions, it said. The committee has recommended removal of all scrap and construction material dumped or lying in the green belt and plant area. The company authorities need to consider indigenous/native species for future green belt development and follow the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board for selection of plant species. It should submit an action plan with a time schedule to achieve the required green belt around the project periphery. The report cited that the layout of installations close to public roads and residences suggests that buffer zone/area was not maintained. The safety distance criteria from the project installations need to be evaluated by a proper safety adequacy assessment in line with the various Oil Industry Safety Directorate standards and PESO guidelines. A proper safety assessment may be conducted with a committee comprising relevant regulatory authorities, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/detailed-site-inspection-mooted-to-study-pollution-issues-at-kochi-refinery/article36110241.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marriage solemnisation plea referred to larger HC Bench||A single judge of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday referred to a larger Bench the issue whether solemnisation of marriage under the Special Marriage Act could be permitted through videoconferencing. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar passed the order on a few writ petitions seeking a directive to solemnise their marriages under the Act through videoconferencing as they could not present themselves physically before the marriage officer. Redress grievances The court observed that a large number of cases involving situations where one or both parties to the intended marriage had to leave the country after giving notice of the intended marriage and could not consequently solemnise the marriage were coming up before the High Court. A pragmatic interpretation of the Act would redress the grievances of many such people. The court referred the case to the larger Bench because of the High Court’s earlier ruling that the marriage could not be solemnised through videoconferencing. The Judge was of the view that the act to be performed for solemnising the marriage need not be a physical act. The marriage under the Act could be solemnised even by exchange of words Besides, in the light of Section 10A of the Information Technology Act, it could not be said that a proposal and acceptance made by the parties to a marriage through videoconferencing was invalid. There was, therefore, absolutely no reason why the parties to a marriage under the Act shall not be solemnised by exchange of words through videoconferencing. According to the petitioners, the physical presence of the bride and groom was not required while solemnising the wedding under the Act. Government’s stance The State government submitted that solemnising was mandatory prior to registration of marriage. Therefore, the presence of both the parties as well as the witnesses before the marriage officer was mandatory. Besides, if an online mode of solemnisation was permitted, maintaining an electronic register of marriages and online mode of payment would have to be put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marriage-solemnisation-plea-referred-to-larger-hc-bench/article36110249.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||After 7 years, FACT all set to restart caprolactam production||The public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) is slated to restart caprolactam production later this week after a gap of more than seven years, making the event a landmark in the history of the company. Restarting caprolactam production promises to add about Rs. 600 crore to Rs. 700 crore to the turnover of the company. Caprolactam, a petrochemical product, basically goes into production of Nylon-6, which is a raw material for tyre cords, fishing nets, filament yarn, engineering plastics, and a host of other products. With Gujarat State Fertilizer Company and FACT being the only producers of caprolactam in the country, demand for the product is high, said FACT sources on Wednesday. They added that the company expected to sell most of its products in the domestic market, considering its reputation as a quality producer. Caprolactam production came to a halt at FACT in October 2012 with the cost of benzene and liquid fuel naphtha going up significantly, making caprolactam production unviable. FACT then shifted to natural gas in 2013. However, the cost of the new feedstock continued to rule high, preventing restarting of caprolactam production. The public sector company found an opportunity to restart caprolactam operations with the fall in gas prices in the international market even as the company had to meet the revisions in pollution control norms. Another issue faced by FACT was the shortage of experienced manpower, following the retirement of several employees during the idle period. FACT sources said that new recruitments were made with government approval, and they were given intensive training in operating the caprolactam plant. Trial runs had been on at the caprolactam plant, and production was expected to start in a couple of days, sources said. The plant has the capacity to produce 50,000 tonnes of caprolactam a year. The domestic demand for the product is 1.2 tonnes to 1.3 lakh tonnes per year. While the Gujarat company produces about 70,000 tonnes, there has been an import of 50,000 to 60,000 tonnes during the past years. FACT’s caprolactam will be a major import substitution, the company sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-7-years-fact-all-set-to-restart-caprolactam-production/article36110246.ece
26 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||All safety, pollution control measures in place, asserts BPCL||All safety and pollution control measures have been ensured in the project areas as per the prescribed guidelines and norms, according to the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) authorities. The Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) units were constructed as per the OISD/PESO guidelines by maintaining the distance criteria specified in the status. Flare stacks having a height of 91m from ground level as emergency relief devices are provided and during normal operations, only pilot flame with minimal fuel firing will be in line. Because of the high elevation level and temperature, the combustion products are dispersed easily into the atmosphere, they informed the technical committee. On the development of green belt in the PDPP site, the company authorities pointed out that they had set apart 40 acres for developing green cover. The green belt was developed along both the sides of the canal and other areas adjacent to the boundary walls in consultation with a former Deputy Forest Conservator. They selected suitable native plant species for the green belt. Around 25,000 saplings were planted in an area of 40 acres in the IREP project area, which is more than 33% of the plant area. A Miyawaki forest was developed in the area, they said. On the question of not providing green belt/ buffer zone in certain areas, the company stated that it had developed green belt inside the project area as mentioned in the environmental clearance conditions. There were no stipulations and buffer zones given in the conditions for environment clearance, according to the clarification submitted before the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-safety-pollution-control-measures-in-place-asserts-bpcl/article36110240.ece
26 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bank scam: HC notice to ED, CBI||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a writ petition seeking a probe by both the agencies into the loan scam in the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank in Thrissur. In his petition, Suresh M.V. from Thrissur alleged that around Rs. 300 crore had been siphoned off from various accounts maintained at the bank at the behest of the managing committee of the bank. The petitioner added that the bank was managed by a committee owing allegiance to the CPI(M). Therefore, an investigation by the police or the Crime Branch would not be fair. Besides, it was suspected that money siphoned off from the bank had been utilised for terror activities. Therefore, the matter required an in-depth probe by the CBI and the ED. Govt. forms panel The government has constituted a three-member committee to assess the assets and liabilities of the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank, Thrissur, in the wake of the loan scam unearthed by the audit. The committee to be headed by the Registrar of Cooperatives will assess the amount to be returned to investors of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-scam-hc-notice-to-ed-cbi/article36110252.ece
26 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC remits issue of Nadar quota to single judge||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday closed an appeal filed by the State government against a single judge order staying the inclusion of the Christian Nadar community, other than South Indian United Church (SIUC), in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The Bench ordered that the issue be remitted to the single judge for consideration in view of the passing of the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill restoring the power of the State governments to expand the list of other backward class categories. The single judge had earlier stayed the decision of the State government after observing that only the President had the right to expand the list. The State government had submitted that the single judge should have taken note of the fact that Nadars belonging to Christian denominations other than the SIUC had already been included by the Central government on the Central List of OBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-remits-issue-of-nadar-quota-to-single-judge/article36110251.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NAAC evaluation of Sanskrit varsity||A peer team from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) commenced its evaluation of the academic and other achievements of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit here on Wednesday. The team is led by Srinivasa Varakhedi, Vice Chancellor of Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University, Nagpur. The team members include Dr. Shalini Singh (Professor, Department of Psychology, Maharshi Dayanand University) among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naac-team-begins-evaluation/article36110248.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIFT, Matsyafed ink MoU for tech transfer||The Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) and the state apex fisheries cooperative, Matsyafed, have signed an agreement through which CIFT will provide technology for converting fish waste into fish feed. The technology for conversion of fish waste into aqua feed was developed with the twin objectives of meeting the high demand for fish feed by the ever-growing aquaculture sector in the State and also to overcome the unhygienic fish waste management practices, said a communication from CIFT. The fisheries cooperative signed the MoU with ICAR-CIFT for using the technology for production and marketing. Ravishankar C.N., director of CIFT, handed over the MoU on transfer of technology and machinery to Dinesan Cheruvat, managing director of Matsyafed, the communication said. Dr. Ravishankar said Matsyafed could upscale the technology dissemination so that a large number of start-ups could access this technology for taking up business ventures. Keeping pace with the great surge in production of cultured fish in the recent past, there is a huge demand for cheaper protein ingredients for aqua feed in the country. CIFT has so far demonstrated the technology in 40 fish markets in different States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cift-matsyafed-sign-mou-for-technology-transfer/article36110242.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bid to cancel Kerala varsities’ courses opposed||A joint meeting of the Save Lakshadweep Forum Advisory Committee and the Lakshadweep Bar Association opposed the move by the Lakshadweep administration to cancel the courses offered by the universities in Kerala for Lakshadweep students. The administrator should immediately withdraw the move, including the decision to cancel the postgraduate programmes offered by the University of Calicut for students in Lakshadweep, according to a communication issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-cancel-kerala-varsities-courses-opposed/article36110250.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4,048 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 4,048 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. A total of 3,987 persons got infected through local contact in the district. TPR high The source of infection in 55 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate is 17.23%. Over 50 cases The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 50 included Rayamangalam (107), Thrikkakara (105), Vengoor (98), Karumaloor (93), Kalamassery (88), Thripunithura (85), Karukutty (81), Kumbalanghi (73), Vazhakulam (69), Kalady (68), Pallipuram (68), Nedumbassery (64), Aarakuzha (63), Koovapadi (61), Chittatukara (61), Chellanam (60), Malayattoor- Neeleswaram (60), Kizhakkambalam (59), Kottuvalli (55), Payipra (55), Alangad (53), Maneed (52), and Palluruthy (51). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Elamkulam, Kaloorkad, Poonithura, and Chakkaraparambu, according to an official release. Active cases As many as 16,552 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district. A total of 23,492 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4048-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36110243.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NUALS invites applications for courses||The National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS), Kalamassery, has invited applications for admission to the B.A.LL.B. (Hons.) and one year LL.M from aspirants whose names are included in the CLAT 2021 results. Students can submit their expression of interest online in the prescribed proforma available in the university website www.nuals.ac.in for admission to the existing vacant seats and that those that may arise under different categories, according to an official communication. The online proforma has to be submitted before 3 p.m. on August 31. More details can be had from www.nuals.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nuals-invites-applications-for-courses/article36110244.ece
26 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LKG admissions||Application forms for admission to LKG at Rajagiri Kindergarten, Kalamassery, will be available on www.rajagiri.ac.in from September 2 to 7. Details can be had from 0484-2911250, 0484- 2911251, according to a release issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lkg-admissions/article36110245.ece
26 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Hopes down on tourism revival in Kollam||Despite various tourism destinations in the district witnessing a solid turnout during Onam, industry stakeholders seem apprehensive about the possibility of business picking up pace. While visitors thronged major centres including Thenmala and Shendurney in the weekend, tour operators say they are now bracing for yet another lull as many bookings were cancelled. Onam crowd “The Onam crowd was there only for a couple of days. Now Thenmala is nearly deserted and it will take more time for the sector to revive. The festival rush cannot be taken as an indicator of the industry bouncing back to normal. What you saw was something similar to the crowd in textile shops, it was only temporary,” says Thomas, a tour operator. Considering the recent surge in test positivity rates, most operators are expecting another set of curbs in the coming days. “The State government may introduce new restrictions or even go for a lockdown. The spike in occupancy during Onam means nothing,” he adds. Though many hotels and resorts offered Onam staycation packages, they didn't receive much response either. “There were a lot of enquiries and few bookings for the weekend. Most wanted to spend the Onam day at our resort and enjoy our festival spread. But there were hardly any takers for our two and three day packages. We also have a feeling that the business will be dull after this week,” says Shyam, who runs a resort. Houseboat sector Houseboat sector is facing a similar situation as the new restrictions are causing a considerable dip in the number of bookings. “The sector did come alive during the last week, but getting group bookings has become very difficult. Since vaccination and RT-PCR certificates are mandatory, several people are backing out. They say some persons in their group are not vaccinated and there are many parents who are not ready to take RT-PCR tests for the children,” says Jayan, houseboat operator. Difficult lives He adds the absence of foreign tourists and the ever-changing pandemic scenario has made their lives difficult. “People are not confident about blocking the dates, as the scene may change any moment in time . Usually we get a lot of advance bookings, but now domestic tourists seem worried about the coming of a third wave. They feel that they may not be able to travel the next month and this uncertainty is causing huge losses to us,” he says.  Though many hotels and resorts offered Onam staycation packages, they didn't receive much response either.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopes-down-on-tourism-revival-in-kollam/article36110278.ece
26 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2,479 new cases reported in Kollam as caseload soars in Kottayam, Pathanamthitta||The district reported 2,479 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,582 recoveries on Wednesday. While 2,469 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include two NRIs and eight health workers. At present, the district has 21,748 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 21,61,869. While 2,235 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,27,884 primary and 19,373 secondary contacts. 2,050 cases in Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 2,050 persons testing positive of the disease on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 2020 persons including one health worker contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 19.67%. As many as 850 persons recovered, bringing down the total active COVID cases to 7,145. 1,008 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,008 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but three contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of six cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 16%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2479-new-cases-reported-in-kollam-as-caseload-soars-in-kottayam-pathanamthitta/article36110286.ece
26 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two youths arrested with drugs||Excise sleuths on Wednesday arrested two persons with drug ampoules as part of a special enforcement drive launched in connection with Onam. Saidali (25) and Ananandan Pillai (28), both residents of Thazhuthala, were nabbed with 10 ampoules of buprenorphine, diazepam and phenergan. The arrest was made by a team led by Kollam special squad Circle Inspector S. Krishnakumar following a tip-off received by Deputy Excise Commissioner B. Suresh. According to Department officials, both the accused have been selling drugs to youngsters including students. The duo has been focusing on Kottiyam, Parakkulam and Umayanallur areas, making the drugs available to a large group of clients. The Excise team had put the accused under surveillance following the instruction of Assistant Excise Commissioner V. Robert. The duo has been sourcing the drug from Ernakulam and their main clients were the students of major professional colleges in Kollam. The officials also retrieved messages from phones demanding drugs. The drugs seized from the accused are potent narcotics that can cause addiction even in first-time users. The drugs are normally prescribed as painkillers and their abuse can lead to health and psychological issues. “A doctor's prescription and supervision are mandatory for taking these medicines,” said the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-arrested-with-drugs/article36110279.ece
26 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||International recognition for RT Mission||In a significant achievement, K. Rupesh Kumar, State Coordinator of the Responsible Tourism Mission in Kerala, has been selected to the judging panel of the World Travel Mart (WTM) Global Responsible Tourism awards. This is for the first time that an Indian is finding a place in the list of international juries for the selection of these awards, which recognises the businesses and destinations that are contributing to more sustainable and responsible tourism industry. Chairman of the panel Harold Goodwin is the chairman of the jury panel. Mr. Kumar, a pioneer in responsible tourism practices, has played an important role in developing a unique village tourism model in Kerala with the support of the State Tourism Department. A recipient of the ‘Outstanding Achievement Award’ at WTM 2020, he was nominated as the ‘World Responsible Tourism Leader’ in 2019 and ‘Indian Responsible Tourism Leader’, last year. The categories of awards this year are Decarbonising Travel & Tourism; Sustaining Employees and Communities through the Pandemic; Destinations building back better post-Covid; Increasing Diversity in Tourism: How Inclusive is our Industry; Reducing Plastic Waste in the Environment; Growing the Local Economic Benefit. The last date for submission of application for the responsible tourism awards is August 31, 2021.  The last date for submission of application for the awards is August 31||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-recognition-for-responsible-tourism-mission/article36110281.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More wards in Kozhikode go under lockdown||The Kozhikode district administration has imposed strict lockdown in wards where the weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) is above 8. The Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) has ordered that such wards be barricaded preventing movement of people from them to outside and vice versa. The main roads in the wards will be blocked. Residents shall not come out of their homes except for emergency medical needs or for purchasing essentials. They could seek the help of rapid response teams (RRTs) if they need supplies from outside the ward. The restrictions are not applicable to vehicles sanctioned by the Health Department for observation and testing. Those who have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 as well as those who have been in contact with them have been asked to go into quarantine, and the secretaries of local bodies and the local police have to ensure it. Medical officers and secretaries of the local bodies concerned have to ensure that everyone in the wards under lockdown undergo COVID-19 test in a week. All shops, except those selling food and medicines, will remain closed, while hotels will be allowed to provide home delivery. Akshaya centres shall function from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Restaurants in other wards have been allowed to remain open for half an hour more (up to 10 p.m.) for cleaning purposes. Meanwhile, the district recorded 3,680 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday when 16,453 people were tested. The test positivity rate (TPR) has reached 22.7%. District Medical Officer V. Jayashree said 3,615 of the new cases were through local transmission, while the source is unknown in 53 cases. Two who travelled from abroad recently, four from other States, and six health workers are also among the newly infected. As 2,426 persons were discharged from treatment facilities in the district, the active caseload on Wednesday was 26,745. The wards under lockdown from Thursday are 2,4, 5, 20 and 26 of Koyilandy Municipality; wards 24, 8, 11, 30, 26, 1, 7, 17, 15, 13, 20, and 10 of Mukkom Municipality; Ward 20 of Vadakara; wards 30, 31, 32, 26, 23, 21, and 28 of Payyoli; wards 31, 13, 2, and 14 of Ramanattukara; wards 24, 17, and 9 of Feroke; wards 23, 1, 34, and 15 of Koduvally, and Ward 3 of the Kozhikode Corporation, besides all wards in Koorachundu, Kayanna and Koodaranhi grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-wards-in-kozhikode-go-under-lockdown/article36110215.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MVD, police to rein in road racers||Squads of the police and the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) have intensified their surprise checks on national and State highways in Kozhikode district following a spike in bike races by youths. Incidentally, those who fall prey to such amateurish races using altered motorbikes are senior citizens and people on emergency travel. “Altered motorbikes produce annoying sounds distracting fellow motorists. Moreover, the riders’ attempts to overtake vehicles and stunts in narrow spaces literally terrorise other motorists,” said V. Prasanth, a civil engineer who was witness to a recent motorbike crash near Malaparamba. Pillion riders too are found enjoying such unsafe rides on crowded city roads, he pointed out. According to MVD officials, untrained riders join road races mainly to upload videos of their stunts on social media pages to build fan base. The propaganda that those who perform well in such rides get opportunities in films is also misleading youths, they said. Underage riders Among the riders are also underage people without driving licence. Many of them use altered bikes on rent for taking part in deadly races. The number plates of such vehicles are rarely readable, to evade surveillance cameras and checking. A preliminary investigation by the Kozhikode City Police confirmed that there were even social media groups that encourage youths to go for risky rides and post their videos and photos to grab attention. Also, the viral videos of professional riders are used to attract local riders to such groups. Meanwhile, MVD officials made it clear that the licences of those resorting to stunts on the road would be suspended with immediate effect, apart from impounding the vehicles. The licences of over 2,000 reckless riders were suspended during the recent drive. The public can send details of such vehicles to motor vehicle inspectors for spot action, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-police-to-rein-in-road-racers/article36110227.ece
26 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Many willing to surrender land for hill highway||The reluctance of local landowners to hand over their property for the proposed hill highway project is fading away in the rural areas of Kozhikode district as a result of the intervention of people’s representatives to settle disputes. They personally visit landholders and convince them of the importance of the project for local development and improved rural road connectivity. In Thiruvambady and Koodaranhi areas, many of the families that opposed the move to acquire land are now willing to cooperate with the project. Action committees constituted against the project are also cooperating with mediation attempts. A local body member from Koodaranhi said many landowners from his village handed over consent letters to Thiruvambady MLA Linto Joseph during his visit to the project area on Monday. Many others had also agreed to hand over land, he said. The main reason behind the opposition to the project was the decision of the government to take over wayside properties without any compensation package. Though there were a number of local action committees which sought a comprehensive package for those who hand over land for the highway project, the government did not consider it citing financial constraints. The total length of the hill highway in the district will be around 120 km, which will be part of the Statewide highway network of 1,332-km long hill highway. The work will be executed in four phases. For the final phase of the project, the consent of nearly 1,000 landowners will have to be obtained by the Public Works Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-willing-to-surrender-land-for-hill-highway/article36110223.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Mishandling of LPG cylinders suspected in frequent accidents||Mishandling of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders by delivery agents and drivers continues to be a suspected reason for frequent domestic accidents in Kozhikode district. Fire and Rescue Services personnel have stressed the need for consumers to check the condition of cylinders and expiry date at the time of delivery. Despite complaints about careless handling of cylinders, private agents supplying them have failed to incorporate a proper checking mechanism. As a result, delivery persons have turned increasingly reckless while transporting cylinders, which often leads to leakage during refilling. Most agents do not use trolleys during delivery, and consumers have been complaining that even the basic requirement of keeping filled cylinders in upright position is met by delivery persons. Moreover, there have been instances of dragging cylinders or carrying them on shoulders during delivery. “The fitness of the cylinder is crucial in averting gas leakage and related safety risks. We even came across two incidents where agents were told to replace cylinders that were in use even after their expiry date,” said K.P. Baburaj, a functionary of the Kerala Fire Force officers Association. He added that rescue squads had organised awareness programmes for local residents on ways to identify damaged cylinders. “A cylinder, if found in a wet condition during delivery, will have to be inspected very closely, as it is the basic sign of damage. Such cylinders should not be used at home,” said Mr. Baburaj. The appearance of the cylinder should not be a reason to rule out safety risks, as there have been attempts to use repainted old cylinders, he warned. ‘Complaints addressed’ Meanwhile, proprietors of a few private gas agencies in the city said they were keen on replacing old or damaged cylinders. They added that complaints raised by customers were being addressed. “It is, in fact, not the fitness of cylinders but carelessness on the part of customers while using the stove or regulators that leads to gas leakage. There have also been instances of leakage of tube,” said a private gas agency proprietor. He added that periodic inspection by consumers would go a long way in averting accidents.  A cylinder in wet condition should be inspected closely, as it is the basic sign of damage. They should not be used at home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mishandling-of-lpg-cylinders-suspected-in-frequent-accidents/article36110225.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Tourism circuit, Kalari to boost Vadakara’s potential||Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has announced that a mobile application that would introduce the tourist attractions in Kerala and their specialities to the rest of the world would be launched soon. Launching the renovation work at Sand Banks beach in Vadakara on Wednesday, he said that the district had immense potential for domestic tourism that would be given a boost by identifying at least one destination in every panchayat. He said that a list of 34 new and unexplored destinations in the district had already been made. He called for the cooperation and active support of the local bodies in identifying more locations and developing them to suit the requirements of tourists. Pointing out the importance of the martial art form Kalari Payattu in Vadakara, the Minister said that projects would be devised to utilise the martial art tradition of Vadakara and Thalassery for tourism. He also talked about launching a tourism circuit connecting Koyilandy and Vadakara Assembly constituencies. The Sand Banks beach project being developed at a cost of Rs. 2.27 crore. The works being undertaken include landscaping, boat jetty construction, toilets, water distribution, an open gymnasium, walkways and lighting. K.K. Rema, MLA, presided over the event. K.Muraleedharan, MP, was the guest of honour.  Kozhikode has immense potential for domestic tourism that will be given a boost by identifying at least one destination in every panchayat P.A. Mohamed Riyas Tourism Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-circuit-kalari-to-boost-vadakaras-potential/article36110220.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New GM for Cyberpark||Vivek Nair took over as the new general manager of the government Cyberpark on Wednesday. Mr. Nair, a native of Thrissur, has held top management positions in firms in the UAE for two decades. With a Master’s degree in marketing, he was previously associated with marketing and customer engagement for multinational brands including Amway and Avis, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-gm-for-cyberpark/article36110214.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man killed in clash over property in Kozhikode||A 58-year-old man was allegedly killed in a clash between neighbours over property issues at Chalilthodikayil near Thiruvambady in Kozhikode district on Wednesday afternoon. The victim was identified as Mohandas. The police said he was manhandled by his neighbour named Rajeesh. A serious injury caused to the head with some sharp object led to the death. The accused is absconding. For over a year, the two had not been in good terms with each other. A team led by Thamarassery DySP Ashraf conducted inquest. The death was confirmed at a private hospital at Mukkom. The body was shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-clash-over-property-in-kozhikode/article36110229.ece
26 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Attestation of swimming certificates||The District Collector has asked Plus One aspirants and their parents not to approach the District Sports Council for swimming certificates. Local bodies have been asked to collect the certificates issued by them and get them attested from the District Sports Council office before handing them over to the students. This is to avoid the unnecessary rush and violation of COVID-19 protocol in the office when students turn up for the certificates, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attestation-of-swimming-certificates/article36110219.ece
26 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Role play contest for students held||The Field Outreach Bureau and Central Sahodaya, Malappuram, conducted an online role play competition for students as part of the platinum jubilee of India’s Independence. Jumna T.M. from Markazul Uloom School, Kondotty, won the first prize for enacting Pazhassi Raja. Mohammed Raihan from ISS Senior Secondary School, Perinthalmanna, and Islah Sham V.P. from Al Farook School, Kottakkal, won the second and third prizes respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/role-play-contest-for-students-held/article36110222.ece
26 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Govt. won’t protect anyone in tree-felling case: Balan||CPI(M) Central Committee member and former minister A.K. Balan said here on Wednesday that the government would not protect any of the culprits involved in the Muttil tree-felling case. “Whoever makes any interventions, the government will not protect the culprits,” he said. Mr. Balan said the investigation was proceeding in the right direction, and all involved in the crime would be brought to book. He said none would be allowed to create a power centre under the guise of being close to the government. He condemned the BJP for conducting a march to Speaker M.B. Rajesh’s house. “What the BJP did was undemocratic. Mr. Rajesh expressed the view of the CPI(M) about Malabar Rebellion leader Variankunnath Kunhamad Haji.” Mr. Balan accused the BJP of trying to create tension over the issue of Malabar Rebellion. The CPI(M) will take on the BJP politically, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-wont-protect-anyone-in-tree-felling-case-balan/article36110373.ece
26 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rights activists hail master’s degree in animal protection laws||Animal rights activists are upbeat as NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad, is launching the country’s first master’s programme in animal protection laws. The university has extended the last date to apply for its unique MA programme in animal protection laws to September 15. NALSAR is launching the two-year master’s programme by joining hands with its Animal Law Centre and Humane Society International, India. “The programme, which begins this year, will add a golden feather to the cap of the animal rights protection movement in the country. It will strengthen our efforts in protecting animal rights,” said Humane Society International coordinator Sally Varma. NALSAR started offering a postgraduate diploma programme in animal protection laws two years ago. It evinced big interest among animal lovers, activists and professionals, eventually prompting NALSAR to offer a full-time master’s programme through the Animal Law Centre. The course does not require a background in legal education. Any bachelor’s degree holder is eligible to apply for this distance education programme, which aims at equipping students with knowledge on the legal aspects of animal protection and training them in the country’s vast animal protection legislation, including the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 and the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. From learning the FIR process to fighting cases of cruelty, to NGO compliance, funding, and how to work with government bodies, the programme is expected to empower individuals to utilise the legal process in existence to strengthen the fight for animals. “The course helped me understand the framework of animal protection and conservation,” said Radhika Rao, who completed NALSAR’s PG diploma in animal protection laws. Course module Students will get round-the-clock access to reading materials, presentations and video lectures on an online platform developed specifically for the course. The faculty will be experts in the field, like Gauri Maulekhi, trustee of People for Animals, and Alokparna Sengupta, managing director of Humane Society International, India. Career prospects range from legal practice in the field of animal laws, working in allied NGOs for animal welfare, public policy and research think-tanks focused on animal protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-activists-hail-masters-degree-in-animal-protection-laws/article36110396.ece
26 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad to host granite sculpture camp||The Ahalya campus in Palakkad is set to host a 15-day granite sculpture camp from Friday. About two dozen sculptors from across the State are expected to attend the camp. The organisers said the camp would be the fifth in successive years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-to-host-granite-sculpture-camp/article36110397.ece
26 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Scaled-down, but regatta cruises on||Strict regulations notwithstanding, the rhyme and rhythm of vanchipattu reverberated across the banks of the Pampa as oarsmen on three snakeboats propelled in unison along the river to stage this year’s Aranmula Uthrattathi Boat Race on Wednesday. In view of the COVID-19 restrictions, only three palliyodams — Maramon, Kozhencherry and Keeezhvanmazhy — took part in the event this year. Each boat had 40 persons on board. Last year, the event was staged with just a boat, with 24 persons on board. The race, which began by 10.45 a.m, was held in three legs respectively from the ghats of Aranmula Sree Parthasarathy Temple to Sathrakadavu, from Sathrakadavu to Parappuzhakadavu, and from Parappuzhakadavu to the temple ghats again. A handful of devotees were present on the river ghats to make offerings to the palliyodams . Big draw Swami Sadswaroopanantha Saraswathi, general secretary of the Margdarshak Mandal, inaugurated the event. Pathanamthitta MP Anto Antony flagged off the race. District Collector Divya S. Iyer and district panchayat president Omallur Sankaran were present. The event drew to a close by 12.30 p.m. Prior to the pandemic, up to 5,000 oarsmen on board 52 snakeboats used to participate in the ritualistic spectacle, which also drew a huge number of tourists to the banks of the Pampa. According to the organisers, as many as 25 snakeboats participated in the regatta even during the mega floods in 2018. Meanwhile, the famed Vallasadya at Aranmula is slated for August 30. The oarsmen of the three snakeboats will be served the feast at three venues. Only those fully vaccinated with a negative certificate of RT-PCR test undergone within 48 hours will be permitted to attend the ritual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scaled-down-but-regatta-cruises-on/article36110261.ece
26 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF wrests Konni block panchayat||Nearly a month after it ousted the United Democratic Front (UDF) from power, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Wednesday wrested power in the Konni block panchayat. In an election held to the local body council, Jiji Saji, a Congress rebel who has switched sides to the LDF, was elected president of the block panchayat. She received seven votes while the UDF candidate and former president M.V. Ambily got six votes. UDF has 7 members Of the 13-member council, the UDF had seven members while the LDF had six members. However, Jiji Saji switched sides to the LDF following an infighting within the Congress over the allocation of the president’s post to Ms. Ambily. Last month, the LDF had successfully moved no confidence motions against the UDF-led council and ousted its president and vice-president with the help of Ms. Saji, who represents the Elakollur division. Setback Meanwhile, the victory of Ms. Saji came as a major setback to the Adoor Prakash camp of the Congress in Konni, which had nominated Ms. Ambily to the president’s post. Attempts by the senior Congress leader Anto Antony, who now represents the Pathanamthitta parliamentary seat, to strike a consensus through a post-sharing deal, too had failed in the face of stiff opposition put up by the camp. The faction led by Mr. Prakash, who had been regarded as the flag-bearer of the Congress in the Konni region for about 25 years, is experiencing a considerable erosion in its clout with their leader shifting his base to Attingal. With Mr. Prkash’s exit from Konni, the LDF has wrested the Konni Assembly segment from the UDF while the Congress-led coalition also lost nine out of the 11 grama panchayats during the last local body elections held here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-wrests-konni-block-panchayat/article36110283.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||In post-Onam surge, State registers 31,445 fresh cases||The COVID-19 case graph as well as the test positivity rate (TPR) in the State soared on Wednesday, raising the spectre of another wave in the rising, as it happened last year in the post-Onam period The State logged 31,445 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, when 1,65,273 samples were tested over 24 hours. While this is indeed a huge leap from the 24,296 cases reported on the previous day, testing had simultaneously been increased. The TPR, which has been steadily rising, touched 19.03%. Shorter incubation time While a definite surge in cases was expected in the post-Onam period, the surge is showing up faster this year, possibly because the Delta variant currently in circulation, seems to have a shorter incubation period than the original virus. However, the government hopes that even as active transmission continues, hospitalisations will not show a steep rise as vaccination has been progressing at a good pace in the State and a significant proportion of the eligible population has been delivered at least the first dose of vaccine. The State’s active case pool, which had 1,59,335 patients on Tuesday, has now surged to 1,70,292. The number of patients reported to have recovered on the day was 20,271. No dip in deaths Deaths due to COVID-19 remains at a steady high in the State even when hospitalisations and ICU occupancy figures remain stable. The State has not been able to make any impact on COVID-19 mortality in spite of the fact that a substantial percentage of the population above 60 years have been fully or partially vaccinated. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 19,972 with the State adding 215 recent deaths to the list. ICU occupancy Intensive care unit (ICU) occupancy and hospitalisation figures have not seen a major fluctuation for the past two weeks despite the surge in new cases. However, the surge in case graph in the post-Onam period would get reflected in these figures only after two weeks. The current ICU occupancy is stable at 2,047 while the number of those requiring ventilator support is 790. On Wednesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID went up steeply from 2,078 to 2,439. However, because of a good number of recoveries, total hospitalisation figures of those with moderate or severe COVID-19 continues to remain stable at 26,582, despite the increase in active cases. The cumulative case burden stands at 38, 83,429 cases. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases — 4,048. Cases in other districts are Thrissur 3,865; Kozhikode 3,680; Malappuram 3,503; Palakkad 2,562; Kollam 2,479; Kottayam 2,050; Kannur 1,930; Alappuzha 1,874; Thiruvananthapuram 1,700; Idukki 1,166; Pathanamthitta 1,008; Wayanad 962; and Kasaragod 619.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-post-onam-surge-state-registers-31445-fresh-cases/article36110259.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF, BJP lock horns over special council meetings||Demanding special council meetings has become the go to strategy for the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation to corner the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), with the fourth such meeting to be held within the past two months scheduled on Thursday. The BJP demanded the meeting to raise the Corporation’s alleged failure in effective waste management in the city. Notice As per the rules, if one-third of the councillors issue a notice for a special council, it has to be convened. In case the ruling party declines this demand, those who issued the notice can still convene a special council meeting and pass resolutions. This clause, which was used by opposition parties sparingly in the past, is now being used frequently by the BJP. On June 18, a special council meeting was held following the BJP’s demand for a discussion on its allegations of corruption in sanitation activities held as part of the Attukal Pongala this year. On July 9, a special council meeting was convened to discuss the process of selection of beneficiaries for the various welfare initiatives as part of the city Corporation's people's plan project. On July 22 this year, a special council meeting was held following the BJP’s demand to discuss the alleged misappropriation of funds meant for beneficiaries for educational and other purposes under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the city Corporation office. On February 2, a special council meeting discussed the issue regarding revision projects for the year. No concrete decision Barring the council meeting on the alleged fund misappropriation, in which a decision to demand inquiry by a special investigation team was taken, hardly any concrete decision was taken in any of the meetings. In some of the special council meetings, the LDF did manage to turn the tables on the BJP too, by using it as a forum to forcefully put forward their side of the story. “We issued the latest notice for special council meeting as the Corporation has failed miserably in solid waste management. Though several major announcements were made on waste treatment at source, none has proved effective. Each of demands for such meetings were to discuss major issues concerning the people. Now, they have reduced the time for discussion by scheduling the meeting at 4 p.m, instead of 2.30 p.m, as is done usually,” says senior BJP councillor M.R.Gopan. However, Left Democratic Front’s parliamentary party leader D.R.Anil says that the BJP has been issuing notice for meetings over frivolous reasons. ‘To slowdown work’ “Their plan has been to identify some proposed plans of the Corporation in advance and demand a discussion over it. In the case of waste management, we had already asked councillors to identify 10 cents of land in each ward to set up local-level waste management systems, which is one of their demands now. These notices are also meant to slow down the administrative machinery, as at least 3-4 days are lost in carrying out the homework for each meeting,” says Mr.Anil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-bjp-lock-horns-over-special-council-meetings/article36110414.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Excise squad under lens for botching drug probe||The Excise Enforcement and Anti-Narcotics Special Squad, Ernakulam, is reportedly in the dock for allegedly ruining a sensitive inquiry into the seizure of crystalline MDMA, a synthetic narcotic drug, from a disparate group of youngsters in Kottayam recently. Excise Commissioner S. Anantha Krishnan has despatched Additional Excise Commissioner, Enforcement, Abdul Rashi to Kochi to record the statements of the errant officers. The nature of the investigation or what the special squad is suspected of having done remains unknown. Nevertheless, the department’s prima facie inference is that the Kochi squad imperilled a potentially sweeping drug investigation with inter-State and international ramifications. The drug case has its provenance in intelligence generated jointly by the State Excise Enforcement Squad (SEES) and the Customs, Preventive. Air cargo parcels  Last July, the Customs, Chennai, had intercepted at least two air cargo parcels containing a significant amount of the banned narcotic. The importers had used fake invoices and the services of a cargo agent to ship in the drug from Spain surreptitiously. The Customs also learnt that they had shied away from receiving a recent consignment, fearing betrayal by their associates. The SEES learnt a well-heeled youth in Kozhikode was the kingpin of the racket. It tracked his mobile phone and shadowed his vehicle for several days. On August 18, the SEES intercepted a seven-member group travelling in a van with exotic dogs acting on a tip-off. The plainclothes squad seized 86 gm of MDMA and a deer antler from the vehicle. It handed over the case to the Kochi unit with the information that the gang had secreted at least 2 kg of the drug in three apartments in Ernakulam. However, for unknown reasons, the Kochi squad allowed one of the prime accused in the case to walk free. It also did not account for the seizure of the deer antler. Moreover, the Kochi squad registered the case in a manner alleged to be advantageous to the accused. Some officers refused to endorse the mahassar report and registered their opposition in writing. The issue became a scandal after surveillance camera images of the accused moving the MDMA out of one of the apartments went viral. The “embarrassment” prompted Excise Minister M.V. Govindan to order the internal inquiry. He said officials if found guilty, would face action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-squad-under-lens-for-botching-drug-probe/article36110255.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adani group likely to take over airport on October 18||The Adani Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Limited, the Adani Group subsidiary, is likely to take over the Thiruvananthapuram airport on October 18 this year, indicates a reply given by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to an RTI query. Although the concessionaire was expected to take over the airport by July 18, the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic had forced a postponement. “'(The) expected date of handing over of Thiruvananthapuram Airport is October 18, 2021, to the selected concessionaire. Thiruvananthapuram Airport was expected to be handed over to the selected concessionaire on or before July 18, 2021. However, the date of handing over of the airport has been extended up to October 18, 2021, at the request of the concessionaire due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 second wave,”' says the reply given by Anil Vikram, general manager (SIU)/CPIU, AAI, to an RTI query placed by Kochi-based RTI activist K. Govindan Nampoothiry. To the question whether the private firm would retain the existing employees, both permanent and on contract, at the airport after the takeover, the AAI replied that the details regarding employment of all AAI employees will be as per the terms and conditions of concession agreement signed by between the AAI and the concessionaire. Mr. Nampoothiry had also sought a copy of the concession agreement, but the AAI pointed out that it will be in the public domain after the airport is transferred, a process ‘which is in progress and the process is not yet completed.’ The Adani group had won the bid to manage and operate the airport for 50 years amid stiff opposition from the State government and the airport employees. The State government had vehemently opposed the privatisation bid, and urged the Centre to retain the airport in the public sector. The AAI and the Adani Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Limited has signed the take-over agreement on January 19 this year for the ‘operations, management and development’ of the facility for 50 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adani-group-may-take-over-airport-on-oct-18/article36110405.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies should be job creators: Minister||Making a call to local bodies to reorient themselves as job creators and employers, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan said that they should focus on programmes for generating employment. He was interacting with people’s representatives and officials from local bodies from various districts as part of a series of programmes of the Minister directly interacting with local bodies and evaluating their performance. Local opportunities “Each local body should be able to ensure jobs for at least 5 persons from every 1,000 people in the population. They should explore the possibilities and opportunities that are available in their specific local area, and use this to generate employment,” he said. He said that local bodies should be able to revitalise themselves with fresh approaches and new aims at a time when the people's plan movement in the State is celebrating its silver jubilee. The Kudumbashree system should be made more contemporary with more programmes to generate employment and ensuring a source of income for its members, he said. Mr. Govindan said that the local bodies should take up the cleaning campaign as a matter of priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-should-become-job-creators-says-minister/article36110404.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,700 new cases in capital, TPR at 13.8%||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) has been steadily increasing in the district. It stood at 13.8% on the day when 1,700 new COVID-19 cases were reported. As of Wednesday, 10,101 people were under treatment for the infection. The district reported 1,272 recoveries on the day. Contact transmission accounted for 1,591 of the new cases. The list also included a health worker. In all, 27,295 people are in quarantine in the district at present. Six local body wards in the district where the COVID-19 weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) is above eight will be placed under stringent lockdown measures from Thursday, the district administration said. The WIPR is above eight in wards no. 4, 5 and 10 of Attingal municipality; wards 14 and 20 of the Nedumangad municipality, and ward no. 24 of the Varkala municipality, Additional District Magistrate E. Muhammed Safeer said. The WIPR is as high as 15.77 in ward 14 and 16.68 in ward 20 in the Nedumangad municipality, according to the data released by the district administration. It stood at 10.14 in ward 24 of Varkala municipality while wards four, five and ten of Attingal municipality reported a WIPR of 8.69, 8.29 and 8.6 respectively. Only shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to function in the six local bodies. They will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Meanwhile, the stringent lockdown measures imposed in ward 28 of the Attingal municipality have been lifted with the ward reporting a WIPR below eight, the ADM said. Containment zones Ward no. 9 of the Varkala municipality has been declared a containment zone in view of the spread of COVID-19. The following areas have been declared as micro containment zones: Thanikkavila in ward 27 of Neyyatinkara municipality, Nettayam Ammachiplavu in ward 13 of Vilappil panchayat, Kandamthitta and Pettipara in ward 5 of Kallikad panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1700-new-cases-in-capital-tpr-at-138/article36110418.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra Shiksha move to enhance reading capacity of students in primary classes||To develop a love for books and reading among students, the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, will provide books to all children studying in primary classes in the State as part of its Vayana Vasantham programme. The programme has been included in the 100-day action plan of the State government. Vayana Vasantham was launched by the Samagra Shiksha with the aim of providing books to children and enhancing their reading capacity as part of foundation literacy activities. Besides supplying library books to schools, Samagra Shiksha plans to make available three books to nearly 12 lakh students in Classes I to IV at their homes to promote reading that goes beyond their school textbooks. Both English and Malayalam books will be supplied to the students of government and aided schools at their doorstep with the support of school teachers. The books, says Samagra Shiksha, Kerala Project Director A.P. Kuttykrishnan, have not been purchased from the market; instead they have been prepared by the Samagra to promote reading of books other than textbooks among students who have been not been going to school during the COVID-19 pandemic. Five books in all have been prepared – two in English and three in Malayalam. Of them, two Malayalam and one English book will be given to students. For instance, Classes I and II will get one set of three books and Classes III and IV another set.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-shiksha-move-to-better-reading-skills-of-students/article36110285.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police accused of misbehaving with fish vendor||The city police was on Wednesday accused of misbehaving with a woman fish vendor at Karamana and dumping the fish she had on sale on the road. The police have denied the accusation. Police personnel attached to the Karamana station allegedly behaved rudely to Maria Pushpam, a vendor from Valiyathura who was selling fish by the roadside, and dumped the fish on the road. City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay termed the allegation as false. The police personnel had not alighted from their vehicle, he said, quoting eyewitnesses. The Assistant Commissioner of Police (Fort) had visited the spot and verified the matter. The vendor was attempting to gain public sympathy, he said, adding that she had later left the area in an autorickshaw. Karamana CI Aneesh V. said that the police was in the process of collecting video footage of the incident. The incident sparked protests on Wednesday evening, and a crowd gathered in the area demanding action against the officers responsible.  The Kerala Swatantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation is planning to hold a protest in front of the Secretariat on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-accused-of-misbehaving-with-fish-vendor/article36110419.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Live phone-in session||Live phone-in programmes for students appearing for next month’s Plus One public examinations to clear their doubts will be telecast on Friday and Sunday as part of the First Bell digital classes on KITE Victers educational channel. Instead of the First Bell classes, programmes will be telecast on Victers on Saturday and Monday. On Friday, doubts in Economics, Maths, and Accountancy can be cleared at 1.30 p.m., 4 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. On Sunday, Chemistry, Business Studies, Biology, History, and Physics respectively will be taken up at 8 a.m., 10.30 a.m., 1 p.m., 3.30 p.m., and 6 p.m. There will be a change in the schedule of other programmes owing to the live phone-in on Saturday. More than 80 revision classes and audio books on 21 topics for Plus One exams are available on firstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in. For the live phone-in programme, students can call the toll-free number 1800 425 9877.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/live-phone-in-doubt-clearing-sessions-for-plus-one-exams/article36110247.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister gives awards to workers’ kids||Steps will be taken to allocate funds in the welfare fund board budgets for education of children and dependents of members, Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after giving away State-level scholarships and gold coins to children of workers who are members of the Kerala Abkari Workers Welfare Board for excellence in academics in 2019-20. Sixteen welfare fund boards function under the Labour Department in the State. Mr. Sivankutty said there had to be a change in the functioning of the boards and their benefits in tune with the present. Along with workers’ welfare, use of board funds should enable education of their student dependents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-gives-awards-to-workers-kids/article36110413.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One arrested for assault||The Kovalam police on Wednesday arrested a 32-year-old man who had allegedly carried out an attack on a middle-aged man in Kovalam on Monday. The accused has been identified as Suvish alias Anikuttan from Bharathiamman Kovil Road in Kovalam. According to the police, he had barged into the house of 52-year old Unnikrishnan in Nedumom and attacked him with a knife. He sustained injuries to the head in the attack, the police said. The Kovalam police had taken him to the hospital. The attack was over Unnikrishnan's refusal to give the accused beedi that he had demanded, say the police. The accused was produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-for-assault/article36110415.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RPF steps up security for women passengers||The Railway Protection Force (RPF), Thiruvananthapuram division, is stepping up surveillance on trains and railway stations for preventing crimes against female passengers. RPF helpdesks have been established at all important railway stations in the division. Manned by RPF staff, they are functional round-the-clock on all days manned by RPF staff. Passengers can contact the helpdesks for security-related assistance, the RPF said in a statement on Wednesday. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the important railway stations in the Thiruvananthapuram division. Video Surveillance Systems for 16 stations under the Nirbhaya Fund is nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rpf-steps-up-security-for-women-passengers/article36110417.ece
26 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for theft of scooter||The Kovalam Police on Wednesday arrested a 46-year-old man on charges of lifting a scooter parked near the Kovalam Lighthouse. The accused has been identified as Venu alias Unni from Mulloor. According to the police, the accused had on August 10 broken the lock of a scooter, owned by one Shibu from Venganoor, and taken it away. He was nabbed through an investigation carried out using CCTV footage from the area. The scooter was also recovered from him. He is an accused in several cases of theft and possession of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-theft-of-scooter/article36110416.ece
26 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||High TPR a cause for concern||The increasing test positivity rate (TPR) of COVID-19 cases comes as a cause for concern for Health Department officials in Thrissur district. On Wednesday, Thrissur recorded a TPR of 22.40%, while the figure was 25.95% on Tuesday and 22.86% on Monday. The district recorded 3,865 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. The corresponding figures on Tuesday and Monday were 3,046 and 1,828 respectively. Currently, there are 9,790 active cases in the district. Another cause of worry is the number of cases among health-care workers. While 13 health-care workers tested positive on Wednesday, five others contracted the disease on Tuesday and 10 on Monday. Rush at MCH Meanwhile, Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thrissur, has been witnessing a heavy rush of patients after Onam. Many, including COVID-19 positive patients from neighbouring districts, are reaching the hospital seeking treatment. Long queues were witnessed for screening tests even late in the evening on Wednesday. There have also been complaints of non-compliance of the COVID-19 protocol. Sources said that security persons have been having a tough time ensuring physical distancing and proper wearing of masks among those arriving at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-tpr-a-cause-for-concern/article36110400.ece
26 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Karunya doorstep service in Thrissur||Karunya doorstep service, which provides emergency services for senior citizens, differently abled and chronic patients, will be launched in three local body institutions in Thrissur district. Chavakkad and Kunnamkulam municipalities and Cherpu gram panchayat have been selected for implementing the State government project in the first phase. Under the project, two volunteers from each ward of the selected local bodies will bring the emergency services, including social welfare pension and emergency medicines, at the door steps of the needy. Special training will be imparted to the volunteers for the service that commences from September 15. The local bodies have laid the foundation by forming council committees, according to the local body heads. Funds have been earmarked for the project under the 2021-22 annual plans of the local bodies and the LSGs will prepare the list of beneficiaries. Thrissur Collector Haritha V. Kumar convened a meeting of the representatives of the local bodies in this regard on Wednesday. Workers get vaccine Madakkathara panchayat administered COVID-19 vaccines for guest workers on Wednesday. In all, 430 workers were given the first dose of vaccine on the day. According to panchayat president Indira Mohan, the vaccination camp organised for migrant labourers working at factories, nurseries and hotels was organised at St. Elizabeth School, Ponganamkadu. All guest workers would be covered in a phased manner, said Ms. Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karunya-doorstep-service-in-thrissur/article36110401.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lurking-danger/article36110237.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article36110421.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All for a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-for-a-living/article36110423.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||This time for Africa||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-time-for-africa/article36110403.ece
26 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fee structure fixed for private schools, junior colleges in State||The Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission has notified three different categories of fee structure for students of nursery to 10th Standard and Intermediate enrolled in private unaided institutions in gram panchayats, municipalities, and municipal corporations for the academic years 2021-22, 2022-23, and 2023-24. In a major jolt to corporate/unaided tutorial colleges, which provide additional coaching for entrance examinations and collect exorbitant fees, the commission has put a cap on them from collecting high amounts of fee irrespective of their location of operation — in a city, town or panchayat. Through Government Orders, the commission has specified that the fee was inclusive of tuition fee, prospectus and registration fee, admission fee, examination fee, laboratory fee, sports fee, computer laboratory fee, library fee, extracurricular activities fee, student welfare fund, student health care scheme, study tour, alumni and any other similar fee related to academics. In addition to the academic fee, a student will be required to pay transportation charges, hostel charges (boarding and lodging charges) if he/she opts for those services. For students enrolled in schools operating in gram panchayats, the maximum collectible fee has been fixed at Rs. 10,000 per annum for primary schools (Nursery to Class 5) and Rs. 12,000 per annum for secondary schools (Classes 6 to 10). In the municipalities, the maximum collectible fee has been fixed at Rs. 11,000 a year for primary schools and Rs. 15,000 for secondary schools; while the students in municipal corporations will be charged a maximum of Rs. 12,000 per annum for primary school and Rs. 18,000 in secondary schools. These amounts are collectible in three equal instalments. A transportation fee of Rs. 1.20 per km per annum can be collected from the students who opt for the services offered by the management. Where the students opt for boarding and lodging services, the charges have been fixed at Rs. 18,000 per annum in gram panchayats, Rs. 20,000 in municipalities and Rs. 24,000 in municipal corporation areas. For Intermediate students in junior colleges situated in gram panchayats a maximum fee of Rs. 15,000 per annum has been fixed for MPC and BiPC groups, and Rs. 12,000 per annum for non-science, Maths groups such as CEC, HEC; in municipalities, the maximum fee collectible has been fixed at Rs. 17,500 per annum for MPC and Bi.PC groups and Rs. 15,000 for other groups; and for those colleges in municipal corporations, the maximum collectible fee has been fixed at Rs. 20,000 per annum for M.PC and Bi.PC groups and Rs. 18,000 for others. While transportation charges will remain the same at Rs. 1.20 per km per annum, boarding and lodging have been fixed at Rs. 18,000 per annum in panchayats, Rs. 20,000 in municipalities, and Rs. 24,000 in municipal corporations. Tutorial colleges imparting additional coaching for entrance examinations can charge an additional fee of Rs. 20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fee-structure-fixed-for-private-schools-junior-colleges-in-state/article36109802.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain triggers landslip at Nandi Hills||Nandi Hills in Chickballapur district was hit by a landslip on Wednesday following heavy rain the previous night. No casualties were reported. The tourist destination, around 60 km from Bengaluru, will be out of bounds for visitors for at least 20 days. Gopal N.,Special Officer, Nandi Hills, said around 20 feet of the road was damaged. He added that no one was injured. Chickballapur Deputy Commissioner Latha R. told The Hindu that the road repair work would take at least 20 days. “We have built a temporary road, but it is risky for tourists. So it will be closed for visitors,” she said. Ms. Latha said some guests of Mayura Pine Top Nandi Hills, a Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation property, were shifted out early Wednesday morning, and their vehicles were moved out later in the day. “The hotel will have to stop taking further bookings till the work is done,” she said. Near check-post TheKarnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre said rainfall-induced mudslide occurred 100 meters from the check-post. Heavy rain brought down one big boulder, taking with it the soil, plants and the road. According to the India Meteorological Department, the southwest monsoon was normal over interior Karnataka and weak over coastal Karnataka. Thondebhavi (Chickballapur district) recorded a heavy rainfall of 13 cm; Chickballapur 11 cm; Mulbagal (Kolar) 10 cm; and Sidlaghatta (Chickballapur) 8 cm. ‘Mismanagement’ T.V. Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Sciences, IISc, who was part of the expert committee that looked into landslips in the Western Ghats, said they are quite common in the terrain, which is mismanaged with activities such as blocking stream network (naturalwater flow path), land degradation through removal of vegetation and loss of trees resulting in the binding capability being lost, and road cuts. “High-intensity rainfall indicates the changes in the temporal patterns of the rainfall due to changes in the climate. The problem at Nandi Hills is mismanagement of landscape coupled with the high-intensity rainfall. We need to come up with the mitigation and adaptation strategies — decarbonisation is the best option,” he said. With Nandi Hills among the places suffering from “over tourism”, Ms. Latha said the administration had already limited the capacity at the parking lot for visitors. Prof. Ramachandra said maintaining the landscape integrity considering geological and ecological factors would be the apt option. “Developmental activities can be taken up only after carrying capacity assessment of a landscape. Mushrooming tourism infrastructure / allowing largescale construction activities under the guise of ecotourism would certainly lead to largescale calamities. The terminology such as ‘ecotourism’ can only misguide the common man and not nature,” he said, adding that we need to enrich the region with the diverse native species to mitigate mudslides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-triggers-landslip-at-nandi-hills/article36109804.ece
26 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC issues notice on facilities at Konkan Railway stations||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the Union government and Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) on a public interest litigation petition complaining about non-provision of facilities for persons with disabilities and senior citizens in majority of Konkan railway stations in Karnataka. A Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by George Fernandez and two others, who are the office-bearers of the Railway Seva Samithi, Uttara Kannada district. As per the provisions of the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and guidelines issued by the apex court, the authorities will have to provide better facilities of boarding and de-boarding in all public places, including railway stations, the petitioners have pointed out and added that many of the around 25 stations on Konkan railway stretch lack proper facilities for senior citizens and persons with disabilities. Konkan railway stations mainly lack footbridge and platform of desired height, boarding and de-boarding facilities for senior citizen and physically challenged persons, and lack of basic amenities such as sitting, lighting and shelter for people belonging to these categories, the petitioners have said. Stating that Konkan railway travellers were being “induced to cross the railway line/track in the absence of adequate and proper boarding and de-boarding facilities with “scientific second platforms” and footbridges, the petitioner said crossing railway track was a punishable offence under the Indian Railway Act. Authorities of the KRCL, including its head, were to be held responsible for “abetment to commit offence” as railway passengers were forced to cross the track in violation of the law in the absence of non-provision of facilities by the corporation, the petitioners have claimed. Though the petitioners have also sought a direction to the Central government to issue gazette notification to handover Mangaluru complex (of Southern Railway) and Tokkuru station (of Konkan Railway) to South Western Railway as was approved by the Railway Board way back in 2004, the Bench said it was considering only the plea for providing proper facilities for physically challenged persons and the senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-issues-notice-on-facilities-at-konkan-railway-stations/article36109805.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Irregularities in loan waiver caused loss’||Irregularities in the implementation of the crop loan waiver scheme during the AIADMK government has resulted in a loss of at least Rs. 516 crore to the State government, Minister for Cooperation I. Periasamy informed the Assembly on Wednesday. On his part, AIADMK MLA and former Minister for Cooperation K. Raju (Madurai West) said the government could act against those responsible for the irregularities. During a debate on the demand for grants for the Department of Cooperation, Mr. Periasamy said several cases of irregularities had been reported, especially in Salem and Namakkal districts. “It looks as if the beneficiaries had known that the government was about to announce a loan waiver scheme.”  Requesting Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami not to take offence at his remarks, Mr. Periasamy said that though the cooperative banks were computerised during the DMK government, the loans repaid by farmers were not deposited in banks at the end of the day when the AIADMK was in power. “Receipts of funds have not been fed into computers. Why do you have these computers? To be offered poojas,” he asked. Listing the kind of irregularities, Mr. Periasamy said six Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies in Erode district and 12 in Salem district had lent beyond any rational limit. “Loans were granted about five times more than the norm.” He said he had the list of beneficiaries, and was willing to give it to Mr. Palaniswami. Loans were also granted for barren land, and to farmers for some other crop while their ‘adangal’ indicated that they had grown a different crop, he pointed out. (‘Adangal’ is a revenue record that contains the details of land such as the particulars about the owner, area, assessment, water, irrigation type, soil type, nature of liabilities, tenancy and crops grown.) Mr. Raju sought to clarify that the Registrar of Cooperative Societies had issued a list of guidelines for the implementation of the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irregularities-in-loan-waiver-caused-major-loss/article36109897.ece
26 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Convocations at Vignan on Aug. 27, 28||Vignan University is going to conduct its eight and ninth convocation ceremonies on August 27 and 28, Vice-Chancellor M.Y.S. Prasad announced on Wednesday. During the two-day event, 3,666 students will be awarded graduation degrees. University Grants Commission (UGC) Chairman D.P. Singh will attend the convocation as chief guest, while Kwon Young-seup, Consul General of the Republic of Korea, will attend the event as a Guest of Honour on August 27 for the eighth convocation. An honorary doctorate (Honoris Causa) will be conferred on Sonam Wangchuk, founder director, Student’s Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL), and on Veeramachaneni Rama Krishna, a dietician. On August 28, G.R. Chintala, Chairman of NABARD, Mumbai will be the chief guest, and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president of Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), and Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha), will attend the 9th convocation on August 28 as a Guest of Honour. On August 28, honorary doctorates will be conferred on Achyuta Samanta, Lok Sabha MP (Bhubaneswar) and the founder-chairman of Kalinga Institute of Information and Technology (KIIT) and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), and on Satyanarayana Chava, founder and CEO of Laurus Labs Ltd., Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/convocations-at-vignan-on-aug-27-28/article36110346.ece
26 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New RVEO takes charge||S.V. Madhav Reddy, an officer of direct recruit Group-I batch of 2010, on Wednesday took charge as Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer, Guntur. Former posts Earlier, Mr. Madhav Reddy served as Forest Range Officer for four years. He also worked as Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP) at Nirmal, Athmakur (Kurnool District), Technical Services and was promoted as Addl. SP in 2018. He had also served as Additional SP, Admn., Kurnool and ADCP (Traffic) Vijayawada City. He earlier served as Aide–de-Camp (ADC) to the Governor in Raj Bhavan, Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada for two years. The State government posted him as Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer, Guntur in place of P. Joshua, Additional SP, who was transferred to the police headquarters in Mangalagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-rveo-takes-charge/article36110345.ece
26 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Opposition trying to politicise AgriGold issue’||MLC and convener of the AgriGold Victims’ Committee Lella Appireddy has said it is unfortunate that the Opposition is trying to gain political mileage out of the AgriGold issue even after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy disbursed Rs. 905.57 crore to those who deposited less than Rs. 20,000 in the firm. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had shown a big heart in coming to the rescue of those who had been cheated by AgriGold, a firm floated during the TDP regime, he said. Nowhere in the history of the country had the government come to the aid of victims cheated by a private firm, said Mr. Appireddy. In the first Cabinet meeting, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had said the State government would sanction Rs. 11,500 crore to the victims and the latest GO sanctioning aid to them was a part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-trying-to-politicise-agrigold-issue/article36110371.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attempt to extort money from Telangana Minister foiled||An unidentified man tried to extort money from Minister for BC Welfare Gangula Kamalakar by sending him a fake warrant in the name of Enforcement Directorate. Culprit underground The Minister personally tried to catch the trickster who had been speaking with him over the phone and chatting through WhatsApp for the past few days. With the Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths registering a criminal case following a complaint from the ED authorities, the trickster went underground and stopped communicating with the Minister. The CCS officials are looking out for him based on telephone numbers he had used. They hope to catch the trickster soon. The person speaking Telugu with strong Telangana accent rang up the Minister from a landline number nearly three weeks ago claiming he was ED Joint Director calling from Delhi. ‘Tried to scare him’ The caller tried to scare the Minister stating that ED authorities were gearing up to conduct a raid on the granite business his family members were carrying out. “I smelt a rat since the first call was made on Sunday evening. Normally, officials would not work at that hour,” Mr. Kamalakar told The Hindu . While attending to the phone calls, the Minister inquired from whose landline phone number the call was originating. Interestingly, that turned out to be the landline number of ED Joint Director. Eventually, the Minister realised that the trickster was using call spoofing to get the ED official number displayed on the Minister’s mobile phone. A few days later, the trickster called again. This time he asked the Minister to “settle the matter” with him to stop the ED searches. “With one phone call I can stop entire Delhi office...your phone is being tapped...let us chat through WhatsApp,” the caller was quoted as saying by the BC Welfare Minister. Inquiry On inquiry, it was confirmed that the WhatsApp number was related to Canada. When the Minister asked the caller why he was using a Canada number, the latter replied that he earlier worked there. Recently he made a call again to Mr. Gangula Kamalakar stating that “you have to hurry and there is not much time left for the settlement”. Meanwhile, he sent a ‘fake warrant from ED’ to the Minister stating that his elder brother and another sibling’s son were going to be arrested through WhatsApp. While the Minister was checking veracity of the warrant, the Enforcement Directorate officials approached the Hyderabad police who issued a First Information Report (FIR).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attempt-to-extort-money-from-telangana-minister-foiled/article36109799.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan bail verdict on Sept. 15||CBI Principal Special Judge B.R. Madhusudhan Rao on Wednesday postponed to September 15 the verdict in the petition seeking cancellation of bail for Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in quid pro quo cases. On Wednesday, the counsel for Rajya Sabha member and YSRCP leader Vijaya Sai Reddy, against whom also a similar petition was filed, presented arguments before the court. On completion of the arguments, the judge asked counsels for both the parties if they had any objection over pronouncing the verdict on September 15 on the matter. With counsels of both the parties stating that they had no objection, the judge reserved orders in Vijaya Sai Reddy matter also for September 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-bail-verdict-on-sept-15/article36110196.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trial of Bharat Biotech’s chikungunya vaccine begins in Costa Rica||A multi-country phase II/III clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s chikungunya vaccine candidate BBV87 by the International Vaccine Institute (IVI) has been rolled out in Costa Rica. The first participant received BBV87, marking start of a study led by IVI with Bharat Biotech and funded by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) with support from the Ind-CEPI mission of the Department of Biotechnology, India. Two-dose regimen IVI is advancing clinical development of BBV87 through a Phase II/III randomised, controlled trial to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of a 2-dose regimen of the chikungunya vaccine candidate in healthy adults at nine clinical trial sites across five countries with endemic chikungunya. The trials are expected to begin in Panama and Colombia by September and subsequently, in Thailand and Guatemala. IVI and Bharat Biotech in a joint statement said the Global Chikungunya Vaccine Clinical Development Programme (GCCDP) seeks to develop and manufacture an affordable chikungunya vaccine with the aim of achieving WHO prequalification to enable its distribution in low- and middle-income countries. As required, CEPI or Bharat Biotech may propose a third-party for manufacturing of a stockpile of investigational product to be used for further clinical trials in outbreak conditions to advance vaccine development or pursuant to an emergency use authorisation based on national or international guidance. Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella said with the IVI-led multi-country scale human trial has begun an important trial phase. Acting Associate Director General at IVI and Principal Investigator of GCCDP Sushant Sahastrabuddhe said the study will generate crucial safety and immunogenicity data in regions most affected by chikungunya. Financial support Secretary to the department of Biotechnology Renu Swarup said DBT had provided financial support under the Ind-CEPI Mission to Bharat Biotech for the GCCDP. BBV87 is an inactivated whole virion vaccine based on a strain derived from an East, Central, South African (ECSA) genotype, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trial-of-bharat-biotechs-chikungunya-vaccine-begins-in-costa-rica/article36110155.ece
26 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||620 kg ganja seized in East Godavari||The Kirlampudi police on Wednesday seized 620 kg of ganja, said to be worth Rs. 12 lakh, and arrested a man during a vehicle check on the national highway near Tuni in East Godavari district. In an official release, Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao said that the accused, who hails from Maharashtra, was nabbed while he was transporting ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency via East Godavari district. One arrested “The accused reportedly procured the ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency and was caught while transporting it in a lorry by packing it in 21 bags. The main accused, Sk. Nazeer of Amaravathi district in Maharashtra, has been arrested. A search is on for his accomplices,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. Police registered a case and an investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/620-kg-ganja-seized-in-east-godavari/article36110347.ece
26 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Honeymoon’ row: JNTU-K suspends staff||The Executive Council of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) on Wednesday suspended a few employees of the university in connection with the issue of alleged use of the university guest house for honeymoon reportedly by a Hyderabad-based couple on August 18 and 19. JNTU-Kakinada Registrar L. Sumalatha said the executive committee had decided to suspend a few staff associated with the issue. The details of the staff suspended would soon be revealed as the inquiry into the issue was in progress, she said. University Vice-Chancellor M. Ramalinga Raju declined to reveal the exact number of staff suspended. The minutes of the Executive Committee were yet to be approved by Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honeymoon-row-jntu-k-suspends-staff/article36110366.ece
26 August 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karipur crash victims to launch strike||The Karipur air crash victims’ action forum, with the support of the Malabar Development Forum (MDF), is planning to launch an “intense strike” if the Air India Express authorities do not revoke the letter sent to the victims recently terminating the company’s treatment assistance by September 17. Edakkuni Abdurahman, general secretary of the MDF, told presspersons here on Wednesday that the company was shying away from supporting around 100 seriously injured passengers, defying the Montreal Convention 1999 that underlines the rights of air passengers in the event of a mishap. Mr. Abdurahman said the compensation offered by the airline to the injured passengers was meagre compared to their actual treatment expenses. Airline representatives were harassing the passengers, forcing them to accept what was offered and exploiting the financial burden they were already facing. “The airline has received Rs. 640 crore from the insurance company. They could easily give the deserving compensation to all passengers,” said Mr. Abdurahman. Besides the 19 deceased, there were 165 passengers in the flight. Of them, around 100 suffered serious injuries in the incident. Meanwhile, some of the passengers and the relatives of the deceased have approached the court in Dubai and the U.S. However, they are reportedly unable to proceed as the reason for the mishap is unknown since the investigation report on the accident is yet to be published.“The report is being delayed deliberately so that we will not be able to approach the court. By the time it is published, they plan to settle us with the meagre compensation being offered,” said S.A. Aboobakker, president of MDF. The Air India Express Flight 1344 from Dubai to Kozhikode crashed during landing on August 7, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karipur-crash-victims-to-launch-strike/article36109807.ece
26 August 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||College student raped near Chamundi foothills||In a shocking case, a girl was allegedly gang-raped and her male friend assaulted near Chamundi foothills on Tuesday night. The gang of four to five persons assaulted the male friend, who was accompanying the girl, near Chamundi foothills in Alanahalli police station limits before raping her. The girl, a college student, and her friend were admitted to a private hospital. Both of them are out of danger. A FIR has been filed at Alanahalli police station. The accused were believed to be under the influence of alcohol. A team of police personnel, including senior police officials, visited the deserted area near Chamundi foothills on Wednesday as part of the investigation. Concern among residents Meanwhile, the alleged rape has sparked widespread concern and outrage among residents of Mysuru, who recently witnessed an armed robbery at a jewellery store where a gang opened fire and killed a bystander. Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar, who is also Minister in charge of Mysuru, convened a meeting with senior police officials and people’s representatives on Wednesday evening to take stock of the situation. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Pradeep Gunti, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Geetha Prasanna, MP Pratap Simha, MLAs G.T. Deve Gowda, S.A. Ramdas and L. Nagendra were present at the meeting. Mr. Ramdas tweeted that he has spoken to the police officials and pressed for bringing the guilty to book. Meanwhile, activists of National Students Union of India gathered near the law court complex in Mysuru and protested against the State government for its failure to protect the student and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. Former chairperson of State Women’s Commission and Congress leader Manjula Manasa urged the commission to take up the case suo moto and conduct an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/college-student-raped-near-chamundi-foothills/article36109810.ece
26 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||332 new COVID cases in South Coastal Andhra||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh witnessed a reversal in the positive trend as the fresh COVID cases outnumbered recoveries by 140 in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. Three deaths Compared to yesterday’s figures, the number of fresh cases rose by 94 to 332 in the region, including 208 in SPSR Nellore district, taking the cumulative count to over 2.72 lakh so far. Three more persons, two in SPSR Nellore district and one in Prakasam district, succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 2,031. So far, Prakasam district accounted for 1,039 casualties and SPSR Nellore district for 992, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Only 192 persons in the region, including 38 in Prakasam district, recovered from the disease during the period. The number of active cases stood at 3,783 in the region, including 2,311 in SPSR Nellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/332-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-andhra/article36110348.ece
26 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of marriage party killed in accident||Tragedy struck a marriage party when four of its members were killed and two others were critically injured in a road accident on the Podili-Markapur expressway at Garladinne, near Konakanamitla, in Prakasam district on Wednesday. Those seated in the rear-portion of the speedy van fatally fell down from the vehicle as the rear door suddenly gave away. The vehicle was taking the bride and her relatives from Pedaraveedu to the bridegroom’s house in Akkacheruvu, near Podili, when the accident occurred just a couple of hours before the wedding. The bride and other relatives wept inconsolably at the Government Hospital at Markapur, where the injured were rushed for treatment. Ten persons were travelling by the vehicle. The deceased were identified by the police as Srinivas (55), Venkatasubba Rao (45), Karthik (13) and Anil (11).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-marriage-party-killed-in-accident/article36110349.ece
26 August 2021||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of demand removes Pulasa off the menu||The COVID-19 pandemic, which has severely impacted various sectors, has not spared the ‘Pulasa’ too. ‘Pulasa’, a premium and much sought-after fish, is available in the East and West Godavari districts during the rainy season. The seasonal species is costlier than all other varieties available in the market. The menu in parties and family get-togethers is incomplete without the delicious ‘Pulasa curry’. The fish is exported to Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai and other cities. “A Pulasa that weighs between 750 grams and 1 kg is normally sold for Rs. 4,000. But now, its price has crashed to as low as Rs. 1,200 as there are no buyers. The previous year too, the pandemic severely hit the sale of Pulasa,” said a fisherwoman, G. Lakshmi, of Elamanchili. Fishermen who catch Pulasa in their nets during fishing in the rainy season will make a fortune. It has good demand in the markets at Amalapuram, Ravulapalem, Dowleswaram, Rajamahendravaram, Siddantam, Chinchinada, Palakol, Narsapuram, Mogalturu and some island villages. The price of Pulasa varies depending on its size and availability, and there are instances when it is sold for more than Rs. 10,000. No fixed price “A few food lovers purchase it whatever be the price,” said Ch. Suryanarayana, a farmer of Narsapuram. “There is no fixed price. It depends on the catch and the demand in the market. NRIs make it a point to visit their native places in the Godavari districts to taste the mouthwatering Pulasa curry,” said a fish exporter, R. Rama Rao. “We catch the fish in fresh waters in the Godavari’s tributaries such as Vasishta, Gauthami and Vainateya. If a fisherman catches Pulasa, it fetches Rs. 5,000 or more. Earlier, food lovers used to pay advance to buy Pulasa. But now, the situation has changed due to COVID-19,” said another fisherman, Setti Rambabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-demand-removes-pulasa-off-the-menu/article36110359.ece
26 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into appointment of AKNU Principal||The State government has constituted a three-member committee to inquire into the allegations of absorption of K. Subba Rao in regular post of Principal, University College of Education, in Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU- Rajamahendravaram). According to a G.O. issued on August 24 by Special Chief Secretary to Government (Higher Education Department) Satish Chandra, the committee is headed by P.S.N. Reddy, former registrar and retired professor, Osmania University, Hyderabad. AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Joint Director T.V.S. Krishna Murthy is the member-convener and J. Krishnamaraju, Accountant General Office, is the member. Referring to a letter written by the AKNU Registrar on July 29, the State government ordered the inquiry as per the Andhra Pradesh University Act, 1991. The committee has to submit its report within 15 days. The APSCHE and AKNU Registrar would coordinate and assist the committee during the process of the inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-ordered-into-appointment-of-aknu-principal/article36110354.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s COVID-19 control activities a failure: Satheesan||The COVID-19 control activities in the State are a total failure, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. He accused the government of data secrecy, even when the cumulative cases have crossed 38 lakh. The government’s attempt to keep valuable health data relating to COVID under wraps was affecting the control strategies for combating the third wave. The failure to share the data and analyse it appropriately had seriously affected research activities too, Mr. Satheesan said while addressing media persons here on Wednesday. He said the State had failed to do contact tracing of positive cases properly. When it was the norm that for every case, at least 20 contacts needed to be tested, Kerala’s contact tracing ratio was woefully inadequate at 1:1.5, meaning that not even two contacts were traced for every case. Vaccine challenge Of the Rs. 817 crore collected through vaccine challenge, the government had utilised only Rs. 29 crore. Ideally, this amount should be used for purchasing vaccines and distributing it free of cost through private hospitals, Mr. Satheesan said. He alleged that all COVID-19 control activities were now decided by a coterie of IAS officers, including the Health Secretary.  The recent order of the government, which fixed a charge of Rs. 750 a day for a bed in the general ward in government hospitals was a clear indication of the manner in which the bureaucracy had taken over the reins of COVID-19 control. The Health Minister still had not agreed to withdraw the said order, he said. Instead of signing beneath whatever officials write and give, administrators should show the wisdom and discretion to read it and apply their own mind, Mr. Satheesan said. Since July 2021, the minutes of the review meetings were not being released. Till April, only 50,000 tests per day were being done and it is only in recent times that the testing has increased substantially. But even so, RT-PCR tests comprise only 30% of the total tests done. Rapid Antigen Tests have lower sensitivity. Tamil Nadu does 100% RT-PCR tests, Mr. Satheesan said. The State’s constant refrain is that it has been doing a better job than all other States as far as COVID control is concerned. Yet, the State reports the highest number of cases in the country, he said.  Leader of the Opposition accuses State government of data secrecy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-covid-19-control-activities-a-failure-satheesan/article36109809.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic blocked as TDP stages protest at Gadanki toll plaza||Traffic came to a standstill for an hour at the Gadanki toll plaza on the Tirupati-Bengaluru national highway as members of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) staged a protest against collection of hefty fee from the passersby. Responding to a call by TDP’s Chittoor parliamentary constituency In charge Pulivarthi Nani, activists decried the ‘arbitrary manner’ in which the toll plaza was collecting fee from people even as the road widening work had not been completed in several patches. They also wondered how the plaza could be allowed to collect toll, as the government had not paid the mandatory compensation to those who had lost lands for the widening of the six-lane highway. There is also silent outcry among government and private employees who take this major road for their to and fro journey between Tirupati and Chittoor on official work and are now required to pay a hefty Rs. 130 everyday. ‘No concession for residents’ Residents of Pakala mandal, under which the toll plaza falls, said that the residents were the ‘worst victims’ as they were made to pay a heavy amount towards toll almost everyday. “Residents in a radius of 20 km are given a concession to travel either side of the plaza. But we are having to pay the full amount,” fumed Balarama Naidu, a resident of Nendragunta, a highway-abutting village less than 5 km from the toll plaza. Vehicles remained stranded for a distance of over 2 km on either side of the plaza for an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stages-protest-at-gadanki-toll-plaza/article36109860.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,054 students get degrees at SPMVV convocation||In view of the COVID-19 situation, the 18th annual convocation of Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) was held both online and offline in Tirupati on Wednesday. Governor and Chancellor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan presided over the session virtually from Raj Bhavan. Participating as a special guest of honour, Minister for Education Adimulapu Suresh hailed women’s empowerment as the first step to social development. The other proceedings, including presentation of degrees and awarding of doctorates, were conducted at the campus. As many as 3,054 students from different streams received degrees at the convocation. The varsity also presented 150 gold medals and 31 book prizes in life sciences, social sciences and engineering & technology. Research projects “As many as 296 Ph.D and 43 M.Phil candidates have received their research degrees and 14 M.Phil and 498 Ph.D candidates are currently on the rolls,” said Jamuna Duvvuru, while reading the Vice-Chancellor’s annual report. She said research projects with a total outlay of Rs. 10.55 crore had been received from funding agencies like UGC, DST, DBT and ICSSR. Telugu writer gets award Honorary doctorate was awarded virtually to noted feminist Telugu writer Volga, based in Hyderabad. As the convocation orator, Ms. Volga, originally known as P. Lalita Kumari, spoke on the need to end all forms of discrimination against women. “Education, job opportunities and rights are not gifts given to women by anyone,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3054-students-get-degrees-at-spmvv-convocation/article36109859.ece
26 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, 42 red sanders logs seized||Two persons were arrested in two separate incidents and 42 red sanders logs were recovered from them, in KVB Puram mandal of Chittoor district on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, two teams of Redsanders Anti-smuggling Taskforce (RSASTF) rushed to KVB Puram mandal on Tuesday night on a combing mission. The teams launched their combing operations from Vallur and Narayanavanam reserve forest areas, when one team sighted workers allegedly walking out of the forest carrying felled logs. Polaiah (52) of Valluru was caught while the others fled in the cover of darkness. The personnel recovered 16 logs from the spot. The police registered a case and are investigating. The second team found a group of men at Mailacheruvu tank coming under Kalathuru forest beat. The coolies allegedly did not pay heed to the warning by the task force personnel, and started running helter skelter. The sleuths chased and caught Venkataiah alias Pottodu (37), while six others managed to escape. A search has been launched to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-42-red-sanders-logs-seized/article36109857.ece
26 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Westin College students bag jobs in UAE, Bahrain||Students of Westin College of Hotel Management bagged placements in international hotels in and around Dubai of the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. In a ceremony on the college premises here on Wednesday, Krishna University Vice-Chancellor K.B. Chandrasekhar appreciated the students and the college and handed over visas and other travel documents to the students about to leave the country. Mr. Chandrasekhar said it was a proud moment for Krishna University as Westin College became the first institution under the university to achieve 100% placement. He called upon all the college managements to focus on providing campus placements to graduates by reaching out to companies. He said hotel management graduates were in great demand on the lines of engineering graduates. College principal P. Chandrasekhar said that 90% of the 2018-2021 students were placed in the world's best five-star hotels. The principal said that as many as 103 students were placed in six hotels and institutions, including Dubai World Trade Centre, Gulf Hotels Group, Bahrain, Le Meridian and Westin, Atlantis Palm, Dubai, Fontana, Bahrain and EFS Facilities Services, Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/westin-college-students-bag-jobs-in-uae-bahrain/article36110430.ece
26 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Hotels’ Association ties up with new online food delivery service||The A.P. Hotels’ Association (APHA) has entered into an agreement with Yumzy, an online food delivery service to serve restaurant customers directly and avoid payment of heavy commissions to existing food apps. In a meeting here on Wednesday, association president M. Balakrishna Reddy and Yumzy Founder and CEO Suresh Redyam signed and exchanged MoUs. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Reddy said: “Getting listed on food delivery apps and getting orders is an easy process. However, 20 to 30% commission on each order is taking a big bite out of restaurants’ revenue and that made us reach out to Yumzy.” He said all participating restaurants would ensure the lowest prices on the Yumzy app and restaurants would now offer discounts and cashback offers to their customers directly. He said the association hoped to leverage Yumzy’s ecosystem of technological services to gain better leeway in the online business. Mr. Suresh said Yumzy was now serviceable in Guntur and Vijayawada with listed restaurants. Meanwhile, the association elected a new general body recently. While Mr. Balakrishna Reddy was elected president Subba Raju was elected executive secretary and Venugopal honorary secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-hotels-association-ties-up-with-new-online-food-delivery-service/article36109861.ece
26 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: State registers 16 deaths, 1,601 cases in a day||The State reported 16 new deaths due to COVID and 1,601 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The single-day infection was highest in the past 12 days, and the single-day toll was highest in the past 10 days. The number of samples tested in the past day was also the highest in 12 days. The cumulative tally increased to 20,06,191 and toll reached 13,766 while the recovery rate and death rate remain at 98.61% and 0.69% respectively. The number of active cases increased to 14,061 as only 1,201 patients have recovered in the past day. So far 19,78,364 patients have recovered in the State. The daily positivity rate of 71,532 samples tested in the past day was 2.24% while that of the 2.62 crore samples tested so far was 7.64%. Chittoor reported six new deaths while East Godavari, Krishna and Nellore reported two deaths each in the past day. Guntur, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Five districts reported no death. East Godavari reported 273 new infections. It was followed by West Godavari (221), Chittoor (217), Nellore (208), Prakasam (124), Guntur (123), Krishna (116), Kadapa (108), Visakhapatnam (98), Vizianagaram (40), Srikakulam (37), Anantapur (26) and Kurnool (10). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,84,523), Chittoor (2,36,780), West Godavari (1,73,588), Guntur (1,71,786), Anantapur (1,57,004), Visakhapatnam (1,54,547), Nellore (1,39,288), Prakasam (1,32,956), Kurnool (1,23,724), Srikakulam (1,21,818), Krishna (1,12,880), Kadapa (1,12,187) and Vizianagaram (82,215).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-state-registers-16-deaths-1601-cases-in-a-day/article36110361.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Impose fine on those violating COVID-19 norms, orders Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the District Collectors and Superintendents of Police (SPs) to impose fine on commercial and other establishments violating the COVID-19 norms and strictly enforce the restrictions in general to curb the spread of the pandemic. Addressing the District Collectors and SPs during a video-conference on ‘Spandana’ on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said though the number of COVID-19 cases plateaued and the recovery rate vastly improved, the officials should not be complacent in dealing with the disease as a third wave was said to be round the corner. Marriage gatherings of more than 150 persons should not be allowed lest they should become super-spreader events, and the standard operating procedures prescribed for schools should be strictly followed as they had reopened across the State. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said if school students were found to have COVID -19 symptoms, not only they but also their parents should be tested, in order to take necessary remedial action. He ordered that focussed testing (RTPCR) should be done and door-to-door fever surveys be continued for the sake of constant monitoring of the disease. He directed the Collectors to increase the infrastructure in hospitals in order to tackle the third wave. Focus should be on making oxygen beds available as per requirement, giving training to nurses on paediatric care and setting up PSA oxygen plants in all government hospitals and in private hospitals having more than 100 beds, he told the officials. The Chief Minister also told the officials to be alert to the spread of seasonal diseases such as malaria, typhoid, dengue and chikungunya during the rainy season. Deputy CM and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy and B. Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, and DGP Gautam Sawang were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/impose-fine-on-those-violating-covid-19-norms-orders-jagan/article36110364.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take steps to provide water to AIIMS, Lokesh urges Jagan||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has urged Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take steps for supplying water to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Mangalagiri. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Wednesday, Mr. Lokesh said a project costing Rs. 10 crore had been approved in 2017 to supply Krishna waters to the AIIMS. “However, over the past two years, there has been a lack of progress on providing the basic facility to make AIIMS fully functional. I am saddened to note that such water scarcity has ended up preventing AIIMS-Mangalagiri from being at the forefront of A.P.’s fight against COVID-19,” he said. Mr. Lokesh said AIIMS-Mangalagiri was one of only two such institutions in South India. “So, it is important not just for Telugu students but for the entire South India. However, the present government has continued to neglect its development. Basic infrastructure such as provision of sand, construction of approach road linking NH 16 and the campus, and providing water supply from the Krishna remain incomplete. This affects the functioning of the faculty, students, and the hospital. Water is being procured by tanks in the short-term,” he said, adding, “I need not remind you that the AIIMS Director had urged you to assist with this issue of water supply, with a pipeline from either Mangalagiri or Tenali canal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-steps-to-provide-water-to-aiims-lokesh-urges-jagan/article36110370.ece
26 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Speed up construction of houses’||Krishna district in-charge Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has asked district officials to speed up construction of houses grounded under the Jagananna Housing Colonies scheme. At the District Review Committee meeting held here of Wednesday, Mr. Peddireddy said that of the 1.67 lakh houses, 1.53 lakh were grounded in the mega grounding mela, but foundation was laid for only 3,500 houses so far. He asked officials to speed up the construction of the houses at the earliest. District Collector J. Nivas said that construction was halted due to rain and soon construction of 26,000 houses would be taken up. Bulk milk units Mr. Peddireddy said 210 village secretariats, 196 Rythu Bharosa Kendras and many health clinics, bulk milk units and digital libraries were yet to become operational. The Minister asked elected representatives to ensure these facilities were made operational soon. Pat for Collector The Minister appreciated the District Collector for ensuring supply of sand, cement and steel to the works taken up under the employment guarantee scheme.  MLAs, MLCs, officials were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-construction-of-houses/article36110427.ece
26 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student electrocution: inquiry ordered||Minister for Education A. Suresh has said that an inquiry by the Regional Joint Director has been ordered into the electrocution of a student Gopichand in ZP High School in Anasagaram of Nandigama of the district. In a release, Mr. Suresh said that strict action would be taken against those responsible. He said a preliminary inquiry report had been taken into cognisance. He said the government would not hesitate to take severe action if students were forced to do chores in schools. He offered condolences to the family of the deceased student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-electrocution-inquiry-ordered/article36110428.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Century Plyboards CMD meets Chief Minister||Century Plyboards India Limited (CPIL) Chairman and Managing Director Sajjan Bhajanka met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office on Wednesday. ‘Employment generator’ The duo held discussions on a manufacturing unit which CPIL has proposed to set up at Badvel in Kadapa district at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,000 crore, with a potential to create employment for 3,000 people directly and 6,000 indirectly. Mr. Bhajanka told the Chief Minister that the company intended to complete the project in three phases by December 2024. The target is to finish the first phase by the end of 2022. The initial production capacity will be 4,00,000 metric tonnes. Product portfolio CPIL’s product portfolio includes plywood, block boards, medium density fiber boards and particle boards. CPIL executive director Keshav Bhajanka and president (new business) Himanshu Shah accompanied the CMD to the CM’s camp office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/century-plyboards-cmd-meets-chief-minister/article36110344.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre swiftly responding to attacks on Dalits: Ravela||BJP State vice-president and former Minister Ravela Kishore Babu has said that the Modi government at the Centre has been prompt in doing justice to the Dalits whenever they are attacked, which is evident from the swift reaction of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to the recent murder of N. Ramya, an engineering student, in Guntur. The NCSC immediately swung into action when BJP Mahila Morcha State president Nirmala Kishore took the incident to its notice, Mr. Kishore claimed. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Kishore Babu said the NCSC took a serious view of the incident and payment of ex gratia to the victim’s family and sanction of a house site and a job to her sibling within 48 hours were a part of the State government’s damage control efforts. He pointed out that NCSC vice-chairman Arun Halder was shocked by the murder that took place in broad daylight. Mr. Kishore Babu said Dr. B.R. Ambedkar had not only provided reservation to the Dalits but also some rights for their protection. The BJP, on its part, would do its best for the safety of Dalits, he asserted. BJP SC Morcha national executive member Boddu Naga Lakshmi, Mahila Morcha State vice-president K. Naga Lakshmi and SC Morcha State president G. Devanand spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-swiftly-responding-to-attacks-on-dalits-ravela/article36110362.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Include Veligonda as authorised, permitted project in gazette: TDP||The TDP has urged Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, urging him to take steps to include Veligonda as an “authorised, permitted” project in the Central gazette released recently by the Ministry recently. In a letter to the Minister on Wednesday, The TDP leaders said the gazette notification on river management in the Telugu states issued by the Centre was in stark contrast to the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014. “As per the Act, Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi, Telugu Ganga, Galeru- Nagari Sujala Sravanthi, Veligonda, Kalvakurthi, and Nettempadu should be completed as planned earlier,” the TDP leaders said. ‘Serious implications’ “But in the gazette notification, Veligonda has been dropped from the list,” they pointed out. “Moreover, Veligonda, a key project for Prakasam district, which is nearing completion, is listed as an ‘Unauthorised’ project in the ‘Unapproved’ section,” they said. “As per the Act, Veligonda project has all the approvals. It is unfair to say that permits must be obtained within six months. Schedule 11 of the Act may be considered in this regard,” they said. To drop the project from the gazette would cause serious damage to the district known for reeling under drought. “Without Veligonda, the district would turn into a desert,” the TDP leader said and sought the Union Minister’s appointment at the earliest. TDP Addanki MLA Gottipati Ravikumar, Kondapi MLA Dola Bala Veeranjaneya Swamy and Parchur MLA Yeluri Sambasiva Rao, former MLAs B. Rama Rao, N. Balaji, K. Narayana Reddy, M. Ashok Reddy, M. Ugra Narasimha Reddy, D. Janardhan Reddy, P. Rama Rao, B.N. Vijay Kumar, D. Sivaram, and TDP Yerragondapalem incharge G. Erikson Babu were the signatories to the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/include-veligonda-as-authorised-permitted-project-in-gazette-tdp/article36110367.ece
26 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank union seeks holiday on Vinayaka Chavithi||The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has urged the State government to declare Vinayaka Chavithi as a holiday on September 10 under the Negotiable Instruments (NI) Act. In a letter to Chief Secretary Adityanath Das on Wednesday, UFBU State convener B.S. Rambabu said that Vinayaka Chavithi was a big festival and was the beginning of the festive season. All the bank employees would worship Lord Ganesha continuously for nine days starting from September 10, 2021. The UFBU said that the State government had inadvertently not declared a holiday for Vinayaka Chavithi under the NI Act. “But a holiday has been given for all the employees in the State, including the Central government Employees,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-union-seeks-holiday-on-vinayaka-chavithi/article36110368.ece
26 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC wins Digital Technology Sabha Award||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has bagged the Digital Technology Sabha Award for the year 2021-22. APSRTC has won the award for the third consecutive year for maintaining cashless transactions and for paper-less tickets (e-tickets). Corporation Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao received the award virtually on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-wins-digital-technology-sabha-award/article36110357.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIMS gearing up for third wave: Director||Authorities from the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) are gearing up for the possible COVID-19 third wave, which is presumed to see a peak in October. Apart from increasing the number of beds, the officials have also increased the supply of oxygen to meet the requirement at the VIMS, one of the State-nodal COVID-19 hospitals, which treats high-risk cases from Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari districts. According to VIMS Director K. Rambabu, they used to have 10 KL oxygen tank. In addition to that, they have installed 20 KL oxygen tank on the premises, which is yet to be officially inaugurated. Pipeline works for the new oxygen tanker have also been completed, he said. As a backup, the VIMS has around 100 oxygen cylinders. The State government is providing another 330 new oxygen cylinders, which are adequate. “Apart from them, we also have 32 oxygen concentrators in the hospital,” he added. “We had around 200 ICU beds and 200 oxygenated beds. For the possible third wave, we will add 200 more oxygenated beds, taking the total bed strength to 600,” Dr. Rambabu added. Sufficient staff As of now, the VIMS has around 500 health staff, including specialist doctors, over 200 staff nurses, 40 technical staff and more than 180 FNOs/MNOs. The authorities say that staff would be sufficient. Dr. Rambabu said that as of now, there are no plans to have paediatric care at VIMS. However keeping in view of the situation and instructions from higher authorities, they would initiate steps, he added. According to the VIMS authorities, during the second wave, around 2,900 patients from the four districts were treated. During the first wave, the State nodal hospital has treated around 2,700 patients, apart from organising C-section and normal deliveries of over 100 COVID-affected pregnant women. With the decline in the COVID cases, there are fewer than 10 patients being treated in the hospital as on date. VIMS is also running out-patient services in some blocks keeping in view the demand from people. 1 death, 100 new cases The district reported 98 new COVID infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning taking the cumulative to 1,55,057. The number of daily-infections has outnumbered daily recoveries. Only 78 persons recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. The district also saw one more death, taking the toll to 1,071. The number of recoveries and active cases stands at 1,52,731 and 1,255 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vims-gearing-up-for-third-wave-director/article36110434.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsourcing staff stage protest at Simhachalam; EO promises to pay salary arrears in 10 days||Outsourcing staff of Sri Varahalakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple, located atop Simhachalam hill, staged a protest on Wednesday alleging that the temple authorities terminated them from service without notice. They alleged that they were also not paid salaries for the past three months. Devasthanam Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala said that the temple administration was ready to release the bills, if the contract agency, submitted the bills. In the past also, the contractor had not submitted the bills for three months. The problem was with the contract agency and has nothing to do with the temple authorities, she said. Ms. Suryakala found fault with the outsourcing staff for staging the dharna, without any intimation to the temple officials. “The agency is not submitting the bills, though we are ready to pay. We have been asking the agency to submit the bills. We will arrange the pending pay within 10 days. Once the tender process is completed the outsourcing staff will be allotted to a new agency,” Ms. Suryakala told the media. The outsourcing staff rejoined duties later in the day. They said that they had staged the protest as some persons had called them on their phones and encouraged them to stage the protest. They said that they had faith that the EO would solve the issue within 10 days. Trust Board members Dinesh Raju and Surisetty Suribabu took the initiative in solving the problem in an amicable manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outsourcing-employees-stage-protest-at-simhachalam/article36110352.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trans-disciplinary research will be encouraged in AU: V-C||The Department of Human Resource Management (HRM) was merged with the Department of Commerce and Management Studies in Andhra University. The Academic Senate approved the merger during its meeting which was held here on Wednesday. Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, who presided over the meeting, said that the varsity is committed to uphold the academic and research standards. He said that the university has been entering into collaborations with industries and international universities. He said that trans-disciplinary and multidisciplinary research would be encouraged in the varsity. The senate has decided to introduce Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) in Arts, Commerce, Science, Pharmacy and Engineering courses. The senate has also decided to start PG Diploma in Child Psychology, enhance seats in M.Sc., botany course from 44 to 88, introduce Intellectual Property Rights as credit course in Computer Science and Information Technology and enhance seats in Integrated Engineering Course in Computer Sciences. Prof. Prasad Reddy said that South Asia LPG company has come forward to build and transfer a ladies hostel for women, at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.7 crore. The HPCL has come forward to establish two e-seminar halls at the engineering college at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh. An alumnus from Electrical Engineering Department has come forward to build the first floor space of 25,000 sft , he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trans-disciplinary-research-will-be-encouraged-in-au-v-c/article36110435.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found dead||A man, aged around 50 years, was found dead near the fishing harbour area under the One Town police station limits here on Wednesday morning. The police suspect that some persons might have killed him. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-dead/article36110433.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP stir: 10-km human chain on August 29||the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee will organise a 10-km human chain on August 29, as part of the ongoing protest against the privatisation of the Viskhapatnam Steel Plant. This was decided here on Wednesday in a meeting organised by the committee leaders. Committee chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao said that about 10,000 people will participate in the human chain that will be formed from Akkireddipalem to Agnampudi. The committee has also decided to hold protest meets across the State at every industry on August 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-stir-10-km-human-chain-on-aug-29/article36110432.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Major accident averted in car crash on NH-16||A major accident was averted on NH-16, when two cars were crushed between two lorries, near Nakappalle, on Wednesday. The incident happened in a chain reaction, when the driver of an autorickshaw plying in front of the first lorry applied sudden brake to avoid hitting a two-wheeler driver, who suddenly had come in front of the vehicle. Seeing the auto-rickshaw driver applying sudden brakes, the lorry driver also applied its brakes. The driver of a car coming behind the lorry also applied brakes but the vehicle stopped after crashing into the lorry. The driver of another car, moving behind the first car rammed, it and the driver of another lorry, plying behind the second car rammed it. According to Nakapalle SI D. Venkanna, though the injuries suffered by the people travelling in the cars were very minor, the passengers were stuck inside, as the doors got jammed. “We had to break the doors to pull them out,” he said. It could have been an accident, if vehicles were plying in high speed, said SI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/major-accident-averted/article36110353.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||80 litres of ID liquor destroyed, one held||In a joint operation, the Araku Valley police and the officials from the Excise Department along with the Mahila Police conducted raids near Padmapuram Gardens, where they destroyed around 80 litres of ID liquor or arrack in the Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The excise officials also took a person into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/80-litres-of-id-liquor-destroyed-one-held/article36110436.ece
26 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die in a road accident||Two youths died in a road accident while another person was severely injured after the van in which they were travelling hit a stationary lorry on NH-16 near Sheela Nagar here in the early hours of Wednesday. According to the police, the accident occurred when the three people, including the driver of the poultry van, were heading to Sriharipuram area from Anandapuram in the city. Hemanth and Prasad, who hailed from Vizianagaram district, died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-in-a-road-accident/article36110393.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The heat is on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-heat-is-on/article36110390.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Summer feels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/summer-feels/article36110356.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-ride/article36110438.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Urban jungle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/urban-jungle/article36109814.ece
26 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Woman killed in cracker blast||A woman was burnt alive and her son was critically injured when firecrackers stored at a residential building in Sarapaka of Burgampadu mandal exploded on Wednesday evening. A roadside residential building near Mutyalamma temple in Sarapaka went up in flames after a large quantity of firecrackers stocked inside the house suddenly exploded. One of the occupants of the house identified as Bhavani, 50, suffered fatal burn injuries and her son Chandra, 25, sustained more than 50% burns in the fire mishap, sources said. Bheemshankar, the husband of the deceased, who allegedly stored the firecrackers illegally was away when the mishap happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-killed-in-cracker-blast/article36110193.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Private schools struggle to prevail over pandemic||The countdown to school reopening has begun. On September 1, schools across the State are set to throw open their doors to students, teachers and administrative staff, but that’s not the only reason why the date is significant. The day will also show how several private schools in Hyderabad and other urban centres of the State survived the COVID-19 pandemic. Telangana had 11,688 private schools in 2019-20. Now, the number has fallen to 10,819, showing a decline of 869 private schools. School managements that have survived the lockdown spread over two academic sessions are keen about the reopening and return to normalcy. “We are excited about reopening of schools. We will follow all COVID-19 safety protocols. All the teachers and non-teaching staff are vaccinated as part of the special drive conducted by the government,” said Uma Maheshwara Rao, president of Telangana Recognised Schools Management Association. “School managements have been informally asked to be flexible regarding fee and welcome all students without creating hurdles. We are asking parents to trust us with the safety of their children,” said Mr. Rao, who also runs a private school in the Raj Bhavan area. School-cleaning activity is also under way. “Sanitisation and cleanliness take priority as the facilities have not been used for nearly two years,” said M. Raghu, who runs a private school in the city. Challenges A visit to a private school in MS Maqtha shows the challenges being faced by schools as they race to clean up and welcome students. The desks and tables are covered with dust as well as fine powder, showing the work of termites. The floor is covered with a layer of dust and floating trash. The walls with peeling paint have a thick blanket of cobwebs. A majority of budget schools in Hyderabad are in Asifnagar (218), Bahadurpura (232), Bandlaguda (233) mandals out of the 2,903 private schools in the city. While a number of school managements operating from rented premises have spread the word about the closure, others are yet to inform the parents and schoolchildren, fearing loss of government recognition. Wednesday will be a reality check for many parents sending their wards to private budget schools.  School managements have been informally asked to be flexible regarding fee and welcome all students without creating hurdles. Uma Maheshwara Rao, President, Telangana Recognised Schools Management Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-schools-struggle-to-prevail-over-pandemic/article36110164.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pragati Bhavan will become Ambedkar Bahujan Bhavan: Revanth||Congress was successful in bringing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao out of Pragati Bhavan and his farm house to the midst of people and CM’s public appearances in the last one month are an indication of the fear set in him, Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy claimed. “Now, it’s time to ensure KCR is out of Pragati Bhavan forever, and it would be converted to B.R. Ambedkar Bahujan Bhavan for establishing study circles for the downtrodden. These circles will be the production houses of human resource talent for the entire country,” he said on Wednesday, assuring that education would get the highest priority in the coming Congress government. The two-day deeksha to “expose the failures of the TRS government and its unfulfilled promises” was completed with former Deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha offering lime juice to Mr. Revanth Reddy. The meeting was attended by all the senior Congress party leaders CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, MLA Seethakka, Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Madhu Yaskhi Goud, Damodar Rajnarsimha, Mohd Shabbir Ali, Mallu Ravi, Geetha Reddy, Mohd Azharuddin, Anjan Kumar Yadav, Maheshwar Reddy, Addanki Dayakar, Preetham, and Jaganlal Naik, among others, over the two days. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Reddy said he wanted to expose the ‘under development’ in villages adopted by the Chief Minister and the assurances forgotten. He said he had slept in the house of a Dalit that was given to him 30 years ago by the Congress government. “But, TRS has not built the promised 2BHK houses. I challenged the TRS that I am willing to tonsure my head and leave if the government can prove that their promises were implemented at least in the villages adopted by the CM. But none of the TRS leaders responded,” he said. He also targeted Labour Minister Malla Reddy, accusing him of violating norms to build engineering and medical colleges. “I challenge the government for an inquiry and I am willing to prove all my allegations,” he said. Mr. Reddy said giving pensions was not development as is being claimed by the government. “Dalits and the downtrodden have been denied educational opportunities by the government with concerted efforts. Giving out doles to attract votes is not development but allurement,” he added. Stating that Telangana has given a lot to KCR and his family for what ever role he has played in Telangana agitation, Mr. Reddy said instead of utilising it properly, he chose to indulge in corruption. “People like Megha Krishna Reddy and Rameshwar Rao have become super rich at the cost of Telangana people and the State was pushed into a debt trap,” he alleged.  I challenged the TRS that I am willing to tonsure my head and leave if the government can prove that their promises were implemented at least in the villages adopted by the CM. But none of the TRS leaders responded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pragati-bhavan-will-become-ambedkar-bahujan-bhavan-revanth/article36110202.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC censures GHMC for inaction over footpath encroachments||Warning GHMC authorities of “serious repercussions” if its orders over removal of encroachments on footpaths in city were not cleared, Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed them to file affidavits explaining steps taken on the matter. The HC, expressing dissatisfaction over the inaction of the GHMC authorities, said they had not moved an inch over the directions issued by it nearly seven months ago. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, taking serious exception to the affidavit filed by GHMC standing counsel, said it was “absolutely vague”. The bench was hearing a PIL petition seeking clearance of the illegal occupation and grabbing of sidewalks in the State capital. “What kind of an affidavit is this...are you serious...this is just an eyewash,” the CJ said. The bench said it hoped the authorities would present details of the length of pavements encroached by different persons and how much of that was cleared. Instead of that, the authorities gave details of the lengths of the sidewalks in the capital. Replying to queries raised by the bench, the GHMC counsel said the authorities would inspect the city and clear the encroachments if the court gave an order. “Do not ask permission of the court on such matters. You have not done a single thing since the last order was passed,” the CJ said. The GHMC counsel began explaining that entire staff of the GHMC was occupied with the vaccination work in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic . Stating that vaccination was the biggest task assigned to the GHMC employees, the lawyer sought time of two weeks to comply with the HC orders. Half-hearted exercise “You did not do it in seven months and now you say you will do it in two weeks...why did you do half-hearted exercise?,” the CJ sought to know from the counsel. Observing that the court was inclined to impose costs on the authorities for failing to follow the court orders, the bench gave a last opportunity of three weeks to them to explain steps taken to remove illegal occupation of sidewalks. Each of the five zonal commissioners of GHMC should separately file affidavits with date-wise details of the removal of encroachments by the field officers, the bench ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-censures-ghmc-for-inaction-over-footpath-encroachments/article36110172.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Verification of credentials mandatory for benefits under EWS reservation||The State government has made it clear that there will be strict verification of credentials of the candidates aspiring for reservations under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota to ensure there is no scope for irregularities. In a significant development, the government had announced that the vacancies reserved for the EWS candidates would be carried forward to the next year and treated as backlog. The government had introduced important clauses in the guidelines issued for the implementation of 10% reservation for the EWS on Tuesday. Provisions had been made to ensure that there is no scope for irregularities in the appointments made under the EWS quota. The appointment is provisional and is subject to the income certificate being verified through proper channels. “If the verification reveals that the claim to belong to EWS is fake/false, the services will be terminated forthwith without assigning any further reasons and without prejudice to such further action as may be taken under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code for production of fake/false certificate”, an important provision of the guidelines said. At the same time, the appointing authorities had been mandated to verify the veracity of the income certificate submitted by the candidate through the certificate issuing authority. The order follows the Constitutional amendment - The Constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act 2019 – providing for reservations for the EWSs in higher educational institutions, including private institutions whether aided or unaided by the State, other than Minority Educational Institutions. The amendment provides for 10% reservation to persons belonging to the EWS in initial appointments to the posts in services under Telangana. It would be applicable to persons who are not covered under the scheme of reservation for SCs, STs and BCs and whose family had gross annual income below Rs. 8 lakh. The income would include earnings through salary, agriculture, business profession and others, for the financial year prior to the year of application. In the detailed guidelines issued, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the benefit of reservation under EWS could be availed upon production of an income certificate issued by a tahsildar. The officer who would issue the certificate would do the same after carefully verifying all relevant documents following due process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/verification-of-credentials-mandatory-for-benefits-under-ews-reservation/article36110194.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalit Bandhu is KCR’s first day, first show: Vijayashanti||“First day, first show is the nature of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and he comes out with new welfare schemes whenever there is a bypoll, select a few beneficiaries and keep it on the back-burner later. Therefore, we are demanding such ‘Bandhu’ schemes to be implemented throughout Telangana,” said former MP and senior BJP leader Vijayashanti on Wednesday. Talking to the media after releasing songs for the first leg of ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ of party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar from Saturday, the actor-politician charged Mr. Rao with treating TS as his ‘personal property’ to be shared among family members and questioned if common people wished to have the same kind of ‘tyrannical’ administration that they have been experiencing in the last seven years. “Two more years are left for the Assembly elections and I feel the pain for TS, being one of those involved in the struggle for a separate State. The poor and the weaker sections have been totally ignored and the Centre’s welfare schemes do not reach them. BJP is the safest and disciplined party for people, unlike other parties like Congress, which too is mired in corruption and family rule,” she asserted. Despite Mr. Rao unveiling new schemes daily in the backdrop of the Huzurabad bypoll, former Health Minister Eatala Rajender is bound to win and I am going to campaign for him, she observed. Party vice president NVSS Prabhakar said that the CM will have to pay a heavy price for not implementing the EWS quota as announced by the Centre. In a separate press conference at Huzurabad, Mr. Rajender asserted that TRS would not even get its deposit in the forthcoming bypoll, as it would face the wrath of the youth and the unemployed. “My resignation has triggered Dalit Bandhu, ensured a Dalit officer is appointed in CM’s office, got Mr. Rao to garland Dr. Ambedkar’s statue and so on. Yet, Mr. Rao has lost the confidence of TS people and is continuing to resort to cheap tricks by threatening people supporting me. My victory will signal a big political change in TS,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-bandhu-is-kcrs-first-day-first-show-vijayashanti/article36110199.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MPs’ panel visit raises hopes||The scheduled visit of the 27-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence to Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has led to heightened expectations from among the citizens living in civilian colonies within and adjoining areas about a final resolution to the vexatious roads closure by the local military authorities on Wednesday. The committee consisting of members from both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha has also former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, but it is not yet known if he will be coming but Malkajgiri MP and local Pradesh Congress Committee president Revanth Reddy is expected to participate in the meeting with the Army as well as SCB officials on Thursday. While the MP’s main programme is to visit the BDL facilities here, there is hope among citizens about at least some pending issues coming up for discussion and these include the land barter for development of State highways passing through the Cantonment. SCB officials are said to have held informal discussions with the people’s representatives, who had held elected members’ posts in recent years about the likely subjects to come up during the meeting. Colony residential welfare associations have been vociferously opposing the roads closure by the local military officials and it has the support of TS government with Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao demanding the Defence Minister to resolve the issue. Leased lands However, Cantonment officials charge the government of not taking any steps towards development of alternative roads by the GHMC and other departments as was assured to the High Court a couple of years ago. Besides, not a single military-civilian meeting has been called for in recent years which has only widened the gap between both the parties, they claimed. Senior officials, not willing to be identified, want a roadmap to deal with the leased lands. “About 600 acres of valuable land including the old grant bungalows is in private hands and not with the original leaseholders. Neither the Defence Ministry nor the SCB is getting any revenue though commercial enterprises are being run,” they say. “We are going to seek immediate disbursement of the pending service charges of upto Rs. 650 crore relating to the Army to SCB for taking up infrastructure works, implement the new building bylaws removing ambiguity in the counting of cellar space as part of the FSI,” said former vice-president J. Pratap. Another burning issue has been land for land compensation for about 2.5 acres as it had happened earlier when 29 acres were exchanged, giving 86 acres in Jawaharnagar to the Army, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mps-panel-visit-raises-hopes/article36110173.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health Profile pilot project likely in Sept.||The pilot project of Telangana government’s ‘Health Profile’ might be launched any time next month. Apart from blood pressure and sugar levels, Health department staff would assess nutrition levels, presence of cataract, check oxygen saturation levels, oral health, and other health parameters of people during door-to-door survey. Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives would be trained in conducting the tests. All the details would be fed into a digital card. Aadhaar card and phone number would be used to authenticate and allow online access to it. A similar procedure is used to gain access to details in CoWIN software. Confidentiality Sources said doctors, or any healthcare worker, can access the digital card if the person holding it gives his/her approval. Since it would contain personal details, maintaining confidentiality is crucial. “Access to the details might be limited to half hour to one hour after authentication. The card will have health history of a person,” sources said. Similar projects implemented in other countries have been studied for the purpose. If any health parameter of a person is not within limits, they will be referred to primary health centres (PHCs) where further examinations such as blood tests, ECG, and other tests would be conducted. Sources said that equipment needed to conduct the evaluations would be provided to the PHCs. ECG machine, 3-part cell counter, 3-para monitor, semi-auto analyser are some of the equipment that would be needed. Scope for improvement “The pilot project will help to understand if the strategy needs any corrections or changes. It would take over three months to conclude the pilot project in one district,” sources said. It was learnt that senior officials of the Health department have conducted meetings and fixed 90-day deadline to wrap up the pilot project in each of the districts.  Comprehensive picture TS government’s ‘Health Profile’ would cover the spectrum of health parameters Some of the health parameters that will be assessed by ANMs and ASHAs Inspection of cataract, oral cavity Mid upper arm circumference to know nutrition levels Oxygen saturation, pulse rate Blood Pressure, Blood glucose levels, Haemoglobin Height, weight ** Tests and procedures would be conducted at PHCs to check Heart rate, blood pressure, Platelet count, Haemoglobin levels, WBC, Cholesterol levels, blood glucose Kidney and liver tests Dental cleaning Evaluation of retina, hearing ability||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-profile-pilot-project-likely-in-sept/article36110151.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Additional oxygen generation plant for Railway Hospital||SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya inaugurated an additional oxygen generation plant with a capacity of 500 LPM (litres per minute) at Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda, on Wednesday. The new oxygen plant supplants the existing 13 KL capacity tanker to meet the oxygen emergencies of the patients undergoing treatment at the hospital. The Central Hospital is the major hospital catering to the medical needs of the railway employees, both working and retired and their dependents. Apart from an out-patient facility, 350-bedded in-patient facilities are also available at this hospital and treatment is being given covering all major diseases relating to cardiology, general medicine, general surgery, OBG, ENT, ophthalmology, laparoscopic surgeries, neuro surgery, urology with 24-hour dialysis facility. About 250 beds were set up for the COVID treatment, out of which around 70 beds are having intensive care with HFNO, BIPAP and ventilator facility. Over 4,400 patients have been treated till date with maximum recovery rate with 263 medical and paramedical staff have been deployed exclusively for COVID treatment. Mr Mallya also conducted intensive inspection of the entire hospital and reviewed the facilities available along with principal chief medical director Prasanna Kumar and medical director C.K. Venkateshwarlu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railway-hospital-gets-additional-oxygen-plant/article36110158.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS visits mobile vaccination centre||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday visited a mobile vaccination centre at Uppuguda here and urged people to volunteer for vaccination during the mass inoculation drive towards making the city 100% immunised against COVID-19. He requested public representatives to motivate and mobilise people towards vaccination. He said this is the first time any metropolitan city has taken up vaccination drive at such scale. The drive will be extended beyond 10 days if need be, he said. A special mop-up vaccination drive has been on by the Medical & Health department within GHMC purview in coordination with the civic body for the past three days. As part of the drive, door-to-door survey is being carried out in various colonies and slums across the city to identify the unvaccinated and motivate them to get vaccinated at the mobile vaccination centres. A total of 594 mobile units are being used to visit colonies. Teams have been constituted with 4,182 staff members from GHMC, and 1,639 from Medical & Health department. Stickers pasted Stickers are being pasted on the doors of the homes where vaccination has been completed. Colonies where 100% vaccination has been achieved are being given certificates of appreciation. On Wednesday, a total of 375 colonies were declared 100% vaccinated, taking the total number of such colonies in the city to 947. A total of 481 colonies were taken up for vaccination on Wednesday, where 28,181 persons took the first dose and 5,537 the second dose. The cumulative number of persons vaccinated since the start of the campaign stands at 88,126 from 1,365 colonies.  Mass inoculation 594 mobile units being used to visit colonies in GHMC purview Teams constituted with 4,182 staff members from GHMC, 1,639 from Medical & Health department 375 colonies declared 100% vaccinated on Wednesday Overall, 947 colonies have been cent per cent vaccinated 88,126 persons from 1365 colonies immunised against COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-visits-mobile-vaccination-centre/article36110160.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to undertake special sanitation drive in govt. schools||In view of the planned resumption of classes in government schools, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will take up a special sanitation drive in State-run educational institutions, including schools, hostels and anganwadi centres. Instructions regarding the sanitation programme were issued on Tuesday by the Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD) department, following which GHMC is going ahead with the drive, which has to be completed by August 30 since schools are set to reopen on September 1. School and hostel buildings have gone without maintenance since the start of COVID-19 lockdown last year, which necessitates the drive now. As part of the drive, all classrooms, premises of schools and toilets will be cleaned and disinfected. De-weeding activities will be taken up to clear the premises of unwanted growth of shrubs and grass. Overhead water tanks and sumps will also be cleaned, and repairs to the drinking water taps and connections will be taken up. Spraying and mopping will be done with anti-fly solutions, and adequate sanitation measures will be taken up to prevent house-fly menace. Anti-larval measures will be taken up to prevent mosquitoes, including emptying and cleaning of overhead tanks, underground storage tanks, and cement tanks, besides cleaning of old metal drums, earthen jars, rainwater harvesting tanks, coolers, coconut shells, tyres and other discarded containers. Stagnant water accumulating due to rain, if any, will be drained. A daily report on the activities taken up will have to be submitted to the respective zonal commissioners, duly signed by the deputy commissioners and Mandal Education Officers concerned. A circular from the GHMC Commissioner in this regard directed zonal and deputy commissioners for strict compliance with the instructions. Any deviation will be viewed seriously, it warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-to-undertake-special-sanitation-drive-in-govt-schools/article36110166.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC mulling VRS scheme?||The State government is mulling voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation. Review meeting According to sources who are aware of the development, the issue was discussed at a recent review meeting TSRTC officers had with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. It is learnt that Mr. Rao was not satisfied with the functioning of the organisation, and expressed this at the meeting. “I am told that this is done to lessen the burden of losses, which the corporation is facing. At this time, it will be difficult to say what exactly is going to happen (in connection with the voluntary retirement scheme). It will probably be studied by the corporate office (in Bus Bhavan), before concrete steps are being taken,” a source who did not wish to be identified said. Matter not clear TSRTC officials, however, remained tight-lipped about the development. It is also unclear as to how many workers could be affected. The number is estimated to run into a few thousand, if the move goes through. In the past few years, the transport juggernaut has been grappling with a reduction in the number of personnel. According to official figures, while in 2014-15 the staff strength was 56,140, in 2020-21, the number of workers dwindled to 48,352, which is a drop of 8,388 workers. No fresh recruitments The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation has not embarked on fresh recruitments. As the management had stated in the recent past, the beleaguered organisation is facing crushing losses running into Rs. 2,600 crore. This is on account of increasing diesel prices and liabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-tsrtc-mulling-vrs/article36110208.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC proposes escrow account to deposit Kokapet land auction money||Telangana High Court on Wednesday said the State government should not use a single rupee of the Rs. 700 crore accrued through auction of lands in Kokapet till it furnishes the report of the High Power Committee (HPC) on GO 111. Hearing a batch of petitions on matters relating to GO 111 which prohibited constructions on the catchment area of Himyatsagar and Osmansgar lakes, the HC said the State government should create an escrow account and deposit the money secured through auction of Kokapet lands. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy had been hearing the batch of pleas consecutively for the past three days. The bench also sought to know what efforts the government was making to create facilities like sewerage treatment plant, sewage lines and drinking water at the lands in Kokapet. The lands were auctioned and permissions were likely to be given for erecting structures there. “This court would ensure the government stayed its hands off the money secured through auction of Kokapet lands ...till you demonstrate that you have created all the works cited,” the CJ observed. The bench took an exception to the HPC not presenting its report on GO 111 even four years after its constitution. Additional Advocate General J. Ramchander Rao, while admitting that there was delay in HPC presenting its report, assured the court that the present State government would expedite the matter. Within a month, all required procedures relating to GO 111 would be finalised, he said. However, the CJ declined to grant time. “Though the committee was constituted four years ago, the HPC did not submit the report...this act of yours is something more curious...”, the CJ remarked. The AAG assured the court that he would secure instructions on the HPC submitting its report. Referring to the query raised by the bench the previous day about government’s plan to revoke GO 111, the AAG explained that a Telugu news daily carried a report based on a remark made by Chief Minister during a marathon press conference long ago. The government was studying the consequences of GO 111 and waiting for the HPC report, he said. The bench pointed the anomaly of the difference in terms of reference between the HPC and that of the Environment Protection Training and Research Institute. The matter was posted to Thursday for hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-proposes-escrow-account-to-deposit-kokapet-land-auction-money/article36110169.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ED issues notices to 10 Tollywood personalities||Enforcement Directorate (ED) authorities on Wednesday reportedly issued notices to 10 persons connected to the Telugu film industry and two others including a private club manager as part of a money laundering probe linked to a drugs racket. Four years ago, the Excise and Prohibition department of Telangana questioned some Tollywood celebrities in the backdrop of reports that they consumed drugs or were indirectly connected to persons consuming drugs. Subsequently, no specific criminal action was initiated against the reportedly due to lack of clinching evidence. Names of 10 of those Tollywood personalities, questioned by Special Investigation Team (SIT) of P&E, figured in the list of persons who were issued summons by the Enforcement Directorate . Names of two other noted actors, who were not questioned by SIT, got included in the ‘notice list’ of Enforcement Directorate. Enforcement Directorate issuing notices to these 12 persons, including two noted actors, created ripples in Tollywood industry triggering speculation about their possible involvement in drugs and money laundering cases. The authorities had summoned them to appear at their office on different dates. From August 31 to September 22, these 12 persons were asked to appear before the ED officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ed-issues-notices-to-10-tollywood-personalities/article36110170.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tank Bund for pedestrians on Sundays||The Tank Bund is all set to become pedestrian friendly with the Hyderabad Traffic Police barring entry of vehicles from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Sundays. An experiment Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Wednesday described the development as an experiment which would improve with time. He said that a citizen had brought the issue to light, to which Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K T Rama Rao responded positively. While the Tank Bund will be barricaded from both sides. A 200-metre stretch on either side would be earmarked for parking vehicles. Vehicles will be barred from entering the area in between. Mr Kumar opined that there could be teething problem initially. With the passage of time, the process would eventually be streamlined, even as he sought the cooperation of the public. Police would evaluate the response of visitors and put improvements in place. Motorists can take alternative routes such as Necklace Road and Lower Tank Bund to reach their destinations when restrictions on Tank Bund are put in place on Sundays for visitors, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tank-bund-for-pedestrians-on-sundays/article36110186.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘SCR has spent Rs. 263 cr. for passenger amenities, safety’||South Central Railway (SCR) has been according highest priority for safety and is committed to provide best possible passenger amenities with Rs. 263 crore spent on upgradation of passenger amenities, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Wednesday. In the last five years, about 444 km new lines and gauge conversion works have been completed along with 462 km of doubling and third-line works, 1,476 route km have been electrified, 50 rakes replaced with LHB coaches to operate 31 pairs of trains, etc., he told the 73rd Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) meeting held virtually. Twenty-five ZRUCC members including nominated by States, elected members from DRUCC (Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee) of six divisions, public sector undertaking, principal chamber of commerce & trade associations, registered passengers association, nominees of Minister of Railways under special interest category participated. Mr. Mallya said Kisan trains to support the farmers of Telangana, AP and Maharashtra, had transported more than one lakh tonnes of agriculture through 355 specials to different destinations across the country. About 10 crore litres of milk has been transported through Doodh Duronto special trains, 8,000 MTs of Liquid Medical Oxygen to meet the emergency medical needs through 104 Oxygen Express trains by providing green corridor were other achievements. While 68 stations have been developed as Adarsh stations, five major stations have been upgraded, 103 lifts in 44 stations and 58 escalators at 21 stations were installed. Suggestions from participants related to additional stoppage of express trains at important towns; setting up more escalators and lifts; improving cleanliness at stations; extension of platforms; construction of ROBs/RUBs; expedition of new line and doubling projects etc., said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-has-spent-rs-263-cr-for-passenger-amenities-safety/article36110175.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe into hawala transactions||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it conducted searches on eight premises belonging to human hair exporters across Hyderabad and West Godavari district in AP. According to a statement the ED released, in due course of money laundering investigation into Chinese betting apps, hawala transactions to the tune of Rs. 16 crore came to light which were paid to human hair exporters, after which a separate investigation was launched. The ED said it found that several domestic hair merchants were aggregating and selling raw hair to foreigners based in Hyderabad Guwahati and Kolkata which was then smuggled from Manipur, Mizoram and Myanmar to China. The Chinese merchants allegedly labelled the hair as domestic and avoided 28% import duty. In due course of the searches, the ED seized 12 mobiles phones, three laptops, a computer, diaries, account books and sheets of paper which they said contains incriminating evidence. The ED said that two Hyderabad-based merchants received Rs. 3.38 crore for domestic sale to North-east merchants through an illegal Chinese app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-into-hawala-transactions/article36110181.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG seeks action against ‘fake’ teachers||Teachers are supposed to impart knowledge and teach moral values to children but the latter’s future should not kept in the hands of “fake and immoral” teachers. This was plea of Forum for Good Governance (FGG) to Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan requesting her to instruct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to obtain the pending CB-CID inquiry report into recruitment and promotions to teachers with ‘fake’ certificates. Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy also wanted the CS to be told to take steps for vacating the stay orders by the High Court along with taking action against the ‘fake’ teachers. In a communication, he said in 2008 and 2009 about 878 teachers got jobs and some working teachers got promotions by submitting fake documents degree certificates from fake universities or those not competent to issue them. Other teachers approached the Lok Ayukta and in an order in 2013, it has ordered the case to be entrusted to CB-CID and expedite inquiry. District Education Officers were asked to frame charges and file criminal cases against them. Meanwhile, the ‘teachers’ in the dock approached the High Court which asked the government to continue them in the same posts till further orders, he said in a communication. Twelve years later the CB-CID probe is yet to be completed and no efforts were made by the education department to get the stay orders issued by the HC issued in 2014 vacated. A number of submissions submitted to the Commissioner of School Education did not elicit any action, he said and sought the Governor’s intervention into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-seeks-action-against-fake-teachers/article36110190.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sajjanar is new RTC MD||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) will now have a full-time Managing Director (MD), with the State government transferring Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar to head the organisation. The orders for Sajjanar’s transfer came on Wednesday, thus making him one of the several IPS officers to take charge of the transport juggernaut. After the last full-time MD G.V. Ramana Rao’s term ended around three years ago, RTC was being headed by Transport Department Special Chief Secretary Sunil Sharma, as the Vice-Chairman and MD. Mr. Sajjanar will take charge at a time it is going through a financial crisis, and witnessing losses on account of the COVID-19 pandemic and certain liabilities to the tune of a staggering Rs. 2,600 crore. This, notwithstanding a sliver of hope in terms of an improvement in performance parameters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sajjanar-is-new-rtc-md/article36110210.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paint firm setting up Rs. 75 cr plant near city||Paint manufacturer Techno is setting up a new manufacturing plant near Hyderabad with an investment of Rs. 75 crore. Coming up at Cheryal near Patancheru, the new plant will be fully automated and sixth facility for the company. Super premium paints, a segment into which Techno will foray, are to be manufactured at the 2 lakh tonnes per annum plant. Founder of Fortune Group, which is behind Techno Paints brand, Akuri Srinivas Reddy said discussions with a few Italian firms are underway to form a technical collaboration for the new plant. On the next phase, the company intends to invest Rs. 25 crore and raise funds from banks and also private equity investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paint-firm-setting-up-rs-75-cr-plant-near-city/article36110168.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Penalty for TO-LET posters on public places||Pasting those ubiquitous ‘TO LET’ posters on walls and structures, or tying up the boards on electric poles will earn notices for payment of penalty for the alleged offenders henceforth. Enforcement, Vigilance, and Disaster Management wing of GHMC is cracking down upon the unauthorised wall posters and generating e-challans against the persons defacing properties, a statement from the EVDM directorate said. Complaints about the unauthorised posters are being received through mobile app of the Central Enforcement Cell, for which e-challans are being generated and served, it said. Large number of complaints are being received about To-Let boards, PAN Cards, GST consultants, employment notifications, plot sales and other such petty businesses across the city on the CEC app. Clarifying that penalties are being imposed only on commercial business agents, brokers, house rental firms, and real estate firms, and not on individual property owners, the statement said these firms are defacing the image of the city and liable for penalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/penalty-for-to-let-posters-on-public-places/article36110177.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pat for TS work on renewable energy||Union Minister of State for New and Renewable Energy Bhagwanth Khuba on Wednesday appreciated the progress Telangana has made on the renewable energy front. With a total installed capacity of 4398 MW of renewable energy, the State is developing and going to achieve its targets on time, the Minister said addressing a Telangana solar industry stakeholder interaction organised here by National Solar Energy Federation of India (NSEFI) and Telangana Solar Energy Association (T-SEA). The government is pushing for solar PV pumps in the State, he said, hoping Telangana to undertake more work in the areas of green hydrogen, waste to energy and biomass energy. The organisers of the meeting in a release said Mr .Khuba highlighted the need for the Centre and State governments to work together to realise the country’s renewable energy goals. India is pursuing an ambitious target to install 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. At present, 100 GW of capacity has been installed and operationalised, an additional 50 GW under installation and another 27 GW under tendering process. The Minister said as on July 31, 38.5% of the installed power generation capacity in the country is based on clean renewable energy sources. The release said Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation vice-chairman and MD Janaih highlighted the progress Telangana has made on the RE sector, especially solar energy. T-SEA president Ashok Kumar Goud Burra and NSEFI CEO Subrahmanyam Pulipaka were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pat-for-ts-work-on-renewable-energy/article36110189.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sri Chaitanya students bag top ranks in EAMCET||Students of Sri Chaitanya institutions bagged the first rank in both engineering and medical streams of the Telangana EAMCET, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. A statement said Sri Chaitanya’s students have made their mark in EAMCET bagging seven of the top 10 ranks in the engineering stream and 53 in the top-100 ranks. Similarly, in the agriculture and medical stream too, nine ranks out of the top-10 went to its students and 82 ranks in top-100. “The marks are a testimony to the fact that Sri Chaitanya reigns supreme,” said academic director Sushma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sri-chaitanya-students-bag-top-ranks-in-eamcet/article36110162.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BIMA surgery clinic opened at corporate hospital||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Wednesday inaugurated BIMA bypass surgery clinic that has been established by Care Hospitals, Banjara Hills, on its premises. “Coronary bypass surgery has usually been the solution to a blocked artery. The procedure involves taking a healthy blood vessel from the leg or arm to replace the blocked vessel and restore the blood flow. The lesser-known fact is that a blood vessel can also be taken from the chest — Bilateral Internal Mammary Artery (BIMA), the spare arteries inside the chest. They could be ideal substitutes for heart bypass surgery as it has shown to provide long-term benefits, as per medical studies conducted by leading hospitals around the globe,” a press note from the hospital informed on Wednesday. The hospital management said BIMA’s advantages also include minimum risk of brain stroke when used with beating heart surgery, resistance to ageing process of atherosclerosis, and that both young and old patients can be operated on, and no cuts on legs or hands are required. The size of BIMA is almost same as coronary arteries. Hospital COO Rahul Medakkar and director for Cardiothoracic Surgery Prateek Bhatnagar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bima-surgery-clinic-opened-at-corporate-hospital/article36110152.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal spike in COVID infections in GHMC region||A short spike in COVID-19 cases was observed in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits on Wednesday with 102 persons testing positive for coronavirus. It is after 52 days that more than 100 cases have been detected in the region. On July 4, it had logged 107 cases, after which the numbers gradually declined. Altogether, a total of 366 COVID cases were recorded in Telangana on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,56,098. While 80,470 samples were examined, results of 1,387 were awaited. The new cases also included 34 in Karimnagar, and 27 each in Medchal Malkajgiri and Warangal Urban. Two more patients died during the day, taking the death toll to 3,864. The State’s active case tally stands at 6,295. Since March 2 last year, more than 2.41 crore samples in the State have been examined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marginal-spike-in-covid-infections-in-ghmc-region/article36110154.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LIC launches app for agents||LIC has launched a mobile app for its agents and intermediaries to onboard prospective customers. The app is the latest dimension of Atma Nirbhar Agents New Business Digital Application (ANANDA), the paperless solution for new business processes that it had unveiled last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lic-launches-app-for-agents/article36110156.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New Pro-VC for UoH||The University of Hyderabad has appointed R.S. Sarraju, head of its Centre for Dalit, Adivasi and Translation Studies, as the Pro-Vice Chancellor of the university. Prof. Sarraju, former head of the department of Hindi, hails from Prathipadu of East Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh, and graduated from Osmania University, Hyderabad (1977) and obtained M.A. degree in Hindi language and literature from Andhra University, Visakhapatnam. He submitted his doctoral thesis on ‘The Birth of Novel Literature in India; a comparative and sociological analysis’ and was awarded Ph.D from Andhra University. He started teaching at UoH from 1996 and in 2005-08, he served in Jawaharlal Nehru Cultural Centre, Embassy of India, Moscow, on deputation. There, he taught in Moscow State University and Moscow State University of Humanities. Prof. Sarraju has specialised in the areas of Functional Hindi, Translation Studies and Comparative Indian Literature. He has published eight books and more than 60 research papers and translated a few works from Hindi to Telugu and vice-versa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-pro-vc-for-uoh/article36110161.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||4 IPS officers empanelled for promotion as DGP||The State government on Wednesday empanelled for promotion four officers of the rank of Additional Directors General of Police (ADG) as Director General of Police (DGP). Of the four, Umesh Sharraf of 1989 batch of IPS, who was waiting for posting although he was in-charge of police welfare, has been confirmed as DGP and posted as Commissioner of Printing and Stationery. The other officers empanelled are Govind Singh, ADG of Crime Investigation Department, City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar and Principal Home Secretary Ravi Gupta. All the three belong to 1990 batch. With Mr. Sharraf now holding the rank of DGP, he will join the regular DGP M. Mahender Reddy, Director General of Anti-Corruption Bureau B. Poornachander Rao and Director General of Prisons Rajiv Trivedi in the same category. Mr. Rao and Mr. Trivedi were due for retirement this month and October respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-ips-officers-empanelled-for-promotion-as-dgp/article36110200.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Revanth is a blackmailer and broker’||TRS has lashed out at TPCC president Revanth Reddy accusing him of spreading lies and misleading people at the two-day deeksha at Mudu Chintalapally. At a press conference on Wednesday, Labour Minister Malla Reddy, Quthbullapur MLA K. Vivekanand, MLC Shambhipur Raju and TRS general secretary M. Srinivas Reddy said that the government had spent Rs. 62 crore at Mudu Chintalapally. In fact, it was made a mandal headquarters by the TRS government. Mr. Malla Reddy said that people had opposed Mr. Revanth’s visit as the village has no problems. “Can he dare to show similar development in Kodangal, a constituency earlier represented by him?” he asked Revanth. He refuted the allegations that he had cheated and termed Revanth as a ‘blackmailer and broker’. “He secured the top Congress post with similar tactics and is trying to tarnish the image of Malla Reddy institutions with baseless allegations,” he said. He also challenged Mr. Revanth to resign as MP saying that he would also resign as MLA and contest again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-is-a-blackmailer-and-broker/article36110203.ece
26 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tension near Malla Reddy’s house||Tension prevailed at Malla Reddy’s house late on Wednesday night when Congress activists tried to ‘storm’ it. Protesting unsavoury remarks by Malla Reddy against Revanth, a group of Congress workers staged a protest near his house in Bowenpally. Bowenpally police picked up 11 persons for attempting to create disturbance in the area and shifted them to the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-near-malla-reddys-house/article36110197.ece
26 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Anil Kumar is new intelligence chief||Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar on Tuesday was posted as Additional Director General of Police, Intelligence. Mr. Kumar relieves Dr. T. Prabhakar Rao, who was holding full additional charge of the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anil-kumar-is-new-intelligence-chief/article36110179.ece
26 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||AISF activists seek release of scholarships, fee reimbursement||Activists of the All-India Students Federation (AISF) took to the streets here on Wednesday demanding release of pending scholarships and fee reimbursement dues and strengthening of government schools. The demonstrators tried to lay siege to the Collectorate but were stopped by the police near the Dharna Chowk. The agitated activists were dragged into police vehicles and shifted to the Two Town police station. Addressing the demonstrators earlier in the day, AISF district secretary Ramakrishna alleged that the TRS regime was grossly neglecting government schools, undermining the interests of students belonging to weaker and downtrodden sections hit hard by the COVID pandemic. He warned against any move to ‘shut down’ government-run schools on the pretext of ‘low enrolment’ in the name of the rationalisation process. “The AISF will undertake intensive agitations if the ruling dispensation fails to initiate concrete steps to strengthen government schools and release the long due fee reimbursement amount and pending scholarships,” he said. He further demanded that the State government constitute district-level committees to take action against errant private schools charging exorbitant fees from students on one pretext or the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aisf-activists-demand-release-of-scholarships-fee-reimbursement/article36110207.ece
26 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Anti-larval operations scaled up as dengue cases rise in Khammam areas||As dengue cases continue to trickle in from various parts of the erstwhile composite Khammam district in the midst of monsoon season, the official machinery has embarked on a special drive with twin objectives of ensuring sanitation and controlling the mosquito menace at the larval stage by eliminating potential breeding sites in urban and rural areas. Several mandals in Khammam district including Nelakondapalli, Enkoor, and parts of Khammam town as well as Dummugudem, Charla, Tekulapally and other Agency mandals in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district recorded a surge in cases of vector-borne and other seasonal diseases in the past few days. This has prompted the official machinery to intensify anti-larval operations with a focus on high-risk areas prone to frequent stagnation of water during rainy season. The surge in cases of dengue in different parts of Khammam district kept the health machinery on its toes even as the COVID-19 positivity rate dropped to 0.8%, well under control at less than 1 %, in the district. Sources said that two suspected dengue-related deaths were reported from K Lakshmipuram in Dummugudem mandal and a tribal habitation under Rampuram Gram Panchayat in Tekulapally mandal of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Tuesday. But the officials concerned did not acknowledge any deaths due to dengue anywhere in the district so far this year. According to official data, as many as 81 dengue cases were reported till date this year as compared to 26 cases recorded during the corresponding period last year in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. The district recorded 229 malaria cases so far this year as against 300 cases reported the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anti-larval-operations-scaled-up-in-khammam-areas/article36110192.ece
26 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Depressed over EAMCET result, girl ends life||Depressed that she was declared not qualified in the EAMCET-2021, results of which were released on Wednesday, a teenager hailing from Kanagal mandal in the district allegedly ended her life by hanging from the ceiling of the house when she was home alone. A note, purportedly signed and left behind by the victim, stated not qualifying the test as the reason for her extreme decision. “Sorry, mummy and daddy, I can’t face you. You had high hopes, but I did not even qualify,” it read..  [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/depressed-over-eamcet-result-girl-ends-life/article36110167.ece
26 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||One killed, 3 injured as car hits parked lorry||One person died on the spot and three others injured in a road accident at Chintalghat on Wednesday. According to Kohir Sub-Inspector Rajasekhar, a car coming from Zaheerabad hit a lorry parked on the road side at Chintalghat chowrasta. The impact was such that the body of one P. Anusha (26), a software engineer from Hyderabad, got stuck in the car and it took a long time for the police to retrieve it. Three others, Sailu, Divija and Shiva, were injured and sent to a hospital in Hyderabad after primary treatment at Zaheerabad area hospital. Kohir police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-killed-3-injured-as-car-hits-parked-lorry/article36110205.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Smog tower to be functional after monsoon||The smog tower inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday to fight air pollution will be functional after monsoon as the filters for it will be fitted only after the rainy season ends, a government official said. “The filters will be installed only after monsoon because if we instal the filters now and run it during the monsoon, then there will be fungal growth in the filter due to the moisture,” the official added. He added that the tower will not function round the year. “The smog tower need not work when the air quality is good. Its function is to reduce pollution when it increases,” the official added. After inaugurating the smog tower at Connaught Place on Monday, Mr. Kejriwal had said that similar towers would be built in other parts of the national capital, if results of the current pilot project are satisfactory. The smog tower is a 24 metre-high structure fitted with fans and filters. It will draw in polluted air from the top and release filtered air near the ground through fans fitted on the sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/smog-tower-to-be-functional-after-monsoon/article36110022.ece
26 August 2021||Aurangabad,||AMC seeks details about Afghan returnees to give polio vaccines||The civic body in Aurangabad has directed the airport authority here to share details about people travelling to the city from Afghanistan to administer polio vaccines to them as a preventive measure, an official said on Wednesday. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has written to the airport authorities instructing them to share names, addresses, and contact details of people travelling from Afghanistan, on a daily basis. People have started migrating from Afghanistan and even Indians working in the country are returning to India, following the Taliban takeover earlier this month. Afghanistan and Pakistan are the only two countries where polio is still endemic. “We have heard that nearly 400 travellers have come to India from Afghanistan. However, we don’t know where they will travel further. If they come to Aurangabad in connecting flights, there is a chance that they may skip vaccination. Hence, we have sought details of travellers coming from Afghanistan,” civic health officer Dr. Neeta Padalkar said. Polio vaccines will be administered orally and also through injections to all travellers, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amc-seeks-details-about-afghan-returnees-to-give-polio-vaccines/article36110025.ece
26 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP used Kalyan Singh for Hindutva: SP hits back||Responding to jibes of “Muslim appeasement” by BJP leaders against Akhilesh Yadav for not attending the last rites of former Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, the Samajwadi Party accused the BJP of using Singh for Hindutva but always treating him like a ‘backward’. ‘Out of party’ Udaiveer Singh, SP MLC and close aide of party chief Akhilesh Yadav, on Wednesday said the BJP deployed Kalyan Singh for Hindutva but always considered him a ‘backward’. “This is why [they] threw him out of the party, and neither gave him a place in the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Trust nor invited him for the foundation ceremony [of the Ram Mandir on August 5, 2020],” Mr. Udaiveer said. Another SP leader and former Minister Pawan Pandey from Ayodhya also said Kalyan Singh was not given a position in the Trust due to his OBC background. ‘Look inside first’ “The BJP should first look at its own character before pointing fingers at others,” Mr. Pandey said in a tweet in response to a jibe by Swatantra Dev Singh, BJP U.P. president. On Tuesday, Mr. Yadav had come under fire of the BJP for not physically paying final respects to Kalyan Singh, who died aged 89 on Saturday evening. Singh, under whose watch the Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992, was cremated on Monday in Bulandshahr by the Ganga. While former CM and BSP chief Mayawati visited Kalyan Singh’s residence on Sunday and offered her last respects, Mr. Yadav stayed away physically though he tweeted the customary condolence message. Senior BJP OBC leaders accused Mr. Yadav of trying to appease Muslims by not paying his respects to Singh, who was a Lodh Rajput (OBC) and a key face of the Ram Janmabhoomi Temple movement, which brought the BJP to power for the first time in U.P. in 1991. “Did the charm of Muslim vote bank prevent him from paying tribute to the biggest leader of the Backward Castes,” Mr. Swatantra Dev Singh asked in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-used-kalyan-singh-for-hindutva-sp-hits-back/article36110029.ece
26 August 2021||Lucknow,||Munnawar Rana’s son held for faking attack: police||Poet Munnawar Rana’s son was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly faking an attack on himself to implicate his uncles in a false case. The noted poet’s son Tabrez Rana, who is embroiled in a dispute with his uncles over their ancestral properties, was arrested by the Raebareli police from Lalkuan locality in the Naka area here. Rana, who wanted to contest the Assembly elections from Tiloi, had staged the attack on himself to get security and media coverage, besides implicating his uncles, a senior officer said. He had lodged a complaint with the Raebareli police alleging that he was attacked by two bike-borne men on June 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/munnawar-ranas-son-held-for-faking-attack-police/article36110028.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai Youth Cong. executive president resigns||Mumbai Youth Congress executive president Suraj Thakur resigned on Wednesday, a day after his appointment, stating that he was disappointed that hard work and dedication were ignored and other factors were considered in selecting the president. The party had been delaying appointment of Mumbai Youth Congress president for more than a year. On Tuesday, it appointed Bandra east MLA Zeeshan Siddiqui as the president and Mr. Thakur as the executive president. Lobbying for months Both the leaders had been lobbying for the post in Delhi for months. Mr. Siddiqui is the son of former Congress MLA Baba Siddiqui, while Mr. Thakur had risen in the organisation through student politics. Mr. Thakur, when contacted, said he would continue serving the party as an ordinary worker. “But the recent decision has disappointed me and I am totally uncomfortable working with a non-political and inexperienced person in a key organisation of the Congress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-youth-cong-executive-president-resigns/article36110027.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||I have every right to protest, says riots accused||Activist Khalid Saifi, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, told a local court on Wednesday that he has every right to protest and that is not indicative of any conspiracy. Mr. Saifi, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case for being the “masterminds” of the February 2020 riots. The violence had erupted during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. ‘No conspiracy’ “If others and and I like me feel that the CAA and the NRC are unjust, I have every right to protest. This is not indicative of any conspiracy,” senior advocate Rebecca John, representing Mr. Saifi, said in the courtroom during the bail hearing. Ms. John went on to say that, “Mr. Saifi protested against the CAA and the NRC as did I and many people in this room. It does not make any one of us culpable. It is a vibrant democracy”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/i-have-every-right-to-protest-says-riots-accused/article36110274.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP not paying civic bodies for hoardings’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged that the BJP is looting the municipal corporations of crores of rupees by putting up advertisements on hoarding sites of civic body’s without paying any money. “These are sites by the civic bodies for paid advertising, where you have to pay Rs. 1 lakh-Rs. 3 lakh a month. Such unipoles have been put up by the civic bodies. The AAP surveyed the Delhi BJP’s advertisements on these unipoles. Wherever we saw advertisements, we noted its GPS location and publicly asked BJP Delhi chief Adesh Gupta whether they had paid the corporations for the ad,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. The party leaders did not even once say that the BJP had paid money for the advertisements, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-not-paying-civic-bodies-for-hoardings/article36110020.ece
26 August 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active tally goes up again as cases surpass recoveries||After a sustained recovery spree for more than a week, Maharashtra’s active cases rose again with the State reporting 5,031 new COVID-19 cases against just 4,380 patients being discharged. The active case tally has climbed to 50,183. A spike of 212 deaths pushed the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,36,571. The case fatality rate went up to 2.12%. The total cases have reached 64,37,680 while the cumulative recoveries have risen to 62,47,414 with the recovery rate standing at 97.04%. “Of a total 5,28,40,805 laboratory samples tested thus far, 64,37,680 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 12.18%) have returned positive with more than 2.08 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported 1,133 new cases, taking its total case tally to 11,09,560 while 17 deaths pushed the toll to 18,626. As per district authorities, the active cases have again crossed the 8,000-mark. Mumbai recorded a higher-than-usual surge of 342 fresh cases to take its total tally to 7,42,003 while the active count stood at 3,112. Four deaths took the city’s fatality figure to 15,956. Ahmednagar registered 692 new cases and 20 deaths, taking its total cases to 3,04,636 of whom 4,716 are active. The district’s fatality toll has touched 6,489. Satara added 605 fresh infections and 34 deaths, taking the total case tally to 2,35,496 of whom 5,400 are active, while the death toll climbed to 5,898. Neighbouring Sangli logged nearly 450 new cases and nine deaths. The total tally stands at 1,99,526 with the active cases going up to 4,668 while its death count reached 5,399.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-tally-goes-up-again-as-cases-surpass-recoveries/article36110276.ece
26 August 2021||Srinagar,||All is not well in J&K Cricket Assn.||Once the posterboy of cricket in Kashmir, earning praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the captain of the Jammu and Kashmir team, Parvez Rasool, is distraught by an e-mail written by a member of a Board of Control for Cricket in India-appointed sub-committee, seeking to “nail him down”. “I fail to understand why I am being targeted. It’s clear the intention is to tarnish my image and ruin my future. It seems there are forces who want to end my career. The mail of a sub-committee member talking about ‘nailing me down’ has disturbed me mentally,” Mr. Rasool, the first cricketer from Kashmir to play for India (in 2014), and also join the Indian Premier League (IPL) teams, told The Hindu . Mr. Rasool, who hails from the small town of Bijbehara in south Kashmir, was referring to the e-mail he received inadvertently from Brigadier Anil Gupta, member, administration, J&K Cricket Association, on July 26, in which he addressed Srinagar in-charge-cricket Majid Dar with a short message: “Do we have any proof to nail him down”, a copy of which is with The Hindu . In a subsequent email, though, Brig. Gupta praised Mr. Rasool, saying, “JKCA has high regards for your cricketing achievements and wish you all the best for the future.” ‘Return equipment’ However, Brig. Gupta also accused Mr. Rasool of “not returning equipment belonging to the JKCA”. Earlier, in another mail, Brig. Gupta asked Mr. Rasool to return a pitch roller or face “police action”. “Please keep me out of this as I reiterate that I have not taken any machinery from the JKCA. In case you have any receipt, please enlighten me... I assure you my support for the betterment of J&K cricket, as a cricketer who has given his life to it,” read the reply from Mr. Rasool, who alleged “unnecessary victimisation” after a new sub-committee was constituted in the JKCA. Long-pending dispute Three months ago, a three-member administrative sub-committee was constituted by the BCCI “to look after the affairs of the JKCA and resolve the long pending dispute between 30 cricket clubs and 20 district-level teams” in the Union Territory. The sub-committee is headed by Brig. Gupta, a BJP spokesperson according to his Twitter account; and also comprises advocate Sunil Sethi, a BJP leader who shot into limelight during the Amarnath land row agitation of 2008; and former cricketer Mithun Manhas, who owns the Jammu Cricket Club.  (See also Page 9)   The mail of a sub-committee member talking about ‘nailing me down’ has disturbed me mentally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-is-not-well-in-jk-cricket-assn/article36110341.ece
26 August 2021||Thane,||Revert to single-member ward system, SEC tells corporations||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Wednesday asked civic corporations in Maharashtra, whose term ends in 2022, to begin the process of delimitation of wards from August 27, and revert to single-member ward system. The term of the civic bodies in Mumbai, Thane, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Panvel, Mira Bhayander, Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune, Solapur, Nashik, Malegaon, Parbhani, Nanded-Waghela, Latur, Amravati, Akola, Nagpur and Chandrapur will end in 2022. In a letter to the municipal commissioners of 18 cities, the SEC directed them to start the process of forming wards from August 27, and stated that it would be reverting to the single-member ward system from the multi-member one. The wards should be formed keeping in mind the population data of 2011 census, changes in the geographical factors of the wards, and reservations should be adopted in keeping with the directions of the courts, the letter stated. The process of preparing the draft of ward limits should be done well in advance so that the polls were completed on time, the SEC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/revert-to-single-member-ward-system-sec-tells-corporations/article36110026.ece
26 August 2021||London,||‘Search for COVID-19 origins stalled’||The international scientists dispatched to China by the World Health Organization to find out where the coronavirus came from said on Wednesday the search has stalled and warned that the window of opportunity for solving the mystery is “closing fast.” Meanwhile, a U.S. intelligence review ordered up by President Joe Biden proved inconclusive about the virus’s origin, including whether it jumped from an animal to a human or escaped from a Chinese lab, The Washington Post reported on Wednesday. Chinese reluctance In a commentary published in the journal Nature , the WHO-recruited experts said the origins investigation is at “a critical juncture” requiring urgent collaboration but has instead come to a standstill. They noted among other things that Chinese officials are still reluctant to share some raw data, citing concerns over patient confidentiality. Earlier this year, WHO sent a team of experts to Wuhan, where the first human COVID-19 cases were detected in December 2019, to probe what might have triggered the pandemic now blamed for nearly 4.5 million deaths worldwide, with more than 10,000 people a day succumbing despite more than 5 billion doses of vaccine administered. In their analysis, published in March, the WHO team concluded the virus probably jumped to humans from animals, and they described the possibility of a laboratory leak as “extremely unlikely.” But the WHO experts said their report was intended only as a first step and added, “The window of opportunity for conducting this crucial inquiry is closing fast: any delay will render some of the studies biologically impossible.” For example, they said, “Antibodies wane, so collecting further samples and testing people who might have been exposed before December 2019 will yield diminishing returns.” China said on Wednesday that officials should “concentrate on other possible avenues that may help trace the origin” of COVID-19 and suggested studies should be pursued in other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/search-for-covid-19-origins-stalled/article36109748.ece
26 August 2021||Moscow,||Putin, Xi agree to jointly combat ‘threats’||Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping have agreed their countries will step up efforts to counter “threats” emerging from Afghanistan following the Taliban’s takeover, the Kremlin said on Wednesday. In a phone call, the two leaders “expressed their readiness to step up efforts to combat threats of terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from the territory of Afghanistan,” the Kremlin said in a statement. They also spoke of the “importance of establishing peace” in Afghanistan and “preventing the spread of instability to adjacent regions”. SCO summit Mr. Putin and Mr. Xi “agreed to intensify bilateral contacts” and “make the most of the potential” of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) that is due to convene for a summit in Tajikistan next month. Several ex-Soviet republics in Central Asia — where Moscow holds military bases — share a border both with Afghanistan and China. While Moscow has been cautiously optimistic about the new leadership in Kabul, Mr. Putin has warned of Afghan militants entering neighbouring countries as refugees. Mr. Putin has also criticised the involvement of outside powers in Afghanistan’s domestic affairs and said Moscow had “learnt lessons” from the Soviet Union’s decade-long invasion of the country. For its part, after the Taliban swept to power, China said it is ready to deepen “friendly and cooperative relations” with Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-xi-agree-to-jointly-combat-threats/article36109758.ece
26 August 2021||Manila,||Philippines’ Duterte confirms he will run for Vice-President||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte declared he will run for Vice-President next year to continue his “crusade” against drugs and insurgents. Mr. Duterte, who was elected in 2016, is barred under the Constitution from seeking another term. “I will run for Vice-President,” Mr. Duterte said late Tuesday. “Then I will continue the crusade. I’m worried about the drugs, insurgency — well, number one is insurgency, then criminality, drugs. Since taking power, Mr. Duterte has waged a bloody campaign against drug users and dealers that rights groups estimate has killed tens of thousands of people. International Criminal Court prosecutors are seeking to launch a full-blown investigation into the killings. PDP-Laban is expected to endorse Mr. Duterte’s top aide, Senator Christopher Lawrence “Bong” Go, to be its presidential candidate in the May election. But a party faction loyal to boxer-turned-Senator Manny Pacquiao said a Go-Duterte ticket was a “smokescreen” to protect Mr. Duterte’s daughter, Sara Duterte — who is widely expected to run for the presidency — from political attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/philippines-duterte-confirms-he-will-run-for-vice-president/article36109746.ece
26 August 2021||Tokyo,||Fukushima nuclear water to be released via undersea tunnel||The operator of the wrecked Fukushima nuclear power plant said on Wednesday it plans to build an undersea tunnel so that massive amounts of treated but still radioactive water can be released into the ocean about 1 km away from the plant to avoid interference with local fishing. The operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company Holdings, said it hopes to start releasing the water in spring 2023. TEPCO says hundreds of storage tanks at the plant need to be removed to make room for facilities necessary for the plant’s decommissioning. An official, Junichi Matsumoto, said TEPCO will construct the undersea tunnel by drilling through bedrock in the seabed near its No. 5 reactor, which survived the meltdowns at the plant, to minimise possible underground contamination or leakage of radioactive ground water into the tunnel. Radioactive water has been stored in about 1,000 tanks at the Fukushima Daiichi plant since 2011, when a massive earthquake and tsunami damaged three reactors and their cooling water became contaminated and began leaking. The government decided in April to start discharging the water, after further treatment and dilution, into the Pacific Ocean in spring 2023 under safety standards set by regulators, a move opposed by fishermen and neighbouring countries. Under the new plan, the water will be released at a depth of about 12 m below the ocean’s surface, said Mr. Matsumoto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fukushima-nuclear-water-to-be-released-via-undersea-tunnel/article36109750.ece
26 August 2021||Hanoi,||Kamala Harris reaches Hanoi after ‘Havana syndrome’ delay||Vice-President Kamala Harris began a visit to Vietnam on Wednesday to stress U.S. commitment to Asia, a trip critics have slammed as tone-deaf given the parallels with the superpower’s evacuations from Saigon and Kabul. Ms. Harris will meet the communist state’s President and Prime Minister in Hanoi, a day after accusing regional giant Beijing of intimidation in the disputed South China Sea. Her arrival was delayed due to what U.S. officials called an “anomalous health incident” in Hanoi, an apparent reference to the so-called “Havana syndrome”, which has afflicted U.S. diplomats in several countries including China and Russia. It is not clear what causes the syndrome and it has led to unproven allegations that Russians or others used sonic or other high-intensity electronic devices to physically harm U.S. diplomats. The visit, the first to Vietnam by a sitting U.S. Vice-President, comes after a two-day stop in Singapore, where Ms. Harris took aim at China and sought to shore up U.S. credibility in the wake of the Taliban’s stunning return to power. But the Vietnam leg of the Asian tour has sparked criticism after the chaotic evacuation of Kabul prompted comparisons with the trauma of 1975 Saigon, when U.S. helicopters ferried final evacuees from the embassy roof in the last days of the Vietnam War. Ms. Harris used a speech in Singapore to say Beijing “continues to coerce, to intimidate” and to make unreasonable claims to large areas of the South China Sea. “We need to find ways to pressure and raise the pressure, frankly, on Beijing to abide by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,” she added. China hit back at the accusations through its state media on Wednesday, accusing the U.S. of hypocrisy in attempting to “coerce and intimidate” countries in the region in its “scheme to contain China”. China claims almost all of the resource-rich South China Sea, through which trillions of dollars in shipping trade passes annually, with competing claims from four Southeast Asian states including Vietnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kamala-harris-reaches-hanoi-after-havana-syndrome-delay/article36109752.ece
26 August 2021||Tehran,||Iran’s Parliament approves President’s Cabinet choices||Iran’s Parliament on Wednesday approved almost all new President Ebrahim Raisi’s Cabinet choices, enabling him to start working in earnest with his government, following a June election victory. Lawmakers approved one-by-one 18 out of 19 candidates put forward by Mr. Raisi for the ministerial posts. They rejected only his pick for the education portfolio, thus requiring the President to make another choice for that post. In an Islamic republic where ultimate power rests with supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Mr. Raisi inherits a difficult socioeconomic situation. Iran has been strangled financially by sanctions reimposed by Washington after then U.S. President Donald Trump pulled out of a multilateral nuclear deal in 2018. Rise in infections The country of 83 million people has since been hit by a severe economic crisis amplified by the pandemic. Iran is currently grappling with a fifth wave of infections — the strongest wave yet. The country recorded its highest single day death toll on Tuesday, with 709 fatalities registered by the Health Ministry in 24 hours. The conservative President won a June 18 election marred by record low turnout and an absence of significant competitors. He succeeds moderate president Hassan Rouhani, architect of the political opening that culminated in the 2015 nuclear agreement between Tehran and major powers. But that external opening was torpedoed by Mr. Trump and much of Iran’s conservative camp. The new President was sworn in by Parliament in early August, but the outgoing administration remained at the helm until Wednesday’s parliamentary vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/irans-parliament-approves-presidents-cabinet-choices/article36109753.ece
26 August 2021||Algiers,||Algeria cuts diplomatic ties with ‘hostile’ Morocco||Algeria’s Foreign Minister Ramtane Lamamra said on Tuesday that his country has severed diplomatic relations with Morocco due to “hostile actions”, following months of resurgent tensions between the North African rivals. The countries have long accused one another of backing opposition movements as proxies, with Algeria’s support for separatists in the Western Sahara a particular bone of contention for Morocco. Their rivalry took a new twist last year when outgoing U.S. president Donald Trump recognised Moroccan sovereignty over the territory — in exchange for Morocco normalising ties with Israel. “Algeria has decided to cut diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Morocco from today,” Mr. Lamamra said. “History has shown... Morocco has never stopped carrying out hostile actions against Algeria,” he told a press conference. In a statement later on Tuesday, Morocco’s Foreign Ministry said Algiers’ move was “completely unjustified” but “expected given the logic of escalation seen in recent weeks”. Rabat said the decision was based on “false, even absurd pretexts”. The rupture followed a review of bilateral relations announced by Algeria last week as it alleged its neighbour was complicit in deadly forest fires that ravaged the country’s north.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/algeria-cuts-diplomatic-ties-with-hostile-morocco/article36109745.ece
26 August 2021||Washington,||U.S. top court reinstates ‘Remain in Mexico’ policy||The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed the revival of an immigration policy that forced asylum seekers to wait in Mexico for their court dates, in a blow to President Joe Biden. Under former President Donald Trump’s “Remain in Mexico” programme, tens of thousands of non-Mexican asylum seekers — mostly from Central America — were sent back over the border pending the outcome of their applications. The Biden administration moved quickly to start dismantling and end the controversial policy, officially called the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP). The administration eventually asked the Supreme Court for a stay in reinstating the programme. In a brief unsigned order, however, the court said on Tuesday that “the application for a stay... is denied.” In the order, the court referenced a separate case, in which it blocked Republicans in June 2020 from ending a federal programme giving legal status to hundreds of thousands of immigrants, known as Dreamers. The court had found the Republican move to cancel the programme to be “arbitrary and capricious.” The Supreme Court similarly said in its order on Tuesday that the Biden administration had “failed to show a likelihood of success on the claim that the memorandum rescinding the Migrant Protection Protocols was not arbitrary and capricious.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-top-court-reinstates-remain-in-mexico-policy/article36109759.ece
26 August 2021||paris,||No surrender, but open to talks: Massoud||The leader of a resistance movement to the Taliban has vowed to never surrender but is open to negotiations with the new rulers of Afghanistan, according to an interview published by Paris Match on Wednesday. Ahmad Massoud has retreated to his native Panjshir Valley north of Kabul along with former Vice-President Amrullah Saleh. “I would prefer to die than to surrender,” Mr. Massoud said in his first interview since the Taliban took over Kabul. “I’m the son of Ahmad Chah Massoud. Surrender is not a word in my vocabulary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-surrender-but-open-to-talks-massoud/article36109744.ece
26 August 2021||Tokyo,||Two injured in acid attack at Tokyo station||Two people suffered burns in an acid attack at a Tokyo subway station with the perpetrator still at large, police and local media said on Wednesday. The attack took place at Shirokane Takanawa station in Tokyo on Tuesday night, while the Paralympics opening ceremony was being held. One of the victims, a 22-year-old businessman, sustained burns to his face after the suspect sprayed liquid at him on an escalator, police said. Public broadcaster NHK said the man was severely injured by the liquid. A 34-year-old woman also fell and reportedly suffered minor burns to her legs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-injured-in-acid-attack-at-tokyo-station/article36109760.ece
26 August 2021||Niamey,||16 soldiers killed in jihadist-hit southeast Niger||An attack by hundreds of Boko Haram fighters on a town in Niger’s southeast killed 16 soldiers and wounded nine others, Defence Minister Alkassoum Indatou has said. Nigerien soldiers “neutralised around 50 terrorists”, he added.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/16-soldiers-killed-in-jihadist-hit-southeast-niger/article36109839.ece
26 August 2021||ALBANY,||US--Virus Outbreak-New York Death Toll||New York Governor Kathy Hochul promised more government transparency on her first day in office and by day’s end her administration had quietly delivered it by acknowledging nearly 12,000 more deaths in the state from COVID-19.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-virus-outbreak-new-york-death-toll/article36109756.ece
26 August 2021||TOKYO,||AS--Virus Outbreak-Japan||Japan expanded its coronavirus state of emergency on Wednesday for a second week in a row, adding eight more prefectures as a surge in infections fuelled by the delta variant strains the country’s health care system.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-virus-outbreak-japan/article36109754.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Negotiating the new global climate policy||The policy significance of the recent report (https://bit.ly/3Dcm8zb) of the United Nations (UN) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is that reaching net zero alone is not enough as it is the cumulative emissions up to net zero which determine the temperature that is reached, and that a global policy which considers only current emissions will not limit global warming and its adverse effects. Restricting well-being For 30 years, climate negotiations have struggled with a frame that created an imbalance between countries sharing global carbon space, the only limited natural resource. Development depleted carbon space causing the climate problem and developing countries are being pressured to limit their use of the remaining space as the solution. At the G20 Climate and Energy Ministerial meeting in July, India proposed that major economies bring down their own per capita emissions to the global average by 2030. Reframing negotiations in terms of bringing per-person emissions, or human well-being, as the essential first step highlights that merely achieving net zero of current emissions by 2050 — the proposal of the G7 — restricts well-being and is unacceptable as global policy. Varying levels of per-capita emissions converging to a common point will allow those who have already used more than their fair share of the carbon space a larger share of the remaining space than countries such as India which need the remaining carbon space to grow to comparable levels of well-being. Per capita emissions The policy significance of the imbalance becomes clear when per-capita emissions are compared. The world’s per capita greenhouse gas emissions are 6.55 tonnes of carbon dioxide. India’s per capita emission at 1.96 tonnes is less than one-third; emissions of the United States, Canada and Australia are more than two-a-half times; Germany, the United Kingdom and France are above, and China, at 6.4 tonnes, is just below the global average. Accepting ‘net zero’ emissions by 2050 effectively prevents India’s urbanisation and shift of the rural population into the middle class. India is rightly objecting to the obfuscation, as the Objective of the Climate Treaty is “stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations”. By contributing over 60% of global cumulative emissions, with just one-fourth of the global population, North America and Europe are responsible for nearly 970 billion tonnes of carbon emissions. Whereas, the world’s remaining carbon budget — the total amount we can emit to have a chance of limiting warming to 1.5° C — is only 400 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide, and the U.S. alone has contributed this amount for its high standard of living. For a global consensus, such countries will need some flexibility in the new climate policy. Emission sources The reframing should stress ‘essential’ emissions to justify the flexibility and the need. Infrastructure, or construction, essential for urbanisation and quality of living is responsible for two-fifths of global carbon dioxide emissions from fuel combustion and 25% of emissions overall. These emissions arise from energy intensive cement production and half of the steel produced which is used in construction, both having no substitutes. The varying levels of per capita emissions are accounted for by expressways and the urban boom in the U.S. and Europe between 1950 and 2000, before China began its infrastructure push, leading to per-capita material use that is four times that of China. The U.S. first recognised the implications of its way of life preparing for the Stockholm Summit in 1972, but then shaped the global agenda in terms of current emissions which were going to grow in developing countries as they urbanised, rather than the scientifically correct stabilisation of cumulative emissions, to draw attention away from its own urbanisation and lifestyle. Ideas and implications New ideas such as ‘climate justice’, coming from India have three strategic implications. First, a focus on drivers and patterns of natural resource, not just anthropogenic emissions, highlights that as against measuring emissions when considering solutions, the causes become important, in particular, the shift of the human population from rural to urban areas. Second, the IPCC report has reiterated that impacts such as a rise in sea level, variability of rainfall and temperature increases will not be reversible for some time even after emissions fall. The adverse effects of climate change, or adaptation, are no longer a local but a global concern. Third, consequently, multilateral cooperation will shift from common rules monitoring emissions based on international environmental law to common goals of human well-being as a universal human right based on a policy consensus. Shifting from environmental damage and its implications for well-being to comparable levels of well-being within global ecological limits provides a very different conceptual frame to understanding climate change and the negotiations. First, there is a need for a debate on what society values and whether societal priorities or market exchange and pricing mechanisms determine what is to be valued, produced, and consumed. Second, with consumption of the urban middle class now more important than production in terms of GDP, it has become clear that the rising prosperity of the poor and its need for infrastructure is not endangering planetary life support systems as stress on population and national emissions suggests. Third, with different civilisational values, consumption of the middle class in developing countries is less wasteful than in the first phase of urbanisation. These socio-economic trends are not captured in the models based on natural sciences designed for countries whose emissions have peaked with questionable global policy relevance. For a new policy objective It took 25 years for the ‘Paris Agreement’ to reverse the defining feature of the ‘Framework Convention’, the division of countries into ‘annexes’, while providing for a ‘common cause’ instead of commitments. India’s proposal supports this evolution. Moving away from regulating emissions to recognising ecological limits makes the subsidiary bodies for scientific advice and implementation review established to ratchet-up commitments redundant. Sharing prosperity should be the objective of new intergovernmental mechanisms, with the involvement of the private sector, for example, supporting solar energy, joint research in new crop varieties and exchanging experiences on infrastructure viability. We now know that climate change is not just an environmental or sustainable development concern involving trade-offs. It requires a civilisational transformation in what we value, the way we live, and how we interact with one another. Mukul Sanwal is a former civil servant, negotiator and UN diplomat in the climate change secretariat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/negotiating-the-new-global-climate-policy/article36109734.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A Taliban outreach that needs correction||Very few, if any, might have been surprised when the Taliban unleashed violence to take over territories in Afghanistan. What has surprised many is the pace at which the Taliban pushed their lines and replaced the Afghan state. The Doha peace deal with the United States and China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s warm welcome to a Talibani delegation in Tianjin, in July, reflect the diplomatic successes of the Taliban at the international level. Almost all regional stakeholders at this point are engaging with the Taliban, openly or behind closed doors. The Special Envoy of the State of Qatar for Counterterrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution, Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, in June, confirmed India’s outreach to the Taliban. Now that the Afghan state has failed, the Taliban is the most powerful political entity. But the Afghan people are the most important stakeholders and India must resist engaging with the Taliban. Issue of legitimacy Where is ‘the good Taliban’? In the past, leaders and analysts have used the terms ‘Taliban 2.0’, or ‘the good Taliban’, to create an environment conducive to negotiate with them. The Taliban’s unleashing of war to secure power has put an end to those arguments. The claim that the Taliban shall have to reform to secure international legitimacy is exaggerated. The conclusion of an agreement with the U.S. while excluding the Afghan government, and talks with China, have already accorded the required legitimacy to the Taliban, internationally. On the domestic front, if the Taliban cared for legitimacy from the Afghan people they would have contested elections instead of capturing territory through force. Long-term settlement Several reports that have emerged over the last couple of months have confirmed that violence and oppression are the Taliban’s modus operandi . Women, as expected, have been hit the worst. Female students and employees have been let off. News of the Taliban forcing women to marry its soldiers or else assaulting them has increased. The already dwindling Afghan Sikh community is leaving the country. The progress made during the fragile peace in the last two decades has been undone in a matter of weeks. As the struggle for power with and within the Taliban gains momentum, ethnic divisions will accentuate, and the minorities will become more and more vulnerable. Sadly, the Afghans who are leaving their homes today will not be returning to their homes anytime soon, if at all. Historically India has been one of the preferred refuges for Afghans beyond their immediate neighbourhood. First, nations must see refugees as their responsibility rather than a burden. This shall involve rapid processing of visa applications and ensuring safe routes to commute. Second, there should be an effort to develop a regional, and potentially an international, coalition to address the needs of Afghan refugees. An active policy to provide shelter, education, vaccination, and employment opportunities instead of sending them to congested, unhygienic, and then ignored refugee camps is needed. The policy must look beyond an immediate fix, and instead towards a long-term settlement strategy. Looking beyond the Taliban Many have argued that India must negotiate with the Taliban. The argument that India can engage with certain segments of a heterogenous Taliban overestimates India’s capacity to begin and fruitfully engage with such elements and also underestimates the capacities of elements such as Inter-Services Intelligence and the Haqqani network to disrupt such negotiations. Even China and Pakistan, which are deeply engaged with the Taliban, will be reluctant to completely rely on them in the future. U.S. President Joe Biden, while addressing the drawdown from Afghanistan based on the deal with the Taliban, stated that he does not trust them. Therefore, the claim that India — so far a peripheral party — can plan its Afghan policy or security in Kashmir based on Taliban assurances is not sound. As far as terrorism in Kashmir is concerned, professor Rajesh Rajagopalan rightly argues, we don’t have a Taliban problem but a Pakistan problem. The domestic efforts to reconcile differences with the local Kashmiris shall go a longer way than relying on the Taliban. Irrespective of that, we must remember that a Pakistan-controlled and a Taliban-led Islamic Emirate is against the interests of a Shia-dominated Iran. The prospect of Afghanistan turning into a breeding ground for terrorist outfits is an issue for India but a bigger issue for Iran, the Central Asian States, China, Russia and even Pakistan. The Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) (or the Pakistani Taliban) is expected to strengthen if instability in Afghanistan continues. Therefore, there is an area for convergence amongst the parties if they seek to work together. Further, it is naive to believe that the other regional states would be comfortable with Pakistan having complete control over the future of Afghanistan. Taliban may itself seek greater autonomy from Rawalpindi as its grip over Afghanistan tightens. Then and now The overwhelming narrative to engage with the Taliban reflects the hegemony that men and realists hold in security analysis. There is a need to diversify the discourse, this will automatically lead to the budding of new policy options in Afghanistan. A policy that is ignorant or unconcerned of its consequences for women and minorities is not worth pursuing. One must remember that the Taliban’s rise in 2021 is not like its rise in 1996. Mohammed Omar enjoyed a certain level of popularity amongst Afghans as he led the Taliban to oust the warring Mujahideens in 1996. In 2021, the median age of the Afghan population is 18.4 years. Most of them have come up in a far more progressive environment than the Taliban’s rule. The resistance has already begun in Panjshir. Afghan citizens will continue to resist. So must we. Chetan Rana is a PhD research scholar (Diplomacy and Disarmament), Centre for International Politics, Organization and Disarmament (CIPOD), Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-taliban-outreach-that-needs-correction/article36109732.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Helping and hindering justice||In early June, while dealing with issues arising in connection with the CoWIN portal, the Supreme Court pointed out some of the major impediments in the delivery of vaccines to the people at large. They were: inadequate digital literacy across the country, inadequate digital penetration, and serious issues of bandwidth and connectivity, particularly in remote and inaccessible regions. Despite the ambition of bringing the benefits of vaccination to every human being in the country, the policy was falling short of its goal because of the inherent difficulties pointed out. The premise in the observations of the court was that relying solely on digital transformation may not be a sound idea. It could result in exclusion of a large section of the population on account of the enumerated shortfalls. Soon after this, the government said that CoWIN registration would no longer be mandatory for vaccination. Rising to the challenge What the court observed about the delivery of vaccines through digital portals alone is equally true of the delivery of justice, which is as important as ensuring the health of the people of the country. Although the courts have risen to the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, by using existing technology at an unprecedented scale and speed, it is proving to be an uphill task. In the wake of the pandemic, courts began using facilities like e-filing in true earnest. In May 2020, the Supreme Court also introduced another innovation: a new system of e-filing and artificial intelligence-enabled referencing. This was meant to herald efficiency, transparency and access to court delivery services for every user. The judiciary’s effort is not merely a one-off action to tide over the pandemic-created emergency. It also seeks to harness technology in overcoming and resolving the intractable ills that have for long dogged the judiciary. These include the massive backlog of cases and unacceptable levels of judicial vacancies across the country at all levels. Deep house cleaning is required in each court and there also needs to be an outreach to all litigants in a cost-effective, convenient and efficient manner. Perhaps, this could be the opportune time for making lasting changes that could transform the creaking justice delivery system in India. But an over-reliance on technology is not a panacea to all the ills plaguing the courts and if done without forethought, could become counterproductive. Let us take the analogy of vaccination a little forward. Just like the rigorous process of vaccine trials is a pre-requisite to rolling out universal vaccination programmes, after which technology is incorporated across the board, it would be imperative to resort to performance audits and sandboxing measures to carefully understand and gauge the potential and risks. Evidence shows that despite considerable investment to digitalise judicial infrastructure and administration, beginning with Phase 1 of the eCourts in 2007, the judiciary’s performance during the pandemic period has left a lot to be desired. In absolute terms, data show that pendency reached an all-time high during this year of virtual functioning of the courts. In the case of district courts, pendency rose sharply by 18.2% between December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020, according to the National Judicial Data Grid. Across the 25 High Courts, pendency witnessed its sharpest increase of 20.4% in 2019-2020.This, of course, does not include all those matters that were never filed. The way forward Given that the pandemic caught all institutions by surprise, there is bound to be teething trouble. However, now that we are in its second year, our next course of action should be based on an evidence-based rational approach. For instance, we need to study and understand why video conferencing in criminal cases has neither shortened trials nor reduced the number of people awaiting trial. Similarly, we need to address uneven digital access: while mobile phones are widely owned and used, access to the Internet remains limited to urban users. Lawyers in semi-urban and rural districts find online hearings challenging, mostly due to connectivity issues and an unfamiliarity with this way of working. Just as doctors cannot be replaced by chatbots, technology, no matter how advanced, cannot be a substitute for judges of whom there remains a big shortfall. The India Justice Report 2020 pegs vacancies in the High Court at 38% (2018-19) and in lower courts at 22% for the same period. More than four out of every 10 posts of High Court judges remain vacant as on August 1 this year. If deployed with adequate data-based planning and safeguards, technological tools can be a game changer. However, technology is not per se value-neutral — that is, it is not immune to biases — and therefore, it must be properly evaluated for us to see whether it works to increase the power imbalance between citizens and the state or whether it affirms and furthers citizens’ rights. Open court is a cardinal principle in the delivery of justice. The question of public access cannot be pushed to the sidelines but must be a central consideration. The shortage of technical infrastructure has too often meant that access to online hearings is curtailed. This ad hoc deviation cannot be allowed to become a habit of convenience. The latest Vision Document for Phase III of the e-Courts Project seeks to address the judiciary’s digital deprivation. It envisages an infrastructure for the judicial system that is ‘natively digital’ and reflects the effect that the pandemic has had on India’s judicial timeline and thinking. However, we must keep in mind that there will always be an inherent resistance to change, whether for good or bad. Therefore, two preconditions need to be addressed: adequate trained manpower, and tailoring systems to the specifications and contexts that we require. This is more a matter of mindset — not just of judges, but of litigants and lawyers as well; and is linked closely to trust in digital interventions. B.N. Srikrishna is a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/helping-and-hindering-justice/article36109738.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A way of diluting credit discipline||Some bank borrowers have gone to court demanding that it quash the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) circular dated August 6, 2020 on opening current accounts. The RBI has since extended the date for compliance to October 31, 2021. Diversion of funds is a major reason for large non-performing assets (NPAs). Internal diversion is for non-priority purposes such as limousines, plush offices, and vanity acquisition of companies. Funds can also be diverted to other firms, owned or controlled by the same group, friends or relatives. The first is the result of misguided strategies or muddled priorities. The second is an intention to defraud lenders, other creditors, and non-controlling shareholders. Current accounts with non-lending banks are an important channel for diversion. To prevent this, the RBI mandates a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) from lending banks before opening such accounts. Banks should verify with CRILC, the RBI credit database, and inform lenders. Banks should also obtain a NOC from the drawee bank when an account is opened through cheques. The regulations The intentions of the impugned circular dated August 6, 2020 are unexceptionable. Widespread non-compliance with mandated safeguards forced the RBI to bar non-lending banks from opening current accounts for large borrowers. Thus, if borrowing is through a cash credit or overdraft account, no bank can open a current account. If a borrower has no cash credit or overdraft account, a current account can be opened subject to restrictions. If the bank’s exposure is less than 10% of total borrowings, debits to the account can only be for transfers to accounts with a designated bank. If total borrowing is Rs. 50 crore or more, there should be an escrow mechanism managed by one bank which alone can open a current account. Other lending banks can open ‘collection accounts’ from which funds will be periodically transferred to the escrow account. If the borrowing is between Rs. 5 crore and Rs. 50 crore, lending banks can open current accounts. Non-lending banks can open collection accounts. If borrowing is below Rs. 5 crore, even non-lending banks can open current accounts. The working capital credit should be bifurcated into loan and cash credit components at individual bank levels. Operational issues The regulations involve many operational issues. First, if a borrower has an overdraft, how can there not be a current account? An overdraft is the right to overdraw in a current account up to a limit. Without a limit, a banker may allow a temporary overdraft. The second issue is that the circular forecloses such operational flexibility. Third, why should a bank with low exposure transfer funds to another bank when it can use it to adjust other dues with it? Fourth, share in borrowing is not static. Crossing the threshold both ways could happen often. It could be seasonal or monthly with salary payments or collection of dues. Nor are they smooth curves. Huge lumps accompany one-time heavy payments or large export proceeds. Fifth, there is a mismatch between what a borrower needs and the regulations allow. Support of non-lending banks through current accounts in other banks is required for large accounts. The circular rules out this possibility. But such support is available when the exposure is below Rs. 5 crore, when it may not be required. Sixth, transactions in an active current account enables a bank to monitor a borrower’s account, however small. The lack of such control was why large development financial institutions of yesteryear built up huge NPAs. Seventh, the regulation mandates splitting working capital into loan and cash credit components across all banks. Such a one-size-fits-all regulation does not factor in the purpose of the different facilities. A large company might avail itself of loans in Mumbai, but require current accounts with another bank in Assam where it might have a factory. Procrustean controls add costs with no concomitant benefits. There are other regulatory issues. First, it is more effective to base regulation more on principles that focus on outcomes than rules content with mere compliance. Rules are not flexible, do not provide for unforeseen circumstances, and can be easily circumvented. Second, regulation needs to use more generic terms. Terms such as Working Capital Term Loan might mean different things in different banks. Third, should regulation be designed to target exceptional events such as diversion of funds, and make the entire system bear the cost? Is it not better to leave management of such exceptional risks to the banks? Fourth, shouldn’t the costs of regulation be justified by the benefits? Finally, is more regulation the answer to non-compliance? Implications for compliance There are also implications for compliance. When regulation ignores market practices, it lacks legitimacy, a construct from neo-institutionalist literature. When legitimacy is wanting, compliance suffers. The regulatee organisations will resort to what the literature calls cosmetic or creative compliance. Thus, a new banking practice of overdraft in fixed deposits has emerged. Another form of creative compliance could involve sanctioning unnecessary non-funded limits to artificially boost exposure. A bank could also merely rename current accounts as overdraft, as there is no bar in having a credit balance in an overdraft account. All this will have the counter-intuitive effect of diluting credit discipline rather than strengthening it. G. Sreekumar is a former central banker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-way-of-diluting-credit-discipline/article36109743.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s time for Industry 4.0||The term ‘Industry 4.0’ was coined by the German government in 2011. Additive manufacturing, Internet of Things, Cyber Physical Systems, Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality and data analytics are some of the technologies associated with Industry 4.0. With the help of these technologies, the manufacturing industry will be able to make data-driven decisions. The reduced costs of electronics like sensors, transmitters, and cloud have allowed us to capture the data produced during operational activities. With the availability of advanced algorithms, this captured data can be analysed for decision-making in real time. Thus, Industry 4.0 integrated ‘data’ with manufacturing and Information Technology. To take advantage of data-driven decision-making, the governments of other countries also coined their own industrial initiatives like Industry 4.0. For example, the U.S. calls it Smart Manufacturing, China calls it Made in China 2025, and India refers it to as Make in India or Digital India. The potential of MSMEs Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are expected to become the backbone of India as the economy grows larger. MSMEs form more than 95% of the industries in India, produce more than 45% of the total manufacturing output and employ more than 40% of the workforce. According to the Economic Survey 2020-21, over 6 crore MSMEs employ more than 11 crore people and contribute roughly 30% to the GDP and half of the country’s export. MSMEs are also ancillaries to larger enterprises, leading to a seamless supply chain integration. As a result, making MSMEs more efficient will be advantageous for the whole economy. However, MSMEs face challenges when it comes to adopting new technologies such as Industry 4.0. First, they lack awareness regarding Industry 4.0 and its benefits. They consider such technologies disruptive and having the potential to demolish their existing system. However, Industry 4.0 believes in improving the existing system. Scientific literature provides evidence of sensors and WiFi networks being integrated with old machines like lathes and mills to improve their performance. Second, MSMEs will need to make major financial investments to adopt Industry 4.0. Investing in the right set of technologies will need experts and consultants as well. Third, for any new technology to be adopted, an organisation requires a positive organisational culture and the support of people. MSMEs need to believe in the advantages that Industry 4.0 technologies can offer. Fourth, the frameworks and steps that can assist MSMEs in adopting Industry 4.0 technologies have been missing. In this regard, MSMEs need to understand the data they are producing from all their operational activities. Based on such data, their readiness can be evaluated. Finally, MSMEs should develop their own vision of Industry 4.0 technologies that they want to adopt and identify the relevant tools and practices they need for such a tailored vision. Transcending impediments Though adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies by MSMEs requires transcending a labyrinth of impediments, it will make them more competitive as they will be able to offer world-class quality products to customers. Additionally, delivery timings and the flexibility to meet different needs will improve. As India joined the group of top 50 countries in the global innovation index for the first time in 2020, it is imperative for its MSMEs to embrace Industry 4.0 technologies without any hesitation. Proper sensitisation of the Government of India, higher education institutions, practitioners, entrepreneurs, industrial associations, trade unions, venture capitalists, consultants and research agencies would help to speed up this task. This becomes imperative given the manufacturing challenges abruptly posed by the COVID-19 pandemic when most of the healthcare infrastructure in India is MSME-dependent. Sameer Mittal is a Postdoctoral Fellow at Tampere University, Finland, and Milind Kumar Sharma is a Professor at M.B.M. Engineering College, Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-time-for-industry-40/article36109739.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Income and quotas||The Supreme Court’s ruling that economic criterion alone cannot be used to classify a member of a Backward Class as belonging to the ‘creamy layer’ adds an interesting nuance to the jurisprudence of affirmative action. There was a time when backwardness was primarily related to the inadequate social and educational advancement of a group. Ever since the Court, in Indra Sawhney (1992), introduced the concept of ‘creamy layer’ — a term describing the well-off among the Backward Classes — and declared that this section should be denied reservation benefits, the original idea of including groups based on social backwardness was matched by a parallel exercise to exclude the more advanced among them. This position has crystallised into law. Many support the formulation that once caste is accepted as a basis for determining backwardness, there is nothing wrong in excluding the affluent among the eligible castes. The Union government has unreservedly accepted the ‘creamy layer’ rule, and formulated criteria for identifying those who fall under the category. The proponents of economic criteria feel that genuine social justice means reservation benefits should be restricted to the poorer among the backward; while sections championing Backward Class assertion disfavour any dilution of the social basis for reservation. The Court’s latest judgment in a Haryana case corrects a grave error by the State. It has struck down a notification fixing an annual income of Rs. 6 lakh as the sole criterion to identify whether a family belongs to the creamy layer. It was contrary to Indra Sawhney that had spoken of different criteria, including being the children of high-ranking constitutional functionaries, employees of a certain rank in the Union and State governments, those affluent enough to employ others, or with significant property and agricultural holdings and, of course, an identified annual income. The Court has found that the Haryana criterion based on income alone was contrary to its own law that specifies that the creamy layer would be identified through social, economic and other factors. The Constitution permitted special provisions in favour of ‘socially and educationally backward classes’ through the first Amendment, as well as reservation in government employment for ‘backward classes’. Judicial discourse introduced a 50% ceiling and the creamy layer concept as constitutional limitations on reservation benefits. However, the 103rd Constitution Amendment, by which 10% reservation for the ‘economically weaker sections’ (EWS) has been introduced, has significantly altered the affirmative action programme. With the current income ceiling being Rs. 8 lakh per annum for availing of both OBC and EWS quotas, there is a strange and questionable balance between the OBC and EWS segments in terms of eligibility, even though the size of the respective quotas vary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/income-and-quotas/article36109726.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Dissension in the ranks||With their backs up against the wall and in a crisis, resilient organisations are expected to run a tight ship. But in politics, if the organisation lacks a strong glue, there are enough malcontents to weaken it from within. The Congress finds itself in such a situation today. Beleaguered and limited to power on its own in only three major States — Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh — the Congress should have focused on utilising the period in power to provide good governance and to inspire successes elsewhere. Since nothing succeeds like success, working together to achieve a functioning government is an imperative. But far from backing the respective Chief Ministers to the hilt, leaders in the Congress have tried to take on the mantle of rebellion to varying degrees of success. In Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was managed last year, but no viable compromise between the two has been reached yet. In Punjab, despite being an import after a stint in the BJP, former cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu managed to wrest the position of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president by mobilising enough discontent against Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Now chafing, Capt. Amarinder’s allies have sought their utmost to undermine Mr. Sidhu’s leadership in another round of internecine strife. In Chhattisgarh, Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo’s claim that he was supposed to get the Chief Minister’s post as “promised” to him halfway into the government’s tenure, has not yet been accepted by the party high command which, however, seems unwilling to back the incumbent, Bhupesh Baghel. In none of these instances can a claim be made that the incumbent government’s performance has warranted a change. The rebellions, therefore, can be attributed to the personal ambitions of three leaders and not even to traditional factional politics related to ideological differences. There has been a lot of focus on the party’s national leadership and a concentration of power in the Nehru-Gandhi family, but the more pressing problem it confronts is the absence of a clear ideological commitment that draws leaders and cadre into closer coordination and camaraderie. By drawing from its history as the party that led the country to freedom and helped work out a constitutional consensus and a liberal democratic polity, besides its legacy since the 1990s as the party that pushed for economic reforms and welfare-based governance as the twin pedestals for progress, the Congress can still lay a strong claim to power. For that it must have a committed cadre that is willing to selflessly work toward that aim rather than rely upon self-seeking leaders professing vapid centrism, and for whom power is the overarching motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dissension-in-the-ranks/article36109727.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Astronauts given hero’s welcome||The Apollo-15 astronauts received New York’s traditional hero’s welcome yesterday [New York, Aug. 25] with a mortorcade down Fifth Avenue and a gala reception at City Hall. Mayor John Lindsay rode with them and awarded the city’s gold medal — its highest honour — in the City Hall ceremonies to Col. David Scott, Lt. Col. James Irwin and Maj. Alfred Worden. From the City Hall the astronauts and the wives of two of them went for a lunch at a restaurant in Rockefeller Centre. From there they went to the United Nations where each astronaut was presented by the Secretary-General, U Thant, with a specially minted gold medal with the word “peace” inscribed in each of the five official languages of the United Nations. Earlier appearing on the N.B.C. “to-day” show, Col. David Scott said he and his fellow astronauts followed instructions to eat as much as they could on their trip to the moon. “We only had a very little bit of food left when we returned. We attempted to eat everything,” he said. David R. Scott said in Washington yesterday that he was eager to fly with Soviet cosmonauts in a joint space venture. Speaking at the National Press Club, he said, “I know six cosmonauts personally. I will be glad to fly with any of them any day. And I hope we get that chance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/astronauts-given-heros-welcome/article36109735.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Words don’t aid sales, need govt. action’||Hitting out at the government over lack of support for the automobile sector, industry captains R.C. Bhargava and Venu Srinivasan on Wednesday said mere statements from officials on the importance of the automobile industry would not help sales, but that ‘concrete actions’ were needed to arrest the declining sales trend. They also wondered whether the government recognised the contribution of the automotive industry to the economy, while highlighting how vehicles had become unaffordable for many consumers due to factors such as high taxation and new norms related to emissions and safety. Speaking at an annual convention, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) President Kenichi Ayukawa said the industry had been facing a “deep structural slowdown” even before the pandemic. And COVID-19 had further pushed volumes back by many years, he added. “I'm afraid words don’t get us very much in the terms or extra sales, but you need concrete action to make this happen,” Mr. Bhargava said, referring to remarks made by government officials about the economic significance of the automobile industry. This made him wonder whether the old belief — that passenger cars were luxury products to be owned only by the rich — had ever really changed in the country, remarked the chairman of Maruti Suzuki. Echoing Mr. Bhargava’s sentiments, Mr. Srinivasan, CMD of TVS Motor Co. asked, “Is the automotive industry being recognised for what it has contributed to employment, to revenues, to earning foreign exchange?” He pointed out that for mopeds the prices had risen 45-50%. The “basic mode of transportation” was being taxed equivalent to luxury level products. In addition, costs had gone up due to factors like ABS, clubbing of three years of insurance and the like. ‘Engine of growth’ “I do understand the problems of the government because they have a budget to balance and the basic GST structure is not revenue neutral. So, I don't know a solution but I think we have given away too many low tax structures for other products which has made one of the major engines of growth globally, to stall,” he said. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj assured industry that the government ‘definitely recognises’ its contributions. “I can't agree more with you that if we want to achieve a $5-trillion economy, this sector has to do well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/words-dont-aid-sales-need-govt-action/article36109717.ece
26 August 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Banks must lend funds where needed, to help revive growth’||The Centre has asked public sector banks to provide credit wherever required, on the lines of loan melas,  to help revive growth. In her annual review of state-owned banks and meeting with the heads of the banks in Mumbai, Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday asked the lenders to hold district-wise outreach programmes to provide credit. In her interaction with MDs of these banks, she stressed the need for sharper focus on customer service, credit growth to support MSMEs and underserved segments, as well as credit for national initiatives for infrastructure, PLI schemes and for exports. She has asked banks to interact with export promotion agencies as well as with industry associations so that the requirements of exporters could be addressed in a timely manner. ‘Nudge for exports’ Banks have been directed to ‘interact regularly’ with the Federation of Indian Export Organisations to ensure exporters did not have to shuttle among various bankers to get the best rates. Banks have also been asked to hand-hold industries from a particular sector to enable them to become an exporter and thereby play a vital role in assisting the government’s ‘One District One Product’ scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banks-must-lend-funds-where-needed-to-help-revive-growth/article36109533.ece
26 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Inflation to remain within 4%-6% range, says Bajaj||Inflation will remain within the range of 4% to 6% and the government is taking periodic steps to contain it, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Wednesday. “The RBI has come out with guidance on inflation and it has said that inflation, which is little bit up, will cool down in some time. And we also feel that once the crops come out, inflation should come down,” Mr. Bajaj told a press conference in Mumbai. The government had adopted various strategies to cool inflation including reduction of duties on several products including edible oil and pulses, he said. “By periodically opening up imports of pulses, edible oil, reducing customs duty on them, we have managed to [ensure] supplies get a boost,” said Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “We are ensuring that it [inflation] is not a cause for worry,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/inflation-to-remain-within-4-6-range-says-bajaj/article36109536.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet clears Rs. 15,000 cr. NMP-linked FDI proposal||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Wednesday cleared a foreign direct investment (FDI) proposal entailing an investment of up to Rs. 15,000 crore in Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding (AIIH) Ltd., a company incorporated to invest in the infrastructure and construction development sectors. The government said the investment would prove to be a “significant boost to the recently announced National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP)” as AIIH had proposed downstream investments in some of the sectors covered under the NMP. This would include investments in leasing out of state-owned infrastructure assets including roads, railways, airports, sports stadiums, power transmission lines and gas pipelines to private operators. The foreign direct investment proposal also entails the transfer of shares of Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) to Anchorage, and an investment of Rs. 950 crore in AIIH by 2726247 Ontario Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the administrator of OMERS, one of Canada’s largest pension funds.  Investment will give a major boost to the recently announced NMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-clears-rs-15000-cr-nmp-linked-fdi-proposal/article36109538.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gadkari tells automakers to shift focus from diesel||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari urged automobile manufacturers to move away from production and sale of diesel engine vehicles, stating pollution from such vehicles was harmful. “Protection of ecology and environment must be the way of business and way of life for all of us,” the Minister said, speaking at the annual convention of Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers (SIAM). He added, “I appeal to the vehicle manufacturers to discourage the production and sale of diesel-engine vehicles. Diesel-based position is extremely hazardous to the environment and human health. Industry must promote alternative fuel technologies.” He added the industry must swiftly shift to Indian technologies that allows use of import-substitute, cost-effective, indigenous and pollution-free fuel. The Minister said the government is promoting the adoption of cleaner and greener alternative fuels such as ethanol, methanol, bio-diesel, bio-CNG, LND, electric and green hydrogen fuel-cell technology to reduce dependency on petrol and diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gadkari-tells-automakers-to-shift-focus-from-diesel/article36109715.ece
26 August 2021||new Delhi,||Walmart sees India as a $1-trillion market by 2025||The Indian retail segment has its own uniqueness and the country is one of the most exciting markets globally that is poised to grow to over a trillion dollars by 2025, according to Walmart Inc. president and CEO Doug McMillon. Speaking at the Converge@Walmart event, Mr. McMillon noted that given the diversity of the Indian market, the company has to “think local and execute locally.” “India is such a diverse market, it’s not one country in some ways and so we have to think local and execute locally, and it has its own rules, and so, we’ve got to comply with those rules.” Mr. McMillon added that currently, Walmart is not allowed to make a foreign direct investment in multi-brand retail and so, it operates in a different way. “We think the future is very bright, and we are going to see a market that is North of [a] trillion U.S. dollars by 2025, I believe. And the way that it is evolving is common in some ways with what we see in other countries, but has its own uniqueness, which makes it exciting,” Mr. McMillon said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/walmart-sees-india-as-a-1-trillion-market-by-2025/article36109722.ece
26 August 2021||new delhi,||SEBI unfreezes Rana Kapoor’s bank accounts||Markets regulator SEBI on Wednesday ordered unfreezing of bank accounts as well as share and mutual-fund (MF) holdings of Rana Kapoor, former MD and CEO of Yes Bank. Mr. Kapoor is currently in judicial custody after being arrested in March 2020 in the alleged Yes Bank fraud case. The regulator, in March, had attachedbank accounts, share and MF holdings of Mr.Kapoor to recover dues of over Rs. 1 crore. The decision was taken after Mr. Kapoor failed to pay the fine imposed on him. SEBI, in September last, had levied a fine of Rs. 1 crore on him for not making disclosures regarding a transaction of Morgan Credit which was an unlisted promoter entity of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-unfreezes-rana-kapoors-bank-accounts/article36109713.ece
26 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Centre raises family pension for bank staff||The Centre on Wednesday approved a proposal of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) to increase the family pension for bank employees to 30% of the last salary drawn, besides lifting the cap on pension. The move will result in a payout of up to Rs. 30,000-35,000 per family. Debasish Panda, Secretary, Department of Financial Services, made the announcement at a press meet addressed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here on Wednesday. The government also approved a proposal to increase employers’ contribution under the NPS to 14% from the existing 10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-raises-family-pension-for-bank-staff/article36109534.ece
26 August 2021||COIMBATORE,||Mills demand higher MSP for sugar||The Indian Sugar Mills’ Association has demanded an increase in the minimum selling price (MSP) of sugar. Director General of Indian Sugar Mills’ Association Abinash Verma said following the increase in fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane for 2021-2022, the government should raise the MSP for sugar. The MSP of sugar had remained static for more than 30 months, he said. “ISMA feels the time is right for the government to decide on increasing the MSP to Rs. 34.50 to Rs. 35 per kilo,” he said. This will be adequate to cover the rise in cane FRP and cost of producing sugar, he added. The current MSP of sugar is Rs. 31 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mills-demand-higher-msp-for-sugar/article36109537.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto sector must change approach: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the next 25 years are very important for the country and there is a need for government and industry to work together for next-generation infrastructure, world-class manufacturing and new age technology. “There are rapid changes taking place in technology, lifestyle and economy and old approaches and old practices have to be changed,” the PM wrote in a letter to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers on the occasion of its 61st annual convention. The role of the auto industry in the economy has been remarkable, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-sector-must-change-approach-pm/article36109716.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||Canara Bank raises Rs 2,500 cr through QIP||State-owned Canara Bank on Wednesday said it has raised Rs. 2,500 crore through the qualified institutional placement (QIP) route. The QIP was fully subscribed and saw a strong response from foreign as well as from domestic qualified institutional buyers (QIBs), the bank said in a statement. “This capital will enable the bank to improve the CET [common equity tier] ratio and in turn, will support further asset growth,” the lender added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/canara-bank-raises-rs-2500-cr-through-qip/article36109838.ece
26 August 2021||Mumbai,||RBI extends scope of tokenisation to laptops, wearable devices||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday extended the scope of ‘tokenisation’ to several consumer devices, including laptops, desktops, wearables such as wristwatches and bands, as well as Internet of Things devices, beyond the original permission for mobiles and tablets. Tokenisation aims to improve the security of the system, and refers to the replacement of card details with a unique combination of card, token requestor and identified device.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-extends-scope-of-tokenisation-to-laptops-wearable-devices/article36109712.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||IOC to use drones to check fuel thefts from pipelines||Indian Oil Corp. (IOC) is deploying drones to monitor its vast network of pipelines across India to thwart attempts to steal fuel, helping not just save the commodity but also avoid accidents.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ioc-to-use-drones-to-check-fuel-thefts-from-pipelines/article36109719.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Tata Consultancy Services' market valuation crosses Rs 13.5 lakh cr||The market capitalisation of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Wednesday breached the Rs. 13.5 lakh crore mark, the second after RIL to achieve the feat. At close of trade, the market valuation stood at Rs. 13,53,667.85 crore on the BSE. TCS had touched the Rs. 13 lakh crore valuation level on August 17, when its m-cap stood at Rs. 13,14,051.01 crore. On BSE, the scrip on Wednesday opened at Rs. 3,612.8 and zoomed nearly 2.35% to its 52-week high value of Rs. 3,697.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-consultancy-services-market-valuation-crosses-rs-135-lakh-cr/article36109720.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Airtel board to meet on Aug 29 to mull capital raising options||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel said its board will meet on August 29 to consider various capital-raising options. "...a meeting of the board of directors of the company is scheduled on Sunday, August 29, 2021, to inter-alia consider various capital-raising options through equity or equity- linked or debt instruments or any combination thereof, as the board may deem appropriate," Bharti Airtel said in a BSE filing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airtel-board-to-meet-on-aug-29-to-mull-capital-raising-options/article36109723.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Tanvi to meet Sunayna in final||Tanvi Khanna has a languid grace about her that is a real treat to watch. The 25-year-old uses the angles of the squash court well and moves around without making much of an effort. Seeded two, the Delhi lass dismantled Aparajitha Balamurukan 11-4, 11-5, 11-6 in the semifinals of the HCL-SRFI Indian squash tour tournament, a PSA Challenger Tour-10 event, at the ISA courts here on Wednesday. Tanvi will take on top seed Sunayna Kuruvilla, who dispatched of Akshaya Sri 11-5, 11-9, 11-1 in 17 minutes, for the title. Comfortable outing Aparajitha was no match for Tanvi as the latter was comfortably ahead in all three games. Aparajitha did well in the second game, using her power from the backcourt to unsettle Tanvi, but that was only for a brief while. Akshaya Sri showed a glimpse of her potential against Sunayna in the second game, pushing the top seed to the maximum, but when it came to the crunch, Sunayna was always up to the task. In the men’s summit clash, S. Velavan, seeded fifth, will clash with sixth seed Abhishek Pradhan. Rock solid While Velavan was rock solid both in front and at the back in his win over Abhishek Agarwal, Pradhan was very impressive against the 20-year-old Rahul Baitha.  The results (semifinals):   Men: S. Velavan bt Abhishek Agarwal 11-8, 14-12, 11-5; Abhishek Pradhan bt Rahul Baitha 11-7, 11-3, 11-9.   Women: Sunayna Kuruvilla bt Akshaya Sri 11-5, 11-9, 11-1; Tanvi Khanna bt Aparajitha Balamurukan 11-4, 11-5, 11-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanvi-to-meet-sunayna-in-final/article36109872.ece
26 August 2021||LEEDS,||Anderson & Co. get the ball to talk, leave Indians speechless||England great James Anderson ripped through the top-order as India collapsed for 78 on the first day of the third Test at Headingley on Wednesday. In reply, the hosts were 108 for no loss in 39 overs with Rory Burns (47) and Haseeb Hameed (53) at the crease. Anderson took three for six in eight overs, including the prize wicket of India captain Virat Kohli, who decided to bat after winning the toss. Both Sam Curran and Craig Overton took two wickets in two balls after lunch, with Overton finishing with three for 14 in 10.4 overs after being recalled in place of injured fast bowler Mark Wood. India, 56 for four at lunch, lost its last six wickets for 22 runs, with the innings completed inside 41 overs after just over three hours’ play. This was India’s third lowest Test total against England in England after being dismissed for 42 at Lord’s in 1974 and 58 at Old Trafford in 1952. Rohit Sharma (19) and vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane (18) were the only India batsmen to reach double figures apart from extras (16). An unchanged India came into this match 1-0 up in the five-Test series after a superb 151-run win at Lord's last week. England, by contrast, recalled Overton after Wood joined fellow quicks Stuart Broad, Jofra Archer and Olly Stone on the sidelines. Kohli won the toss and despite the overcast conditions that promised to aid Anderson decided to bat. After bowling a few inswingers, Anderson pitched one that moved away and Rahul, fresh from his 129 at Lord's, fell for a duck when he edged to wicketkeeper Jos Buttler. India was one for one off just the fifth ball of the day. Cheteshwar Pujara lasted just nine balls, undone by an Anderson delivery that swung away. Kohli, without a Test hundred in two years and averaging just 23 since January 2020, fell for seven when he tried to drive an Anderson ball and edged to Buttler. Rahul, Pujara and Kohli managed just eight between them. Ollie Robinson then struck with what became the last ball before lunch when he forced Rahane to nick behind. The dangerous Rishabh Pant fell for just two when he played a loose shot off Robinson and was taken by Buttler, who finished with fifth catches in the innings. Rohit, who had made a fine 83 at Lord’s, pulled a looping bouncer from Overton to Robinson at mid-on. India was 67 for seven off the very next ball as Mohammed Shami, who had defied England with a Test-best unbeaten 56 in the second Test, edged to Burns at slip. Curran then took two in two balls, trapping Ravindra Jadeja and Jasprit Bumrah in front. The innings ended when Mohammed Siraj was caught by a leaping England captain Joe Root off Overton at first slip.   India’s lowest Test totals in England   42 Lord’s, 1974  58 Old Trafford, 1952  78 Headingley, 2021  82 Old Trafford, 1952  92 Edgbaston, 1967||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anderson-co-prove-too-hot-to-handle-for-the-indians/article36109823.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Khera Kalan bounces back to win title||Khera Kalan Hockey Centre, Delhi staged a second-half comeback to defeat Rani Khera Club, Delhi 5-3 in the final of the Delhi State sub-junior women’s hockey championship at the National Stadium here on Wednesday. The teams were locked 3-3 at the end of the regulation period after Khera Kalan had wiped off a 0-3 first-half deficit. Rani Club scored through Muskan, Puja and Kumkum to take a 3-0 lead in the first half but Khera Kalan hit back when Varsha Pal (2) and Anshika scored. Varsha’s equaliser came three minutes from the end. In the tie-breaker, Komal, Muskan, Anjali and Pooja missed for Rani Club while Hockey Centre took the winning lead through Varsha and Anjali. In the match for the third place, Jhilmil Hockey Centre defeated Mundka XI 3-0. The scorers were Khushi, Dimple and Anshika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/khera-kalan-bounces-back-to-win-title/article36109991.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||We see hope in you, not just medals: Sports Minister||It was felicitation time on returning home for the young Indian team that bagged two silver medals and a bronze in the World Junior athletics championship in Nairobi. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) and Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur felicitated the athletes and assured them that every effort would be made to provide the best possible support to help them excel in the international arena. “We see hope in you, not just medals. You are an inspiration for others. You have done a tremendous job in winning laurels even during pandemic. I assure you that there will be no compromise in supporting your sporting journey,” said the Sports Minister. ‘Meticulous planning’ “First it was Neeraj Chopra’s gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics. Now, the juniors have returned with three medals from the World Championships. It is an indication of the meticulous planning by the Federation,” said World Championship medallist and AFI vice president, Anju George. Anju’s husband, coach Robert Bobby George, was all praise for long jumper Shaili Singh executing a fine effort for her silver medal, “despite it being her first international competition”. Developing the culture Bobby George also felt that parents needed to tune their mindset about sports, if the country was to develop a sports culture. “Parents have to look at sports as important as academics,” he said. The Chairman of the AFI Planning Committee, Dr. Lalit Bhanot, was proud about the federation conducting “14 national level and zonal meets in 2021,” despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. On behalf of the athletes, Shaili said that sports was gaining huge prominence in the country and that recognition of performances was boosting the morale of the athletes. Race walker Amit Khatri had won the silver medal like Shaili, and the mixed relay team of Barath Sridhar, Summmy Kaliravan, Priya Mohan and Kapil had won the bronze. Triple jumper M Donald and another athlete Abdul Razzak were also present at the felicitation.  We see hope in you, not just medals. You are an inspiration for others. There will be no compromise in supporting your sporting journeyAnurag Thakur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-junior-championship-medallists-felicitated/article36109816.ece
26 August 2021||Tokyo,||Greco wins first gold of Games||British cyclist Sarah Storey added to her glorious golden history as wheelchair rugby powerhouse Australia suffered a shock defeat on day one of the delayed Tokyo 2020 Paralympics on Wednesday. Paige Greco, an Australian cyclist, had the honour of winning the first gold of the Games. World and Paralympic records tumbled in the swimming pool and on the cycling track on a pulsating first day of competition that saw 24 gold medals awarded. Greco was in record-breaking form as she beat China’s Wang Xiaomei in the gold medal race in C1-C3 class 3,000 metre individual pursuit at the Izu Velodrome. Storey moved a step closer to becoming Britain’s greatest Paralympian, shattering her own world record in the heats before powering to victory in the C5 3,000 metres individual pursuit final for her 15th Paralympic gold. Storey is just one medal behind the British record held by Mike Kenny, who won 16 swimming golds from 1976 to 1988. Brazilian Daniel Dias, who is competing at his last Paralympics, has the chance to become the most decorated male Paralympic swimmer of all time if he wins three more golds to eclipse Kenny. But he could only take bronze in his opening event, the S5 men’s 200m freestyle, which was won by Italy’s Francesco Bocciardo in a new Paralympic record time. Defending gold medallists Australia suffered a setback in its bid to become the first team to top the wheelchair rugby podium at three consecutive Games, edged out 54-53 by Denmark. India’s para table tennis player Bhavina Hasmukh Patel lost 3-11, 9-11, 2-11 in just 18 minutes to China’s Zhou Ying in her opening Group A match in women’s singles - Class 4. Sonal Manu Patel lost to China’s Qian Li 9-11, 11-3, 15-17, 11-7, 11-4 in 36 minutes in her Group D in women’s singles - class 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/greco-wins-first-gold-of-games/article36109829.ece
26 August 2021||Chennai,||Honouring Muthu posthumously would be a fine gesture||It is very commendable that the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) has honoured cricketers of yore, for their outstanding contributions. And it is gratifying to note that Parthasarathy, the curator at Chepauk, has also been honoured. C.M. Muthu, former care-taker of B.S. Nets, now christened as TNCA nets, who worked till his demise in 1984, holds a special place in Tamil Nadu cricket. It was always Muthu nets for us and he groomed stalwarts like Gopinath, Kripal Singh, Milkha Singh, M. Balakrishna, besides many school and college cricketers. Muthu’s conduct of the net facility was a sight to behold. Almost all the TNCA teams practised at the nets. Muthu never worried about publicity or compensation and leading TNCA officials consulted him on important matters. Chennai’s cricketing community would be immensely happy if the TNCA honours Muthu posthumously.  (Former cricketer V.V. Kumar played for India and Tamil Nadu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/honouring-muthu-posthumously-would-be-a-fine-gesture/article36109917.ece
26 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Jobby Justin makes a fresh start with Chennaiyin FC||After missing the entire 2020-21 ISL season due to ACL injury, former Indian forward Jobby Justin is making a fresh start with a new club. The 26-year-old mutually parted ways with ATK Mohun Bagan, when he still had one more year of his contract left with the Kolkata Club. Though he had offers from a few clubs including Kerala Blasters, Jobby decided to join Chennaiyin FC. "I had offers from many clubs, but I was more interested in playing in South India. “When the deal with Blasters fell through, I decided to opt for the Chennai side as I thought I had a good chance of figuring in the playing eleven as Chennaiyin usually plays with three forwards. “I know quite a few Chennaiyin players personally, so it won't be a problem for me to blend with them. I am excited to join the club and I am looking forward to a fruitful season,'' he said. Traumatic year The last year was quite traumatic for Jobby, who suffered an ACL tear during ATK's preparatory camp in Goa. He immediately underwent surgery in Mumbai and started the slow climb back to fitness. “It was a bit disappointing to lose an entire season through injury, but you have to accept it. Fully fit “I started my rehabilitation last November and now I have recovered fully. “After the lockdown induced break, I have now started training at the LIFFA Academy to keep myself fit before the pre-season camp,'' he added. Jobby welcomed the new rule to include more Indian players in the starting eleven in the ISL and said it will be beneficial to the Indian players. “The new rule will give a lifeline to strikers like me as I feel we have been sidelined as clubs always prefer foreign players as strikers. Now the clubs will be forced to play Indian players in key roles and it will help Indian football in the long run,'' he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jobby-justin-makes-a-fresh-start-with-chennaiyin-fc/article36110231.ece
26 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||Sushant edges out Ayyoque||Sushant Dabas pipped Ayyoque Ahmed Khan 6-1, 3-6, 7-6(6) in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Pradhan Academy on Wednesday. Sushant will next challenge the top seed and former National champion Dalwinder Singh. Jagmeet cruises Top seed Jagmeet Kaur was fluent as she beat Steisha Buddhala 6-1, 6-1 in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rs. 100,000 women’s ranking tennis tournament at the Joygaon Academy in Jhajjar on Wednesday. In the quarterfinals, Jagmeet will play fifth seed Bela Tamhankar.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): At Gurugram: Dalwinder Singh bt Ritabrata Ssarkar 6-1, 6-2; Sushant Dabas bt Ayyoque Ahmed kHan 6-1, 3-6, 7-6(6); Karan Singh bt Fardeen Qamar 7-6(4), 6-7(5), 6-3.   Yugal Bansal bt Mohit Bhardwaj 6-0, 6-3; Anuj Malik bt Shivam Dalmia 6-4, 6-3; Lakshya Gupta bt Ricky Sehrawat 6-1, 6-1.   Ajay Malik bt Chinmay Dev Chouhan 6-3, 7-5; Neeraj Yashpal bt Sourabh Sehrawat 6-1, 6-4.   At Jhajjar: Jagmeet Kaur bt Steisha Buddhala 6-1, 6-1; Bela Tamhankar bt Shefali Arora 6-3, 6-2; Varshita Ranabothu bt Sanya Yadav 6-1, 6-2.   Himaanshika bt Sanjami Arora 6-2, 6-4; Kundali Majgaine bt Chandana Potugari 6-1, 6-0; Pooja Ingale bt Adrija Biswas 6-1, 6-2.   Vanshika Choudhary bt S Srinidhi 6-2, 6-2; Kashish Bhatia bt Yashika Venu 6-2, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sushant-edges-out-ayyoque/article36109993.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||India gets a tough draw in Sudirman Cup||India has been drawn with top seed and defending champion China, Thailand and hosts Finland for the upcoming Sudirman Cup badminton tournament, making it a tough Group-A for the side to negotiate. The prestigious World Mixed Team Championship is scheduled to be held in Vantaa, Finland, from September 26 to October 3. India and Finland have been seeded in the 9 to 16 bracket, while Thailand is placed in the 5-8 bracket in the 16-nation event. Chinese superiority  The Chinese team, which has won the title 11 times in the past, will have the opportunity to consolidate its position as it seeks a 12th title. The draw, held in Kuala Lumpur and broadcast online, saw second seed Japan drawn with Malaysia, England and Egypt in Group-D. Japan was runner-up in 2019 and is seeking its first Sudirman Cup title. Indonesia, winner of the Sudirman Cup in its inaugural year 1989, is in Group-C with Denmark, Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) and Canada, while Group-B consists of Chinese Taipei, Korea, Tahiti and Germany. Second most successful  Four-time winner Korea is the second most successful team at the World Mixed Team Championships. The top two teams from each group progress to the knockout round (quarterfinals). The quarterfinals draw will be held immediately after the last group match. Each tie comprises five matches — men's singles, women's singles, men's doubles, women's doubles and mixed doubles. The Badminton Association of India will pick the team for the Sudirman Cup and Thomas and Uber Cup Finals in a selection trial on August 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-gets-a-tough-draw-in-sudirman-cup/article36109963.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Three Indian boxers in title round||Three Indian boxers advanced to the finals of the Asian junior championships after notching up comprehensive victories in their last-four stage clashes in Dubai. While Rohit Chamoli (48kg) and Bharat Joon (+81kg) made the junior boys’ finals, Muskan (46kg) entered the girls’ summit showdown, on Tuesday night. Bharat defeated Kyrgyzstan’s Emir-Khan Razhapov 5-0 and Rohit got the better of Kazakhstan’s Aidar Kadyrkhan by a similar scoreline. Muskan sailed past Kazakhstan’s Yelyanur Turganova , pulling off an unanimous victory. However, Supriya Rawat (66kg) lost to Sanowar Bozorboeva 1-4 and Aarzoo (54kg) went down to Uzbekistan’s Guldana Tileuergen 2-3 in another closely fought contest. Devika Ghorpade (50kg) was defeated 0-5 by Uzbekistan’s Shaina Nematovain in another girls’ semifinal. Among boys, Ankush (66kg) was beaten 0-5 by Uzbekistan’s Fazliddin Erkinboev in his last-four bout. All four of them ended with bronze medals. India’s assured medal tally stood at over 20 on the day of the draws itself as many countries either skipped or fielded smaller squads due to the COVID-19 travel restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-indian-boxers-in-title-round/article36109864.ece
26 August 2021||London,||Archer eyes West Indies tour for return||England fast bowler Jofra Archer still believes he has a Test future as he targeted a return to the five-day format during next year’s tour of the West Indies. The 26-year-old a was ruled out of the current Test series against India and the Ashes tour of Australia, as well as the T20 World Cup that falls between those campaigns —after suffering a stress fracture in his right elbow. The Sussex quick, in a column for Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper, said his “best years as a Test cricketer are ahead of me”. “When I got the news that I’d be out for the rest of 2021 because I had suffered another stress fracture in my elbow, it was pretty tough to take,” Archer recalled. “But I’ve always been of the view that everything happens for a reason, and the injury doesn’t change the way I look at my career. “I’ve said many times before that Test cricket is the most important format to me and nothing has changed in that respect. It’s frustrating to be sitting out an important series against India, as well as not being able to make the trip to Australia this winter. “If I do end up with another stress fracture, I may have a different view on things as regards to my future. But for the moment, I’m still only 26 and I think my best years as a Test cricketer are ahead of me. “I’m trying to be cautious about when I make my comeback, but I guess there’s a chance I’ll be ready in time for England’s three-Test series against West Indies in the Caribbean in March,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-eyes-west-indies-tour-for-return/article36110311.ece
26 August 2021||KOLKATA,||Mohammedan faces IAF in opener||Mohammedan SC will take on Indian Air Force in the opening match of the 130th edition of the Durand Cup, Asia’s oldest tournament, scheduled to be held here from September 5 to October 3. A total of 16 teams froms four groups will vie for honours in the tournament, jointly organised by the Indian Armed Forces and the Government of West Bengal.  The groups:   Group A: IAF, Bengaluru United, CRPF, and Mohammedan SC.   Group B: Army Green, FC Goa, Jamshedpur FC, and Sudeva Delhi.   Group C: Bengaluru FC, Delhi FC, Indian Navy, and Kerala Blasters.   Group D: Assam Rifles, Army Red, Gokulam Kerala, and Hyderabad FC.   The schedule: League phase: Sept. 5 to 19; Quarterfinals: Sept. 23, 24 (two matches) and 25; Semifinals: Sept. 27 and 29; Final: Oct. 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohammedan-faces-iaf-in-opener/article36109966.ece
26 August 2021||Eindhoven,||Benfica again among Champions League elite||Benfica returned to the Champions League group stage, playing the last hour with 10 men at PSV Eindhoven to hang on for a 0-0 draw. A 2-1 win in the home leg last week was enough to lift coach Jorge Jesus’ team back into the Champions League elite after a one-year absence. Benfica defender Lucas Verissimo was sent off in the 32nd minute and the two-time European champion held out with a veteran back-line pairing of captain Nicolas Otamendi and Jan Vertonghen. Best chance wasted PSV, the 1988 European Cup winner against Benfica in the final, wasted its best chance in the 62nd when Israel forward Eran Zahavi struck the bar with a close-range shot. Malmo’s Veljko Birmancevic has been a star of the Swedish champion’s progress through four qualifying rounds. The Serbia international’s fourth goal in five games — a free kick from distance — was key in a 2-1 loss at Ludogorets that carried Malmo through 3-2 on aggregate. Young Boys advanced with a second 3-2 win against Ferencvaros to repeat the first-leg result in Switzerland last week. The Swiss champion led early through defender Cedric Zesiger’s goal, then leveled at 2-2 early in the second half with Christian Fassnacht’s goal. Ferencvaros had defender Aissa Laidouni sent off before Young Boys’ United States forward Jordan Siebatcheu saw his penalty saved. The win was sealed in stoppage time by substitute Felix Mambimbi. Wagner is back Young Boys coach David Wagner, the former U.S. international, will lead his team back into the Champions League less than one year after being fired by Schalke during a Bundesliga-record winless run of games.  The results:   PSV Eindhoven 0 drew with Benfica 0 (Benfica wins 2-1 on aggregate).   Ludogorets Razgrad 2 (Nedyalkov 10, Sotiriou 60-pen) bt Malmo 1 (Birmancevic 42) (Malmo wins 3-2 on aggregate).   Ferencvaros 2 (Wingo 18, Mmaee 27) lost to Young Boys 3 (Zesiger 5, Fassnahct 56, Mambimbi 90+3) (Young Boys wins 6-4 on aggregate).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/benfica-again-among-champions-league-elite/article36109866.ece
26 August 2021||KOLKATA,||Shree Cement to continue to back East Bengal||The clouds of uncertainty hovering over the continuance of the agreement between East Bengal Club and its investor Shree Cement cleared on Wednesday after the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee intervened to bring the conflicting parties together. Shree Cement, which in a letter addressed to Ms. Banerjee had intimated its desire to pull out of the one-year-old deal a couple of days ago, has now decided to continue with the agreement. The announcement was made by the West Bengal Chief Minister at her Government’s headquarters, Nabanna, after the representatives of the club and Shree Cement pledged to continue with the agreement at a meeting convened at her behest. Muster its resources This means the threat of SC East Bengal missing the ISL deadline this season is over but the club will have to muster its resources to get the team ready before the end of the month when the transfer season gets over. Annoyed “I was quite annoyed with them (Shree Cement) when they wrote to me stating their desire to pull out of the agreement. I then requested them to continue for the sake of the millions of East Bengal fans who will be greatly distressed if the team fails to play the ISL this season,” Ms. Banerjee told the media after her meeting with the representatives of the club and the investor. “Teams like East Bengal and Mohun Bagan have great brand value with supporters spread all over the world. Congratulations to East Bengal now that Shree Cement has decided to continue.” It is not immediately clear whether the investor has agreed to the conditions set by the officials of the legacy club, who had been asking the the investor to to comply with their demands before they signed the final agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shree-cement-to-continue-to-back-east-bengal/article36109867.ece
26 August 2021||London,||Kane to stay at Spurs||Tottenham Hotspur striker Harry Kane said on Wednesday that he will stay at the club and be “100% focused on helping the team achieve success”, ending weeks of speculation about a potential move to champions Manchester City. “It was incredible to see the reception from the Spurs fans on Sunday and to read some of the messages of support I’ve had in the last few weeks,” the England captain wrote on Twitter. “I will be staying at Tottenham this summer and will be 100% focused on helping the team achieve success.” The 28-year-old was a major target for City, with manager Pep Guardiola earlier this month saying that it was up to Tottenham to make the transfer happen. Kane, who signed a six-year contract at Tottenham in 2018, was keen on a new challenge but an initial bid from City — reportedly worth £100 million ($137.10 million) — was not enough for Tottenham to let him go. The striker returned late to pre-season training following Euro 2020 and missed Tottenham’s opening two games of the season against City, in the Premier League, and Pacos de Ferreira, in the Europa Conference League play-offs. He returned to action against Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday, coming off the bench to a loud reception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kane-to-stay-at-spurs/article36109863.ece
26 August 2021||Trier (Germany),||Anirudh & Manish advance||Fourth seed Anirudh Chandrasekar and Manish Sureshkumar beat Marvein Moeller and Benito Sanchez Martinez 6-2, 5-7, [10-8] in the first round and enter the quarterfinals of the $25,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Wednesday. In the $25,000 ITF women’s event in Spain, Sowjanya Bavisetti & Sakura Hosogi and Rutuja Bhosale & Ya-Hsuan Lee also made the doubles quarterfinals.  The results:   First round: $25,000 ITF men, Trier, Germany: Anirudh Chandrasekar & Manish Sureshkumar bt Marvin Moeller & Benito Sanchez Martinez (Ger) 6-2, 5-7, [10-8].   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Renta Tokuda & Jumpei Yamasaki (Jpn) bt Adil Kalyanpur & Rishi Reddy 7-6(5), 6-3.   $25,000 ITF women, Vigo, Spain: Sakura Hosogi (Jpn) & Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Alba Rey Garcia (Esp) & Julia Riera (Arg) 6-3, 6-1.   Ya-Hsuan Lee (Tpe) & Rutuja Bhosale bt Marina Bassols Ribera (Esp) & Jacqueline Cabaj Awad (Swe) 6-4, 7-6(2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anirudh-manish-in-quarterfinals/article36109873.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Ravi Dahiya to miss World C’ship||Olympic silver medallist Ravi Dahiya says he has decided to give the upcoming wrestling World Championship a miss since he did not get time to prepare for the selection trials that WFI is organising next week. The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) will conduct trials on Tuesday for the Worlds, set to be held in Oslo, Norway from October 2-10. Dahiya and other Tokyo Games medal winners have been hopping from one state to another for the numerous felicitation functions being organised in their honour. “I don’t want to be on the mat unprepared. What’s the point in competing without enough practice?,” Dahiya told PTI . Dahiya will be the second big star missing from the Indian line-up as Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist Bajrang Punia has also been forced out due to a ligament tear in his right knee. “I will try to compete in one or two tournaments before the season ends after I begin serious training from next month,” he said. Dahiya, though, did not complain when asked if too many functions are bothering him. “How do you say ‘no’ to them? They are your own people, who want to show respect.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-dahiya-to-miss-world-championship/article36109874.ece
26 August 2021||CHENNAI:,||It’s Radical Review vs. Cavallo Vincente||Radical Review and Cavallo Vincente may fight out the finish of the Callista Handicap (1,400m), the main event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Aug. 26).  PACIFIC BLUE HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over, 2-30 p.m.: 1. Up And At Them (6) C. Umesh 60, 2. Velocity (8) R. Rupesh 59.5, 3. Symphony In Style (1) P. Sai Kumar 58, 4. Dream Run (9) H. Rahul 57.5, 5. Perfect Support (4) Nazar Alam 57, 6. Dean’s Grey (7) Indrajeet Kumar 56, 7. Betty Boop (2) Ajeet Kumar 55.5, 8. Queen Justitia (5) Azfar Syeed 55.5 and 9. Amazing Kitten (3) Shahar Babu 53.5.  1. SYMPHONY IN STYLE,   2. DREAM RUN,   3. PERFECT SUPPORT   BLACKJACK PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Battista (3) Zervan 56, 2. Bold Arrangement (2) Kuldeep Singh 56, 3. Diamond And Pearls (1) Nikhil Naidu 56, 4. Malabar (5) P. Vikram 56, 5. Masterpiece (6) Akshay Kumar 56, 6. Proposed (7) P. Sai Kumar 56 and 7. Turf Beauty (4) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. DIAMOND AND PEARLS,   2. PROPOSED,   3. BATTISTA   SKY’S THE LIMIT HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 3-30: 1. Right Move (3) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Arapaho (2) Yash Narredu 58.5, 3. Victory Walk (4) A. Imran Khan 57.5, 4. Hallucinate (1) Zervan 54.5, 5. Saibya (7) Azfar Syeed 53.5, 6. Dr Feelgood (6) D.S. Deora 53, 7. Blue Patent (5) Shahar Babu 52.5, 8. Propahlady (8) Nakhat Singh 52 and 9. Flash Star (9) R. Manish 51.  1. ARAPAHO,   2. HALLUCINATE,   3. VICTORY WALK   SKY’S THE LIMIT HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 3-30: 1. Mighty Princess (5) P. Sai Kumar 61.5, 2. Eagle Prince (1) Farid Ansari 61, 3. Waytogo (6) P. Vikram 61, 4. Pinewood (3) D.S. Deora 60, 5. Majestic Charmer (2) Shyam Kumar 59, 6. Glorious Sunshine (8) Yash Narredu 58, 7. Annexed (7) Akshay Kumar 57.5 and 8. Brilliant Script (4) Azfar Syeed 55.  1. ANNEXED,   2. GLORIOUS SUNSHINE,   3. EAGLE PRINCE   CALLISTA HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Star Elegant (6) Surya Prakash 61, 2. Avellino (5) P. Vikram 60.5, 3. Cotton Hall (1) A. Imran Khan 60, 4. Roman Senator (8) P. Sai Kumar 59.5, 5. Cavallo Vincente (2) C. Brisson 55.5, 6. Divina (7) Azfar Syeed 55, 7. Ganton (10) Janardhan Paswan 54.5, 8. Shield Maiden (3) Shahar Babu 53, 9. Radical Review (4) Nikhil Naidu 52.5 and 10. Dominant (9) Farhan Alam 52.  1. RADICAL REVIEW,   2. CAVALLO VINCENTE,   3. COTTON HALL   SHINING PATH HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Fort St. George (7) P. Sai Kumar 60, 2. Royal Symphony (3) R. Rupesh 59.5, 3. Star Convoy (9) K. Lakhan 59.5, 4. Song And Glory (5) Inayat 58.5, 5. Big Treasure (10) Yash Narredu 58, 6. Arithmetica (1) A. Ayaz Khan 57, 7. Wonderful Era (2) Nakhat Singh 57, 8. Star Fling (6) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 9. Striking Distance (8) C. Umesh 56.5 and 10. Lady Rhino (4) Farhan Alam 55.  1. STAR FLING,   2. BIG TREASURE,   3. WONDERFUL ERA   SHINING PATH HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over, 5-30: 1. Eyes Of Falcon (2) Nazar Alam 60, 2. Glorious Victory (6) Nikhil Naidu 59.5, 3. Beauty Of The Turf (4) Farid Ansari 57, 4. Sprit Of Zion (9) H. Rahul 57, 5. Break The Silence (3) Surya Prakash 56, 6. Fabulous Show (8) M. Bhaskar 56, 7. Beforethedawn (10) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 8. Grey Twilight (5) Ramandeep Singh 53.5, 9. Azeria (7) Azfar Syeed 52.5 and 10. Vibrant Approach (1) D.S. Deora 51.5.  1. GLORIOUS VICTORY,   2. BEAUTY OF THE TURF,   3. EYES OF FALCON  Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7. Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-radical-review-vs-cavallo-vincente/article36109912.ece
26 August 2021||NEW YORK,||Injured Serena Williams withdraws from US Open||Serena Williams announced her withdrawal from next week’s US Open with a torn hamstring. The American said on Wednesday that her injury had not healed completely ahead of the final Grand Slam of the year. Serena, a six-time winner at Flushing Meadows, has had an injury-marred season and limped out of her first-round match at Wimbledon in tears due to the leg injury. The 39-year-old, who has been on the hunt for a 24th Major, skipped the Olympics and also opted out of the Cincinnati Masters, a tune-up event for the US Open. “After careful consideration and following the advice of my doctors and medical team, I have decided to withdraw from the US Open to allow my body to heal completely from a torn hamstring,” Serena posted on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-serena-williams-withdraws-from-us-open/article36109833.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Sathiyan wins in style||Top seed G. Sathiyan bagged his third International men’s singles title with a convincing 4-0 (11-9, 11-6, 11-6, 14-12) win over Yevhen Pryschchepa of Ukraine in the final of the Czech International table tennis tournament at Olomouc (Czech Republic) on Wednesday. Earlier in the semifinals, Sathiyan’s opponent Truls Moregard of Sweden conceded in the third game, citing back pain. After the early loss in the round of 16 at the WTT Contender tournament in Budapest recently, the triumph will come as a huge morale-booster for Sathiyan. The 28-year-old, ranked 39th in the world, was at his best throughout the final. His backhand blocks, forehand and backhand counters during long rallies, and sidespin serves provided him the breakthroughs when he needed them the most. The 36-year-old Yevhen, the fourth seed and ranked 111 inthe world, had four game points in the fourth game, but Sathiyan saved them all. The Indian went on to win 14-12. “After winning my second title (ITTF Challenge) in Spain in 2017, this is special as it comes after four long years,” Sathiyan told The Hindu.  “I loved the way I played and dominated. I could see the old instinctive Sathiyan.”  The results:   Men: Final: G. Sathiyan bt Yevhen Pryschchepa (Ukr) 11-9, 11-6, 11-6, 14-12.   Semifinals: Sathiyan bt Truls Moregard (Swe) 11-4, 11-8, 8-2 (retd.).   Women: Final: Xiaoxin Yang (Mon) bt Mariia Tailakova (Rus) 13-11, 11-4, 11-3, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-wins-in-style/article36109835.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Sheikh, Kavya stay in the lead||Mohammed Sheikh of Karnataka stayed in the lead in qualifying for the superleague in the men’s event of the Indian online carrom challenge organised by the All India Carrom Federation (AICF). Easily the best player on view, Mohammed Sheikh had one ultimate slam and three white slams in compiling a cumulative score of 16 points, which was 35 better than the next best of Abdul Rahman and Abdul Jabbar (51). The top 16 qualified for the superleague. In the women’s section, Kavya Shree of Jharkhand held on to the lead with 95 points in qualifying for the superleague after four rounds. Nidhi Gupta, Deepa Naik, Aakanksha Kadam, Shruti Sonawane, Tanishka Viswakarma, Supriya Viswakarma, Neha Kumari, Mmantasha Iqbal, Farhin, Palak Patel, Mamta Kumari, Sharmila Borah, Stelina S, Kajal Singh, Reetambhara and Sanya Chadha were the others to make the superleague. The organisers had to make additional room for a player, as Sanya and Reetambhara tied for the 16th spot with 150 points. After the superleague, the tournament will progress into the champions league. Thereafter, it will lead to the knockout stage with the top four making it to the semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sheikh-stays-in-the-lead/article36109865.ece
26 August 2021||LEEDS,||Batting first a collective call, says Pant||India’s wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant backed his skipper Virat Kohli's decision to bat first, though he admitted that the wicket was “soft” in the morning. “The wicket was slightly on the softer side in the morning and they bowled in good areas. “We could have applied ourselves better. We can only learn from it and move on,” said Pant. He revealed that the decision to bat first despite the wicket being damp was a “collective call.” “Whatever decision we take, we take as a team. So once we decided to bat first, we backed our decision. We can't keep on thinking too much about what happened at the toss,” said Pant. In the past, Pant has been pressed into action when a few top-order batsmen failed to deliver. Though the youngster couldn’t perform on Wednesday, he sees it as an opportunity and not something that puts him under pressure. “If the top-order collapses and I get an opportunity, I see it as a chance to bail the team out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batting-first-a-collective-call-says-pant/article36109848.ece
26 August 2021||NEW YORK,||Prajnesh advances, Ramkumar bows out||India’s Prajnesh Gunneswaran defeated Canada’s Brayden Schnur 6-4, 7-6(5) in the first round of the US Open qualifiers here on Wednesday. But his compatriot Ramkumar Ramanathan frittered away a one-set advantage to lose 6-4, 6-7(1), 4-6 to Russia’s Evgeny Donskoy in his opening round on Tuesday. With Sumit Nagal and Ankita Raina having exited in the first round, Prajnesh remains India’s only player still with a chance to make the main draw in singles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-nagal-and-ankita-bow-out/article36109831.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Kaavya surprises Riya||Wild card entrant Kaavya Palani outlasted fourth seed Riya Uboveja 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the girls’ pre-quarterfinals of the TNTA-MPTA International Tennis Federation junior (u-18) tournament here on Wednesday.  Other results (pre-quarterfinals):   Boys: Daksh Ashok Agarwal bt Mukil Ramanan 6-4, 6-4; Aryan Shah bt Agriya Yadav 6-4, 6-2; Saheb Sodhi bt Dhananjay Athreya 6-2, 6-2; Parv Nage bt Skandha Prasanna Rao 6-2, 7-6(11); Ronin Lotlikar bt Dhanush Patel 2-6, 6-3, 6-4; Yuvan Nandal bt Sarthak Gandhi 5-7, 6-4, 6-3; Muni Ananth Mani bt Krishang Raghuvanshi 6-3, 6-4; Chirag Duhan bt Adhirit Awal 6-2, 6-1.   Girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Kotistha Modak 6-2, 6-1; Amodini Naik bt Janani Ramesh 6-7(8), 6-2, 6-4; Pushti Laddha bt Hetvee Chaudhari 6-4, 6-3; Lakshmi Prabha Arunkumar bt Deepalakshmi Vanaraja 6-0, 6-2; Suhitha Maruri bt Y. Aarni Reddy 6-0, 6-1; Madhurima Sawant bt Lakshanya Vishwanath 7-6(3), 6-3; Reshma Maruri bt Sonal Patil 6-4, 6-1 .    Classic scripted a three-wicket victory over Thiruthani in the second division final of the Tiruvallur DCA cricket league tournament held here. Both the teams have been promoted to the first division. G. Naveen Kumar emerged the highest run-getter for Classic with 213 runs while T. Kapil was the highest wicket-taker with a tally of 26, and he also scored 177 runs as a batsman. Kapil was the overall highest wicket-taker in the second division league for the season 2019-20 as well.  The scores:   II div. (final): Thiruthani 117 in 28.1 overs (P.T. Rama Rao 32, T.S. Vignesh Kumar 3/27, T. Kapil 3/36 lost to Classic 120/7 in 28.4 overs (R. Vinoth Kumar 37, T. Kapil 26, L. Karthikeyan 4/35) .    St. Patrick’s defeated Cricket Drome by 15 runs in the final of the V7 Groupz u-14 cricket tournament held recently.  The scores (final): St. Patrick’s 150/5 in 30 overs (Josh Shane Fransis 51, Kumaresan 37 n.o.) bt Cricket Drome 135/7 in 30 overs (Arjun Senthil 51, Shawn 38). MoM: Josh Shane Fransis.   Special prizes: best batsman: K. Saravanan (Kedar); best bowler: P. Yathish (St. Patrick’s); man of the series: S. Kamesh (St. Patrick’s) .    Vijendra (Snookin) defeated Ranjith (GA) in the semifinals of the SSA non-medallist snooker tournament here.  The results (semifinals): Vijendra (Snookin) bt Ranjith (GA) 3-2; Bhuvaneshwar (ABC) bt Naresh (SP) 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kaavya-surprises-riya/article36109915.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 07:26 IST,||Sudoku — August 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-26-2021/article36110539.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Pancakes on the move||Move over BYOB, it is time to BYOC: Bring Your Own Car. With customers still nervous about eating at busy restaurants, but eager to get out of the house after successive lockdowns, a trend from the 70s is making a comeback and drive-in restaurants are sprouting across the country. At Drive & Dine by Dhuaan in Kanpur, golf carts deliver food to cars packed in designated spots. Launched last August, by the Status Hospitality Group, this idea was a response to the pandemic. “The hospitality industry was shook. We have hundreds of employees to support. Home delivery was the only thing that was working but that was not enough to cover costs,” says Yash Malhotra who has taken over the family hospitality business along with his sister Insha Malhotra. With large banquet lawns at their disposal, they realised a drive-in diner was a great way to capitalise on their expansive property. “This way diners can maintain distancing while being able to go out of the house and enjoy a meal,” says Yash. Picnic benches are placed alongside cars, in case people wish to stretch their legs, and get out of the car as well. Orders are made via QR codes. The drive-in experiment got more traction than the Malhotras expected (roughly 60 cars over the weekend), and has now become a permanent feature. “Seeing the success, a couple of small restaurants from cities such as Surat and Chandigarh reached out to us and have implemented a similar concept,” says Yash. As Drive & Dine by Dhuaan turns one this week, the team continues to make an effort to keep the space exciting. They host themed evenings such as movie nights, Sufi nights, and even distance dancing nights. “Sometimes clients book the entire or part of the space to play tambola in their cars or for social events,” adds Yash. Drive-in birthday parties are trending too. Shyam Sunder, who runs Arjun Garden Cafe in Chennai’s Medavakkam says he often hosts families and friends who park their cars at his cafe, and celebrate special occasions with confetti and cake. Flash mobs have also taken place here, he says. Shyam, who worked briefly at the Imperial in Delhi, and trained at the Indian Accent restaurant, also in the capital, returned home to Chennai in 2019, to set up the drive-in Cafe with his father Bala Sunder. Spread over an acre, it houses a seating area with a thatched roof, another space for pets and their owners, as well as 30,000 square feet of open space that can accommodate 45-50 cars. When launched two years ago, he says, no one really came just for the drive-in. He tried telecasting cricket and football matches on the large screen, which drew in a few clients. Post pandemic, it is a different story. “People are more comfortable sitting in their car as it’s their space, while we take care of everything else,” says Shyam. He adds that once the pandemic hit, he lost out on his bachelor clients as most of them moved back to their home-towns. Instead, he saw a rise in the family crowd. “I now have 80% more sales from the drive-in than I did pre-pandemic,” he says. What makes it safer To ensure physical distancing, a metre’s gap is maintained between the cars. Although the drive-in cafe is busiest at dinner time, they have a growing clientele coming in early in the day, to breakfast on the cafe’s popular uthappam waffles, gingelly oil dosa and chicken keema dosa. Regulars often call in and order in advance. Some call to pre-order slow-cooked meat, which they then enjoy outside on areca palm plates. In an attempt to make clients feel safer, restaurants are constantly upgrading systems now. At Kaasa Kitchen, Kochi, finger bowls and fumigators (to get rid of the smell of the food) are part of the process. Others, like Zam Zam in Thiruvananthapuram are thoughtfully providing trays that can be attached to the cars’ windows, so diners can eat comfortably without juggling hot food on their laps. Recently launched Sri Kamatchi Mess drive-in in Parrys Corner, Chennai, has a carefully thought out system in place. “We have designed wooden benches that we slide into the cars, so customers can eat off them. They come in two different sizes to suit different models of cars,” says producer-turned-actor, V Natarajan, who launched this venture along with his daughter-in-law Rani Kumar. Their earlier businesses include maavadu.in (a Thanjavur-style meal delivery service), Sri Kamatchi mess in West Mambalam, and a food truck. “We also have tables and chairs placed for those who prefer to sit outside and eat,” says Natarajan. Functioning out of the canteen building in the Raja Annamalai Mandram complex, the facility can hold about 40 cars at a time. Their strategic location, with the High Court and many Government offices located in the vicinity, has made it convenient for many to stop by for breakfast or lunch. “Our USP is reviving old-style tiffin items such as Kanjeevaram idli, more koozh , puli upma , arisi upma . We also have a tandoori and Chinese counter, but the focus is on South Indian dishes,” says Rani. This is an effective module, provided there is ample parking space. Some, like Sante Spa Cuisine in Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai, have made drive-in an extension of its dine-in restaurant. Kaneesha Jain, who owns this branch, says their parking area can easily hold up to 50 cars. To cater to this car dining audience, the restaurant has invested in eco-friendly, plastic-free cutlery, hands-free ordering service via their app and a Spotify playlist that enables in-car diners to listen to the same music being played inside the restaurant. People want to be in their safe bubbles and think of their cars as one. Yes, home delivery is always an option agrees Kaneesha, but certain dishes lose their flavour and character by the time they get delivered. This way, one gets to enjoy the best of both worlds: People get to go out and be safe at the same time. And of course, a little nostalgia never hurt anyone. With inputs from Chitradeepa Anantharam  Woodlands did it first In 1962, at the centre of what is now Semmozhi Poonga, stood Woodlands, South India’s first drive-in restaurant. The Woodlands Hotel Group leased out 18 of the 320 acres of the Agri-Horticultural Society on Cathedral Road to build what would go on to become one of the city’s most popular landmarks until it shut down in 2008. Considered an innovative venture then, it helped popularise Udupi style vegetarian cuisine. The entire car parking area functioned as the restaurant and steel trays, with glasses of water, were fitted to the front doors of the cars. Waiters would then come to the car and narrate the items on the menu that day. Its sprawling greenery that included a play area for children made it popular among families. Located in the heart of the city, it attracted many morning walkers who would stop by for breakfast and be assured of steaming hot pongal and idli as early as 6 am. Their chole bhature, masala dosa, sambar vada, chilli cheese, toast bonda and coffee were the most popular items on menu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pancakes-on-the-move/article36109693.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Blink and miss||Birds flutter across as the leaves of a coconut tree sway gently. All around them are mud houses — in bright hues of blue, red, peach and green — that cling to each other. The structures sit on what seems to be a river: the water ripples as the moon climbs higher and higher, against passing stars. A static, rather abstract, folk-inspired acrylic work thus comes alive when one holds a screen against it. In T Nagar’s quaint Vennba Gallery, 10 such works by Karnataka-based artist Manjunath Wali are set to motion using Augmented Reality (AR), in an exhibition titled Folk Phorescence. Wali’s first solo show in Chennai, the display showcases 28 of his works, done across mediums like charcoal, pens, pencils and acrylics. While 11 of them are AR-enabled (rendered by the design team at Vennba), the rest gives a glimpse into Wali’s affinity toward folk motifs and how he interlaces them with contemporary elements. Reliving childhood  Crowded with meaning, and with recurring images of village landscapes, the canvases are meant to introduce an urban audience to the simple joys of the countryside. “I am interested in the folk style of architecture, and inspired by historical monuments. I thought I could merge them into contemporary landscapes too,“ says Manjunath who spent his childhood in Huvina Hipparagi, in Karnataka’s Bijapur district. His own village, especially when decked up during festivals with “a combination of colours splashed on walls”, has served as a muse many times. The series on display, which screams happiness and nostalgia, is largely inspired by familiar landscapes and forgotten scenes from his childhood. The artist, in fact, says he was confused when he saw the AR version of his own work. “My birds were not flying on the canvas, but they were flying on the screen!” he laughs. These versions can be viewed on any device through an app called Artivive. In contrast to this interactive series stand his equally intricate, black and white works. “Black and white works are very challenging. Especially when you have to show dimension in a single tone. It is a risky task!” he says. Done using charcoal, pen and pencil, Manjunath takes a single object and creates a world within it. In the piece titled Live Together, the artist zooms in on the facade of a lorry, on which he portrays homes, castles, fragments of doors and windows, roofs, and mud tiles, and juxtaposes them a serene, mountainous landscape. Perched atop the lorry are scores of birds. For Manjunath, birds are metaphors for happiness and freedom — and so, most of his canvases house a bird or two. “Earlier, I used to experiment with different styles to arrive at a bird figure. Lately, my birds have also become inspired by folk art,” he adds. Unwind, another acrylic work in varying shades of brown, shows a gramophone that encapsulates similar architectural and natural elements — birds make an appearance there too, since the gramophone is an allegory to a liberated and therapeutic experience. Manjunath always goes back to “once upon a time” in his works. “I represent that time. I want the coming generations to know more about village architecture and traditional objects.”  Folk Phorescence is on view at Vennba Gallery, T Nagar, till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blink-and-miss/article36109702.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tales of South Madras||Chimbudeven is best known for his fantasy-comedy outings, including his debut hit Imsai Arasan 23am Pulikesi (2006), but the filmmaker is taking a different route with his upcoming Kasada Tabara . “It will be emotional and serious, as the storyline demands that kind of treatment,” says the director, in a chat with MetroPlus about the film starring Harish Kalyan, Sundeep Kishan, Shanthnu Bhagyaraj, Regina Cassandra, Priya Bhavani Shankar and Premgi Amaren, among others . Excerpts: How did this project come about? I had a six-month gap during the pre-production of Pulikesi 2 a couple of years ago. At that time, I had an idea of a compact film that I casually narrated to my friend, filmmaker Venkat Prabhu, who liked it so much that he wanted to produce it. While it focusses on six people who lead different lives, there is a common thread throughout: Kasada Tabara is a hyperlink film.  There have been several anthologies in the recent past, but yours is a hyperlink… This is not something new to Tamil cinema: Thiruvilayadal (1965) is a hyperlink subject, with Lord Shiva being the common link. Mine has six episodes that are connected to each other in some way. While many Tamil filmmakers have chosen North Madras as their milieu, you have gone down South… South Madras is as beautiful and significant as the North. Here, every neighbourhood has a distinct quality. Kasada Tabara showcases many parts of Mylapore, Adyar, OMR and ECR. I don’t think there is a lot of difference between North and South Madras...the latter too has fishermen, Madras baashai and is steeped in history. You have chosen six different cinematographers and music composers for this project. How challenging was it? I have got the experience of six films in this one project! The entire process was very interesting because I got to work closely with established technicians offering different perspectives. Do you think releasing this on an OTT platform increases its chances of discoverability, especially among non-Tamil audiences? Cinema is all about evolution. We need to change with the times. The creative process is still the same, but it is the platform that is changing. In the last few years, most filmmakers have become comfortable with OTT platforms, and I would like to think that there are more positives in it than negatives. Kasada Tabara will stream on Sony Liv from tomorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-of-south-madras/article36109671.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There’s no fear-based mentality at Marvel’||When Destin Daniel Cretton was asked by president of Marvel Studios Kevin Fiege during the former’s pitch for Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings , Fiege and his team asked Cretton if he was ever keen on doing a Marvel movie. The filmmaker froze and immediately recalled a phone call with his manager weeks before the pitching process, where he specifically said, “don’t ever let me do a Marvel movie”. Fast forward to 2021, and Cretton is sitting for a busy press day for the project. Timeline-wise, Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings picks up after Avengers: Endgame ; it follows titular hero Shang-Chi (Simu Liu) drawn into the cryptic Ten Rings organisation and is forced to confront a troubling past he left behind. When Cretton was announced as the film’s director in March 2019, the MCU zeitgeist was experiencing a furore that not many other cinematic franchises had the luxury of boasting. Cretton is not embarrassed to admit his fears of stepping into the MCU, though most people are. “I was scared of stepping into a big studio movie like this and of what it might do to me. I had a lot of fears,” he recalls. He had one person to turn to, though: old friend and long-time collaborator Ryan Coogler, director and co-writer of Black Panther . “Ryan said, ‘the pressure is hard; it’ll be the hardest thing potentially that you have done up to this point, but none of that pressure or none of those complications come from the people you’re working with or for.’ That eased my mind. Not to toot Kevin’s horn, but there is an environment of curiosity and exploration that comes from the top down. There is no fear-based mentality at this studio which has allowed us to take risks and chances and be able to instill that same fearless exploration with everybody involved in this film and that’s a huge reason that the movie turned out the way that it did.” Fiege on-boarded Cretton because of the filmmaker’s determination to go deeper with Shang-Chi as both a superhero and a young man dealing with the sins of his father, while speaking to the Asian diaspora experience. “If we were not putting Shang-Chi shoulder to shoulder with all the amazing other Marvel superheroes we have come to love in the past, that would be, to me, a big disservice to the culture and character.” Authenticity was more than a priority to Cretton and Marvel. After all, with Shang-Chi travelling to China, not everyone would be readily speaking English. “The conversation behind which language should be spoken was always rooted in just the logic of the characters, and who would naturally be speaking what language,” he affirms, adding, “That conversation started in the writer’s room and then once our actors came in, it was always a dialogue around all these. So, we were constantly having the discussion of what made sense for the scene.” Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings releases in theatres on September 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/theres-no-fear-based-mentality-at-marvel/article36109676.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A world without artistes||I don’t mind/ Being the non-essential/ knowing you will come looking/ when things are broken/ and nothing else works  In 2020, these lines surfaced on screens followed by a torrent of shares, saves and likes. An excerpt from Artist , a poem written by Guwahati-based Madhu Raghavendra, the verse spoke volumes on what it means to be an artiste in a world in the grip of a pandemic. Shared widely, including by English actor Amanda Abbington, musician Stanley Grill and others, the poem quickly waltzed its way into becoming a lockdown phenomenon. The role of an artiste in unprecedented circumstances has been and continues to be debated, more than ever over the last two years. Madhu’s new collection of poems titled Being Non-Essential (published by Red River), recently launched at Amdavadi, Chennai in an event organised by Prakriti Foundation, is an examination of this very question — and of art itself. “The idea definitely came from the space that artistes were rendered non-essential across the world. It wouldn’t have happened if the poem Artist itself had not spread,” he says. When the popular verse made its rounds, people tried to make it their own — they made music out of it, set it against Russian paintings...the resonance and relatability was palpable. Testament of the times Around this time, Madhu also started writing about the importance of art by pointing at ourselves and our conditioning — of how we are taught to view art as a deviation, rather than a necessity. In his poem titled Why Does Art Go Hungry , he uses the allegory of a grasshopper: In the story of the ants/and the grasshopper/ we tell our children/ to learn from the ants/ to fall in line, to follow, to pick a useful trade..  The farmers’ protests and the brutal second wave of COVID-19 that hit India, bound these pieces together into a compendium of reactionary words, says Madhu, who is also the founder of Poetry Couture, a pan-India initiative that attempts to revive the culture of reading poetry and prose. “Poetry should give hope in times of despair. And shake up society when the things are normal. I also feel that the artiste’s job is to record his time in history. I want people to remember,” says Madhu who, through Poetry Couture, has always looked at taking poetry out of the shelves. “Poetry is an everyday exercise and that should be brought back,” he says. To that end, Read , a poem from this collection, invites one to proudly reclaim one’s words and read poetry “loud enough to reach beyond the radius of hate”. Some works also carry hints of visualisation, like the poem titled Covid Helpline: The lines repeat: Please stay on line/your call is important to us. Between the refrains, is an ECG, gradually on its way to flatlining. Is visualisation an important tool for poetry as a medium? “There are many schools of poetry that have been doing things a certain way. Now, we need to break free and collaborate with artforms. There is opportunity for that now, with digital media.” His next book, Madhu says, is made from everyday waste — “whatever I find in dustbins, when I am walking on streets and so on. Looking at art in everyday things and questioning them is a very 1950s-60s, pop art-inspired way. I think once in a while, it should come back.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-world-without-artistes/article36109688.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t check out||Dishevelled hair, biker jackets and knee guards are not something one normally associates with general managers of hotels. And yet, here they are ditching power dressing — sharp suits, ties, Oxfords — for biker chic as they ride down East Coast Road, to raise awareness about tourism. The second edition of the Rediscover Chennai, Rediscover Life bike ride took place over the weekend. It began last year as four passionate bikers and hoteliers — Rajesh Radhakrishnan, Shafee Ahmed, Shabin Sarvotham and Sudip Sengupta — brainstormed to find a way to promote tourism in Tamil Nadu. “The travel and hospitality industry is badly hit due to the pandemic. When hotels opened last September, business was bad with a few hotels having only 10-15% occupancy. It was demotivating,” says Shafee Ahmed, general manager of E Hotel, adding, “We had to send out a loud and clear message informing our guests that hotels are safe.” Rajesh Radhakrishnan, general manager at The Park, adds, “We had to create a buzz around hotels reopening.” The question was, how to get people to take notice. Bikes were the answer. That is how the first edition took place last year with 30 general managers riding up till Mamallapuram and back. This year the number swelled to 45. They were joined by those unaccustomed to the charms of two-wheel rides cheering on in cars. “The idea is to promote Chennai and its hotels, focussing on places to see,” says Radhakrishnan. Supported by India Tourism and Tourism of Tamil Nadu, this time the event was flagged of by Venkatesan Dattatreyan, Regional Director, Ministry of Tourism, Government of India and Sandeep Nanduri, IAS – Director of Tourism and Managing Director of TTDC, Government of Tamil Nadu. The bikers rode around 80 kilometres, up to Kovalam, stopping by Bay of Life, on the way, where surfing and other water sports were showcased. “We plan to make it an annual feature,” says Radhakrishnan. Is it a challenge to find new destinations every year? No, says Shabin Sarvotham, senior general manager, GRT Radisson Temple Bay. “There are a lot of hidden places in India,” he states, adding that he was in Udhagamandalam for over nine years and still has so much to explore. Sarvotham, Ahmed, Radhakrishnan and Sengupta (Vice President at Green Park) ride together almost every weekend. After 14 hour work-days from Monday to Saturday, Shabin says riding on Sundays is de-stressing, even if it means being out and about by 5.30 am. He adds, “On our rides we don’t discuss hotels or business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dont-check-out/article36109697.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The last laugh||Shiva’s upcoming Tamil film is Kasethan Kadavulada . The titled translates to ‘money is God’. But that isn’t what the actor subscribes to, in the pandemic-ridden world we live in today. “Love and humour; these are the two things that the world needs today. The basic necessity for everyone is happiness,” says Shiva, over a virtual conversation from the set of Kasethan Kadavulada . Shiva is trying to spread humour through LOL: Enga Siri Paappom , an unscripted comedy reality show that drops on Amazon Prime Video on August 27. Featuring ten comedians who share a common roof for six hours, the concept behind the show is that, you win if you make others laugh but do not laugh yourself. Contestants include the likes of Premgi Amaren,Satish, Pugazh, RJ Vigneshkanth and Powerstar Srinivasan trying their best to suppress their laughter, but Shiva, being the host, did guffaw quite a few times. “When I got the synopsis for this show, I got hooked. That it gave me an opportunity to be with Vivekh sir was a big factor. I’m a huge fan of Vivekh sir, having been awe of his comedy tracks in Minnale and Run. ” The few weeks that he show for the show, directed by Madhumitha, gave Shiva the opportunity to spend a lot of time with Vivekh. With the shoot in Mumbai when COVID-19 cases were high, Shiva and Vivekh — staying in neighbouring rooms at a hotel — shared a lot of anecdotes. “I have previously interviewed him a few times, but shooting for LOL … was special because it gave me so much time with him. We spoke about films, life and much more. He spoke about how he wrote separate comedy tracks in the many hit films that I grew up watching, and how he kept encouraging young actors. His death was a huge shock to me,” says Shiva. Shiva is currently awaiting the release of Sumo and Idiot, besides shooting for Saloon and another untitled project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-last-laugh/article36109673.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Who are Chennai’s caregivers?||Shortly after the second wave of the pandemic abated, cyclist Ramanujar Moulana spent his days riding to the city’s hospitals, clinics, dispensaries and medical colleges. Born out of these rides in those two months is his fourth book,Madras By Cycle: Medical Heritage Trails of Chennai. The guide booklet offers cyclists trails to ride on, in order to learn about the history of Chennai’s medical institutions (like the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital established as early as 1664 for British soldiers, making it just a decade younger than the Taj Mahal), and understand why the city has grown to be a hub for medical tourism. It is accompanied by QR codes for cyclists to map the locations mentioned. The trails include the Madras Medical College (MMC) and its hockey ground which is currently undergoing a facelift; The King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy, which played an important role in supplying smallpox vaccines; and native medicine centres such as the Amrutanjan building and the Dubba Chetty Shop in Mylapore. A special section is dedicated to four pioneer doctors who also had an interest in cycling. This includes Dr Charles Donovan, the first Medical Superintendent of the Government Royapettah Hospital, and Dr Ida Scudder, founder of CMC Vellore, who is said to have cycled all the way from Philadelphia to New York to attend the Cornell Medical School in 1898. Mapping the city The booklet is in continuation of Ramanujar’s series of trails exploring OMR/ECR, George Town, and North Chennai, that he releases every Madras Day. For this year, he had planned one on the city’s iconic food joints. And then the second wave of the pandemic began. “We (his group, the Cycling Yogis) had completed most of the food guide before the second wave. But then so many eateries shut down permanently,” he says, explaining why he turned to the medical heritage trail instead. Sankar Nethralaya is the youngest building mentioned in the book, and Ramanujar says the organisation holds a special place in his heart, for helping with his mother’s cataract surgery. Referring to media reports, historian columns, and hospital websites, Ramanujar discovered pieces of history as he charted the rides. “At Stanley Hospital campus, I found an obelisk that mentions the names of Assistant Surgeons of the Presidency who died during the First World War,” he says. “I had also always wanted to visit the Red Fort which is what they call the MMC Museum (owing to its brick facade).” While Ramanujar will start working on remapping the food joints that are still surviving despite the pandemic, he has another idea for a guide book. “I want to focus more on institutions and Government bodies, instead of places, like I did before,” he says. “Some of our cyclists are part of the police administration, so I thought it would be nice to document the city’s police heritage. Some of our police stations are over a hundred years old.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/who-are-chennais-caregivers/article36109682.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Spit stop||You and I go to Google Maps to avoid a traffic snarl. Raja Narasimhan and Priti Raja go to the app to get trapped in one. Here is why they drive against the tide. Their ride is clothed in decals that bear a message, and a busy road is where it is most read. The Pune-based couple and their pet labrador Cara drive around in their SUV, letting the vehicle spit out the message — that spitting can kill. After having rolled over vast swathes of Maharashtra and Karnataka, they recently hit Chennai’s busy routes. Though the pandemic has spawned many of them, anti-spitting campaigns are relevant as long as pathogen-carrying saliva exists alongside an attitude that views the road as a convenient spittoon. The couple started their way back in 2010, responding to the swine flu (2009-10) and the fact that India is a tuberculosis hotspot. In the following years, Raja would turn his back on a corporate career and Priti on an entrepreneurial engagement to focus on Sare Jahan Se Acha Foundation, a Section 8 not-for-profit company they had founded. “In the days before COVID-19, our volunteer groups would be working in public places — bus stands and railway stations — where they would do skits and zumba on no-spitting. We have done wall paintings and conducted 20-minute sessions for students from Class VI and above in 150 schools in Pune,” elaborates Priti. “Now, due to social distancing, we did not want to step out and talk to people, but they can read these messages.” The decals speak five languages — English, Tamil, Marathi, Hindi and Kannada. The combination of languages changes with the itinerary. Priti explains that at some point they will head into Gujarat, and then, decals with anti-spitting messages in Gujarati would make it to the metal. Attitudes can be unyielding to the toughest of edicts. And, to expect awareness stickers to bend one, reeks of Pollyannish optimism at best and ostrich-like naivete at worst. Let us face it: What are the realistic expectations from this exercise? “We joined hands with volunteer organisations and started pushing for anti-spitting posters in Government offices,” explains Priti, largely referring to how the drive went in Maharashtra, and to some degree in Bengaluru, where again they aligned with NGOs to promote the cause. Though started in February, their inter-State road tour has been moving in fits and starts, due to the second wave and continuing region-specific lockdown restrictions. Priti points out that these restrictions define the course of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/spit-stop/article36109679.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Pancakes on the move||Move over BYOB, it is time to BYOC: Bring Your Own Car. With customers still nervous about eating at busy restaurants, but eager to get out of the house after successive lockdowns, a trend from the 70s is making a comeback and drive-in restaurants are sprouting across the country. At Drive & Dine by Dhuaan in Kanpur, golf carts deliver food to cars packed in designated spots. Launched last August, by the Status Hospitality Group, this idea was a response to the pandemic. “The hospitality industry was shook. We have hundreds of employees to support. Home delivery was the only thing that was working but that was not enough to cover costs,” says Yash Malhotra who has taken over the family hospitality business along with his sister Insha Malhotra. With large banquet lawns at their disposal, they realised a drive-in diner was a great way to capitalise on their expansive property. “This way diners can maintain distancing while being able to go out of the house and enjoy a meal,” says Yash. Picnic benches are placed alongside cars, in case people wish to stretch their legs, and get out of the car as well. Orders are made via QR codes. The drive-in experiment got more traction than the Malhotras expected (roughly 60 cars over the weekend), and has now become a permanent feature. “Seeing the success, a couple of small restaurants from cities such as Surat and Chandigarh reached out to us and have implemented a similar concept,” says Yash. As Drive & Dine by Dhuaan turns one this week, the team continues to make an effort to keep the space exciting. They host themed evenings such as movie nights, Sufi nights, and even distance dancing nights. “Sometimes clients book the entire or part of the space to play tambola in their cars or for social events,” adds Yash. Drive-in birthday parties are trending too. Shyam Sunder, who runs Arjun Garden Cafe in Chennai’s Medavakkam says he often hosts families and friends who park their cars at his cafe, and celebrate special occasions with confetti and cake. Flash mobs have also taken place here, he says. Shyam, who worked briefly at the Imperial in Delhi, and trained at the Indian Accent restaurant, also in the capital, returned home to Chennai in 2019, to set up the drive-in Cafe with his father Bala Sunder. Spread over an acre, it houses a seating area with a thatched roof, another space for pets and their owners, as well as 30,000 square feet of open space that can accommodate 45-50 cars. When launched two years ago, he says, no one really came just for the drive-in. He tried telecasting cricket and football matches on the large screen, which drew in a few clients. Post pandemic, it is a different story. “People are more comfortable sitting in their car as it’s their space, while we take care of everything else,” says Shyam. He adds that once the pandemic hit, he lost out on his bachelor clients as most of them moved back to their home-towns. Instead, he saw a rise in the family crowd. “I now have 80% more sales from the drive-in than I did pre-pandemic,” he says. What makes it safer To ensure physical distancing, a metre’s gap is maintained between the cars. Although the drive-in cafe is busiest at dinner time, they have a growing clientele coming in early in the day, to breakfast on the cafe’s popular uthappam waffles, gingelly oil dosa and chicken keema dosa. Regulars often call in and order in advance. Some call to pre-order slow-cooked meat, which they then enjoy outside on areca palm plates. In an attempt to make clients feel safer, restaurants are constantly upgrading systems now. At Kaasa Kitchen, Kochi, finger bowls and fumigators (to get rid of the smell of the food) are part of the process. Others, like Zam Zam in Thiruvananthapuram are thoughtfully providing trays that can be attached to the cars’ windows, so diners can eat comfortably without juggling hot food on their laps. Recently launched Sri Kamatchi Mess drive-in in Parrys Corner, Chennai, has a carefully thought out system in place. “We have designed wooden benches that we slide into the cars, so customers can eat off them. They come in two different sizes to suit different models of cars,” says producer-turned-actor, V Natarajan, who launched this venture along with his daughter-in-law Rani Kumar. Their earlier businesses include maavadu.in (a Thanjavur-style meal delivery service), Sri Kamatchi mess in West Mambalam, and a food truck. “We also have tables and chairs placed for those who prefer to sit outside and eat,” says Natarajan. Functioning out of the canteen building in the Raja Annamalai Mandram complex, the facility can hold about 40 cars at a time. Their strategic location, with the High Court and many Government offices located in the vicinity, has made it convenient for many to stop by for breakfast or lunch. “Our USP is reviving old-style tiffin items such as Kanjeevaram idli, more koozh , puli upma , arisi upma . We also have a tandoori and Chinese counter, but the focus is on South Indian dishes,” says Rani. This is an effective module, provided there is ample parking space. Some, like Sante Spa Cuisine in Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai, have made drive-in an extension of its dine-in restaurant. Kaneesha Jain, who owns this branch, says their parking area can easily hold up to 50 cars. To cater to this car dining audience, the restaurant has invested in eco-friendly, plastic-free cutlery, hands-free ordering service via their app and a Spotify playlist that enables in-car diners to listen to the same music being played inside the restaurant. People want to be in their safe bubbles and think of their cars as one. Yes, home delivery is always an option agrees Kaneesha, but certain dishes lose their flavour and character by the time they get delivered. This way, one gets to enjoy the best of both worlds: People get to go out and be safe at the same time. And of course, a little nostalgia never hurt anyone. With inputs from Chitradeepa Anantharam  Woodlands did it first In 1962, at the centre of what is now Semmozhi Poonga, stood Woodlands, in Chennai, South India’s first drive-in restaurant. The Woodlands Hotel Group leased out 18 of the 320 acres of the Agri-Horticultural Society on Cathedral Road to build what would go on to become one of the city’s most popular landmarks until it shut down in 2008. Considered an innovative venture then, it helped popularise Udupi style vegetarian cuisine. The entire car parking area functioned as the restaurant and steel trays, with glasses of water, were fitted to the front doors of the cars. Waiters would then come to the car and narrate the items on the menu that day. Its sprawling greenery that included a play area for children made it popular among families. Located in the heart of the city, it attracted many morning walkers who would stop by for breakfast and be assured of steaming hot pongal and idli as early as 6 am. Their chole bhature , masala dosa , sambar vada , chilli cheese toast, bonda and coffee were the most popular items on menu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pancakes-on-the-move/article36110332.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Blink and miss||Birds flutter across as the leaves of a coconut tree sway gently. All around them are mud houses — in bright hues of blue, red, peach and green — that cling to each other. The structures sit on what seems to be a river: the water ripples as the moon climbs higher and higher, against passing stars. A static, rather abstract, folk-inspired acrylic work thus comes alive when one holds a screen against it. In Chennai’s quaint Vennba Gallery, 10 such works by Karnataka-based artist Manjunath Wali are set to motion using Augmented Reality (AR), in an exhibition titled Folk Phorescence. Wali’s first solo show in Chennai, on until August 31, the display showcases 28 of his works, done across mediums like charcoal, pens, pencils and acrylics. While 11 of them are AR-enabled (rendered by the design team at Vennba), the rest gives a glimpse into Wali’s affinity toward folk motifs and how he interlaces them with contemporary elements. Reliving childhood Crowded with meaning, and with recurring images of village landscapes, the canvases are meant to introduce an urban audience to the simple joys of the countryside. “I am interested in the folk style of architecture, and inspired by historical monuments. I thought I could merge them into contemporary landscapes too,“ says Manjunath who spent his childhood in Huvina Hipparagi, in Karnataka’s Bijapur district. His own village, especially when decked up during festivals with “a combination of colours splashed on walls”, has served as a muse many times. The series on display, which screams happiness and nostalgia, is largely inspired by familiar landscapes and forgotten scenes from his childhood. The artist, in fact, says he was confused when he saw the AR version of his own work. “My birds were not flying on the canvas, but they were flying on the screen!” he laughs. These versions can be viewed on any device through an app called Artivive. In contrast to this interactive series stand his equally intricate, black and white works. “Black and white works are very challenging. Especially when you have to show dimension in a single tone. It is a risky task!” he says. Done using charcoal, pen and pencil, Manjunath takes a single object and creates a world within it. In the piece titled Live Together, the artist zooms in on the facade of a lorry, on which he portrays homes, castles, fragments of doors and windows, roofs, and mud tiles, and juxtaposes them a serene, mountainous landscape. Perched atop the lorry are scores of birds. For Manjunath, birds are metaphors for happiness and freedom — and so, most of his canvases house a bird or two. “Earlier, I used to experiment with different styles to arrive at a bird figure. Lately, my birds have also become inspired by folk art,” he adds. Unwind, another acrylic work in varying shades of brown, shows a gramophone that encapsulates similar architectural and natural elements — birds make an appearance there too, since the gramophone is an allegory to a liberated and therapeutic experience. Manjunath always goes back to “once upon a time” in his works. “I represent that time. I want the coming generations to know more about village architecture and traditional objects.” He plans to fashion fibre and bronze sculptures., while sticking to the same concept that he has worked on since 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blink-and-miss/article36110267.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There’s no fear-based mentality at Marvel’||When Destin Daniel Cretton was asked by president of Marvel Studios Kevin Feige during the former’s pitch for Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings , Fiege and his team asked Cretton if he was ever keen on doing a Marvel movie. The filmmaker froze and immediately recalled a phone call with his manager weeks before the pitching process, where he specifically said, “don’t ever let me do a Marvel movie”. Fast forward to 2021, and Cretton is sitting for a busy press day for the project. Timeline-wise, Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings picks up after Avengers: Endgame ; it follows titular hero Shang-Chi (Simu Liu) drawn into the cryptic Ten Rings organisation and is forced to confront a troubling past he left behind. When Cretton was announced as the film’s director in March 2019, the MCU zeitgeist was experiencing a furore that not many other cinematic franchises had the luxury of boasting. Cretton is not embarrassed to admit his fears of stepping into the MCU, though most people are. “I was scared of stepping into a big studio movie like this and of what it might do to me. I had a lot of fears,” he recalls. He had one person to turn to, though: old friend and long-time collaborator Ryan Coogler, director and co-writer of Black Panther . “Ryan said, ‘the pressure is hard; it’ll be the hardest thing potentially that you have done up to this point, but none of that pressure or none of those complications come from the people you’re working with or for.’ That eased my mind. Not to toot Kevin’s horn, but there is an environment of curiosity and exploration that comes from the top down. There is no fear-based mentality at this studio which has allowed us to take risks and chances and be able to instill that same fearless exploration with everybody involved in this film and that’s a huge reason that the movie turned out the way that it did.” Fiege on-boarded Cretton because of the filmmaker’s determination to go deeper with Shang-Chi as both a superhero and a young man dealing with the sins of his father, while speaking to the Asian diaspora experience. “If we were not putting Shang-Chi shoulder to shoulder with all the amazing other Marvel superheroes we have come to love in the past, that would be, to me, a big disservice to the culture and character.”  Authenticity was more than a priority to Cretton and Marvel. After all, with Shang-Chi travelling to China, not everyone would be readily speaking English. “The conversation behind which language should be spoken was always rooted in just the logic of the characters, and who would naturally be speaking what language,” he affirms, adding, “That conversation started in the writer’s room and then once our actors came in, it was always a dialogue around all these. So, we were constantly having the discussion of what made sense for the scene.”  Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings releases in theatres on September 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/theres-no-fear-based-mentality-at-marvel/article36110337.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A world without artistes||I don’t mind/ Being the non-essential/ knowing you will come looking/ when things are broken/ and nothing else works  In 2020, these lines surfaced on screens followed by a torrent of shares, saves and likes. An excerpt from Artist , a poem written by Guwahati-based Madhu Raghavendra, the verse spoke volumes on what it means to be an artiste in a world in the grip of a pandemic. Shared widely, including by English actor Amanda Abbington, musician Stanley Grill and others, the poem quickly waltzed its way into becoming a lockdown phenomenon. The role of an artiste in unprecedented circumstances has been and continues to be debated, more than ever over the last two years. Madhu’s new collection of poems titled Being Non-Essential (published by Red River), recently launched at Amdavadi, Chennai in an event organised by Prakriti Foundation, is an examination of this very question — and of art itself. “The idea definitely came from the space that artistes were rendered non-essential across the world. It wouldn’t have happened if the poem Artist itself had not spread,” he says. When the popular verse made its rounds, people tried to make it their own — they made music out of it, set it against Russian paintings...the resonance and relatability was palpable. Testament of the times Around this time, Madhu also started writing about the importance of art by pointing at ourselves and our conditioning — of how we are taught to view art as a deviation, rather than a necessity. In his poem titled Why Does Art Go Hungry , he uses the allegory of a grasshopper: In the story of the ants/and the grasshopper/ we tell our children/ to learn from the ants/ to fall in line, to follow, to pick a useful trade..  The farmers’ protests and the brutal second wave of COVID-19 that hit India, bound these pieces together into a compendium of reactionary words, says Madhu, who is also the founder of Poetry Couture, a pan-India initiative that attempts to revive the culture of reading poetry and prose. “Poetry should give hope in times of despair. And shake up society when the things are normal. I also feel that the artiste’s job is to record his time in history. I want people to remember,” says Madhu who, through Poetry Couture, has always looked at taking poetry out of the shelves. “Poetry is an everyday exercise and that should be brought back,” he says. To that end, Read , a poem from this collection, invites one to proudly reclaim one’s words and read poetry “loud enough to reach beyond the radius of hate”. Some works also carry hints of visualisation, like the poem titled Covid Helpline: The lines repeat: Please stay on line/your call is important to us. Between the refrains, is an ECG, gradually on its way to flatlining. Is visualisation an important tool for poetry as a medium? “There are many schools of poetry that have been doing things a certain way. Now, we need to break free and collaborate with artforms. There is opportunity for that now, with digital media.” His next book, Madhu says, is made from everyday waste — “whatever I find in dustbins, when I am walking on streets and so on. Looking at art in everyday things and questioning them is a very 1950s-60s, pop art-inspired way. I think once in a while, it should come back.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-world-without-artistes/article36110338.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t check out||Dishevelled hair, biker jackets and knee guards are not something one normally associates with general managers of hotels. And yet, here they are ditching power dressing — sharp suits, ties, Oxfords — for biker chic as they ride down Chennai’s East Coast Road, to raise awareness about tourism. The second edition of the Rediscover Chennai, Rediscover Life bike ride took place over the weekend. It began last year as four passionate bikers and hoteliers — Rajesh Radhakrishnan, Shafee Ahmed, Shabin Sarvotham and Sudip Sengupta — brainstormed to find a way to promote tourism in Tamil Nadu. “The travel and hospitality industry is badly hit due to the pandemic. When hotels opened last September, business was bad with a few hotels having only 10-15% occupancy. It was demotivating,” says Shafee Ahmed, general manager of E Hotel, adding, “We had to send out a loud and clear message informing our guests that hotels are safe.” Rajesh Radhakrishnan, general manager at The Park, adds, “We had to create a buzz around hotels reopening.” The question was, how to get people to take notice. Bikes were the answer. That is how the first edition took place last year with 30 general managers riding up till Mamallapuram and back. This year the number swelled to 45. They were joined by those unaccustomed to the charms of two-wheel rides cheering on in cars. “The idea is to promote Chennai and its hotels, focussing on places to see,” says Radhakrishnan. Supported by India Tourism and Tourism of Tamil Nadu, this time the event was flagged of by Venkatesan Dattatreyan, Regional Director, Ministry of Tourism, Government of India and Sandeep Nanduri, IAS – Director of Tourism and Managing Director of TTDC, Government of Tamil Nadu. The bikers rode around 80 kilometres, up to Kovalam, stopping by Bay of Life, on the way, where surfing and other water sports were showcased. “We plan to make it an annual feature,” says Radhakrishnan. Is it a challenge to find new destinations every year? No, says Shabin Sarvotham, senior general manager, GRT Radisson Temple Bay. “There are a lot of hidden places in India,” he states, adding that he was in Udhagamandalam for over nine years and still has so much to explore. Sarvotham, Ahmed, Radhakrishnan and Sengupta (Vice President at Green Park) ride together almost every weekend. After 14 hour work-days from Monday to Saturday, Shabin says riding on Sundays is de-stressing, even if it means being out and about by 5.30 am. He adds, “On our rides we don’t discuss hotels or business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dont-check-out/article36110266.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Who are Chennai’s caregivers?||Shortly after the second wave of the pandemic abated, cyclist Ramanujar Moulana spent his days riding to the city’s hospitals, clinics, dispensaries and medical colleges. Born out of these rides in those two months is his fourth book,Madras By Cycle: Medical Heritage Trails of Chennai. The guide booklet offers cyclists trails to ride on, in order to learn about the history of Chennai’s medical institutions (like the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital established as early as 1664 for British soldiers, making it just a decade younger than the Taj Mahal), and understand why the city has grown to be a hub for medical tourism. It is accompanied by QR codes for cyclists to map the locations mentioned. The trails include the Madras Medical College (MMC) and its hockey ground which is currently undergoing a facelift; The King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy, which played an important role in supplying smallpox vaccines; and native medicine centres such as the Amrutanjan building and the Dubba Chetty Shop in Mylapore. A special section is dedicated to four pioneer doctors who also had an interest in cycling. This includes Dr Charles Donovan, the first Medical Superintendent of the Government Royapettah Hospital, and Dr Ida Scudder, founder of CMC Vellore, who is said to have cycled all the way from Philadelphia to New York to attend the Cornell Medical School in 1898. Mapping the city The booklet is in continuation of Ramanujar’s series of trails exploring OMR/ECR, George Town, and North Chennai, that he releases every Madras Day. For this year, he had planned one on the city’s iconic food joints. And then the second wave of the pandemic began. “We (his group, the Cycling Yogis) had completed most of the food guide before the second wave. But then so many eateries shut down permanently,” he says, explaining why he turned to the medical heritage trail instead. Sankar Nethralaya is the youngest building mentioned in the book, and Ramanujar says the organisation holds a special place in his heart, for helping with his mother’s cataract surgery. Referring to media reports, historian columns, and hospital websites, Ramanujar discovered pieces of history as he charted the rides. “At Stanley Hospital campus, I found an obelisk that mentions the names of Assistant Surgeons of the Presidency who died during the First World War,” he says. “I had also always wanted to visit the Red Fort which is what they call the MMC Museum (owing to its brick facade).” While Ramanujar will start working on remapping the food joints that are still surviving despite the pandemic, he has another idea for a guide book. “I want to focus more on institutions and Government bodies, instead of places, like I did before,” he says. “Some of our cyclists are part of the police administration, so I thought it would be nice to document the city’s police heritage. Some of our police stations are over a hundred years old.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/who-are-chennais-caregivers/article36110334.ece
26 August 2021||August 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Spit stop||You and I go to Google Maps to avoid a traffic snarl. Raja Narasimhan and Priti Raja go to the app to get trapped in one. Here is why they drive against the tide. Their ride is clothed in decals that bear a message, and a busy road is where it is most read. The Pune-based couple and their pet Labrador Cara drive around in their SUV, letting the vehicle spit out the message — that spitting can kill. After having rolled over vast swathes of Maharashtra and Karnataka, they recently hit Chennai’s busy routes. Though the pandemic has spawned many of them, anti-spitting campaigns are relevant as long as pathogen-carrying saliva exists alongside an attitude that views the road as a convenient spittoon. The couple started their way back in 2010, responding to the swine flu (2009-10) and the fact that India is a tuberculosis hotspot. In the following years, Raja would turn his back on a corporate career and Priti on an entrepreneurial engagement to focus on Sare Jahan Se Acha Foundation, a Section 8 not-for-profit company they had founded. “In the days before COVID-19, our volunteer groups would be working in public places — bus stands and railway stations — where they would do skits and Zumba on no-spitting. We have done wall paintings and conducted 20-minute sessions for students from Class VI and above in 150 schools in Pune,” elaborates Priti. “Now, due to social distancing, we did not want to step out and talk to people, but they can read these messages.” The decals speak five languages — English, Tamil, Marathi, Hindi and Kannada. The combination of languages changes with the itinerary. Priti explains that at some point they will head into Gujarat, and then, decals with anti-spitting messages in Gujarati would make it to the metal. Attitudes can be unyielding to the toughest of edicts. And, to expect awareness stickers to bend one, reeks of Pollyannish optimism at best and ostrich-like naivete at worst. Let us face it: What are the realistic expectations from this exercise? “We joined hands with volunteer organisations and started pushing for anti-spitting posters in Government offices,” explains Priti, largely referring to how the drive went in Maharashtra, and to some degree in Bengaluru, where again they aligned with NGOs to promote the cause. Though started in February, their inter-State road tour has been moving in fits and starts, due to the second wave and continuing region-specific lockdown restrictions. Priti points out that these restrictions define the course of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/spit-stop/article36110333.ece
26 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU to probe appearance of posters condemning V-C||The Aligarh Muslim University has ordered an internal inquiry to probe the appearance of posters on the campus that said the condolences by Vice-Chancellor Prof. Tariq Mansoor on the demise of former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh had brought disgrace to the Aligarh fraternity, its traditions, and the Aligarh Movement that believed in justice and fairness. In English, Urdu Titled “praying for a criminal is an unforgiving crime”, the posters in English and Urdu described the deceased BJP stalwart as the main culprit in the demolition of the Babri Masjid. It also said how he violated a Supreme Court order. The unsigned posters, that only had students of Aligarh Muslim University written at the bottom, condemned the V-C for “supporting the leader of a party that firmly believes in fascism” only for his vested interests. Local sources said the posters were pasted on the walls of the university mosque and neighbouring hostels. They first appeared on Monday night but were quickly removed by the authorities, said a student, requesting anonymity. They reappeared on Tuesday. Hamza Sufiyan, former vice president of AMU Students’ Union and a member of the Azad Samaj Party, said the V-C should refrain from making political statements while holding an academic post. University spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said an internal probe has been ordered and CCTV footage is being looked into after two posters were found in SS Hall. “The university is closed and online classes are going on,” he said. Roots in Aligarh Prof. Kidwai reminded that Kalyan Singh was not only a former Chief Minister and Governor, but has his roots in Aligarh. “As a matter of practice, the university mourns the death of prominent leaders,” he added. Aftab Alam, professor of political science and former secretary of AMU Teachers’ Association, said those who have put the posters are contributing to the divisive narrative of certain sections of the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amu-to-probe-appearance-of-posters-condemning-v-c/article36110007.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four-year UG course will result in dilution of degrees: DU teachers||With the Delhi University’s statutory bodies approving implementation of the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) under the National Education Policy (NEP), several teachers raised objections while stating that it was the students who had “revolted” the last time FYUP was implemented. On Tuesday, DU’s Academic Council (AC) had passed the implementation of the NEP from the next academic year with 16 elected members dissenting and alleging that proper discussions were not held on the matter. According to the NEP, students will have access to a multiple entry and exit scheme by which they will be able to join and leave their respective programmes at different stages. DU professors said that the implementation of FYUP would lead to dilution of degrees and the multiple exit model might also be detrimental for students who are from economically backward sections. Miranda House professor Abha Dev Habib said: “When the FYUP was implemented earlier [in 2013], students who usually took admission after the soaring cut-off marks found that the first year was completely diluted. They were unhappy about the common foundation courses that they were required to take. One extra year also means that the total cost of education, which also includes accommodation and living expenses, also tend to increase.” “In a society like ours, where women students face a lot of struggles, the chances of higher number of students dropping out is also a possibility. They might come under family pressure and want to exit courses at various stages. This false sense that one can get a diploma will work against students. Also what employability factor will such students face?” asked Ms. Habib. The dissent note put forth by 16 of the 26 elected AC members read: “The University of Delhi has not asked for detailed feedback of the report of the NEP implementation from all stakeholders. The report must be sent for discussion to all statutory bodies before taking it to the Academic Council.” No discussion Mithuraaj Dhusiya, an AC member who dissented said, “It is extremely unfortunate that no substantial discussion was allowed in the Academic Council on the matter of FYUP with MEES [multiple entry/exit] or on other agenda items. No voting was allowed and the elected members were asked to deposit dissent notes.” Rajib Ray, president of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said: “The implementation of provisions in NEP 2020 will also lead to a drastic cut in the workload and retrenchment of teachers and hence it is not acceptable. Fixing of the academic year 2022-23 as the year of implementation assumes that the university is ready to go ahead with the implementation without any discussion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-year-ug-course-will-result-in-dilution-of-degrees-du-teachers/article36110018.ece
26 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Proposal now to change name of Miyaganj to Mayaganj in U.P.||The latest proposal to change the name of a place in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP government has come from Unnao where a gram panchayat has sought to shed the name ‘Miyaganj’ for ‘Mayaganj’. Miyan is a word used to address Muslim men in some cultures and as per the 1903 Unnao gazetteer, Miyaganj town was built in 1771 by Miyan Almas Ali Khan, a finance minister under Asaf-ud-Daulah and Sadat Ali Khan. The village was formerly called Bhopatpur. The proposal for the name change was first raised in a letter by Bamba Lal Diwakar, BJP MLA from Safipur seat in Unnao, on July 31 and passed by the local bodies. Govt. action sought Unnao District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar sent a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary Panchayati Raj on August 24 seeking action by the government on the name change. “The proposal has been sent to the government for further action,” the DM said. The gram panchayat has not stated any reason for the name change. Recently, the zilla panchayat in Aligarh passed a proposal to rename it as Harigarh. After coming to power, the Yogi Adityanath government changed the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj and Faizabad to Ayodhya and since then several BJP legislators have made similar demands in Muzaffarnagar, Sultanpur, Agra and Mirzapur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/proposal-now-to-change-name-of-miyaganj-to-mayaganj-in-up/article36110003.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Center has told Delhi no need for panel on oxygen-scarcity deaths’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Central government has informed the Delhi government that there is no need to form a committee to look into deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave in the city. Mr. Sisodia also accused Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya of lying about reasons cited by him to deny formation of a panel to inquire into such deaths. Hits out at Minister “By saying that there is no need for a committee to investigate deaths due to oxygen shortage as the task force and sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court is investigating it, the Union Health Minister is lying shamelessly,” Mr. Sisodia said during a digital briefing in which no questions from the media were taken. “Neither the task force set up by the Supreme Court nor the sub-group formed in the States for oxygen audit is mandated to investigate the deaths due to lack of oxygen,” he added. Mr. Sisodia said that the Central government does not want an inquiry into the deaths and the oxygen mismanagement happened due to its negligence. “The Union Health Minister is defrauding us by lying using false interpretations of the National Task Force. I want to ask the Union Minister that if the Supreme Court only had to investigate the deaths that occurred due to oxygen shortage, then why did the Centre in the first place ask States to declare the number of deaths? What sort of drama is the Centre doing,” he asked. The Minister claimed that thousands of people lost their lives due to the negligence of the Centre and its gross mismanagement of oxygen. “The reason behind such gross mismanagement is PM Modi’s irresponsibility and his attention towards West Bengal elections,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/center-has-told-delhi-no-need-for-panel-on-oxygen-scarcity-deaths/article36110014.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 Rapid Response Centre opens at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital||Health Minister Satyendar Jain inaugurated a ‘COVID-19 rapid response centre’ at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Wednesday. The centre will offer immediate treatment to patients upon arrival without waiting for admission. As the city is preparing for a possible third wave, the Minister said more such centres will be opened to ensure efficient emergency response. The centre has been divided into two areas: a seven-bed triage area and a 23-bed ICU. All beds have multipara monitors with critical care equipment like ventilators, BIPAP machines, HFNC and crash carts, an official said. It is fully equipped with a centralised oxygen supply. A rapid response team, comprising critical care consultants, resident doctors, nursing staff and orderlies, and technicians will man the centre round the clock.  “This centre will ensure immediate treatment to patients upon arrival without waiting for admission and the patients will be shifted later on to the wards concerned depending on their condition,” Mr. Jain said. City reports one death Meanwhile, the city reported only one COVID-19 death and 35 new cases in the past 24 hours, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government. While the total cases stood at 14,37,550, the death toll touched 25,080.  A total of 73,511 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.05%. Of the total cases, 14,12,081 people have recovered and there are only 389 active cases, the health bulletin stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-rapid-response-centre-opens-at-rajiv-gandhi-hospital/article36110016.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||People facing issues while applying for COVID relief, admits welfare Minister||Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Wednesday said people who lost family members to COVID-19 are facing issues while applying for financial assistance schemes. Children who have been orphaned due to the virus are also facing problems, Mr. Gautam said, while directing officials to expedite disbursal of compensation. On Monday, the High Court had said it “would be unfair to expect children who lost their parents to procure documents and avail benefits” and directed the government to fix issues in the process. The court made the observation after an NGO said that even though numerous schemes were framed after April this year, nothing much has moved on the ground. “People are facing issues while applying for the scheme. A major problem is the issuance of survival member certificates. These certificates are not issued on time, which is creating pendency in approving these cases. As directed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the application process should be hassle-free. There should be sensitivity among officials visiting homes of families who have lost a loved one. We should not create any additional burden on them,” the Minister said. There are 6,200 children left with a single parent and 292 orphaned as on August 16 due to the virus, as per a Delhi government report. Mr. Gautam told officials there should be minimal rejection rates and ordered District Magistrates to conduct ground surveys to identify affected families. “In many cases, the family member died due to COVID but their reports came after 2-3 days. Such cases need to be identified, so that they also come under the ambit of the relief scheme,” Mr. Gautam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/people-facing-issues-while-applying-for-covid-relief-admits-welfare-minister/article36110013.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Plea to ban sex-selective surgeries on infants||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Delhi government and the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on a petition highlighting the need to ban sex-selective surgeries on infants born with “intersex traits”. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction on a petition by Srishti Madurai Educational Research Foundation seeking to declare a ban on medically unnecessary, sex-selective surgeries on intersex infants and children, except in cases of life-threatening situations. The organisation, which claims to have done extensive work on issues pertaining to human rights violations of intersex people, stated that in April 2019, the Madras High Court in a landmark verdict directed the Tamil Nadu government to effectively ban sex reassignment surgeries on intersex infants and children. The plea, filed through advocate Robin Raju, said the issue of sex-selective surgeries or “medically unnecessary normalising surgeries” had a long-lasting drastic psychological impact on the minds of intersex people and deterred them from even seeking medical attention in future. The court will hear the case in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-to-ban-sex-selective-surgeries-on-infants/article36110019.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Onus on States to regulate gambling websites: Centre||The Delhi High Court was informed by the Centre that online gambling was a State subject and the State governments have to make laws to regulate such activities. “The legislative competence to determine whether a game is a game of skill or a game of chance or is involved in gambling [played with stakes or not] is conferred on the States only or to the court of laws [which possess the judicial wisdom],” the Centre said in an affidavit. ‘MeitY powerless’ It, additionally, said the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) “does not possess the judicial wisdom to determine whether an online game is involved in gambling or not”. The Centre’s submission came in response to a petition filed by Avinash Mehrotra seeking directions to the authorities to take appropriate steps to ban or prohibit online gambling websites from operating in the country. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, which was hearing plea, observed that online gambling is dangerous and websites earning cannot be at the cost of youngsters. The court posted the case for further hearing on October 11. The plea claimed that despite there being laws enacted by various States prohibiting such activities, a large number of websites providing gambling, betting and wagering games are still accessible in India. The plea contended that “all these activities are being carried out because of a lack of enforcement of the laws in question”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/onus-on-states-to-regulate-gambling-websites-centre/article36110008.ece
26 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDMA panel for phased resumption of all classes||Schools in the Capital may be reopened in a phased manner as an expert committee, set up by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has submitted a report to the authority recommending that senior students can been called to school in the first phase. The report of the committee will however be taken into consideration at the next DDMA meeting. According to government sources, the DDMA panel has recommended that schools be reopened for all classes but senior-wing students be called in the first phase followed by middle-class students and ultimately the primary classes. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that experiences from other States are mixed and the Delhi government is keeping a close eye on the situation. “We don’t want to take any risks when it comes to children. We also want to open schools as soon as possible. I will let you know whenever there is a decision on this,” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ddma-panel-for-phased-resumption-of-all-classes/article36110012.ece
26 August 2021||PATNA,||Bihar further eases COVID restrictions||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday announced further easing of COVID-19 restrictions after a review meeting. With Unlock-6 coming into effect in Bihar on August 26, all shops, shopping malls, parks, gardens and religious places will function normally. All colleges, universities, technical institutes, coaching institutes and schools (from Class 1-12) will resume normal classes. Cinema halls, clubs, swimming pools, gyms and restaurants can function with 50% capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-further-eases-covid-restrictions/article36110000.ece
26 August 2021||guwahati,||Ex-Meghalaya MLA gets 25-year jail term in POCSO case||A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in Meghalaya has sentenced an extremist-turned-former MLA to 25 years in jail for raping a minor almost five years ago. Special Judge Febroneous Silkam Sangma also imposed a fine of Rs. 15 lakh on Julius Dorphang, besides sentencing Mamoni Parveen, Darisha Mary Kharbamon and Sandeep Biswa to life imprisonment for trafficking the minor for him and imposing a fine of Rs. 1 lakh each. The court in Ri-Bhoi district headquarters Nongpoh adjudged Dorphang, former chairman of the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council, guilty, on August 13. The quantum of punishment was pronounced on Tuesday. Mamoni and Darisha were accused of procuring and inducing the minor for prostitution and abetment for other offences under POCSO. Complaint in 2016 On December 23, 2016, the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) registered a complaint with the East Khasi Hills district police, alleging that Dorphang had indulged in illicit sexual act with a minor, which was a violation of the child’s right to life and dignity. The SCPCR filed another FIR on January 5, 2017, in Ri-Bhoi district, alleging that Dorphang had committed a similar offence against the same minor somewhere within the district. Dorphang went into hiding after these two cases and was arrested on January 7, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-meghalaya-mla-gets-25-year-jail-term-in-pocso-case/article36110002.ece
26 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Campaigns to focus on good governance in Rajasthan||Two campaigns being launched in Rajasthan for taking the administration to the villages and the cities will focus on good governance and resolve people's grievances related to as many as 20 government departments. The administration in all districts is set to connect a large number of citizens with the drive. Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya said here on Wednesday that the special camps to be organised at village panchayat headquarters during the campaign would help resolve all the issues. The subjects to be covered will include water and power supply, conversion of land, regularisation of slum colonies and social security pensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/campaigns-to-focus-on-good-governance-in-rajasthan/article36110005.ece
26 August 2021||Indore,||Indore bangle seller arrested||A 25-year-old street vendor of bangles who was beaten up in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh a few days ago by a group of people has been arrested for allegedly touching a girl inappropriately and also for forgery, police said on Wednesday. Taslim Ali was thrashed in Govind Nagar here on Sunday for using a `fake' name while selling bangles to women in the locality. Four persons were arrested in connection with the assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/indore-bangle-seller-arrested/article36110001.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||Court discharges BJP MP Hans Raj Hans in case of non-disclosure of information in poll affidavit||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged BJP MP Hans Raj Hans in a case of allegedly giving ambiguous information in his affidavit filed along with his nomination form in the 2019 general elections. The Additional CMM granted relief to the MP after finding that “no prima facie case is made against him”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-discharges-bjp-mp-hans-raj-hans-in-case-of-non-disclosure-of-information-in-poll-affidavit/article36110010.ece
26 August 2021||New Delhi,||One more person held for raising anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar||The Delhi police has arrested one more person for allegedly raising anti-Muslim slogans during a protest near Jantar Mantar here on August 8, the police said on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Uttam Upadhyay, was arrested from Ghaziabad. In a video that surfaced on social media, the police said he was the main person who was seen raising the slogans.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-more-person-held-for-raising-anti-muslim-slogans-at-jantar-mantar/article36110011.ece
