29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India brought people and holy books from Afghanistan: Modi||Citing the teachings of Sikh gurus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India had not only brought back Indians from Afghanistan but also the sacred book Sri Guru Granth Sahib. Speaking via video-conferencing at the ceremony to dedicate the renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial, Mr. Modi said whether it was the COVID-19 crisis or the ongoing situation in Afghanistan, India stood ready to help Indians in trouble anywhere in the world. He said there were challenges and the situation was tough, but “ gurukripa (grace of gurus) is with us”.  ‘New laws’ find mention “Keeping the gurus’ teachings of humanity at the forefront, the country has passed new laws for its own people who were troubled by such circumstances,” Mr. Modi said. Though he did not elaborate, “new laws” could be seen as a reference to the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, which seeks to fast-track citizenship for Hindu, Parsi, Buddhist, Christian and Sikh immigrants from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. Recalling the April 13, 1919, massacre at Jallianwala Bagh, Mr. Modi said it was those “10 minutes” when the British troops opened fire that became the immortal tale for the freedom movement, which became the reason that India is celebrating 75 years of Independence next year. He spoke of the sacrifices of the people of Punjab, saying there was hardly a village or street in the State that would not have its own tale of bravery. The sons and daughters of Punjab always stood without fear against any danger facing the country, he said. He added that Punjab had always been an inspiration, and now it was important for it to progress in every way. Mr. Modi said it was the responsibility of any nation to remember its history and not forget the horrors, like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and Partition. He said the contribution of tribal communities in the freedom movement had not been highlighted; so the government was setting up nine museums for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-brought-people-and-holy-books-from-afghanistan-modi/article36160299.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid visa cancellations, uncertainty haunts 1,500 Afghan ICCR scholars||It has been a month since 27-year-old Shafiq Sultan spoke to his family, but what is troubling him even more is the silence from the Indian government about the future of thousands of Afghan scholars like him. Mr. Sultan, who worked formerly for the Afghan government in the Customs Department, received the prestigious Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) scholarship to pursue his Master’s degree at Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), as part of a programme launched by the Ministry of External Affairs in 2005, and has applied for a doctoral degree (PhD). However, he has received no response from the government about whether his visa and the stipend provided by the ICCR for his living expenses would be continued. “At this point, if I return to my country, there is no doubt that I will be killed within a day. The Taliban have access to all kinds of database and they are literally going door-to-door,” Mr. Sultan told The Hindu , adding that he hopes the government will consider giving him a “new life” by accepting his plea to let him and around 400 other students, who graduated in August, to stay on and continue their studies. Wait continues About 800 students who were awarded the scholarship for the new term beginning in August are also waiting to hear about their visas to begin their degrees at various colleges and universities in India. Some had applied for the visas already, at the Indian Embassy in Kabul. The Hindu had reported earlier on the plight of those whose passports are either still stuck at the embassy or visa centre, or been misplaced or stolen, and last week, the MHA announced that all “previously issued visas” to Afghan nationals not in India “stand invalidated with immediate effect”, citing security apprehensions the visas would be misused. This also affects about 400 other students, who are at present in the middle of their studies in India, and had to return to Afghanistan when the COVID-19 pandemic led to the closing down of universities. As educational institutions now re-open, these students are the worst hit, as they deal with the new frightening realities of the Taliban regime, the restrictions on leaving the country, as well as the loss of their degrees, and possibly future careers in the process.  The Hindu spoke to several students with similar predicaments, and while all said they had applied for the newly launched “e-Emergency X-Misc visa” online, none have heard back. “The situation is still very fluid. There are a number of issues on which decisions will have to be taken,” an official source said when asked about the problem for students in general and ICCR scholarship holders in particular. “We will ensure that the interests of Afghan students are secured,” the source added. Afghanistan's Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay, who remains in place in Delhi despite the change in Kabul told The Hindu that he had now raised the issue of the students with the ICCR, and sources said the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had written to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) formally, seeking guidance for a total of more than 1,500 Afghan students. According to diplomats, the government's move could affect the future of the prestigious scholarship programme that has been a major source of goodwill for India amongst Afghans, with about 14,000 scholarships offered so far. MHA officials, who will take a final call on the issue, did not reply to requests for a comment. “If nothing else, we should keep our education, medical and trade relationship intact, along with the idea of a free and progressive Afghanistan,” a former Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan said, referring to the scholarship programme as the “flagship”of the people-to- people relationship that has “opened up horizons and opportunities for the Afghan people and brought us together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-visa-cancellations-uncertainty-haunts-1500-afghan-iccr-scholars/article36160301.ece
29 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Physical classes for II PU in DK to start from September 1||In order to address the learning shortcomings following absence of physical classes last year, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has decided to allow colleges to hold physical classes for II PU from September 1 by following the standard operating procedure (SOP). The colleges have been allowed to hold physical classes for I PU, degree, and postgraduate students from September 15. In the SOP, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has made it mandatory for PU colleges to get the consent of parents for physical classes. While emphasising that no student should be forced to attend physical classes, the SOP stated that the colleges should hold both offline and online classes. While 50% of the students should attend physical classes and others online for the first three days, on the remaining three days those who attended online classes should be called for physical classes and others should attend online classes. Students, who are quarantined for a week following their return from Kerala, should be allowed to attend online classes during the period of quarantine. Those found positive during quarantine, should be shifted to Covid Care Centres and they can attend physical classes with a COVID-19 negative certificate. Students who are regularly coming from Kerala have to produce COVID negative certificate once every week, the SOP stated. Dr. Rajendra has directed colleges to hold separate classes for those in the hostel and local students. All teaching and non-teaching staff should be vaccinated at least with one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. The colleges can start physical classes for graduate and postgraduate students from September 15 after taking permission from Joint Director of Collegiate Education by stating about the COVID-19 prevention measures. Similarly physical classes for I PU can commence from September 15 after taking permission from Deputy Director of PU Education. While commending the district administration for allowing physical classes, Mahesh L. Bondal, secretary of Ganapathi PU College and Parijnan PU College, said with so many restrictions it difficult for students, especially those from Kerala, in attending physical classes.  Father Clifford Sequeira, the Principal of St. Aloysius PU College, said it was a challenge to hold both online and offline classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/physical-classes-for-ii-pu-in-dk-to-start-from-september-1/article36160934.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State dispenses with grading system, reintroduces marks in SSC exam||The State government has dispensed with the existing grading system in the SSC Public Examinations and reintroduced the system of awarding marks, considering the difficulties being faced for admission and recruitment, since a large number of students are securing similar grades. “It has become difficult for students who are seeking admission in the neighbouring States such as Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka among others, as the institutions are insisting on marks for admissions,” explained Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. Speaking to The Hindu , he pointed out that 10th Class being the criteria for recruitment in Defence services, Department of Posts and a few other departments, students who wanted to pursue a career in these areas would face problems without marks, he said, explaining about the need to make the switch to the old system of awarding marks. The awarding of marks was being implemented from the SSC batch of March 2020. The CBSE pattern of awarding grades on Relative Grading System for the SSC examinations was introduced in the State in March 2010 with an idea to reduce stress for students and put an end to the mad race for ranks. The decision was hailed by academics, who were in favour of continuous evaluation of students by taking a number of small tests throughout the year instead of a single test at the end of the academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-reintroduces-system-of-awarding-marks-in-ssc/article36160295.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State govt. reinstates night curfew, weekend lockdown||The government has reinstated night curfew (10 p.m. to 6 a.m.) and weekend lockdown from Sunday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the restrictions were necessary to moderate the steepening curve of COVID-19 infections, reduce hospitalisations, and prevent deaths. Mr. Vijayan asked Kerala to brace for a third wave. Infections had spiked after Onam. The pandemic showed no sign of slackening its vice-like grip. The days ahead were fraught with danger and warranted utmost caution. The road back to normalcy was exasperating and protracted. He said the government had expanded health-care facilities in anticipation of a possible upsurge in COVID-19 infections spurred by the highly contagious Delta variant. The State had ramped up vaccination to achieve herd immunity quickly. But, it was nowhere near the finishing line in the race against the pandemic. Mr. Vijayan said the emphasis was on preventing deaths. Citizens with comorbidities who turn COVID-19 positive should get hospitalised early and mandatorily. Local self-governments should ensure their welfare. The administration should move patients to quarantine centres to prevent homes from becoming COVID-19 clusters. Meeting on Sept. 1 He said the government would impose lockdown in localities where the average WIPR was above seven. Mr. Vijayan called a meeting on September 1 to cobble together a roadmap for COVID-19 mitigation. The conference would include top virologists, public health experts, and administrators. Mr. Vijayan said the pandemic had hurt social life. “We need to heal the wounds,” he added. On September 3, the government would engage presidents and secretaries of local self-governments. Both the meetings would devise measures to protect life and restore livelihood. The government deputed a senior IPS officer to monitor COVID-19 management in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-reinstates-night-curfew-weekend-lockdown/article36160829.ece
29 August 2021||Kolkata,||‘Centre using probe agencies for vendetta’||Hours after reports of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) issuing notices to Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in connection with a coal pilferage case, West Bengal Chief Minister of Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre of using investigative agencies as a tool for political vendetta. She also called for a meeting of Opposition Chief Ministers on the attack on the federal structure of the country. “Federal structure has been done away with. I want to call a conference of all Chief Ministers on federal structure. If the Chief Ministers agree, then I will call the meeting,” Ms. Banerjee said at a virtual meeting on the occasion of foundation day of the student wing of the Trinamool Congress. United Opposition “Let us all work together,” the Trinamool chairperson said, emphasising that States were being denied their share of Central taxes, including the Goods and Services Tax. “Uddhav (Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray) is fighting, so is Arvind (Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal),” she added. Ms. Banerjee’s address focused on allegations that the BJP was indulging in “vendetta politics”, with Central agencies coming after the Trinamool Congress’s leadership. “You are showing me one ED notice. That very same ED I can send a bagful of papers... If you want to fight Abhishek then fight him politically,” she said, and went to name a number of leaders of her party, asking whether the BJP could pose a political challenge to them. Warning note The Chief Minister said she had never indulged in vendetta politics and did not want to indulge in such kind of politics but issued a warning should things continue the way it is. “Bear in mind Bengal is a different place. There can be tit-for-tat.” Ms. Banerjee questioned the Centre’s focus only on the Trinamool Congress in the coal theft case and accused the leaders of the saffron party of being in hand-in-glove with the coal mafia. “Amit Shah, please remember, during the elections a number of leaders of your party came and stayed at hotels owned by the coal mafia,” the Trinamool chief said. The Central Bureau of Investigation had in 2020 lodged an FIR in a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd. mines in the State’s Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. The CBI has questioned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rijura Banerjee in the case. The agency has issued summons to Abishek Banerjee and his wife Rijura Banerjee to appear in their office in Delhi on September 6 and September 1 respectively. Also speaking at the event, Mr. Abhishek Banerjee also spoke about the central investigating agencies trying to threaten the leaders of the party. “Those who think they can threaten us with ED, CBI, let me tell them, we will not be cowed down,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-using-probe-agencies-for-vendetta/article36160302.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Police baton-charge farmers||The Haryana police on Saturday resorted to baton-charge on a group of farmers protesting against the visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal and other BJP leaders in Karnal. Four protesters and 10 police personnel suffered injuries, according to the police. Farmer leaders, however, claimed that several protesters suffered serious injuries.Page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-baton-charge-farmers/article36160698.ece
29 August 2021||new delhi/kolkata,||CBI arrests 2 for post-poll violence in West Bengal||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday arrested two people in connection with the post-poll violence at Chapra in West Bengal’s Nadia district. The accused, Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, are accused in the murder on Dharma Mondal at Chapra. A press statement by the CBI said the accused would be produced before a competent court. The agency registered 10 more cases pertaining to post-poll violence taking the total number of cases registered so far to 21. FIRs were registered for incidents at Sitalkuchi and Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Jagadal in North 24 Parganas, Jamuria in Bardhaman, two cases in Birbhum and two in Liluah in Howrah district among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-arrests-2-for-post-poll-violence-in-west-bengal/article36160885.ece
29 August 2021||mumbai,||NCB raids actor Armaan Kohli’s house||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted a raid at Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli’s residence in Mumbai, an official said on Saturday evening. The move followed the arrest of TV actor Gaurav Dixit by the central agency on Friday. The raid was on till late in the evening, the NCB official said without divulging any details. Meanwhile, a court remanded Mr. Dixit in NCB custody till August 30. The NCB, represented by special public prosecutor Advait Sethna, submitted that the case pertains to recovery of commercial quantity of contraband and hence custodial interrogation of the accused was required. The NCB was on the lookout for Mr. Dixit since April after his name cropped up in an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-raids-actor-armaan-kohlis-house/article36160943.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Packed cheek by jowl||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/packed-cheek-by-jowl/article36160945.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Corridor in tatters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corridor-in-tatters/article36160624.ece
29 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat to contest HC’s interim order||A day after Gujarat’s Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said the Constitution, secularism and the law will last as long as Hindus are in majority in India, while talking about instances of “love jihad” through inter-faith marriages, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday asserted that the State was committed to stopping forcible conversion through marriages. He said the State would approach the Supreme Court against the High Court’s interim order staying several sections of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021. Earlier on Thursday, Gujarat’s Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja in a statement said that the menace of “love jihad” was real and the State government would approach the apex court challenging the interim order of the High Court, which has stayed the provisions of the anti-conversion law dealing with the interfaith marriages in Gujarat. The remarks by three top functionaries suggests that the amended anti-conversion law would be the ruling party’s centrepiece for the campaign in the run up to the Assembly polls to be held next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-to-contest-hcs-interim-order/article36160296.ece
29 August 2021||Mysuru/Tiruppur,||5 held in Mysuru gang rape case||Five persons from Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu, including a juvenile, have been arrested in connection with the Mysuru gang rape case at the Chamundi foothills on Tuesday. One of the arrested was involved in a murder in Erode district in Tamil Nadu that occurred two years ago. The arrest comes within five days of the gang rape. A dragnet has been laid to nab the sixth person involved in the crime. Director-General and Inspector-General of PolicePraveen Sood said here on Saturday that based on scientific and technical clues ferreted out by the investigating teams, they had arrested the five persons. Sources in the Tiruppur police told The Hindu that the police teams from Karnataka arrested four of the accused near Avinashi in Tiruppur district. They nabbed the other accused from Talavadi in Erode district. The police also seized a mini-truck allegedly used by the accused and handed it over to the Karnataka police.The police teams left along with the accused for Karnataka. Meanwhile, hospital sources confirmed that the victim had been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-held-in-mysuru-gang-rape-case/article36160297.ece
29 August 2021||Mysuru/Tiruppur,||5 from T.N. held in Mysuru rape case||Five persons from Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu, including a juvenile, have been arrested in connection with the Mysuru gang rape case at the Chamundi foothills on Tuesday. One of the arrested was involved in a murder in Erode district in Tamil Nadu that occurred two years ago. The arrest comes within five days of the gang rape. A dragnet has been laid to nab the sixth person involved in the crime. Director-General and Inspector-General of Police of Karnataka Praveen Sood said here on Saturday that based on scientific and technical clues ferreted out by investigating teams, they had arrested the five persons. However, Mr. Sood refused to disclose the nature of the clues pursued by the investigating teams. Vehicle seized Sources in the Tiruppur police told The Hindu that the police teams from Karnataka arrested four of the accused near Avinashi in Tiruppur district. They nabbed the other accused from Talavadi in Erode district. The police also seized a mini-truck allegedly used by the accused and handed it over to the Karnataka police. The police teams left along with the accused for Karnataka around 8 a.m. on Saturday, sources said. Mr. Sood said those arrested used to be engaged in carpentry, wiring and other works, and one of them was a driver. He used to visit Mysuru frequently to transport vegetables and other commodities to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee yard in the city and bring along his friends. “This time too, they had come to Mysuru, and were together after partying when the crime was committed. The gang had demanded Rs. 3 lakh from the victim’s friend before rendering him unconscious,” he added. Meanwhile, hospital sources confirmed that the victim had been discharged. There were seven teams working on various angles of the case and the police did not have any statement or description of the suspects from the victim, who continues to be traumatised by the heinous incident. Though Mr. Sood said it was possible that some of the accused may have a criminal background, the Tiruppur police said that the four, including the juvenile, did not have any criminal case history, but one of them was a murder accused. “The police will file a chargesheet based on scientific and forensic evidence, and we will request the High Court to expedite the trial of the case. We are also confident of securing the cooperation of the victim as well during the trial stage and with whom we will continue to be in touch,” said Mr. Sood. In Bengaluru, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said a recommendation will be made to appoint a special public prosecutor to ensure befitting punishment to the accused. He announced a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh for the investigating team for cracking the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-held-in-mysuru-rape-case/article36160553.ece
29 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat to contest stay on conversion law||A day after Gujarat’s Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said the Constitution, secularism and the law will last as long as Hindus are in majority in India, while talking about instances of “love jihad” through inter-faith marriages, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday asserted that the State was committed to stopping forcible conversion through marriages. He said the State would approach the Supreme Court against the High Court’s interim order staying several sections of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021. Earlier, on Thursday, Gujarat’s Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja, in a statement, said that the menace of “love jihad” was real and the State government would approach the top court challenging the interim order of the High Court, which has stayed the provisions of the anti-conversion law dealing with interfaith marriages in Gujarat. The assertive remarks by three top functionaries in as many days suggest that the amended anti-conversion law would be the ruling party’s centrepiece for the campaign in the run up to the Assembly poll to be held next year in the communally sensitive State, where polarisation along religious lines is always sharply shaping the political narrative. On August 19, the Gujarat High Court in an interim order stayed Sections 3, 4, 4A to 4C, 5, 6 and 6A of the amended Act pending further hearing, saying that they “shall not operate merely because a marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with a person of another religion without force or by allurement or by fraudulent means and such marriages cannot be termed as marriages for the purposes of unlawful conversion”. On Saturday, Mr. Rupani said, “The State government is firm to protect Hindu girls who are made to elope, and later forced to undergo religious conversion. The law against love jihad was brought in this very context and to take strong action against such acts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-to-contest-hc-stay-on-conversion-law/article36160551.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Common mobility card still a long way off||Commuters who rely on public transport regularly in the city will have to wait a long time before they will be able to use the common mobility card that will allow them to use both Namma Metro trains and BMTC buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/common-mobility-card-still-a-long-way-off/article36160555.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,||Repeal farm laws: T.N. Assembly||The Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly on Saturday adopted a special resolution, moved by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, urging the Union government to repeal the three contentious farm laws. Legislators of the AIADMK and BJP walked out of the House opposing the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/repeal-farm-laws-tn-assembly/article36160667.ece
29 August 2021||Hubballi,||State prepared to reply to T.N. petition on Mekedatu||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the State government had made all preparations to reply to the petition filed by Tamil Nadu government seeking to stall the Mekedatu project by Karnataka. “We have made all preparations to protect our rights,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-prepared-to-reply-to-tn-petition-on-mekedatu/article36160778.ece
29 August 2021||Delhi/ Kolkata,||CBI arrests 2 in Bengal post-poll violence case||The CBI on Saturday arrested two persons in connection with post-poll violence in West Bengal. The duo, Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, are accused in the murder of Dharma Mondal at Chapra in Nadia district. They would be produced before a competent court, the agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-arrests-2-in-bengal-post-poll-violence-case/article36160699.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t hire people with record of violence: SC||The Supreme Court has held that public employers, especially the police, should take care not to induct criminals into their rolls while brushing off their violent past as “petty misdemeanours” of youth quite common in rustic India. The court said certain types of repetitive crimes such as molestation of women, assault, trespass, etc., point to its casteist, hierarchical underbelly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-hire-people-with-record-of-violence-sc/article36160700.ece
29 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mukhtar Ansari’s brother, former Minister join SP||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday inducted controversial politician Mukhtar Ansari’s elder brother Sigbatullah Ansari, who is a former MLA from Mohammadabad in Ghazipur, and former Uttar Pradesh Minister Ambika Chaudhary into the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mukhtar-ansaris-brother-former-minister-join-sp/article36160702.ece
29 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Guwahati airport not to be renamed: Scindia||The Guwahati airport will not be renamed despite being handed over to Adani group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guwahati-airport-not-to-be-renamed-scindia/article36160887.ece
29 August 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta varsity waives off fees due to pandemic||The University of Calcutta has decided to waive off all kinds of fees for its students for the year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/calcutta-varsity-waives-off-fees-due-to-pandemic/article36160889.ece
29 August 2021||Mumbai,||Rajnath Singh draws flak for ‘saffronising’ Shivaji||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has landed in a controversy following his statement on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, with the Nationalist Congress Party and Maratha outfits accusing him of twisting history. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was trained by Samarth Ramdas Swami and Dadoji Kondadev in sports activities which made him a national hero,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajnath-singh-draws-flak-for-saffronising-shivaji/article36160946.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Dial 112’: Police focus on women’s safety||As part of efforts to make people aware about the ‘Dial 112 Emergency Response Support System’ (ERSS) in the city, the Mangaluru city police on Saturday focused on women safety issues while addressing calls made to ERSS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dial-112-police-focus-on-womens-safety/article36160936.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Good turnout for CET in Dakshina Kannada||Despite the weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada, a good number of students turned up for the Common Entrance Test on Saturday. As many as 5,856 appeared for the the biology paper in the morning, while 7,673 wrote the mathematics paper in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-turnout-for-cet-in-dakshina-kannada/article36160937.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,||Constitute Press Council of Tamil Nadu: HC||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to set up a ‘Press Council of Tamil Nadu’ to protect the interests of genuine journalists and clamp down on fake ones who indulge in illegal and unethical practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/constitute-press-council-of-tamil-nadu-says-hc/article36160618.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,||T.N. reports 1,551 new cases, 21 deaths||A total of 1,551 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. While the State recorded 21 more deaths, there were no fatalities in 26 of the 38 districts. Coimbatore reported 200-plus cases for the third day in a row.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-1551-new-cases-21-deaths/article36160620.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,||‘Naatukozhi’ unit to be set up in Tirunelveli||In view of the rising demand for ‘naatukozhi’ (country chicken) meat and eggs, the government will set up an exclusive hatchery unit in Abishekapatti, Tirunelveli, said Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Anitha R. Radhakrishnan on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naatukozhi-unit-to-be-set-up-in-tirunelveli/article36160621.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,||Refugee camps will now be rehabilitation camps||A day after the announce- ment of a welfare package of Rs. 317 crore, including for rebuilding of houses for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in camps across the State, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the camps would henceforth be called rehabilitation camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/refugee-camps-will-now-be-rehabilitation-camps/article36160622.ece
29 August 2021||Mysuru/Bengaluru,||Mysore varsity withdraws curbs after uproar||A day after issuing a controversial order imposing curbs on the movement of girl students on Manasagangotri campus here after dusk, in the wake of a gangrape incident at Chamundi foothills, the University of Mysore on Saturday withdrew the directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysore-varsity-withdraws-curbs-after-uproar/article36160556.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM calls for vaccination of the elderly||It is quite worrying that the number of people dying due to COVID-19 in the State has been increasing in proportion to the rise in disease transmission. However, a significant proportion of the fatalities was elderly persons who are yet to be vaccinated, the Chief Minister said here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-calls-for-vaccination-of-the-elderly/article36160830.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||AICC announces new DCC presidents’ list||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has appointed 14 party workers as presidents of the District Congress Committees in Kerala. They are arguably a microcosm of the State’s social and demographic make-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aicc-announces-new-dcc-presidents-list/article36160831.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The many shades of the Mappila insurrection||Among the witnesses whose names are inscribed in Arabic on the Kollam Syrian copper plates of 849 CE are men called Muhammad, Ibrahim, Mansur and Ismail. Oral tradition claims that Islam’s arrival in Kerala dates to the Prophet’s own lifetime. Whether one accepts the idea or not, by the ninth century, Muslims were a definite presence on the coast. In the times that followed, as Arab traders married locally, not only did they father a community of Malayali Muslims — Mappilas — their offspring were also woven into the region’s narrative fabric. In the story of the sage Vararuchi’s children by a Parayar wife, for example, one is a Brahmin, another a Muslim. If the legendary King Bana Perumal chose Buddhism, Cheraman Perumal sailed to Mecca. The veracity of these tales is not really the point as much as what they seek to communicate. They were, in other words, a device by which a new group was legitimised, as the Mappilas became a familiar and respected element in Kerala’s cultural landscape. The Mappila identity, now much discussed in the context of the 1921 rebellion, was first rooted in trade. The rise of Kozhikode, for long a seat of power and prosperity in Kerala, relied a good deal on Arab networks of commerce. Mappilas, local in their social practices like matriliny, and yet joined by a common faith with foreign Muslims, were an important link in the political economy. Indeed, a Muslim stood beside the Zamorin rajah at the great Mamankam festival at Tirunavaya. Hints of religious tension appear now and then, but the economic alliance between Hindu elites and Muslim traders meant that these were contained. Brahmin texts like the Keralolpathi offered Islam a place in their worldview, likening the Quran to a Veda, and works such as Zayn al-Din’s sixteenth century Tuhfat al-Mujahideen framed Hindu rulers as good, ideal monarchs. That is, however, till new (European) flies appeared in the ointment through the sixteenth century, and upset prevailing socio-economic balances. Different facets Although the 1921 rebellion is often discussed in isolation, this prehistory is integral to making sense of its economic, social, and religious facets. For by the 20th century, the Mappilas had been marginalised in the very land where they were once esteemed. Starting in the 1500s, Portuguese terror at sea damaged the trading networks on which so much had been built. And while Mappilas resisted — including militarily and by subverting European efforts to police maritime traffic — in the long run, they lost out. Local Hindu Kings were forced to come to terms with successive European trading companies to protect their turf, with the result that their erstwhile Muslim associates were cornered. As the scholar Roland Miller wrote, “poverty became the general pattern” by the 18th century, and in crisis, some in the community turned towards a more distinct sense of self and religious identity. At first, Mappila spokesmen such as Zayn al-Din had called for jihad against Europeans; in time that language would be turned against those who represented regional economic injustices also. In other words, as the Mappila stake in society was painfully diluted, religious ideology offered a method by which to valorise resistance. In 1742, for example, British East India Company officials recorded how there were Mappilas who “selected themselves to Murder any Christian” and who, if they died in the process, saw it as “meritorious”. Into the 19th century, which saw colonial laws disproportionately favour landlords against tenants-at-will, the former too became targets. Scholars have noted how as much as 77% of the produce could be demanded by the landlord. The fact that a large section of the peasantry in South Malabar — the nucleus of the 1921 rebellion also — was Mappila while landowners were typically Hindus caused an overlap between economic grievances and religious divisions. The result was a series of “outrages” in which individual Mappilas or small bands launched ritualised suicide missions, killing Hindu grandees and officials. The triggers may have been economic but instances such as in 1852, when a temple was “festooned” with the entrails of a cow, show that these violent outbreaks had religious overtones too. The tendency among some to victimise present-day Muslims for the “sins” committed by “their ancestors” has generally resulted in a hesitation to acknowledge this religious element, with the focus limited to economic aspects. But the fact of the matter is that economics, radical religious ideology, and a historical sense of lost greatness all played a role. The 1921 revolt, thus, began as a part of the pan-Indian Khilafat Movement, to which even Mahatma Gandhi pledged support. It became a means by which to mobilise as part of a larger struggle. But all at once, it also offered an occasion for Mappilas in British-ruled Malabar to attempt to overthrow not only the colonial government but also the Hindu feudal classes that, in ostensible alliance with the Raj, pressed down on them. The scale of the event cannot be understated: over 2,000 rebels were killed, and nearly 40,000 surrendered. And if the 19th-century “outrages” were isolated flare-ups, this was a large-scale insurrection, validated in a religious vocabulary. ‘Gangs’ of Malabar Sober students of history — if not politicians prone to rhetorical excesses — must be cautious, however, when it comes to labelling the event. Revolts of this nature tend to be messy in terms of even basic organisation. In 1921, there was no clear chain of command among the Mappilas, no single leader but “gangs” holding different areas, and no standard policy. During the months in which much territory was under rebel control, some factions espoused forced conversions of Hindus, for example, while others spoke pointedly against such tendencies. To some, 1921 represents a fight for freedom and a chapter in India’s anti-colonial struggle; to others, it is a case study in the consequences of class oppression; and to yet another set, it is about a “Hindu genocide” at the hands of “terrible” Muslims. The facts suggest, however, that to varying degrees all three elements manifested here. A century on, acknowledging this is perhaps critical to making better sense of the Mappila Rebellion — a bloody but complicated event with many roots and a long back story.  (Manu S. Pillai is an author and historian)   In Focus Starting in the 1500s, Portuguese terror at sea damaged the existing trading networks. Mappilas resisted, but in the long run, they lost out ‘Poverty became the general pattern’ among Mappila Muslims by the 18th century and in crisis, some turned towards a more distinct sense of self and religious identity If the 19th century saw a series of “outrages”, the 1921 revolt was a largescale insurrection in which over 2,000 rebels were killed, and nearly 40,000 surrendered   The 1921 revolt offered an occasion for Mappilas to attempt to overthrow not only the colonial government but also the Hindu feudal classes they saw as allied with the Raj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-many-shades-of-the-mappila-insurrection/article36160264.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Baghel gets massive welcome in Raipur||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel reached Raipur airport on Saturday along with 46 MLAs and other Congress leaders to a grand welcome. Later in the day, Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo, who also returned to Raipur, said the decision on the question of the leadership change remains pending with the Congress central leadership. The Chief Minister was returning after meeting former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday to resolve the ongoing power tussle between him and Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo. The Congress did not issue a conclusive statement weighing in either Mr. Baghel or Mr. Deo’s favour but the Baghel camp has declared victory. Hundreds of his supporters, Congress workers and youth Congress functionaries were waiting at the airport for hours to receive Mr. Baghel amidst strong security arrangements. Despite clear instructions from the Congress central leadership, 55 MLAs landed in Delhi over the last two days to build pressure on the leadership. However, neither Mr. Gandhi nor party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal met the legislators who were camping at the Congress headquarters in 24 Akbar Road. On arrival, breaking the security cordon, Mr. Baghel waded into the crowd to shake hands with scores of workers.  At 8 p.m. Mr Deo also returned from Delhi after over a week awaiting a response from the Gandhis on his claim to the Chief Minister’s post as reportedly promised by then Congress president Rahul Gandhi in 2018. “The issue has been discussed with Mr Gandhi in detail. Some decisions take time. As of now, the decision on this, remains pending with the central leadership. We shall accept whatever decision they make,” he told reporters at Raipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-gets-massive-welcome-in-raipur/article36160224.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Reopen schools, say 56 experts||A group of 56 academicians, doctors and other professionals have written an open letter to the Chief Ministers and administrators of Union Territories, requesting them to urgently consider reopening schools and resuming in-person classes. In their letter, which has also been marked to the Prime Minister’s Office, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the National Disaster Management Authority Chairperson, the signatories said COVID-19 vaccination of children should not be a prerequisite for reopening schools. “A number of governments have not yet reopened schools for all classes because of concerns including students are not vaccinated, schools appear to be ‘super-spreaders’, fear of a third wave and a rise in cases in areas where schools have been opened.... There is global evidence to support school opening and governments should urgently consider opening schools and resuming in-person classes,” the letter read. India is among only among four or five countries across the world where schools have been closed for such a long time (one-and-a-half years), the letter said. “There is an urgent need to bring children back to school. Since younger children are least at risk, we urge you to permit primary schools to open first, in line with ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) recommendations, and then higher classes. We look forward to leaders across political parties coming together for the sake of our children,” the letter stated. The signatories said vaccination is not a prerequisite for reopening schools. They said the purpose of vaccination is to prevent severe illness and death, and children are at relatively low risk of severe or fatal COVID-19. “It is well known that lack of education for students, particularly girls, affects the health and livelihood of the next generation too. These are extreme costs. Governments and task forces must strike a balance of risks, and such balance is overwhelmingly in favour of opening schools,” the letter added. The signatories include epidemiologist Chandrakant Lahariya, Lancet Commission COVID-19 India Task Force member Suneela Garg, former president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics Naveen Thacker, and Teach For India CEO Shaheen Mistri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reopen-schools-say-56-experts/article36160253.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond the glass ceiling||Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was once asked how many of the nine judges of the U.S. Supreme Court should be women. “Nine,” she said. She believed that if nine men could adorn the Bench of the Supreme Court, nine women would do equally well. If 48 men can be Chief Justices of India, Justice B.V. Nagarathna, scheduled to be sworn in as a Supreme Court judge and poised to be Chief Justice of India in 2027, will historically interrupt the unbroken line of male Chief Justices. As Chief Justice, Justice Nagarathna, if appointments follow the seniority norm, may have a tenure of little over a month. Her ascendancy cannot be cynically viewed as a token gesture to hush the gender talk linked to the highest judicial office. It has to be seen as a signal fire lit from the court’s watchtower for women to aspire for the pinnacle. The entry of Justice Nagarathna, a vocal champion of women’s rights, into the Supreme Court coincides with the rise in crimes against women. In her farewell speech at the Karnataka High Court, Justice Nagarathna urged women to have faith in themselves and stride ahead. The Bar knows her as a tough judge. In 2009, shortly after being unlawfully detained by agitating lawyers, she retorted with a public statement, “we cannot be cowed down like this. We have taken the oath of the Constitution”. That day, she was hailed as the spokesperson for an independent and strong judiciary. Rather than live and practise as a lawyer out of the government accommodation of her father, former Chief Justice of India E.S. Venkataramiah, she chose to leave Delhi for Bengaluru. After three decades, Justice Nagarathna returns to the Capital where she had read Law at the Campus Law Center. Born in 1962, Justice Nagarathna started practice in 1987. She was elevated as judge in 2008. Her legal practice covered a wide variety of law from arbitration to land acquisition, constitutional law, family cases and commercial disputes, among others. Landmark decisions Justice Nagarathna’s administrative calibre matches her judicial work. As the Administrative Judge of the City Civil Court Bangalore, she approved the establishment of a crèche in the City Civil Court complex. In her role as chairperson of High Court Buildings Committee, Justice Nagarathna authorised the installation of sanitary pad vending machines in the High Court premises. She was the architect of a training module for trial judges on gender and the law during her tenure as the president of the Karnataka Judicial Academy. During the pandemic, when civil liberties and human rights were in distress, Justice Nagarathna was part of the Karnataka High Court Bench led by Chief Justice A.S. Oka, which ensured that migrants were provided food and transport. The Bench rejected a State government proposal to withdraw mid-day meals in COVID-affected areas, saying “students cannot study on a hungry stomach”. It coaxed the government to bridge the digital divide to ensure that children have access to online classes and directed teachers and non-teaching staff to be treated as frontline workers. The Bench issued directions to protect journalists covering COVID-19 while observing that freedom of speech and free press was a vital pillar of democracy. The Bench directed stores supplying essentials to be opened up and ordered the setting up of helplines to report domestic violence, for mental health counselling and brought relief for transgenders. Her decisions range from upholding the timely consideration of representations made by persons under preventive detention. She held that delay would not entitle a POCSO accused to bail and issued directions to set up special courts for POCSO cases. In the field of family law, Justice Nagarathna rendered a decision elucidating the concept of shared parenting of children whose parents had separated. Speaking on the occasion of Justice Indu Malhotra’s retirement from the Supreme Court, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud flagged the need to diversify the Bench. He said there was only one woman judge left in the Supreme Court was a “deeply worrying fact”. “As an institution whose decisions shape and impact lives of everyday Indians, we must do better,” Justice Chandrachud said. This time, they did better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/beyond-the-glass-ceiling/article36160262.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The challenger within||In 1983, when 31-year-old Tribhuvaneshwar Saran Singh Deo decided to contest the municipal council elections, his father Madaneshwar Saran Singh Deo wrote him a long letter, dissuading him from joining politics. He felt his son should concentrate on managing the family assets, instead of indulging in the rough and tumble of politics. The letter did not stop Mr. Deo from contesting the municipal polls from Ambikapur in today’s Chhattisgarh. He stayed put in politics. After the 2013 Assembly election, he took over as the leader of opposition of a demoralised Congress party, which had lost three straight Assembly polls to the BJP. Power is not an alien concept for Mr. Deo, who is also the titular Maharaja of Surguja, a former princely state. The state was spread over a vast mountainous area, covering the entire Surguja Lok Sabha constituency of today. Mr. Deo’s grandfather, Maharaja Ramanuj Saran Singh Deo, was the last ruler of this princely state and he had signed the accession to the Indian Union on January 1, 1948. Mr. Deo’s mother, Devendrakumari Singh Deo, who passed away in February last year, was a two-time Minister in undivided Madhya Pradesh. “The Congress party has been very kind to our family. Right from the very beginning, the party has always reserved space for someone or the other from our family,” he says. His younger sister, Asha Kumari, is a senior leader from Himachal Pradesh. Humble Raja Mr. Deo says he did not have a royal or a political upbringing. He revels in the role of ‘humble Raja’. “Me and my siblings were brought up like any bureaucrat’s children would be,” he says. His father retired as the Chief Secretary of the undivided Madhya Pradesh. The family sent him to the Scindia School in Gwalior, which is reserved for scions of the royal family. Mr. Deo went on to study History from Hindu College in Delhi University and returned to Bhopal for his M.A. from Hamidia College. Politics, he says, was the last thing on his mind. It was after Chhattisgarh was carved out in November 2000 that he decided to step out of Surguja. In 2008, Mr. Deo contested his first Assembly poll from Ambikapur, the erstwhile capital of Surguja state. Youth Congress leader Rajesh Tiwari, who is currently the secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, had brought Mr. Deo and the current Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel together to the party. “Chhattisgarh had no senior leadership. Three of us came together to create a pressure group. We projected tribal leader Mahendra Karma for the Chief Minister’s post,” Mr. Tiwari told The Hindu . Mr. Karma lost the race to Ajit Jogi, who went on to become the first CM of the State. In 2013, Mr. Karma, along with other senior leaders of the Congress, was killed in a naxal attack in the Jhiram valley in Bastar. Mr. Baghel and Mr. Deo are known for their different working styles. While Mr. Deo is sauve, sophisticated, soft-spoken and urbane, Mr. Baghel has childlike energy and is blunt, aggressive and rustic. Today, they find themselves caught in a bitter fight for the top post in the State. But it wasn’t always like this. “We were inseparable,” Mr. Deo says. Mr. Tiwari says Mr. Baghel had fully supported Mr. Deo when the latter desired to take the leader of opposition’s position. In turn, Mr. Deo lobbied for Mr. Baghel for the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress president’s post. “I distinctly remember Mr. Deo used to say that whenever the Congress comes to power, Baghel would be the CM,” Mr. Tiwari adds. Turning point In the run-up to the 2018 Assembly poll, Mr. Deo played the crucial role of chairing the manifesto committee. He is also credited for raising funding for a cash-starved State unit. It was also the first time a deeply divided Chhattisgarh Cong- ress stood together with Mr. Baghel and Mr. Deo, putting up an united front. But the Congress’s emphatic victory was a turning point in Mr. Deo’s relationship with Mr. Baghel. Mr. Deo was no longer ready to play the supporting role. Speaking to The Hindu in 2018, when the speculation was rife on who should be the CM, Mr. Deo said: “This is not a singles match where one person can take credit for the victory. We all worked for it. The decision has to be taken by us collectively now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-challenger-within/article36160266.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||ISKP has been trying to recruit Indian citizens for past few years||Operatives of the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), which has claimed responsibility for the twin blasts outside the Kabul airport in Afghanistan, have been making attempts to recruit Indians for the past few years. The outfit comprises mainly former cadres of the Pakistan-based banned outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The National Investigation Agency (NIA), in coordination with the intelligence agencies, has busted an Indian module which was in contact with some ISKP operatives, and also some others from Syria, Iraq and Africa, through an Instagram channel named ‘Chronicle Foundation’. The channel had more than 5,000 members. Instigated by Pakistan-based recruiters, some members had attempted to join the outfit in Afghanistan via Iran in April 2019. Since March, the NIA has conducted searches in Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka and Kerala, resulting in the arrest of 10 members of the module headed allegedly by Mohammed Ameen, who is from Malappuram in Kerala. Radicalised through the posts circulated via social media platforms and messaging applications like Hoop and Telegram, they were recruiting new members and were also raising funds. Smokescreen Earlier, after ISKP was floated in the Nangarhar province of Afghanistan in 2015, more than two dozen Indians had flown out of the country to join the outfit. While initially it was being projected as an Islamic State-affiliate, counter-terrorism experts now believe that ISKP is a smokescreen created to conceal the role of elements within Pakistan in raising a group for targeted strikes in Afghanistan while ensuring deniability. With the same objective, attempts were made to rope in Indians and highlight their involvement. ISKP had claimed responsibility for the attack at a gurdwara in Kabul on March 25, 2020, carried out allegedly by an Indian national-led module. The person — identified as Mohammed Muhasin, originally from Kerala — was killed by the Afghan forces during the attack. The United Nations Security Council, in its report this June, stated that the ISKP continued to pose a threat to Afghanistan and the wider region. A counter-terrorism expert pointed out that the outfit’s former chief, Aslam Farooqi alias Abdullah Orokzai, is a Pakistani citizen. He was captured by Afghan forces in April 2020 in connection with the gurudwara attack. During interrogation, he confessed to his links with the LeT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iskp-has-been-trying-to-recruit-indian-citizens-for-past-few-years/article36160242.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Plasmid DNA vaccine ZyCoV-D is safe and effective for adolescents’||N.K. Arora , a senior member of the National COVID-19 Task Force, speaks about the ZyCoV-D vaccine — the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for human use — and how it could be the beginning of a vaccine revolution.Excerpts:  How is Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D vaccine different from the existing COVID-19 vaccines, especially the mRNA vaccines? ZyCoV-D is the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for human use. DNA, or Deoxyribonucleic Acid, contains the genetic code of various components of an organism. For the vaccine, the part of the COVID-19 virus that helps it enter the cell and causes disease is coded. When the vaccine is injected into the human body, it produces that particular part of the virus and stimulates the immune system to generate antibodies and T-cells immunity against the virus. This DNA piece is enclosed by a membrane called plasmid, and it disintegrates after it has completed its action. This DNA is a laboratory-made structure and is unable to interfere with the genetic composition of humans. The mRNA vaccines are also made with the same principle. These again are laboratory-made structures and not obtained from the actual virus. Is the vaccine approved for children? Any new vaccine is first tested on adults and then on children. This holds true for all the currently used paediatric vaccines. Similarly, the COVID-19 vaccines, for example, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik, have been used in adults. Covaxin is now being tested in children aged 2-18 years. The key assessment criteria are the safety of the vaccines and their immunogenic capacity in children. ZyCoV-D has also been tested in adolescents between 12 and 17 years. Now, we have the first approved, safe and effective vaccines for adolescents in India. Is this vaccine safer than the previous one? The Phase I, II and III trials of ZyCoV-D demonstrated its safety in all age groups. In fact, the reactogenicity of the vaccine, that is, fever, pain, feeling of illness, is much lesser than the other currently used vaccines in India. Like vaccination for adults, will there be a prioritisation in the paediatric age group as well? Prioritisation of adults was based on occupation, comorbidities and age. Two criteria were used for the prioritisation: exposure probability and risk of severe disease and death. In children, COVID-19 is mostly asymptomatic or mild; severe disease and death are rare. Like for adults, for children too, the priority will be given to those with comorbidities such as heart disease, chronic kidney, liver, lung diseases and other illnesses. Secondly, there are 44 crore children in India, out of them 12 crore are in the 12-17 age group. We intend to prioritise adult immunisation and simultaneously start immunising children with comorbidities. When will the vaccine be available for people? What is the current production capacity of this vaccine? We are expecting to begin inoculating adults and adolescents with comorbidities by mid-October. For healthy children, COVID-19 vaccination is likely to be launched by the first quarter of 2022. The current production capacity of ZyCoV-D is 1 crore doses per month. It is expected that it will be ramped up to 2-3 crore doses a month in the coming months. We need to understand that the DNA vaccine production line is a slow process and might require technology transfer to other companies as well. Tell us about the dosage and intervals between doses? This is a three-dose vaccine, given with a needleless device called jet inject/Pharmajet, which is also painless. Every dose is 2 mg, split into two parts administered at two separate sites to get maximum immune response. All three doses will be given in the same manner at an interval of four weeks each. The vaccine is associated with negligible side-effects and the recipient does not feel any pain or discomfort at the injected site. Even fever or fatigue is uncommon post-vaccination. Now that the vaccine for children will soon be available, do you think it will be a good idea to send children to school only after they get vaccinated? As explained earlier, paediatric vaccination can wait. Based on Indian as well as global data, the risk of severe disease and death are rare in children. However, children can spread infection. Adults have almost 15 times higher risk of death and severe disease compared with children below 18 years. So, if adults around them at home or at school are vaccinated, it will form a protective ring arou- nd them. There will be limited virus and disease transmission in that condition. I strongly feel that parents should send their kids to school without waiting for COVID-19 vaccine for two reasons: one, their risk of developing a severe disease is rare; second, going to school is important for their cognitive, physical and mental development. Some parents are afraid of sending their children as they fear the third wave. Is the third wave for real? Personally, I feel that based on the current virus and disease epidemiology, sero-positivity rate and the fact that 90% of the circulating virus is Delta variant, and no new variant of concern has been reported in the past four weeks, it seems we are at the tail-end of the second wave. The risk of the third wave is there only if people show complacency in following COVID-appropriate behaviour, especially during the coming festival season.  I strongly feel that parents should send their kids to school without waiting for COVID-19 vaccine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plasmid-dna-vaccine-zycov-d-is-safe-and-effective-for-adolescents/article36160259.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Why are hydropower projects in the Himalayas risky?||The story so far: The Environment Ministry, in an affidavit placed in the Supreme Court earlier this month, has disclosed that it has permitted seven hydroelectric power projects, which are reportedly in advanced stages of construction, to go ahead. One of them is the 512 MW Tapovan Vishnugadh project, in Joshimath, Uttarakhand that was damaged by a flood in February. What’s the history of hydel projects in the Himalayas? In the aftermath of the Kedarnath floods of 2013 that killed at least 5,000 people, the Supreme Court had halted the development of hydroelectric projects in Uttarakhand pending a review by the Environment Ministry on the role such projects had played in amplifying the disaster. A 17-member expert committee, led by environmentalist Ravi Chopra, was set up by the Ministry to examine the role of 24 such proposed hydroelectric projects in the Alaknanda and Bhagirathi basin, which has the Ganga and several tributaries. The Chopra committee concluded that 23 projects would have an “irreversible impact” on the ecology of the region. Following this, six private project developers, whose projects were among those recommended to be axed, impleaded themselves in the case on the ground that since their projects had already been cleared for construction before the Kedarnath tragedy, they should be allowed to continue. The SC directed a new committee to be set up to examine their case. This committee, led by Vinod Tare of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, concluded that these projects could have a significant environmental impact. The Environment Ministry in 2015 set up yet another committee, led by B.P. Das, who was part of the original committee, but had filed a “dissenting report”. The Das committee recommended all six projects with design modifications to some. The Water Resources Ministry, then led by Minister Uma Bharti, has been consistently opposed to hydropower projects in the Ganga. In charge of the National Mission for Clean Ganga, the Water Ministry has maintained that the cleanliness of the river was premised on minimum levels of water flow in all seasons and the proposed projects could hinder this. By 2019, however, the renamed Jal Shakti Ministry had changed its stance to accommodate seven out of the 24 projects. Its current position is that barring these, it is “not in favour” of new projects in the Ganga river basin. Though hearings in the Supreme Court are ongoing, this is the first time that the government has a formal uniform position on hydropower projects in the Uttarakhand region. What are the challenges such projects face? Following the break in the Raunthi glacier that triggered floods in the Rishiganga river in Uttarakhand on February 7, which washed away at least two hydroelectric power projects — the13.2 MW Rishiganga hydroelectric power project and the Tapovan project, environmental experts have attributed the glacial melt to global warming. Glacier retreat and permafrost thaw are projected to decrease the stability of mountain slopes and increase the number and area of glacier lakes. Moreover, with increased instances of cloudbursts, and intense spells of rainfall and avalanches, residents of the region were also placed at increased risk of loss of lives and livelihood. How can these conflicts be resolved? The challenges facing development in the Himalayan region are multi-faceted. The Uttarakhand government has said that it’s paying over Rs. 1,000 crore annually to purchase electricity and therefore, the more such projects are cancelled, the harder for them to meet their development obligations. Several environmentalists and residents of the region say that the proposed projects being built by private companies allot only a limited percentage of their produced power for the State of Uttarakhand itself. Thus the State, on its own, takes on massive environmental risk without being adequately compensated for it or its unique challenges accounted for. Though the Centre is committed to hydropower projects because it’s a renewable source of power, the ecological damage combined with the reduced cost of solar power means that it has in recent times said that it is not in favour of greenfield hydropower projects in the region. But several environmental activists say that the Centre will continue to prioritise infrastructural development in the region, even if it comes at a heavy environmental cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-are-hydropower-projects-in-the-himalayas-risky/article36160218.ece
29 August 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Police baton-charge farmers during protest in Haryana||Haryana Police on Saturday resorted to baton-charge on a group of farmers protesting against the visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal and other BJP leaders in Haryana’s Karnal, the Assembly constituency of the Chief Minister. Four protesters and 10 police personnel suffered injuries, according to the police. Farmer leaders, however, claimed that several protesters suffered serious injuries. “An event was scheduled today in Karnal, in which the Chief Minister and BJP leaders were to participate. As a part of our ongoing agitation against the new farm laws, we had decided to peacefully oppose and demonstrate against the BJP leaders. In this series, farmers assembled at Bastara toll plaza, near Karnal. But they were lathicharged by the police without any provocation. Several farmers have been seriously injured,” said Gurnam Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni). Mamta Singh, Inspector General of Police, Karnal Range, told The Hindu that mild force was used by the police after protesters blocked the national highway near Bastara. “There was heavy traffic congestion and inconvenience to the public. We made several announcements asking the protesters to clear the road. Section 144 of CrpC, restricting assembly of five people or more, was already in place. But despite our repeated requests, the protesters were refused to budge. Stones were thrown at the police and thereafter, to maintain law and order, very mild force was used,” she said. “Ten police personnel and four protesters were injured in the incident,” she said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha in a statement alleged that the duty magistrate was heard asking the police force to “break the heads” of the protesters. It demaned that the officer be booked. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also condemned the IAS officer. He demanded immediate dismissal of the officer and strict action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-baton-charge-farmers-in-haryana/article36160228.ece
29 August 2021||MOSCOW,||Indian pilots to return to Russia soon for stitching customised space suits||In March this year, four Indian Air Force (IAF) officers completed a year-long training in the Russian Space Academy as part of India’s Gaganyaan human space flight programme. They will soon return to Russia for getting their space suits made as per individual specifications. “Having completed their training, they returned home… We also expect our astronauts to return to Russia for very specific tasks. The space suits are being stitched in Russia and they will be coming here to Moscow to undertake tailoring measurements,” Ambassador of India to Russia D.B. Venkatesh Varma told The Hindu . So this will be a happy occasion when we will see our astronauts back in Moscow though for a brief time, he stated. In addition to the training, Russia is also assisting the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in other ways. “India-Russia Cooperation in the space field, on Gaganyaan would continue in certain other aspects. Russia is helping us with the design of view ports and life support systems,” Mr. Varma said. Stating that space and nuclear power continue to be two important pillars of our cooperation between India and Russia, the envoy said that when Indian astronauts, Gagannauts as they are called, travel into space, they will be on board an Indian spacecraft, largely using Indian technology and Indian training. “ According to the portal discoveryspace.org , space suits serve as “self-contained spaceships that protect astronauts from extreme temperatures, micrometeoroids and the nearly pure vacuum of space for hours at a time, so that they can take a stroll outside the confines of their spacecraft or enjoy a brisk walk on the Moon.” However, space suits shouldn’t be confused with the pressure suits worn by astronauts, test pilots and others during launch and landing, it stated. The space suits are being made by Russian research, development and production enterprise Zvezda under the contract of Glavkosmos, a subsidiary of Russian space corporation Roscosmos, with the Human Spaceflight Centre (HSC) of ISRO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-pilots-to-return-to-russia-soon-for-stitching-customised-space-suits/article36160244.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t hire people with record of violence, SC tells employers||The Supreme Court has held that public employers, especially the police, should take care not to induct criminals into their rolls while brushing off their violent past as “petty” misdemeanors of youth quite common in rustic India. A Bench of Justices K.M. Joseph and S. Ravindra Bhat said certain types of repetitive crimes committed in rural society like molestation of women, assault, trespass, etc., point to its casteist, hierarchical under-belly. The judgment authored by Justice Bhat came on the basis of an appeal filed by the Delhi Police Commissioner. The police’ screening committee had refused entry of some candidates, mostly drawn from rural areas, to the post of constable on the ground that they had a criminal past. One of the candidates to the post of a woman constable was accused of abducting her husband. The husband is still untraceable. Reversal of decision The Delhi High Court made general remarks about how felonies form a part and parcel in rural settings. “The High Court’s approach, evident from its observations about the youth and age of the candidates, appears to hint at the general acceptability of behaviour which involves petty crime or misdemeanour. The impugned order indicates a broad view, that such misdemeanour should not be taken seriously, given the age of the youth and the rural setting. This court is of opinion that such generalisations, leading to condonation of the offender’s conduct, should not enter the judicial verdict,” the Supreme Court observed its disagreement with the casual tone taken by the High Court. The court said the employer must scrutinise every detail from the candidate's past. The judgment said the criminal conduct of the candidates indicates a larger social malaise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-hire-people-with-record-of-violence-sc-tells-employers/article36160234.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Democracy and truth go hand in hand: Justice Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge Justice D.Y. Chandrachud highlighted the necessity of speaking truth to power, be it even an “imperial power” or an “all-powerful State”. “Democracy needs truth to survive. Democracy and truth go hand in hand. Speaking truth to power is a right of every citizen in a democracy. It is equally a duty,” Justice Chandrachud said in his address at the Sixth M.C. Chagla Memorial online lecture on Saturday. He said truth was both a sword and a shield in a democracy. Justice Chandrachud said the Supreme Court acted like a “Truth Commission” for posterity, using its ability to document the truth on whether or not due process was followed during the pandemic. He said a nation’s shared public memory should be founded on truth. The apex court judge said the act of speaking truth counteracts power and obviates the predisposition to tyranny. Spaces of reason Justice Chandrachud said speaking truth to power was absolutely essential for modern democracies to survive. Democracies are seen as “spaces of reason” where every decision taken by the people in power should be backed by adequate reasons. Any reason based on a falsehood would be no reason at all, the apex court judge said. Noting that totalitarian governments were linked to “constant reliance on falsehoods in order to establish dominance”, Justice Chandrachud said truth in governance was important to instil a sense of public trust in democracy. The judge said the fact that our founding fathers were aware of it was evident in our motto Sathyamev Jayate (truth shall prevail). “As citizens of a democracy, we need to commit ourselves to the search for truth as a key aspiration of our society,” Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/democracy-and-truth-go-hand-in-hand-justice-chandrachud/article36160251.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rawat meets Rahul post Sidhu outburst||A day after recently appointed Punjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu said that if he was not given the freedom to take decisions for the party, he would smash the Congress in the State, the AICC State in-charge Harish Rawat met former party president Rahul Gandhi. Mr. Rawat had a similar meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. “I have briefed him on whatever the situation in Punjab is,” Mr. Rawat told reporters after his meeting. He said that by next week he would visit Punjab where he will meet both Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Mr. Sidhu. Mr. Singh and Mr. Sidhu have been at loggerheads for several months now. In the last few days the situation has further worsened with dissident MLAs meeting Mr. Sidhu, seeking Mr. Singh’s ouster. Punjab is scheduled to hold Assembly polls in a few months. Mr. Rawat also summoned these MLAs to Dehradun where he heard them out, although he has already clarified that the election will be fought under Captain Singh’s leadership. Meanwhile, Mr. Rawat has also sought to be relieved of his party position in charge of Punjab since his own State, Uttarakhand, is also going to polls around the same time. Power struggle Mr. Rawat himself is in a power struggle with Uttarakhand Congress Legislative Party leader Pritam Singh. But so far, the party has not considered his request. “In the Congress, whatever the party leadership decides, that is the final decision. I will continue working as long as they ask me to,” Mr. Rawat told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rawat-meets-rahul-post-sidhu-outburst/article36160226.ece
29 August 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC highlights COVID impact, allows bail plea||The Bombay High Court recently granted anticipatory bail to the owner of a restaurant for prima facie abetting the suicide of the man who was running it. The court noted: “This is an instance of how a common man has suffered on account of the economic and social disruption caused by the pandemic and particularly, those in the hospitality business.” Justice Bharati Dangre said, “ The economic effects of the pandemic in India, led to the reduction in economic activities, subsequently forcing businesses to scale or shut down their operations. It impacted many individuals, families, enterprises being affected due to sharp rise in unemployment. Millions of enterprises face an existential threat.” The court was hearing a petition by the owner of a restaurant seeking protection from arrest for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 48-year-old man who was running the restaurant. The wife of the deceased alleged that after the lockdown was declared, the business reached its nadir and her husband was not able to fulfil the terms of agreement with the owners. However, he was repeatedly asked to contribute his share, which he was unable to do so, and subsequently he committed suicide. The five-page order read, “Prima facie the situation can be very well guessed from the narration of the complaint and as it can be seen that this was one instance how a common man has suffered on account of the economic and social disruption caused by the pandemic and particularly, those in the hospitality business, when millions of restaurants/small hotels suffered financial distress and left their owners, staff, employees, lost their productive assets during lockdown.” While granting anticipatory bail, the court recorded, “The allegations require investigation, but in my considered opinion, since the situation is an unfortunate and unprecedented one, even the applicant cannot be completely held responsible for the economic crisis and financial constraints being faced by them and they seeking their share from the deceased.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-highlights-covid-impact-allows-bail-plea/article36160255.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on challenges faced by animal husbandry sector tomorrow||BusinessLine and Godrej Agrovet will organise a webinar on the topic, ‘What ails India’s Animal Husbandry Sector?’, at 4 p.m. on Monday The webinar will focus on the measures that can can be undertaken to improve the productivity of the animal husbandry sector and also the challenges the stakeholders face. Experts who will speak at the webinar include R.S. Sodhi, managing director, GCMMF (Amul); Nadir Godrej, chairman, Godrej Agrovet; B. Soundararajan, managing director, Suguna Holding; Ashish Modani, vice-president, Corporate Ratings, ICRA; and Sandeep Kumar Singh, CEO, Animal Feed Business and Godrej Maxximilk. To register for the webinar, please visit: https://bit.ly/GDJBLA2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-challenges-faced-by-animal-husbandry-sector-tomorrow/article36160257.ece
29 August 2021||Delhi/ Kolkata,||CBI arrests 2 in Bengal post-poll violence case||The CBI on Saturday arrested two persons in connection with post-poll violence in Chapra in Nadia district of West Bengal. The duo, Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, are accused of the murder of Dharma Mondal. They will be produced before a competent court, the agency said in a statement. The agency also registered 10 more cases pertaining to post-poll violence in West Bengal, taking the total number of cases registered so far to 21. It registered FIRs for incidents at Sitalkuchi and Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Jagadal in North 24 Parganas, Jamuria in Bardhaman, two cases in Birbhum and two in Liluah in Howrah district, among others. The CBI also conducted searches at 15 different locations. A CBI team visiting Chapra faced protests by Trinamool Congress supporters, who raised slogans and alleged that the officials were being helped by local BJP leaders. “The agency has been taking over the cases based on the information shared by the West Bengal police, following a directive from the Calcutta High Court. Members of the four teams set up for the purpose are in the State to record the statements of victims and witnesses,” an official of the agency said. Of the 11 cases earlier registered by the CBI, eight pertains to murder. The others are related to attempted murder, assault, gang rape and sexual abuse. The Calcutta High Court on August 19 directed the CBI to probe cases of murder and sexual assault in connection with the violence that erupted after the declaration of the Assembly election results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-2-in-bengal-post-poll-violence-case/article36160668.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Security upgrade led to some interruption: UIDAI||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) acknowledged on Saturday there were “some intermittent service interruptions” in its systems over the last week and attributed them to “an essential security upgrade”. The authority, which is in charge of the Aadhaar identification system, said the upgrade was carried out in a phased manner, and the reported service interruptions occurred only in its enrolment and mobile update service facilities. The authority’s statement comes a day after The Hindu reported that the UIDAI’s IT systems were down according to many users who were unable to update their Aadhaar particulars to correct mismatches with other identity documents. Matching of the citizen’s demographic details, such as name, gender and date of birth, in both the documents is a key requirement for linking Aadhaar with PAN. UIDAI “was going through an essential security upgrade in its systems in a phased manner over the last week, some intermittent service interruptions were reported only in the enrolment and mobile update service facility at a few enrolment/update centres, which too is working fine now, after upgradation,” a statement said. Monitoring on It added that all its services are “stable and functioning fine. There have been no outages in its Aadhaar – PAN/EPFO linking facility which is an authentication-based facility”. UIDAI further said that even though the system has stabilised, it is monitoring the same to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to the residents. It may be noted that more than 51 lakh residents have been enrolled in the last nine days since the beginning of the upgradation process on August 20, 2021, at an average of 5.68 lakh enrolments per day while authentication transactions have taken place as usual on an average of more than 5.3 crore authentications per day,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-upgrade-led-to-some-interruption-uidai/article36160220.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Centre using probe agencies for vendetta’||“Federal structure has been done away with. I want to call a conference of all Chief Ministers on the federal structure. If the Chief Ministers agree, then I will call the meeting,” Ms. Banerjee said at a virtual meeting on the occasion of the foundation day of the student wing of the Trinamool Congress. United Opposition “Let us all work together,” the Trinamool chairperson said, emphasising that States were being denied their share of Central taxes, including the Goods and Services Tax. “Uddhav (Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray) is fighting, so is Arvind (Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal),” she added. Ms. Banerjee’s address focused on allegations that the BJP was indulging in “vendetta politics”, with Central agencies coming after the Trinamool Congress’s leadership. “You are showing me one ED notice. That very same ED I can send a bagful of papers... If you want to fight Abhishek then fight him politically,” she said, and went on to name a number of leaders of her party, asking whether the BJP could pose a political challenge to them. The Chief Minister said she had never indulged in vendetta politics and did not want to indulge in such kind of politics but issued a warning should things continue the way it is. “Bear in mind Bengal is a different place. There can be tit-for-tat.” Ms. Banerjee questioned the Centre’s focus only on the Trinamool Congress in the coal theft case and accused the leaders of the saffron party of being in hand-in-glove with the coal mafia. “Amit Shah, please remember, during the electionsa number of leaders of your party came and stayed at hotels owned by the coal mafia,” the Trinamool chief said. The Central Bureau of Investigation, in 2020, lodged an FIR in a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd. mines in the State’s Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. The CBI has questioned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rijura Banerjee in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-using-probe-agencies-for-vendetta/article36160222.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||India brought people, holy books, says Modi||Mr. Modi said the contribution of tribal communities in the freedom movement had not been highlighted; so the government was setting up nine museums for the same. Earlier during the event, Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh said though the whole world was aware of the incident, 102 years later the exact number of fatalities were still unknown. He said a research team had been deputed to work on the issue. He urged the Prime Minister to have the pistol and diary of freedom fighter Udham Singh brought back from the United Kingdom. Udham Singh had assassinated Michael O’Dwyer, who had been the lieutenant-governor of Punjab in 1919, in the U.K. in 1940 in retaliation to the massacre. The Jallianwala Bagh memorial, which had been closed to the public for about a year-and-a-half due to the renovation, would re-open to visitors from Sunday, with four new galleries, a light and sound show and new amenities. Due to COVID protocols, Culture Ministry officials said only the descendants of the victims were present at the ceremony in person, with the rest of the dignitaries joining virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-brought-people-holy-books-says-modi/article36160231.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Gujarat to contest stay on conversion law||On August 19, the Gujarat High Court in an interim order stayed Sections 3, 4, 4A to 4C, 5, 6 and 6A of the amended Act pending further hearing, saying that they “shall not operate merely because a marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with a person of another religion without force or by allurement or by fraudulent means and such marriages cannot be termed as marriages for the purposes of unlawful conversion”. On Saturday, Mr. Rupani said, “The State government is firm to protect Hindu girls who are made to elope, and later forced to undergo religious conversion. The law against love jihad was brought in this very context and to take strong action against such acts.” Reiterating the State government’s commitment to take the legal fight to the highest court, he added, “The State government will certainly approach the Supreme Court against the High Court’s order staying Sections of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, and will do all that is required.” The amended law enacted in the State legislature in 2021 penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, and was notified by the Gujarat government on June 15. The original Act has been in force since 2003 and its amended version was passed in the Assembly in April 2021. Plea challenged law In July; the Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind filed a petition in the HC, challenging some of the amended Sections of the new law, calling them unconstitutional. Among the other Sections, which mainly deal with religious conversion through interfaith marriages, the Division Bench of the High Court also stayed the operation of Section 5, which according to the BJP government is the “core” of the entire Act and a stay on it effectively stays the entire legislation. The government on Wednesday told the High Court that Section 5 has nothing to do with marriage per se . A stay on Section 5 would actually stay the application of the entire law itself, and no one would approach the authorities for seeking permission before getting converted. However, the HC on Thursday turned down the State government’s plea seeking rectification of its order. Section 5 of the Act mandates that religious priests must take prior permission from the District Magistrate for converting a person from one faith to another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-govt-to-contest-hcs-interim-order/article36160232.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Five men arrested in Mysuru gang rape case||“This time too, they had come to Mysuru, and were together after partying when the crime was committed. The gang had demanded Rs. 3 lakh from the victim’s friend before rendering him unconscious,” he added. Meanwhile, hospital sources confirmed that the victim had been discharged.  There were seven teams working on various angles of the case and the police did not have any statement or description of the suspects from the victim, who continues to be traumatised. Though Mr. Sood said it was possible that some of the accused may have a criminal background, the Tiruppur police said that the four, including the juvenile, did not have any criminal case history, but one of them was a murder accused. “The police will file a chargesheet based on scientific and forensic evidence, and we will request the High Court to expedite the trial of the case. We are also confident of securing the cooperation of the victim as well during the trial stage and with whom we will continue to be in touch,” said Mr. Sood. In Bengaluru, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said a recommendation will be made to appoint a special public prosecutor to ensure befitting punishment to the accused. He announced a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh for the investigating team for cracking the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-men-arrested-in-mysuru-gang-rape-case/article36160233.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress slams ICHR for ‘omitting’ Nehru’s role in India’s Independence||Congress leaders have criticised the Indian Council for Historical Research for ‘omitting’ the contribution of Jawaharlal Nehru during the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate the 75th year of Independence. Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor shared a screenshot of the main page of ICHR’s website that displayed personalities such as Mahatma Gandhi, B. R. Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Netaji Subhash Bose, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bhagat Singh and Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. However, Pandit Nehru was conspicuously missing. “It is not merely petty but absolutely ahistorical to celebrate Azadi by omitting the pre-eminent voice of Indian freedom, Jawaharlal Nehru,” Mr. Tharoor tweeted with the screenshot. Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh added, “Not surprising from this regime and its toadies masquerading as scholars, but atrocious nevertheless.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-slams-ichr-for-omitting-nehrus-role-in-indias-independence/article36160247.ece
29 August 2021||Delhi/ Kolkata,||CBI arrests 2 in Bengal post-poll violence case||The CBI on Saturday arrested two persons in connection with post-poll violence in Chapra in Nadia district of West Bengal. The duo, Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, are accused of the murder of Dharma Mondal. They will be produced before a competent court, the agency said in a statement. The agency also registered 10 more cases pertaining to post-poll violence in West Bengal, taking the total number of cases registered so far to 21. It registered FIRs for incidents at Sitalkuchi and Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Jagadal in North 24 Parganas, Jamuria in Bardhaman, two cases in Birbhum and two in Liluah in Howrah district, among others. The CBI also conducted searches at 15 different locations. A CBI team visiting Chapra faced protests by Trinamool Congress supporters, who raised slogans and alleged that the officials were being helped by local BJP leaders. “The agency has been taking over the cases based on the information shared by the West Bengal police, following a directive from the Calcutta High Court. Members of the four teams set up for the purpose are in the State to record the statements of victims and witnesses,” an official of the agency said. Of the 11 cases earlier registered by the CBI, eight pertains to murder. The others are related to attempted murder, assault, gang rape and sexual abuse. The Calcutta High Court on August 19 directed the CBI to probe cases of murder and sexual assault in connection with the violence that erupted after the declaration of the Assembly election results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-2-in-bengal-post-poll-violence-case/article36160254.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Centre extends COVID-19 guidelines till Sept. 30||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the implementation of COVID-19 management guidelines till September 30. The overall pandemic situation at the national level now appeared to be largely stable, except for the localised spread of virus in some States. The total number of active cases and high case positivity in some districts continued to remain a matter of concern, the Ministry said in an order. Containment measures should be taken in the districts recording high positivity. “It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This will require a localised approach,” it said. Observing that there was slackening in enforcement measures of authorities in the States and the Union Territories to ensure adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, the Ministry said they were required to be implemented stringently. “The country has made significant progress in vaccination. The State governments/UT administrations should continue with their vaccination programme so as to inoculate maximum number of eligible persons,” it noted, advising that large gatherings during the festive season be avoided. Local restrictions could be imposed to curb such gatherings. It reiterated the need to continue focus on the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-extends-covid-19-guidelines-till-sept-30/article36160260.ece
29 August 2021||Patna,||Rajesh Ram may be new BPCC chief||Amid hectic political developments in the Chhattisgarh unit of the Congress party, the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) is likely to get party MLA Rajesh Ram its as new president replacing the incumbent Madan Mohan Jha, who had put in his papers shortly after the party’s dismal performance in the Assembly polls last year. The BPCC is also likely to have eight working presidents. Recently, the Congress had changed its Jharkhand chief by appointing party leader Rajesh Thakur, with four new working presidents. Mr. Thakur replaced Rameshwar Oraon. The four new working presidents appointed were Geeta Koda, Bandhu Tirkey, Jaishankar Mahto and Shahzada Anwar. “The party high command may announce the name of MLA Rajesh Ram as new BPCC chief in a day or two. Besides, the names of eight working presidents too could be announced,” a senior Congress party leader in Bihar told The Hindu . Mr. Rajesh Ram is the MLA from Kutumba in Aurangabad district and also chairman of the SC/ST cell of BPCC. Some of the candidates likely to be named working presidents of the BPCC are Pravin Singh Kushwaha, Kumar Ashish, Manoj Kumar Singh, Amita Bhushan and Chandan Yadav. The incumbent president Madan Mohan Jha was appointed BPCC chief in 2017 replacing the then State party president Ashok Choudhary who, later, joined the JD(U). Mr. Jha had put in his papers soon after Assembly elections, in which the Congress won only 19 seats. Rajesh Ram as the potential BPCC chief is said to be the choice of Bhakt Charan Das, who is in charge of the Congress in Bihar. Some of the leaders are said to have suggested judicious representation as per caste combination and regional balance in the BPCC. “If Mr. Ram becomes the new BPCC chief, then it will be a one-sided decision taken by the party in-charge of the State as senior leaders were not consulted for any suggestions. This decision will harm the party, instead of making it strong, as no one knows Mr. Ram in the north Bihar region,” said Kishore Kumar Jha, All India Congress Committee member from Bihar. “This was the golden opportunity for the party to have appointed a new BPCC president in consultation with senior State party leaders as it will also impact upcoming U.P. polls,” Mr. Jha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajesh-ram-may-be-new-bpcc-chief/article36160221.ece
29 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Flood fury||More than 2.25 lakh people in 15 of Assam’s 34 districts have been affected by floods. The Brahmaputra and several of its tributaries have swollen following incessant rains in Assam and adjoining Arunachal Pradesh, where erosion has affected dozens of villages in the Siang River belt. The affected districts in Assam are Baksa, Barpeta, Biswanath, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Dhemaji, Dibrugarh, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Majuli, Morigaon, Sivasagar, Sonitpur and Tinsukia. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 76,863 women and 39,143 children were among the affected. There were no reports of loss of human lives. Crops on 16,338.46 hectares of land have been affected, the authority said. The ASDMA said roads, bridges and other infrastructure were damaged in Bongaigaon, Chirang, Golaghat, Majuli and Sivasagar districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flood-fury/article36160236.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘BH’ vehicle registration series notified||To ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across States, the Road Transport Ministry has come up with Bharat Series (BH-series), a new registration mark for new vehicles. In this regard, the government has notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one State/Union Territory to another. “This vehicle registration facility will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ State government/ central/ State public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/union territories,” the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said in a statement. The statement further said that an IT-based solution for vehicle registration is one such effort as “one of the pain points in the vehicle registration process that needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another State”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bh-vehicle-registration-series-notified/article36160238.ece
29 August 2021||Agartala,||TMC leader attacked in Agartala||A senior leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and two party workers were wounded in an organised attack in Agartala on Saturday. The incident occurred at the residence of party leader Majibur Islam Majumdar, who had arranged a programme at his house to commemorate the foundation day of the All India Trinamool Chhatra Parishad or the TMCP. Majibur Islam Majumdar and two workers, identified as Shubhanka Debnath and Ronnie, sustained injuries when a group of hooligans attacked the programme venue. The attackers also ransacked the programme venue and dismantled a video projector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-leader-attacked-in-agartala/article36160533.ece
29 August 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta varsity waives fees due to pandemic||The University of Calcutta has decided to waive all kinds of fees for its students for the year 2021-22. The decision, taken in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, will ensure practically a free education for thousands of students. “In view of the present pandemic situation, the University has waived all fees like admission fees, tuition fees and examination fees of the students (PG and University UG students) for the academic year 2021-22 for different semesters and it is not required for the students to pay fees for collecting the marksheets/grade sheets of different semester examinations,” the university said in a circular issued earlier this week. The decision has been widely welcomed, particularly by affiliated colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/calcutta-varsity-waives-fees-due-to-pandemic/article36160248.ece
29 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Overcrowding in Odisha jails a concern: HC||The Orissa High Court has directed the State Directorate of Prison and Correctional Services to address the issue of overcrowding in jails by adopting best practices in vogue in other parts of the world. Hearing a public interest litigation, a Division Bench of Chief Justice S. Muralidhar and Justice B.P. Routray said it was important to find out how far such practices could be adopted for implementation in Odisha. The Bench observed that the situation continued to be a cause of great concern, as a large number of prisons in the State had 20% more inmates than they should accommodate and in a substantial number of prisons this was beyond 50%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/overcrowding-in-orissa-jails-a-concern-hc/article36160249.ece
29 August 2021||Mumbai,||Flyers from Europe need negative report||The Maharashtra government has made negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for passengers coming from Europe, West Asia and South Africa even though they are fully vaccinated, in line with the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the Union government. State Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte issued the order, which stated that all rules for international passengers arriving into the State, including passengers from European countries, West Asia and South Africa, would be in line with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Passengers who have taken both doses of COVID-19 vaccine would have to produce a negative RT-PCR report, a sample for which should have been taken 72 hours prior to the scheduled time of landing at any airport in the State. The State government on July 15 had exempted fully vaccinated passengers from a mandatory negative RT-PCR report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flyers-from-europe-need-negative-report/article36160256.ece
29 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Grant PRC to Assamese people: ULFA(I) to Arunachal govt.||The United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) has asked the Arunachal Pradesh government to grant permanent residence certificates (PRCs) to the Assamese people residing in the State. ULFA(I) military chief Paresh Baruah said the Assamese people had been denied their right to obtain PRCs despite living in the frontier State for generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grant-prc-to-assamese-people-ulfai-to-arunachal-govt/article36160237.ece
29 August 2021||Srinagar,||Nityanand Rai interacts with Ladakh groups||Hours after two Ladakh-based organisations called for a shutdown in the Union Territory, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai on Saturday met the protesting members in Leh and heard their demands for statehood and special constitutional position on the lines of the Sixth Schedule. Mr. Rai triggered sharp reactions from local organisations when he invited only the elected members of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils from Leh and Kargil. The Leh Apex Body (LAB), comprising religious and political organisations, including the BJP, from Leh district, and the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) described his invitation to the elected representatives as “a move to divide the people of Ladakh”. Meanwhile, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who is on a three-day tour of Ladakh, visited forward areas, including the Pangong Tso lake near the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nityanand-rai-interacts-with-ladakh-groups/article36160219.ece
29 August 2021||Kolkata,||Man booked for threat to Mamata||A case was lodged against a professor of the Calcutta University for allegedly threatening on social media to kill Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, police said on Saturday. The case was registered against Arindam Bhattacharya, a professor of the Zoology Department, by the Hare Street police station on the basis of a complaint filed by PhD scholar Tamal Dutta, a senior police officer said. The professor is yet to be taken into custody, police said. When contacted, Mr. Bhattacharya said, “I didn’t make any comments against the Chief Minister. The complainant is a Trinamool Congress supporter. I am waiting for the police to take steps and only after that I will seek legal advice on this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-booked-for-threat-to-mamata/article36160230.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,||ISRO conducts hot test of Gaganyaan Service Module Propulsion System||ISRO said it successfully conducted the first hot test of the System Demonstration Model (SDM) of the Gaganyaan Service Module Propulsion System at the test facility of Propulsion Complex at Mahendragiri in Tamil Nadu, on Saturday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isro-conducts-hot-test-of-gaganyaan-service-module-propulsion-system/article36160240.ece
29 August 2021||Guwahati,||‘Guwahati airport not to be renamed’||The Guwahati airport will continue to be named after Assam’s first Chief Minister Gopinath Bordoloi despite being handed over to the Adani Group, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has said. He has also assured that the ownership of the civil aviation facility will remain with the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and a few local organisations have been protesting the handing over of the airport. The All Assam Students’ Union joined in when an advertisement inviting bids for some non-aeronautical services was issued in the name of Adani Guwahati International Airport Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/guwahati-airport-not-to-be-renamed/article36160245.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches properties worth Rs. 363.51 crore of group in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached 45 immovable properties worth Rs. 363.51 crore of MBS Jewellers Private Limited, MBS Impex Private Limited and others in a money laundering case. The attached assets also belong to Sukesh Gupta, Anurag Gupta, Neetu Gupta, Vandana Gupta and their other group entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-36351-crore-of-group-in-money-laundering-case/article36160246.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK opposes farm laws resolution||The AIADMK on Saturday opposed a special resolution in the Assembly seeking the repeal of the three Central farm laws on the grounds that cases in connection with the legislation were pending before the Supreme Court. Instead, it said a delegation from Tamil Nadu could represent the issue to the Prime Minister. AIADMK legislator and former Agriculture Minister K.P. Anbalagan said the farm laws also had pro-farmer provisions, and urged the DMK government against adopting a resolution in a hurry. Reading out from a prepared speech, Mr. Anbalagan said the State government should constitute a delegation of legislators to call on the Prime Minister, seeking repeal of the provisions that may be against the interest of farmers. When Chief Minister M.K. Stalin reiterated his request to the AIADMK to help adopt the resolution unanimously, its deputy floor leader, O. Panneerselvam, joined the debate to ask whether the government had written any letter or consulted with the Union government on the objections it had over the farm laws. Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami was not present during the debate. Leader of the House Duraimurugan intervened to say that the laws were enacted when the AIADMK was in power in Tamil Nadu, and asked whether the AIADMK had written any letter to the Union government to clarify the issue. He went on to question, “Are you supporting or opposing the resolution, which is in support of the protesting farmers? Please answer.” Mr. Panneerselvam cited cases pending before the Supreme Court, and said the State government had to consult with legal experts before adopting the resolution. When he went on to reiterate his party’s request for sending a delegation to meet the Prime Minister in this regard, Mr. Stalin said he had raised the issue with the Prime Minister during his visit to Delhi, but there had been no reply from the Union government. Mr. Panneerselvam then said the ruling party had not accepted the AIADMK’s suggestion and led his party members to stage a walkout. BJP floor leader Nainar Nagendran (Tirunelveli) said his party would walk out of the House opposing the resolution, but did not elaborate much. PMK floor leader G.K. Mani (Pennagaram), who spoke after Mr. Nagendran, welcomed the resolution, but urged the Centre to bring about amendments in the laws, and also went on to urge the Union government to “reconsider” its decision about the laws. Earlier, the government tabled a Bill to repeal the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019, enacted by the erstwhile AIADMK regime. The Bill, moved by Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam, said the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1989, could be strengthened, instead of bringing in an enactment for each mode of the marketing system. AIADMK legislator Anbalagan opposed the Bill at the introductory stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-opposes-farm-laws-resolution/article36160646.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Regional Meteorological Centre in for major upgrade||The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai, has set the ball rolling to procure and replace weather instruments and establish new weather monitoring facilities across Tamil Nadu. Tender has been floated at a national level to procure 34,400 GPS-based radiosonde for upper-air observations. The upper-air observatory in Chennai has been awaiting the weather instrument for a few months. It is significant to measure and collate weather data on various parameters such as wind direction, pressure and wind speed. Officials of the Department said at present, the existing pilot balloon observation with manual theodolite is being used to profile vertical atmospheric wind, apart from satellite data and other surface observation network. While the radiosonde instrument will profile wind variability up to a height of 34 km, the pilot balloon observation will give observations up to an altitude of 10 km. On Saturday, one more automatic rain gauge (ARG) was added to the Meteorological Department’s network. An ARG was inaugurated at the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, MRC Nagar. At present, there are about 40 automatic weather stations and nearly 75 ARGs in the State. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said there were 18 ARGs in Chennai and its neighbourhood. The RMC was taking steps to add more facilities to strengthen the urban meteorological services. This will help monitor and provide rain and flood forecast better, given the high variability of rainfall in different areas. “More ARGS will soon be set up in Maduravoyal, Gowrivakkam and Chromepet. We are approaching the government and educational institutions for sites. The data obtained from the new ARGs will be available online,” he said. The RMC, Chennai, has called for a tender to procure 200 temperature and humidity sensors for southern States, including Tamil Nadu. With the tendering system decentralised for certain weather equipment, direct procurement has been initiated for some weather sensors and accessories. “We are planning to install high-wind speed recorders in Puducherry and Nagapattinam. There are already five such recorders installed, including in Pamban and Kanniyakumari,” he said. Teams of officials go on up to 25 inspection tours to maintain and repair the existing weather stations and ARGs. Technical testing of the new radar at the National Institute of Ocean Technology, Pallikaranai, is being carried out by ISRO. “Various types of observational network that are complementary are used for predictions,” Mr. Balachandran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regional-meteorological-centre-going-in-for-major-upgrade/article36160659.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports 1,551 new cases, no deaths in 26 districts||A total of 1,551 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. While the State recorded 21 more deaths due to COVID-19, there were no deaths in 26 of the 38 districts. Coimbatore continued to report 200-plus cases for the third day in a row. The district led the table with 230 cases. The Health Department said that 247 persons recovered from the disease and Coimbatore district had 2,091 active cases on Saturday. The district had a test positivity rate of 2.1 % on Friday when 11,054 swab samples were subjected to testing and 231 persons tested positive. Chennai saw a marginal rise in fresh cases as 182 persons tested positive when compared to 162 on Friday. There were 122 cases in Chengalpattu and 115 cases in Erode. In Thanjavur, fresh cases rose from 58 to 77, while there were 72 cases in Tiruvallur, 62 in Salem and 61 in Tiruppur. Eight districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. Tiruppur's test positivity rate stood at 1.2 % on Friday when it reported 64 new cases of the disease. The district had 814 active cases of the disease and 79 persons recovered. The Nilgiris reported 26 new cases, taking the total number of cases so far to 31,676. Namakkal saw 45 new cases, Krishnagiri 20 and Dharmapuri 25. The State’s overall case tally so far stood at 26,10,299. Chennai accounted for a total of 5,43,599 cases followed by Coimbatore with 2,35,504 cases. Till date, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded a total of 1,65,095 cases and 1,15,621 cases respectively. In the last 24 hours, 1,63,230 samples were tested in the State. The overall positivity rate of the State remained at 0.95%. Another 21 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,856. There were four deaths in Chennai and three each in Erode and Salem. There were nil deaths in Coimbatore and Chengalpattu. A total of 1,768 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries so far to 25,57,884. The active caseload stood at 17,559. This included 2,091 persons under treatment in Coimbatore, 1,906 persons in Chennai, 1,474 persons in Erode, 1,151 persons in Chengalpattu and 1,005 persons in Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1551-new-cases-no-deaths-in-26-districts/article36160665.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin warns of action against MLA praising him in Assembly||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin issued a warning against his party MLA in the Assembly on Saturday, after the latter went on heaping praises on the former, unmindful of his party president’s repeated advice not to spend time on compliments. During a debate on the demand for grants for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries departments, DMK MLA G. Iyyappan (Cuddalore) was praising the Chief Minister, when Mr. Stalin intervened. “Mr. Iyyappan should mind the time he has been given to speak. Even yesterday, I gave an advice. Keep it [praising him] within limits. I have given an order. I should take action against you,” Mr. Stalin said with a stern voice and advised him to speak on the demand for grants. Three Ministers are to give their replies on four departments, and hence, the legislator should speak on the subject, considering the value of time, Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-warns-of-action-against-mla-praising-him-in-assembly/article36160661.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GEM Hospital opens Department of Reproductive Medicine||A Department of Reproductive Medicine and Comprehensive Women’s Centre was inaugurated at Gem Hospital here by South Chennai Member of Parliament Thamizhachi Thangapandian on Saturday. Appreciating the hospital for inaugurating a centre dedicated to women’s health, the MP said women were the backbone of society, and every woman above 30 years of age must undergo a regular health check-up. “The effort by GEM Hospital to address this sensitive issue is highly commendable, and I strongly believe that they could bring about a change in society,” she said. Personalised care C. Palanivelu, founder and chairman of GEM Hospitals, said that owing to the fear of society and the lack of confidence to speak about their health, many women often hesitated to consult specialist doctors. He said the department was a step taken by the hospital to address this concern. “Our gynaecology team will take steps to provide personalised care to patients, create awareness of health issues faced by women, and the need to get treatment at the right time,” he said. Free scan for a month P. Senthilnathan, director, GEM Hospital, said the new department would offer free pap smears, free fertility consultations and free scan facility to patients for one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gem-hospital-opens-dept-of-reproductive-medicine/article36160631.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Naatukozhi hatchery in Tirunelveli||As there is an increasing demand for naatukozhi (country chicken) meat and eggs, the government will set up an exclusive naatukozhi hatchery unit in Abishekapatti, Tirunelveli, said Minister for Fisheries, Fishermen Welfare and Animal Husbandry Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, in the Assembly on Saturday. Replying to a debate on the demand for grants for his Department, he said the total allocation for the unit was Rs. 9.42 crore. A conservation centre for Siruvidai chicken breed, at a cost of Rs. 1.52 crore, will be set up in Madhavaram, Chennai. The Minister announced the construction of a Rs. 7.99-crore super multi-speciality veterinary hospital for small animals in Nandanam. Eighteen green fodder banks will be created to increase the yield of cattle. As per the project, dry lands used for grazing will be scientifically improved for the production of green fodder and saved for distribution. The fund allocation for the project is Rs. 4.82 crore. To create awareness about the deadly rabies, the government will organise camps at a cost of Rs. 77.36 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naatukozhi-hatchery-in-tirunelveli/article36160651.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sugar-free milk kova unit in Salem||Milk and Dairy Development Minister S.M. Nasar on Saturday announced a cattle fodder manufacturing unit in Pudukudi, Thanjavur district, at a cost of Rs. 25 crore. “The unit will produce 100 metric tonnes of fodder a day,” he said, replying to a debate on the demands for grants for his Department. He said a sugar-free milk kova unit would be set up at the Salem District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union to increase the revenue of milk producers and meet the increasing demand for sugar-free milk kova . The total allocation for the unit is Rs. 8 crore. A modern unit to produce fermented milk products, such as buttermilk and curd, in sachets and cups, will be set up at the Tiruvallur District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union. Similarly, condensed milk units will be established in Sholinganallur, Ambattur, Tiruchi and Coimbatore. The Minister said that according to guidelines of FSSAI, a quality-control laboratory would be set up in Ambattur Dairy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugar-free-milk-kova-unit-in-salem/article36160657.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camps to be held in colleges||From August 29, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine will conduct special COVID-19 vaccination campaigns to inoculate students aged 18 and above, studying in government, aided and private arts and science colleges and professional courses, such as agriculture, engineering and polytechnic. In a letter to all Deputy Directors of Health Services (DDHS) and city medical officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said the Health Minister and Higher Education Minister had announced that all students above 18 had to be vaccinated immediately. All principals of government, aided and private arts and science colleges have been requested to instruct students to get vaccinated, starting August 29. The Directorate of Collegiate Education has been requested to instruct all principals to coordinate with the respective DDHS of the health unit districts to conduct the special campaigns. The DDHS should plan for utilising all mobile medical units and the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram teams for conducting the vaccination campaign and ensure entry in CoWIN portal, Mr. Selvavinayagam said. First camp inaugurated Inaugurating the first special camp at the Government Arts College for Men at Nandanam, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi said vaccines provided the best defence against COVID-19 and appealed to all the college teachers and students to come forward to get themselves vaccinated. Speaking at the event, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said similar special camps for school staff were already being organised, and more such camps would be organised in colleges as well. He said the professors of the college had requested him to introduce more departments, and Mr. Ponmudi had ordered the beginning of three new departments in the college. Principal Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department J. Radhakrishnan and Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-to-be-held-in-colleges/article36160627.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man falls asleep while burgling house in Ambattur||An habitual offender fell asleep at a house he was burgling in Ambattur. He was caught by the resident and thrashed before being handed over to the police. The complainant Kannan, a private firm employee and resident of Sivanandha Nagar, Ambattur, woke up early on Thursday and went to the backyard of his house. Missing mobile phone Upon his return, he noticed that his mobile phone was missing from the place he left it. While he searched his residence for the phone, he heard snoring from the store room and grew suspicious. Inside, he found a stranger sleeping while holding the missing mobile phone in his hand. Mr. Kannan and his neighbours captured and handed over the burglar to the police. Police investigation revealed that the accused was Richard, 42, of Ambedkar Nagar, and an habitual offender. He had been involved in offences such as theft and burglary in Ambattur Estate and K.K. Nagar. On that day, Richard was inebriated and fell asleep while he was in the process of burgling the house, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-falls-asleep-while-burgling-house-in-ambattur/article36160625.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 held for smuggling tobacco products||Five persons, including two drivers of an omni bus, were arrested on Poonamallee High Road, near Nerkundram, on Saturday for smuggling banned tobacco products from Bengaluru. The police arrested Bashruddin, 42, of Thiruvanmiyur; Franklin, 30, of Padi; Settu, 52, of Krishnagiri district; Irudhayaraj, 62, of Pallavaram; and Rajesh Kumar, 36, of Padi. About 238 kg contraband, the bus and the van were confiscated from the arrested persons. Settu and Irudhayaj were the drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-smuggling-tobacco-products/article36160634.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Enact law against caste killings: VCK||VCK general secretary and MP D. Ravikumar has written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, urging him to enact a law to prevent caste killings in the State that has seen several crimes against inter-caste couples. He said the Law Commission had recommended the Prohibition of Unlawful Assembly (Interference with Matrimonial Alliances) Act against caste killings in 2012, but the Centre never acted on it. The Supreme Court in 2018 reiterated that the Centre must pass a law to stop caste killings. “Since law and order falls under the purview of the State, I request you to pass the Bill in the Assembly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enact-law-against-caste-killings-vck/article36160660.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ornamental fish trade centre to come up in Kolathur||Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Minister Anitha R. Radhakrishnan on Saturday told the Assembly that an ornamental fish trade centre would be set up at Kolathur in Chennai, a hub for ornamental fish. He said the Rs. 50 crore project, on a par with international quality, would be implemented through public-private partnership to benefit 2,000 families that are breeding, selling and exporting ornamental fish. The Minister also announced an integrated ornamental fish culture demonstration Centre at the Fisheries College and Research Institute at Thoothukudi at a cost of Rs. 3.2 crore. Mr. Radhakrishnan said since there was a demand for viral (snakehead fish), the department would set up a hatchery at Agaram in Cuddalore district at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh to increase productivity. Landing centre He said a fish landing centre would be constructed at Manappadu in Thoothukudi district at a cost of Rs. 45 crore after dredging and desilting the sand accumulated in the place where Karumeni river merged with the sea. Another fish landing centre would be constructed in Amali Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Alanthalai, Meenavar Colony and Kulasekarapatinam. The project cost is Rs. 12 crore, and the centre will have an auction centre and a net knitting centre with concrete roads. In Ekkiarkuppam in Villupuram also, a fish landing centre would be set up at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Similar fish landing centres would be constructed in Kesavaputhanthurai, Keezha Manakudi and Mela Manakudi at a cost of Rs. 79 crore. The project cost for a fish landing centre Chengalpattu district is Rs. 57 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ornamental-fish-trade-centre-to-come-up-in-kolathur/article36160630.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Removing karuvelam trees along waterbodies||The Tamil Nadu government is planning to implement a special scheme to remove karuvelam trees from the banks of waterbodies across the State, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan informed the Assembly on Saturday. Responding to concerns raised by Congress legislator R.M. Karumanickam (Tiruvadanai), Mr. Duraimurugan said he was planning to introduce a scheme to tackle the menace, so that local bodies would benefit from the removal and sale of karuvelam trees along waterbodies. Mr. Duraimurugan concurred with the contention of Mr. Karumanickam that karuvelam trees along waterbodies were affecting farmers. The water surrounding the trees also affect the crops in the area. “When submerged in water, farmers are affected, as they walk over their [trees’] thorns,” he pointed out. The Minister also recalled that he had always been against these trees when they were cultivated in large numbers for firewood. Mr. Duraimurugan said he appreciated the Congress MLA, who had followed in the footsteps of his grandfather and father, getting elected to the House.  The Minister was responding to concerns raised by Congress legislator R.M. Karumanickam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/removing-karuvelam-trees-along-waterbodies/article36160642.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not refugee, but rehabilitation camps: CM||A day after the announcement of a welfare package of Rs. 317 crore, including the rebuilding of houses for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in various camps across Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced that refugee camps would henceforth be called rehabilitation camps. Intervening during the speech of a legislator who lauded the Chief Minister for the welfare package in the House, Mr. Stalin said it was not appropriate to call them refugee camps. They are not refugees “when we are all there for them”. Amid the thumping of desks in the House, Mr. Stalin said henceforth, refugee camps housing Sri Lankan Tamils would be called rehabilitation camps. Since 1983, as many as 3,04,269 Sri Lankan Tamils have arrived in Tamil Nadu, and of them, 58,822 people belonging to 18,944 families are housed in 108 camps spread across 29 districts, and 34,087 are living elsewhere after due registration.  Sri Lankan Tamils are not refugees when we are all there for them M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-are-not-refugee-but-rehabilitation-camps-cm/article36160644.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constitute Press Council of Tamil Nadu, says HC||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to constitute a body named the Press Council of Tamil Nadu (PCTN) to protect the interests of genuine journalists and clamp down on the fake ones who indulge in illegal and unethical practices such as blackmailing industrialists, businessmen, government officials and politicians for their unjust enrichment. Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and P. Velmurugan ordered that the proposed PCTN should be constituted in three months, and should be headed by a retired judge of either the Supreme Court or the High Court. Experienced and reputed journalists, both working and retired, retired civil servants and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers must be its members. “The council shall have sole authority to recognise press clubs and journalists’ associations or unions in the State of Tamil Nadu,” the court ordered. The PCTN should stipulate the period of elections for each association and any body which does not conduct elections on time should automatically be brought under the administration of the council. “The State government shall not allot any house or grant free bus passes directly to any applicant journalist, and those applications shall only be routed through the PCTN, which after due diligence, can issue such benefits,” the court said. “The PCTN shall have the power to identify fake journalists and lodge complaints against them to the jurisdictional police. Members of public can send their complaints regarding fake journalists to the welfare board, which will inquire and initiate criminal action against such fake journalists,” the Bench wrote. The judges also issued a direction to the State government not to issue press stickers, identity cards or other benefits, unless the organisation or media house discloses the number of employees, salaries paid to them, and other details. “The State government/PCTN shall not issue press ID cards or stickers to print media, magazines or dailies, unless there is proof of circulation of at least 10,000 copies of their daily, weekly, fortnightly or monthly,” the judgment read. The orders were passed while disposing of two writ petitions filed by S. Sekaran, who claimed to be a journalist. The directions with regard to PCTN were issued in public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constitute-press-council-of-tamil-nadu-says-hc/article36160653.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||80% samples test positive for Delta variant in T.N.||The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 was found in 80% of COVID-19 samples sent from Tamil Nadu for whole genome sequencing, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. “We sent a total of 3,417 samples for genomic sequencing from December until now. Of this, we have received the results for 2,693 samples. Eighty percent of these samples — 2,150 — had the Delta variant of COVID-19,” he told reporters. “We earlier had 10 samples returning positive for the Delta Plus variant. Now, the World Health Organization has said we need not differentiate between Delta and Delta Plus. Another two samples have tested positive for Delta Plus now,” he said. In fact, all 468 samples sent and sequenced recently were found to be of the Delta variant. He added that the Health Department was referring samples from border areas and clusters for genomic analysis to monitor the novel coronavirus variants. A genomic sequencing laboratory to identify variants will start functioning at the State Public Health Laboratory (SPHL) soon, he said. “The equipment arrived two days ago. Till now, we are sending samples for genomic sequencing to Bengaluru and Hyderabad. In three days, the laboratory at SPHL will start running on a trial basis. We are expecting the trial run to go on for a week, after which it will be launched formally,” he said. He said the number of cases and the positivity rate in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh were being closely watched, and border areas were being monitored. “Four districts continue to record above 100 cases a day. They are Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode and Chengalpattu. At the same time, cases reported in the Thanjavur and Cauvery delta districts are slightly high, compared with their population. This is also being continuously monitored,” he said. ‘All doses used’ Mr. Radhakrishnan earlier stated that government vaccination centres had so far administered 2.86 crore doses of free vaccines, while private centres had administered nearly 20 lakh doses. This took the overall coverage to 3,06,74,681 doses. All doses supplied for the State government had been fully administered. Initial hesitancy “There was initial vaccine hesitancy for four to five months. Till April, supply of vaccines from the Union government was based on consumption and wastage. We have been seeking population-based supply. Of late, the supply is based on the population but we need for what we had lost in the earlier months. Utilisation is 100% and we need bulk supply. We are pressing the Union government to give at least one crore vaccines, over and above what we get now, and they have said that it will be considered,” he said. The State was leading in the vaccination of pregnant women (3.61 lakh), lactating women (2.63 lakh) and differently abled (1.53 lakh), he noted. Inspection of the 11 new government medical colleges had been completed, he said, adding that the final decision of the National Medical Commission was being awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-samples-test-positive-for-delta-variant-in-tn/article36160663.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s rehabilitation camps for Sri Lankan Tamils hereafter||A day after he announced a welfare package of Rs. 317 crore, which includes rebuilding houses, for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in various camps across Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced that the refugee camps would henceforth be called rehabilitation camps. Intervening a legislator’s lauding of the welfare package in the House, Mr. Stalin said it was not appropriate to call them refugee camps, contending that they were not refugees “when we are all there for them”. Amid thumping of desks, Mr. Stalin said that henceforth the refugee camps housing the Sri Lankan Tamils would be called rehabilitation camps. Since 1983, 3,04,269 Lankan Tamils have arrived in Tamil Nadu. Of them, 58,822 people belonging to 18,944 families are housed in 108 camps spread across 29 districts and 34,087 people are living elsewhere after due registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-rehabilitation-camps-for-sri-lankan-tamils-hereafter/article36160776.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness drive for eye donation held||An octogenarian couple — both retired professors of an arts college — pledged to donate their eyes and kick-started the Eye Donation Fortnight Awareness Campaign at the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital on Saturday. The hospital, along with the Chennai District Blindness Control Society and the Greater Chennai Corporation, organised a continuing medical education programme as part of the campaign, observed from August 25 to September 8. Corneal opacities, a leading causes of blindness, was preventable, and vision can be restored by corneal transplant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-drive-for-eye-donation-held/article36160626.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. appoints nine AAGs, one GP||The Tamil Nadu government has appointed nine Additional Advocates-General (AAGs) to represent it before the principal seat of the Madras High Court in Chennai and the Madurai Bench. While designated senior counsel Haja Nazirudeen and S. Silambanan shall be the AAGs in Chennai, senior counsel Veera Kathiravan and advocate R. Baskaran have been appointed for Madurai. The other AAGs are R. Ramanlaal, V. Arun, P. Kumaresan, R. Neelakandan and J. Ravindran. Through a separate government order, P. Thilak Kumar was appointed Government Pleader in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-appoints-nine-aags-one-govt-pleader/article36160666.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constable run over by SUV||A 27-year-old police constable was run over by an SUV after the bike he was riding skidded on a sandy patch of the road in West Mambalam. The accident occurred on Friday night while the policeman was returning home from duty. The victim was identified as D. Manojkumar, 27, of Virugambakkam, a constable attached to the Royala Nagar police station. He was the driver to Additional Commissioner of Traffic Prathip Kumar. Police sources said the constable was riding his two-wheeler on Govindan Road, but lost control and fell. An SUV that was coming from the opposite side ran over him. Declared brought dead With severe injuries, he was taken to the Government Royapettah Hospital by a passer-by in a car. However, Manojkumar was declared brought dead by the doctors. A case has been registered by the Guindy Traffic Investigation Wing. Driver of the SUV D. Thirugnanasambandham has been arrested. The SUV has been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-falls-from-bike-run-over-by-suv/article36160633.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free coaching||Manidhaneyam IAS Academy and the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will conduct free coaching from September 6 for candidates appearing for the exam to select Assistant Public Prosecutor-Grade II by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission. Manidhaneyam Trust chairman Saidai Duraisamy said in a release that aspirants could visit the academy at No. 28, First Main Road, CIT Nagar, Chennai, from August 30 to September 5 with passport size photos or call 044-24358373/24330952/8428431107. For details visitwww.barcounciloftamilnadupuducherry. org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-coaching-for-prosecutor-grade-ii-exam/article36160628.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. tables Bill in House||The State government tabled a Bill in the Assembly that seeks to include the Deputy Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine in district-level committees constituted under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act, 1997. The Bill, introduced by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, said Section 2-D of the Act provided for the constitution of district committees under the chairmanship of the Deputy Director of Medical and Rural Health Services to advise the competent authority of the district in matters of the registration of clinical establishments and perform other duties. “The Deputy Directors of Public Health and Preventive Medicine in the district serves as the administrative head of all government primary healthcare facilities,” he said,. The Bill is likely to be taken up for consideration later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-tables-bill-in-house/article36160640.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three more agriculture colleges||The Tamil Nadu government will open three agriculture colleges in the current year with an allocation of Rs. 30 crore, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said in the Assembly on Saturday. The colleges will come up in Karur district, Kilvelur in Nagapattinam district and Chettinadu in Sivaganga district. “The need for research in agriculture and studies has increased,” the Minister said, replying to the debate on the demand for grants for his Department. He announced a Rs. 12-crore micro-irrigation project for 200 Adi Dravidar and tribal farmers. He said farmers should also be trained to become traders, and the Ministry would train members of the farmer-producer organisations in value addition, marketing and coordination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-agriculture-colleges/article36160647.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore rural police introduce public feedback system||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have introduced a feedback system at all police stations to collect the opinion of the public about the policing. Every police station, including the cyber crime station and the District Crime Branch offices, will have feedback boxes as part of the new initiative. Form People, who visit the stations and offices will be provided a feedback form comprising seven questions which they can fill and drop in the box. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam has instructed officers in charge of all the police stations and offices to have the feedback form and box ready. A majority of the stations have already installed the box. The feedback form asks the visitors to rate the service of the police, the behaviour of the officer who handled the complaint, whether appropriate action was taken on the complaint, hygiene at the station, etc. Deputy Superintendents of the Police have been tasked to collect the feedback forms from stations coming under their sub-divisions at the end of every month and submit reports to the SP. The SP will review the reports and issue certificates of appreciation to personnel who get good feedback from the public. A senior officer said that personnel who get negative feedback from the public will be asked to take corrective measures. The City Police had recently introduced service feedback calls to collect the opinion of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-rural-police-introduce-public-feedback-system/article36160680.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Construction in old city areas a challenging task||A resident recently bought a land in an area that comes under the old town plan area in the city. The purpose of his buying the land with a dilapidated tile roofed house was to construct a new house for his family. After buying the land, the resident does not know how to build a house with the Coimbatore Corporation’s permission because the law does not permit him. The land he bought measures 720 sq.ft. and the law, the Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, says that the minimum permitted area for construction is 775 sq.ft. or 72 sq.m. The choices before him include constructing a house without the Corporation’s permission and then face legal action that may include demolition or find some loophole like saying that he is seeking permission for repair and not construction to get around the problem. This is a problem that has cropped after the State Government framed the rules in 2019, says S. Kanagasundaram, a registered engineer with the Corporation. The rules’ limitation means that a resident in old town plan area or non-town plan area cannot build a house and will be forced to live in his dilapidated house and cannot sell his land as no buyer will be interested in buying a place where no construction can take place, he says and adds that what is true of the city resident is also true of those in other municipalities and municipal corporations in the State. The only solution the Coimbatore Corporation can provide for the resident and many others like him is to identify and list non-town plan areas, also called continuous building areas, to exempt them from the provisions of the Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, says M. Velumayil, president, Registered Engineers’ Association. The Corporation should ensure that it enforced only minimum rules in non-town plan areas like room size, window size, etc. and not setback area, etc., he adds. Consumer and civic activist K. Kathirmathiyon says the problem arises because of sub-division of property over a period of time on old town plan area in every urban centre in the State. The easy way to sort out this problem is disallowing registration of subdivided property if any part measured less than 775 sq.ft. or 72 sq.m. If the State Government enforces such a rule through Registration Department, then there will be no indiscriminate subdivision of property. The only out way for property owners will be to sell the property as a whole and the legal heirs or children can only take a share of the money gained from selling the property and not a part of the property. Corporation sources say the Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara is seized of the problem and soon there will be a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-in-old-city-areas-a-challenging-task/article36160684.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Human milk bank opened at hospital||Sri Ramakrishna Hospital in association with Rotary Club of Coimbatore Cotton City opened a breast milk bank on Saturday. The breast milk bank at the hospital was set up as the Rotary’s signature project of the year under the banner ‘Nectar of Life’. Managing trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust D. Lakshminarayanaswamy inaugurated the facility in the presence of joint managing trustee R. Sundar, chief operating officer Swathy Rohit, chief executive officer C.V. Ramkumar, Sri Ramakrishna Hospital’s dean and medical director P. Sukumaran and district governor of RI Dist 3201 Rajasekhar Srinivasan. The breast milk bank is equipped with pasteurisers, chillers, deep freezers, breast pumps and autoclave machines. The milk bank will provide a welcoming space for lactating mothers across the city who can donate extra milk and milk donated to the facility will be given free of cost to all the babies in need, said a release. Rotary International has established several human milk banks in other cities too and the first such facility in private sector was set up at Sri Ramakrishna Hospital under Nectar of Life, the release said. Neetika Prabu, Rakesh Kumar Ranka, Ajay Kumar Gupta, Tarun Kumar Ranka, and Kumarpal Daga from the organising team of Rotary Club of Coimbatore Cotton City, the secretary and the members of Coimbatore Parenting Network were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/human-milk-bank-opened-at-hospital/article36160676.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Condemned police vehicle refurbished for museum||A 1974 model condemned police vehicle of Coimbatore Rural Police is all set to find a place in the Tamil Nadu Police Museum in Chennai which is slated to be opened soon. Display item The vehicle, a Hindustan Bedford truck which was part of the fleet of the police from 1975 to 1987, has been refurbished to be kept as a museum display piece. A. Amalraj, Additional Director-General of Police, Tamil Nadu Commando Force, and the coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Police Museum project, spotted the truck among the condemned vehicles at the Police Recruits School campus in Coimbatore during a morning walk. Mr. Amalaraj, who was looking for collections to be displayed at the police museum, found out the history of the vehicle from officers. Finding that the Bedford truck could be an ideal piece to be added to the collection of vehicles used by Tamil Nadu Police over the years at the museum, he tasked Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam to refurbish it. A team comprising Deputy Superintendent of Police (Armed Reserve) P. Thennarasu, sub-inspector (Motor Transport) N. Senthilvel, and head constables K. Kumaresan, Prince Sebastian and P. Rajan took the task of refurbishing the vehicle with the help of mechanic Shanavas. “The work was completed in 90 days. We were surprised to see that many parts of the vehicle were not rusted”, said Mr. Senthilvel. The vehicle bearing registration number TNE 6000 was condemned after it met with an accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/condemned-police-vehicle-refurbished-for-museum/article36160678.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ten arrested for murder attempt in front of court||The Coimbatore City Police on Saturday arrested a 10 persons on charges of attempting to murder three men in front of the Special Court for the Trial of Bomb Blasts Cases here on Friday evening. C. Karuppusamy (48), his son K. Praveenkumar (27), N. Ajaykumar (20), N. Kameshkumar (21), V. Parthiban (22), S. Sheba alias Shankar (19), H. Habeesh Kumar (20), K. Rajkumar (24) from Ammankulam, K. Sathish (19) from Selvapuram and C. Shankar (22) from Ramanathapuram were arrested by a special team. The police said that they attempted to murder R. Vijayakumar (23) of Rajiv Gandhi Street at Nehru Nagar near Vadavalli, his brother R. Kannan, (21) and their friend A. Hariharan (21) of Jothipuram near Periyanaickenpalayam. The three men and a minor boy were arrested by the Ramanathapuram police for murdering Karuppusamy's son Naveenkumar (23) in January 2020. The trio was granted conditional bail five months ago and they had been signing at the special court since then. According to the police, Karuppusamy and Praveenkumar arranged eight friends of Naveenkumar to avenge the murder. The gang chased Vijayakumar, Kannan and Hariharan with sickles and knives and attacked them as they came out of the court. While Vijayakumar and Hariharan were injured, Kannan managed to escape. The 10 arrested were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-arrested-for-murder-attempt-in-front-of-court/article36160687.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain forecast: Collector urges people to remain safe||Following heavy rain prediction in the district till August 30, the district administration has asked people to remain safe. In a release issued here on Saturday, Collector G.S. Sameeran said people living along River Bhavani banks in Mettupalayam, along Aliyar and Parambikulam reservoirs and canals in Valparai and Anamalai taluks and those living in low-lying areas should remain vigilant and safe. If they thought that flood waters would enter their homes, they should rush to nearby government shelters and while moving out they should take along their cattle. It would be better if the people did not venture out unnecessarily and not stand close to high-rise buildings or trees to escape from lighting strikes. Control room number To help people during disasters, the district administration had taken preventive measures. And, if people faced problems they should immediately dial 1077, the district control room number, Dr. Sameeran said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-forecast-collector-urges-people-to-remain-safe/article36160671.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Factory sealed for violation||The district administration on Friday fined and then sealed an industry in Annur on charges that the management violated COVID-19 safety protocol. In a release, Collector G.S. Sameeran said the administration slapped Rs. 10,000 fine and then sealed Krishi Fabs, a two-wheeler spares manufacturing unit, after officials found violation of the protocol. This was because six of he 26 workers in the unit had tested positive for COVID-19. The administration had also declared the area around the unit in Vellimadai as a quarantined zone. Mr. Sameeran said the administration appealed to all industries to follow the protocol like insisting that workers wear mask and ensuring physical distance. It had formed squads to check the protocol violation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/factory-sealed-for-violation/article36160670.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bharathiar University supplementary examination||Bharathiar University will hold its supplementary examination for those students who had failed in only one subject in the examination it had held in 2021. A press release from the university said that candidates interested in writing the examination would have to appear in person on September 26 (Sunday) between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. The opportunity to write the supplementary examination was open for those who had enrolled in UG or MCA course in 2018-19 or MA, M.Sc. or M.Com. courses in 2019-20, the release said and added that interested persons should submit application to principal of their alma mater and that should be before September 9. The university said it would the examination for UG subjects in Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science and PG subjects including M.B.A. and M.C.A. would be at Dr. N.G.P. Arts and Science College. And, for its students, the examination centre would be at the University. Hall ticket And, the candidates could collect the hall ticket three days prior to the date of examination, the release said and added that for further details visitwww.b-u.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathiar-university-supplementary-exam-on-sept-26/article36160672.ece
29 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp at check-post for daily commuters to Kerala||The district administration has urged people commuting daily to Kerala to get vaccinated or make use of the vaccination camp set up at the Walayar check-post. Collector G.S. Sameeran, who visited the Walayar check-post on Saturday, said his visit to the place followed an increase in COVID-19 cases in Kerala. For people entering the district from Kerala, the administration had made vaccination certificate (two doses) or RT-PCR test taken within 72 hours prior to entry mandatory. Likewise, the administration had strengthened the vigil at all inter-State entry points as there was a marginal increase in COVID-19 positive cases in the district in the last two days. He had also asked the chief education officer and regional joint director, Directorate of Collegiate Education, to ensure that all teaching and non-teaching staff in schools and colleges were vaccinated as schools and colleges would reopen on September 1. And, after reopening, the managements should follow all safety guidelines. On Friday it had collected Rs. 4.77 lakh in fine and would not hesitate to reimpose additional restrictions, if cases were to rise in the district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-at-check-post-for-daily-commuters-to-kerala/article36160673.ece
29 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Freedom run held in Dindigul||Joining the youth on a three-kilometre marathon, Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan appealed to the student community to give importance to keeping good health on Saturday. As a part of the 75th Independence day celebrations 2.0 ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the freedom run was organised by the Nehru Yuva Kendra in association with NSS volunteers and educational institutions. Flagging off the run from the Collectorate complex, District Collector S. Visakan appreciated the participation from the youth in large numbers. The Collector, who was encouraging the youth, was accompanied by Additional Collector Dinesh Kumar, DRO Latha, NCC Commanding Officer Col. Sandeep Menon and Nehru Yuva Kendra coordinator Saran V Gopal. The participants of the freedom run passed through the District SP office, District Court complex and reached the District Stadium. About 150 participants completed the freedom run covering three kilometres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freedom-run-held-in-dindigul/article36160753.ece
29 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Silver items seized||The flying squad officials from the State GST from Madurai and Dindigul seized more than 500 kg of silver ornaments valued at around Rs. 4 crore from seven vehicles at the Kodaikanal road check-post on Saturday. The officials intercepted the vehicles, which were coming from Salem to Madurai. Nine persons were interrogated. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the silver ornaments had been transported without proper documents as per the GST regime tax. An official said that they had imposed Rs. 15 lakh as fine. The seized goods were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-items-seized/article36160743.ece
29 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Delay in completing sewer works puts people to hardship||The inordinate delay in completing the underground sewerage scheme (UGSS) works on R.K.V. Road here has put pedestrians, motorists and traders to untold hardship. They have urged the Corporation to expedite the works at the earliest. The UGSS work is being implemented on Cauvery Road, R.K.V. Road, at Bazaar Street and in Manikoondu area. In the second week of July, the contractor executing the project dug a pit in Manikoondu to construct a culvert. However, the presence of utilities such as water pipeline, drainage channel, electric cables and telephone cables, delayed the execution of the work for over one month. The restriction on vehicle movement on the busy R.K.V. Road has put pedestrians, shopkeepers and motorists to hardship. Vehicles were diverted and shops saw poor business. Most of the narrow streets in the market area witnessed frequent traffic congestion and pedestrians were forced to cross the work area everyday. Vehicles from Pallipalayam that pass through R.K.V. Road to reach Panneerselvam Park junction were diverted resulting in traffic congestion on other roads. The culvert work was resumed three weeks ago, and is yet to be completed. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu the culvert work by the State Highways Department would be completed in a week, while the rest of UGSS work would be over in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-completing-sewer-works-puts-people-to-hardship/article36160760.ece
29 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||College inks MoU with Texvalley||To help students of the Department of Costume Design and Fashion gain hands-on experience in the textile market and design, RD National College of Arts and Science has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Texvalley in Gangapuram here. College Principal B.L Sairam Subramaniam and Executive Director of the Texvalley D.P. Kumar signed the MoU in the presence of department faculties. A release from the college said that the MoU will provide an opportunity for the students to gain knowledge on fashion designing, fashion forecasting, textile market, handloom sector, research incubation sector and retailing which will enhance their careers in the field. Also, the MoU envisages students to be a member of Fashion Designer Club at Texvalley which has fabric sources for designing, pattern making, machineries and visual merchandising. Students can also do their internship training with various industries guided by experts from Texvalley. They can also participate in workshops, seminars, webinar, conference and fashion show and other events conducted by Texvalley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-inks-mou-with-texvalley/article36160764.ece
29 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation begins work to establish temporary bus stand||The Erode Corporation has begun works to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar Punjai Lakkapuram on the Karur Bypass Road after which south-bound buses are expected to be operated from the second week of September. Under the Smart City project, the civic body is all set to carry out development works in the existing bus terminus spread over 12 acre at a cost of Rs. 39.5 crore from September 1. Hence, it decided to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar for facilitating smooth operation of buses to Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai, Dindigul, Tirunelveli and Nagercoil. The new stand will have 46 bus bays, shops of different sizes, toilets, offices, taxi and auto stand and drinking water provision. A borewell was dug recently and work is on to construct toilets, bays and waiting areas with sheds. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that lights will be installed from the main road to the bus stand and all the works are expected to be completed in 10 days. Officials said that buses to other districts including Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem and Chennai will be operated from the existing bus stand on Mettur Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corporation-begins-work-to-establish-temporary-bus-stand/article36160762.ece
29 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector flags off ‘Fit India Freedom’ run||District Collector H. Krishnanunni flagged off the ‘Fit India Freedom’ run here on Saturday. According to a release, the run was organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra at VOC Park stadium. Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan also took part in the event organised to celebrate the 75 years of India’s independence. Sixty persons participated in the 2-km run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-flags-off-fit-india-freedom-run/article36160770.ece
29 August 2021||Hubballi,TAMIL NADU||‘State prepared to reply to T.N. petition on Mekedatu’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the State government has made all preparations to reply to the petition filed by the Tamil Nadu government seeking to stall the Mekedatu project by Karnataka. At a press conference in Haveri on Saturday, Mr. Bommai said that already legal experts had been consulted on the issue and the government had made all preparations to protect the interests of the State. “We have made all preparations to protect our rights,” he said. On Friday, the Tamil Nadu government moved the Supreme Court seeking judicial orders to restrain Karnataka from proceeding with “any activity” pertaining to the construction of a reservoir at Mekedatu across river Cauvery. Earlier in the day, speaking to presspersons on his arrival at Hirekerur in Haveri district, the Chief Minister said the government was in consultation with the legal experts on clearing legal hurdles pertaining to the notification of award on the Upper Krishna Project that had permitted increasing the height of the Almatti dam. He said that thefocus was also on also completing the ongoing irrigation projects at the earliest, including the projects for utilising the water share allotted to the State from the Mahadayi. Smooth transition Speaking on the National Education Policy (NEP), the Chief Minister said it was being implemented from October 1 in higher education based on reports of the experts’ committee on NEP and the task force constituted for its implementation. “When a big change is being made, there will beproblems in implementation. We have told the authorities to ensure that suchproblems are solved and it is a smooth transition from the old system to the new,” he added. To a query, Mr. Bommai said several places in the State having tourism potential, including Haveri, had remained unexploited. Steps were now being taken to include them under ‘Destination Karnataka’ as tourism development would throw open new opportunities and employment for the youths. Chief Minister inaugurated various development works on Friday in Haveri district. Death audit On the death audit ordered earlier in Haveri district, the Chief Minister said the focus was not just Haveri but improving the overall health system. The committee which did the death audit had made recommendations and based on that further steps for improving health infrastructure would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-prepared-to-reply-to-tn-petition-on-mekedatu/article36160287.ece
29 August 2021||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Cong. leaders observe first death anniversary of Vasanth Kumar||Marking the first death anniversary of the late Congress MP Vasanth Kumar, Congress leaders led by TNCC president K. S. Alagiri hailed his works on the solemn occasion organised here on Saturday. On August 28, 2020, the then MP had died in Chennai due to COVID-19 related complications. With the death, the by-election to Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha was necessitated and the Congress had fielded Vijay Vasanth, son of the late Vasanth Kumar. After the victory of Mr Vijay Vasanth, the Congress retained the seat. Manimandapam The family members have built a manimandapam in memory of Mr Vasanth Kumar at Agastheeswaram. A life size statue was unveiled on Saturday at the entrance of the manimandapam. Hailing the late leader, Mr Alagiri, AICC secretary Sri Valla Prasad, former Union Minister Dhanushkodi Athithan, MLAs Rajesh Kumar, Prince and Ruby Manoharan recalled the good works of Mr Vasanth Kumar. Among the family members Tamilselvi (wife of the late MP), son Vinod Kumar and daughter Thanga Malar were present. In a brief chat with reporters, Mr Alagiri welcomed the resolution brought by Chief Minister M K Stalin in the Legislative Assembly opposing the three farm laws by the Union government. He also criticised the AIADMK for their remarks on Kodanad murder case investigation. “What is wrong in investigating the heinous crime,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-leaders-observe-first-death-anniversary-of-vasanth-kumar/article36160693.ece
29 August 2021||Kodaikanal,TAMIL NADU||Kodaikanal shandy opens today||After four months of lockdown, the shandy at the Kavi Thiagarajar Salai in Kodaikanal would open on Sunday. According to municipal officials here, the vendors have been adequately told to ensure SOP compliance while selling their produce to the public. Any slackness would be viewed seriously. The officials said that they would deploy their staff to regulate the shoppers at the market. Depending on the cooperation, the relaxation would be reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodaikanal-shandy-opens-today/article36160749.ece
29 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Keeping a check on students’ mental health||As students of Classes IX–XII will be coming back to schools on September 1 after a long gap, schools in the city have been taking steps to protect their mental health, apart from framing a regime adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Most schools are planning to prioritise non-academical sessions and self-reflection activities for the first few weeks. Director of Queen Mira International School Abinath Chandran said, “Students’ emotional quotient is always important. We will give them confidence by telling them we are in this together. We will make sure they have fun inside classrooms through self-reflection and discussion activities. Our in-house counsellors will help students and parents in need of help.” Schools are also keen to sensitise students about how to approach the pandemic period. K.S. Narayanan, Headmaster of Sethupathi Higher Secondary School, said, “We have been instructed to conduct only refresher courses of the previous year’s syllabi for the first 30-45 days. It will be coupled with moral boosting and awareness sessions. Since the syllabi is reduced, we will initially focus on preparing the students mentally. PHCs will help in counselling them.” Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan said Corporation schools were prepared to welcome back children without putting extra pressure on them. He said, “We cannot expect them to get back into the groove immediately. While some students might have spent a lot of time learning things through Kalvi Tholaikatchi, some might not have attended all classes. Some children might have lost somebody close to them. Some might have gone through tough times because of their social or economic background. We have asked teachers to give them time to settle down.” Under phase two of the Happy Schooling programme that the Corporation initiated in association with M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, teachers were sensitised to such issues and trained to identify children in need of special care or counselling, he added. Psychiatrist and founder of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation Dr. C. Ramasubramanian said the pandemic had adversely affected the three main stakeholders in a school setup: students, teachers and parents. “Through online classes, there was no internal or external stimuli for most children to learn or listen properly. Since their activities were restricted to the confines of the house, some of them may have been anxious or restless. Through Happy Schooling 2.0, we sensitised teachers to the importance of physical, mental and psychological health of the students. They need to give children time to get back to the routine. Non-academical exercises and inside-classroom games can relax them,” he said. If the children showed excessive signs of restlessness, schools could get help from trained counsellors through the Corporation’s helpline 9375493754, he added.  We cannot expect students to get back into the groove immediately. We have asked teachers to give them time to settle down. K.P. Karthikeyan Commissioner, Madurai Corporation   We sensitised teachers to the importance of physical, mental and psychological health of students. Inside-classroom games can relax them. Dr. C. Ramasubramanian, Founder, M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keeping-a-check-on-students-mental-health/article36160931.ece
29 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Worker killed as concrete girder of elevated highway comes crashing down||A worker from Uttar Pradesh, N. Akash Singh (26), was killed after a hydraulic jack failed while lifting a concrete girder as part of the construction of an elevated corridor on New Natham Road here on Saturday evening. The girder came crashing down at the site. Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, who inspected the accident site along with State Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, said the work had been stopped until an enquiry into the accident was completed. The accident occurred at Narayanapuram around 4.30 p.m. The girder is part of a ramp being provided for vehicles coming from Gohkale Road to get down at Naryanapuram. It is part of the 7.3-km-long elevated highway to provide a shorter route for Madurai-Tiruchi section. Akash Singh, who was standing atop the pier-cap to lift the 35-metre-long girder for placing a rubber bearing, fell down after his hand got entangled in the gap of the girder, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) P. Thangadurai. Mr. Rajan said it was a “work-spot accident” and it had raised several questions on the administrative mechanism and training of the workers involved in critical work. The work was being executed by the National Highways Authority of India. “Only two young workers were on the spot to lift the (70-tonne) girder. Whether it required more workers and whether they were trained to handle such a work need to be probed,” he said. The girder had been cast in-situ and it was being lifted using a hydraulic jack. “When one of the cables got snapped, the girder wobbled and fell down,” the Collector said. Another worker, Saroj Kumar, who was initially said to have been injured, returned to the site to narrate the incident to the officials. The Collector said how the hydraulic jack failed would be investigated. The work of constructing the four-way elevated highway from Chokkikulam upto Chettikulam started in Nòvember 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by November 2020. It is part of four-laning of Madurai-Natham-Thuvarankurichi highway. However, the work got delayed due to COVID-19 lockdown and consequent reverse migration of north Indian workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-killed-as-concrete-girder-of-elevated-highway-comes-crashing-down/article36160690.ece
29 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Neuro-trauma 2021 conference at Velammal Medical College Hospital||Neurotrauma Society of India’s 30th annual two-day ‘Neuro-trauma 2021’ conference was inaugurated at Velammal Medical College Hospital in the city by hospital chairman M.V. Muthuramalingam on Friday. 540 delegates The first virtual conference, which was necessitated by the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, is attended by 540 delegates from across the country and abroad. Organising secretary Ganesh Kumar Manoharan told media persons on Friday that a total of 54 papers would be presented at the conference. Speakers at the inaugural session, which was held briefly at Velammal Medical College Hospital auditorium, said India was the trauma capital of the world with a phenomenally high rate of accidents. The conference saw top spine and brain surgeons from the country disseminating their knowledge and sharing the latest techniques in health care. Students, nurses too Apart from practising doctors and faculty members of various medical colleges and hospitals, postgraduate medical students and nurses working in ‘neurology hospitals’ were among the delegates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neuro-trauma-2021-conference-at-velammal-medical-college-hospital/article36160925.ece
29 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on data science released in Madurai||Data science is an emerging field of study that can provide employment opportunities with higher salaries, said Principal of The American College M. Davamani Christober, during the launch of his book ‘Concepts of Data Science, Using R’ on Friday. The book which deals with the basics of data science, a field of study that acquires insights from structured and unstructured data for practical uses, and the significance of the R language in data analysis. Mr. Christober said, “Since I am a mathematician, I was fascinated by data science and its applications. During the pandemic, I decided to explore its different facets through books, but I was not able to spot many books from Indian or Tamil authors. So, I took time to not only learn the fundamentals of data science, but also write a book on it.” Mr. Christober also said those pursuing data science could get employed at firms for salaries ranging from Rs. 60,000 to several lakhs per month. “Gone are the days when you look for opinions of people before starting a new business venture. At present, data science is applied for such purposes and many more to acquire deeper and scientific insights. If you love maths, you can excel in data science,” he added. Madurai MP Su.Venkatesan released the first copy of the book which was received by Professor and Chairperson of School of Mathematics, Madurai Kamaraj University, M. Lellis Thivagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-on-data-science-released/article36160927.ece
29 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Panchali Sabadham’ as short film||As part of Krishna Jayanthi celebrations, Chinmaya Yuva Kendra will be releasing a short film based on Bharatiyar’s ‘Panchali Sabadham’ on the YouTube Channel of Chinmaya Mission, Madurai, on Sunday.  The Mission volunteers said 22 members of the Yuva Kendra had acted as the Mahabharatha characters in the short film, apart from taking care of cinematography, editing and music. At 5 p.m. on Sunday, 108 children from Chinmaya Balavihar would perform cultural events through online platform. On Monday evening, a special puja for Lord Krishna would be held, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchali-sabadham-as-short-film/article36160928.ece
29 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks response from State on NDPS Act cases||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a detailed response from the State with regard to procedures being followed in dealing with seized contraband in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) cases. Justice B. Pugalendhi raised a series of queries while hearing a batch of petitions filed by accused in cases booked under the NDPS Act in souther districts seeking bail. Considering the volume of cases, the court sought the appearance of the State Public Prosecutor. Production at court The court sought the details of the dates of production of seized contraband in court and whether the seized contraband was under the court custody or police custody or in any other separate place as per the direction of the Supreme Court. The court also wanted to know whether the seized contraband was destroyed and if it was destroyed what was the procedure followed and whether the procedure contemplated under Section 52 A of the NDPS Act was complied with. The court posted the case for hearing to August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-response-from-state-on-ndps-act-cases/article36160924.ece
29 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sex on the promise of marriage: HC acquits man||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court acquitted a Madurai man, who was accused of sexual assault of a woman on the promise of marrying her and subsequently ending the relationship. The court observed that the woman had not resisted the first time the two had physical relations and it “amounted to pre-consent”. The court said the consent given by the woman could not be held as a misconception of fact. The court took note of the fact that they were in a relationship. Justice R. Pongiappan acquitted the man of all charges, and the conviction and sentence imposed by the Madurai Mahila Court was set aside. The case of the prosecution was that due to the sexual assault committed by the accused, the woman had become pregnant. The court took into account the fact that she had specifically stated before the trial court that the two were in a relationship. When she conceived, she insisted that they get married soon. The man is said to have suggested abortion. When this was not accepted by the woman, the man went back on the promise to marry her. Subsequently, a complaint was lodged against him and he was booked for sexual assault, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sex-on-the-promise-of-marriage-hc-acquits-man/article36160650.ece
29 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 132.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,173 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.34 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 920 cusecs and a discharge of 1,869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,744 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Periyar dam 7.2, Thekkadi 7.6 and Uthamapalayam 1.1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36160755.ece
29 August 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to be given subsidy||About 310 farmers would be advanced subsidy for establishing onion storage structures in the district during the current financial year, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya has said. Ms.Priya, who interacted with small onion growers after inspecting cultivation of vegetables at Nallur in the district, said that the government was extending 50% subsidy for establishing onion storage structures. Farmers were being extended Rs. 87,500 as subsidy for establishing onion storage structures of 25 tonne capacity. During 2020-21, 400 such structures have been established. For the current year, an allocation of Rs. 2.71 crore has been made for the district for extending subsidy to 310 farmers to establish such structures in the district, she said and pointed out that small onions, cotton and maize were major crops in the district. Under the National Agriculture Development Programme, farmers raising vegetables by erecting pandals would be extended Rs. 2 lakh as subsidy per hectare. The beneficiaries were also given quality seeds. During 2020-21, 47 farmers were extended the subsidy and this year the beneficiaries would be identified soon. Seedlings of vegetables to cover about 160 hectares were being raised at the Government Horticulture Farm at Vengalam in the district. The seedlings, including those of tomato, brinjal and chillies would be distributed to farmers who require them, she added. Joint Director of Agriculture S.Karunanidhi , Deputy Director of Horticulture, Fathima, and other officials accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-be-given-subsidy/article36160747.ece
29 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Education, financial independence must for women’s emancipation, says SC judge||Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Supreme Court judge, on Saturday said the emancipation of women was possible only through education and making them financially independent. “Women’s emancipation is two-fold. We have to make them educated and financially independent. But it will not happen suddenly. Things have started changing in the judiciary,” Justice Kaul said, inaugurating the year-long golden jubilee of the Ambedkar Government Law College. His reference to women’s emancipation came when he commented on Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan’s statement, while addressing the programme earlier, that she felt happy on the appointment of three women judges in the Supreme Court. Justice Kaul said more women judges were appointed in the lower courts. “Commitment of women to work is ten-fold more than men,” the judge said. He stressed on the need for educational institutions to adapt to changes in the learning process. “Learning institutions should cultivate in students the intrinsic ability to think. The quality of legal education system in the country is important to give the country good leadership,” he said. Mr. Justice Kaul highlighted the uniqueness of the Union Territory. “It is an amalgamation of different cultures, system, tradition and it is unique also because of the quality of life and simplicity of people,” the judge said. In his keynote address, Justice V. Ramasubramanian, Supreme Court judge, said the percentage of students from the Ambedkar Law College here who rose in their careers to become judicial officers was higher when compared to the other law colleges. Good track record “The college has sent around 100 people as civil judges in the country,” Mr. Justice Ramasubramanian added. Unveiling the commemorative golden jubilee arch, Dr. Tamilisai said, “Law is the foundation of society. Excellence in legal education and research is extremely important to shape the quality of the rule of law.” Unveiling a wall of fame, Justice Sanjib Banerjee, Chief Justice, Madras High Court, said education was important to the people to make informed choices. The Chief Justice stressed on the need to provide social and economic justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-financial-independence-must-for-womens-emancipation-says-sc-judge/article36160997.ece
29 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Will set up law varsity soon: CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Saturday assured the people that a law university would be established in the Union Territory. Unveiling the golden jubilee pillar of the alumni association of the Ambedkar Government Law College here, he said that while the government would try to maintain the law college, efforts would be made to establish a law university. “There has been a demand to convert the Ambedkar Law College into a university. But some people have raised apprehensions about the move as they believe the fee structure will go up and local students may be deprived of chances of getting admitted to the university. We will try to clear the apprehensions and create a university,” he said. Recalling his days in the college when it functioned from a small classroom on Bussy Street, Mr. Rangsamy said he had the opportunity to inaugurate the new campus at Kalapet during his previous stint as Chief Minister. The government would take steps to improve the academic atmosphere on the campus, he said. Speaker R. Selvam said there were five Ministers, including the PWD Minister, who passed out of the college. He wanted the Madras High Court and the Supreme Court to constitute a Bench of the High Court in the Union Territory. Law Minister K. Lakshminarayanan said a Bench of the High Court was very important for the Union Territory. The French had established a High Court in Puducherry during their reign, he said. Home Minister A. Namassivayam, MLA P.M.L. Kalyanasundaram, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of National Law Institute University V. Vijayakumar, retired principal S.G. Bhat and principal S. Srinivasan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-set-up-law-varsity-soon-cm/article36160998.ece
29 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. registers one COVID-19 death and 67 new cases||The Union Territory on Saturday registered one COVID-19 death and 67 fresh cases from 5,374 tests. The lone death was reported at the Government General Hospital at Karaikal, where a 68-year-old woman with co-morbid conditions died. Of the fresh infections, 40 were reported from the Puducherry region, 15 from Mahe, 10 from Karaikal and two from Yanam. With Saturday’s tests, the number of people tested in the Union Territory rose to 16,27,617. As per data released by the Health Department, test positivity rate stood at 1.25%, case fatality at 1.47% and recovery rate at 97.97%. At present, there are 698 active cases in the Union Territory, and of them, 540 are in home isolation. The number of people who have received vaccination is nearing the 8 lakh mark. As of Saturday, the Health Department had administered vaccine to 7,99,272 people. With one death on Saturday, the toll is now 1,810, and the tally has risen to 1,23,298 cases, while 1,20,790 people have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-registers-one-covid-19-death-and-67-new-cases/article36160993.ece
29 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two hamlets tense as police fire in the air||Tension prevailed at Veerampattinam and Nalladu on Saturday after policemen from the Ariankuppam station fired in the air to avert a clash between groups of armed fishermen from the two villages. The policemen started firing in the air when the fishermen of Veerampattinam started moving towards Nallavadu following reports of a clash in the sea. Fishermen from the two hamlets have been at loggerheads for a long time over the use of purse seine nets and a territorial dispute over fishing rights. The police said two fishermen sustained minor injuries in the clash in the sea. A huge contingent of the territorial police had been deployed in both villages to avoid escalation of tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-hamlets-tense-as-police-fire-in-the-air/article36160995.ece
29 August 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||One more police helpline for public commissioned in Ranipet||In a special gesture to connect residents with police, a dedicated toll-free helpline (7530026333) was launched by Superintendent of Police Deepa Satyan at the District Police Office in Ranipet on Saturday. The helpline, which will be directly monitored by the SP at her office, will help residents alert police about crime in their neighbourhood. Unlike the existing 24-hour complaint helpline (9498180972), the latest initiative is aimed at helping residents keep their neighbourhoods safe from anti-socials. They can call the toll-free helpline and alert the help desk at the SP’s office about various crimes, including robbery, sale of ganja, gutka, kartan, lottery, arrack and sand smuggling. The public can report crimes of public nuisance, traffic congestion, rowdyism, bribery and police and physical abuse. “The new helpline will act as an interface between law-abiders (residents) and law-enforcers (police) in keeping our neighbourhood safe. To ensure the safety of those socially responsible residents, we will maintain secrecy of their identity,” the SP told The Hindu . The district police have planned to honour responsible residents for providing crucial inputs to the police in preventing crime in the district. These residents would be given appreciation certificates acknowledging their good conduct in helping keep the society free from crime. Saturday’s initiative is part of a series of steps taken by the Ranipet district police in the past two months to bring residents closer to police. A month ago, a round-the-clock two-wheeler police patrol with 26 high-powered vehicles were launched mainly to patrol highways and arterial roads such as the Benguluru Highway (NH:48) and the Madras-Kochi Road in the district. On an average, each two-wheeler patrol with two policemen on duty covers 10 km in three shifts every day covering major towns like Arcot, Arakkonam, Wallajah, Ranipet and Sholingur within the district. To ensure welfare of police personnel, the Ranipet SP inaugurated a meditation centre for police personnel at Ranipet traffic police station inside the SP’s office on Saturday. On an average, 10 police personnel can meditate at the centre. A yoga instructor will be deputed to help police personnel cope with stress and maintain health. Assistant SP P. Muthukarupan and Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K.T. Pourani, Ranipet, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-police-helpline-for-public-commissioned-in-ranipet/article36161062.ece
29 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tourist destinations see good footfall||Following the relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions by the State government, the tourist destinations in the district, including Yercaud, saw a good footfall on Saturday. While the Yercaud boathouse resumed operations on Monday, the parks under the Horticulture Department in the hill station, the eco-tourism spots and Kurumbapatti zoological park resumed operations on Wednesday. The number of visitors to these spots has been gradually increasing. The Annavari Muttal waterfalls near Attur was visited by over 200 people on Friday. Forest officials said that all COVID-19 safety protocols were followed and the public were permitted to bathe in the falls. The Forest Department has also improved amenities at the eco-tourism site and boating has been permitted at the lake, with strict instructions to follow safety procedures. Kalpanna Sivaraj, Joint Secretary, Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association, said that tourism activities were slowly reviving to the pre-COVID-19 period in Yercaud and the hotel business was seeing a slow revival. She said that with more tourists coming to the hill station, almost all the rooms in the hotels were booked. According to Horticulture Department officials, about 3,200 people visited the parks in the district on Saturday, yielding a total collection of Rs. 45,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourist-destinations-see-good-footfall/article36160768.ece
29 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem police rescue minor boy kidnapped for ransom||The district police on Saturday rescued a minor boy kidnapped for a ransom of Rs. 50 lakh from the Salem city limits and arrested one person in connection with the case. The accused was identified as C. Selvakumar, an interior decorator. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said the parents of Sabari (14) lodged a missing complaint at the Thollasampatti Police Station here on August 23. The boy’s father Pazhanisami was a daily wager and mother Latha was employed in a textile showroom near Panjuukallpatti. On August 26, the accused called Saravanan, the employer of Latha, and demanded Rs. 50 lakh to release the boy. On August 27 evening, he sent a video of the victim to Saravanan from the cell phone of a migrant worker. Mr.Abhinav said that after the video was received, four special teams were formed under the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Omalur, D. Sangeetha to nab the culprit and rescue the boy. On inquiry, police found that Saravanan had received ransom calls from stolen mobile phones. Based on the video and CCTV visuals, police ascertained the identity of the accused. On Saturday afternoon, the workshop and residence of Selvakumar was raided and the victim was rescued Mr.Abhinav said the accused had kidnapped the boy for money after he faced loss in business . The victim was admitted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-police-rescue-minor-boy-kidnapped-for-ransom/article36160766.ece
29 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,000 litres of rectified spirit seized in Salem||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing made a major seizure of over 10,000 litres of rectified spirit from a godown near Vazhapadi here on Friday. Tip-off Based on a tip-off from the Salem Zone’s Central Investigation Unit, the Prohibition Enforcement Wing conducted raid at a godown near Muthampatti Railway Gate in Vazhapadi and seized 10,850 litres of rectified spirit stocked in 310 cans. According to the police sources, the seized spirit was worth Rs. 27.12 lakh. N. Kanagaraj from Kanyakumari and T.Tamilarasu from Vazhapadi have been arrested in connection with the case. Sandeep Rai Rathore, ADGP-Enforcement, appreciated the police personnel on the major seizure. The Enforcement Wing has requested the public to provide them information on the helpline number 10581 or 9498410581 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10000-litres-of-rectified-spirit-seized-in-salem/article36160773.ece
29 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. sensitises field workers to dengue prevention measures||Over 1,200 field workers under the Salem Corporation were briefed on dengue prevention measures at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium here on Saturday. Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj sensitised the workers to the measures to be carried out to prevent dengue outbreak. He instructed them to look for mosquito breeding grounds such as water storage drums, tanks, flower pots during door-to-door checks. They were asked to advise the public on keeping residential premises clean and to prevent water stagnation. The Corporation Commissioner advised the public to cooperate with the Corporation staff in dengue prevention measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-sensitises-field-workers-to-dengue-prevention-measures/article36160771.ece
29 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel undergo training||Police personnel from the Salem Rural Limits underwent a training programme on ‘Disaster Rescue Techniques’ at Mookaneri lake here on Saturday. According to the police, close to 60 personnel from the Salem Armed Reserve and rural police stations took part in the three-day programme. A team from the Commando Training School in Chennai and Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Shevapet station imparted the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-undergo-training/article36160772.ece
29 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ensure reliable marketing avenue for produce, say delta farmers||While appreciating the State government for adopting a special resolution against the three farm laws in the Legislative Assembly, a section of delta farmers on Saturday stressed the need to ensure a reliable and profitable marketing avenue for their produce in view of the ‘monopolised’ paddy procurement process over the decades. Meanwhile, the observation of the Agriculture Minister, M.R.K.Panneerselvam that strengthening of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1989 instead of bringing in an enactment for each mode of the marketing system and a recent call given by a District-level Marketing Committee in the Delta region to the farmers to utilise the services of the Regulated Markets (RM) was viewed as a positive step towards opening up the avenues of marketing of paddy. Welcoming the Marketing Committee’s call to farmers, the general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, S.Ranganathan said that it would result in farmers avail a better price depending on the quality of their produce through auctioning. The cultivators could be encouraged to market 50 per cent of their produce through the RMs and measure the remaining quantity at the direct purchase centres, he added. Cautioning the government that a paddy market without government’s intervention would result in monopolisation by traders, a progressive farmer from Periyakottai in Madukkur Union, R.Sabapathy suggested that necessary facilities such as winnowing, drying and transportation should be made available to the farmers to utilise the auctioning service offered by the Regulated Markets. The president, Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Association in Tamil Nadu, P.R.Pandian, Thanjavur District Secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (affiliated to CPI-Marxists), N.V.Kannan and the Secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Sundara Vimalanathan have also welcomed the passing of the resolution seeking the repeal of Central Farm Laws. A section of farmers recalled that the concept of ‘marketing committees’ was introduced to the country by the State as early as in the 1950s. However, the avenues of marketing shrunk with the introduction of minimum support price and ‘incentives’ subsequently as the granary of Tamil Nadu became the major source for the procurement of paddy by the government procurement agencies. Since then the paddy market has turned into a monopolised avenue where the farmers were to remain content with the price that was offered as MSP with incentive, they felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-reliable-marketing-avenue-for-produce-say-delta-farmers/article36160746.ece
29 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Paddy seized from defunct rice mill||Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation officials seized paddy stored in huge quantities from a defunct modern rice mill near here on Saturday. According to official sources, the TNCSC Senior Regional Manager, Thanjavur, Umamaheswari received information that paddy had been stored in a private rice mill which remained locked for the past 10 years at Marunkulam. Apart from piles of paddy in the godowns, around 4,000 gunny bags of paddy and 350 empty gunny bags were seized, the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-seized-from-defunct-rice-mill/article36160730.ece
29 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi-Karaikal service to resume||Train service between Tiruchi and Karaikal will resume on August 30, according to the Divisional Railway Manager, Manish Agarwarl. Disclosing this to reporters here on Saturday, the DRM said efforts are being initiated for the resumption of train services that were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Stating that the service between Tiruchi and Karaikal would resume from Monday, Mr.Manish Agarwal said the speed of Tiruvarur-Karaikudi service would be increased after the appointment of gatekeepers at the level crossings in that section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-karaikal-service-to-resume/article36160729.ece
29 August 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Job racket busted, Theni police arrest 3 from Delhi||The Theni Police have arrested three persons from New Delhi on charges of cheating people by promising them employment in public sector banks, airports and other undertakings and siphoning off several lakhs of rupees. Speaking to reporters, Superintendent of Police Dongre Praveen Umesh said on Friday that following a complaint from Sarada (31) wife of Malaichami of Jambuliputhur, near Andipatti, the Cyber Crime police had registered a case. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the complainant, a graduate, had received an SMS from an unknown number assuring her of a job in government undertaking. Believing it to be true, she had called the person, who had asked for documents such as photocopy of her graduation degree etc. After giving a link, the caller had asked her to remit Rs. 2,550 in a bank account. Within about a fortnight, the caller had sent a ‘letter’ to her, which was an appointment order. Subsequent verification proved it was fake. Thinking the ‘order’ was real, the woman had sent money to the bank account in a phased manner as the caller had listed out expenditure towards returnable deposit, orientation charge, training for three months, family insurance, opening of salary account in a bank and among others. The woman had sent a total amount of Rs. 15,74,425. But as she still remained without work, she grew suspicious and lodged a complaint, the SP said. A special team led by Inspector Saravanan and 10 others was sent to New Delhi to probe the case. The team succeeded in arresting - Vijay (29), Ramchandar (33) and Govind (23. Based on their confession, the police unravelled that two among the trio hailed from Namakkal district. About 20 years ago, they had settled in New Delhi. As they worked in a bank as subordinate staff, they had good knowledge about the working pattern, training programmes, offer letter and pay fixation for different levels of staff/officers. The modus operandi of the gang was to give some money to economically weaker sections, who were illiterate, to open bank accounts. With the identity cards of these people, the gang purchased SIM cards and sent SMS to people at random offering jobs. The bank accounts were also opened in the name of persons, who were in the habit of consuming liquor and drugs. Police said, the gang may have siphoned off huge money as they had been spending lavishly over the years by living in posh locality and apartments. They had also travelled overseas. The police team seized 31 mobile phones, Rs. 50,000 in cash and some documents. The reason they targeted people in Tamil Nadu was that most of the victims never went to New Delhi to trace the gang. As the suspects also withdrew the money immediately and closed the accounts, it was difficult for the victims to trace the account holders. The gang, it seems, had obtained the data regarding mobile numbers of people living in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities for a price from an agency in Chennai. At least, people from 20 districts in T.N. may have been cheated by the trio. They had a register with names of people (who were cheated), their mobile numbers, the bank account to which the money was transferred and withdrawn, et al,. In short, with about 30 to 35 mobile phones, they functioned like a call centre from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and cheated people. The three persons were produced before a court. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-racket-busted-theni-police-arrest-three-persons-from-delhi/article36160692.ece
29 August 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Theni Collector plays good Samaritan to accident victim||Theni Collector K. V. Muralidharan’s kind act on Saturday that saw him accompanying a road accident victim to the government hospital was appreciated by the villagers of Sillamarathupatti near Uthamapalayam. The kind gesture of the top official in the district moved the accident victim so much that despite the pain he was suffering, he thanked the Collector profusely for being with him at the hour of crisis. Officials said that Mr. Muralidharan was returning to Theni after inspecting the arrangements at Kumuli checkpost in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. On seeing a crowd near a village, he stopped the car and stepped out to inquire. On realising that an accident had just occurred and the victim was waiting for the ambulance to come, the Collector waited for the vehicle to reach the spot. After helping him get into the ambulance, he also went to Uthamapalayam GH to oversee the medical intervention. As the presence of the Collector at the hospital started spreading in the social media, encomiums started pouring in from various quarters. The Collector appealed to the motorists to follow road rules and wear helmets. Similarly, he also insisted four-wheeler users to wear seatbelts and avoid rash and negligent driving. Any death or injury may lead to sufferings for the family members and realising the consequences, the public should enforce self-discipline, Mr Muralidharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-collector-plays-good-samaritan-to-accident-victim/article36160695.ece
29 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Three held for cheating||The Cyber Crime Police, Thoothukudi district, on Saturday arrested three persons, including one from Madurai, on the charge of cheating people by promising them jobs in government-approved companies. Superintendent of Police S. Jeyakumar ordered the Cyber Crime DSP Jayaram to form a team and probe the complaint lodged by a young woman. According to the complainant, she approached the firm in Pudugramam on July 14 after they had posted an advertisement offering jobs in government approved companies on their Facebook account. After conducting an ‘interview’ at their office, the ‘firm’ had told her that she would get an SMS on her registered mobile phone soon. On receipt of the SMS, she was directed to remit Rs. 8,000. The ‘firm’ had also created an ‘employee ID’ and texted the OTP to her with which she was directed to open the link. Believing all this, the woman joined the ‘firm’. After about a week, she was told to give training to new entrants. When even after a fortnight, she did not get her salary, the ‘firm’ directed her to bring in fresh recruits and only then would she be able to get her pay. When she refused, she was allegedly threatened, she said in her complaint. Multi-level marketing style A police officer, who was part of the investigations, said that the three-member gang had taken money from the first five persons by offering them lucrative jobs, but had failed to keep up the promise. In a bid to return their money, the gang had told them to bring in nine persons each and take their cut. At one point, the probe indicated that the gang may have cheated at least 40 to 60 people and collected Rs. 10,000 each. In the process, those, who had brought in fresh people in the second batch, may have taken away Rs. 8,000 each. Many applications, passport size photographs, photocopies of their Aadhar card, degree certificates and address proof etc, were seized. The names of the arrested persons were given as Marimuthu (23) son of Maarnaadu of V Karisalkulam, Virudhunagar district, Manikandan (24) son of Kannan of Solai Alagupuram, Subramaniapuram, Madurai, and Christian Sudakar (23) son of Samuel of Moondradaippu Tirunelveli district. The police suspect that close to 100 people may have been cheated. Further investigation was on. The SP appealed to the public to verify the antecedents of such firms inviting people for walk-in interviews and offering jobs. Simple checks would not only save the savings of the common man, but also discourage such offenders from indulging in criminal acts. Building owners and hoteliers should cross-check before letting out their premises and rooms in lodges to people, run such fly-by-night firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-crime-police-arrest-three-persons-for-cheating/article36160696.ece
29 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Only 20 students will sit in a classroom, says CEO||Only 20 students would be permitted to sit in a classroom and if the rooms were spacious more number of students would be accommodated, said Chief Educational Officer, Thoothukudi district, K. Baladhandayuthapani here on Saturday. Presiding over a meeting attended by Headmasters/Headmistress from various government higher secondary schools in the district, he said that the government had released an order with instructions to be followed by the institutions ahead of reopening of schools from September 1 for Classes IX, X, XI and XII. Appealing to the heads of the institutions to ensure compliance, the CEO said that playgrounds would not be used and there would be no prayer meetings. Biometric form of marking attendance shall be dispensed with until further orders. Similarly, educational institutions, which were in containment zones should not reopen the campuses, he said and the online classes would be kept alive simultaneously for students who preferred to take it. Adhere to SOP The members were informed to ensure that there was no crowding and all the students, teaching and non-teaching staff were adhering to the SOP strictly. The schools were told to keep adequate stock of sanitizers and masks. The use of thermal scanners would be made mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-20-students-will-sit-in-a-classroom-says-ceo/article36161059.ece
29 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Schools get ready to reopen||As the State government has allowed schools to reopen on Wednesday, several primary, middle and higher secondary schools in the district face the mammoth task of putting the necessary infrastructure in order. There are about 350 schools including Government and Government aided in the district. Except for a few weeks in February and March they remain closed since March 2020. Some schools functioned for a few days with the selected teachers mainly to work out marks and distribute transfer certificates to the students. Since the schools were literally closed for more than 18 months, school campuses have seen wild growth of bushes and plants. With the toilets hardly used for several months, the sanitary infrastructure too is said to be in a disoriented condition. Several schools are reportedly facing the issues of electricity, power supply and drinking water supply. Though the State government announced its plan to reopen the schools on September 1 nearly a month ago, it is said that most schools had begun the task of cleaning their premises only a few days ago. The cleaning drive has picked up momentum after Collector S. Sivarasu, who held a meeting with the Commissioners of Tiruchi Corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and the rural development two days ago, asked them to employ their sanitary staff members. They were asked to use the services of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee workers to clean up the premises. However, it is said that many schools face difficulties in employing sanitary workers. Vast sizes of government schools also pose difficulties in cleaning the premises within a short span of time. The size of several Government Higher Secondary Schools varies between 5 acres to 20 acres. There are schools that have mobilised men and materials in setting their premises, classrooms, laboratories, toilets and playgrounds in order with the contribution of teaching, non-teaching staff members and well-wishers. “We are eager to open the school after a long gap. We are ensuring everything is in order before reopening. We have employed locally available labourers as well to clean up the premises,” says Vasantha Mallika, Headmistress, Government Special Higher Secondary School, Mathur on Tiruchi-Pudukottai border. Mr. Sivarasu told The Hindu that he had received inputs that electricity issues in various higher secondary schools had been solved. Instructions had been given to the teachers to reconnect the power supply from Tangedco as early as possible. All local bodies were instructed to deploy the sanitary and rural job scheme workers to clean up school premises. The drive would be completed within Monday. He had planned to make inspection shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-get-ready-to-reopen/article36160740.ece
29 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PWD to take up conservation works||The Public Works Department has planned to take conservation, renovation and restoration of some of the heritage buildings in Tiruchi, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts. Eight such buildings, including the Pudukottai Collector’s Office building, are to be taken up for conservation under the initiative in the districts. The Pudukottai Collector’s Office housed in a majestic granite structure was the New Palace built in 1930 during the tenure of Raja Rajagopala Thondaiman (1928 -1948), the last and ninth in the line of Thondaiman rulers, according to a note tracing the history of the district in its official website. The new palace was an important architectural contribution of the period. After Independence, the Pudukkottai Princely State was amalgamated with Indian Union in March 1948. The PWD would take up the conservation and restoration work on this heritage building at a cost of Rs. 1.46 crore, according to the Policy Note tabled by the PWD Minister E.V.Velu recently. The PWD would also take up the Collector’s residence, another heritage building, at an estimated cost of Rs. 58 lakhs. This apart, the PWD would take up restoration works on the Keeranur, Alangudi and Thirumayam taluk office buildings, all heritage structures. The department would spend about Rs. 3.43 crore to renovate the Thirumayam taluk office building and Rs. 97 lakhs on restoring the Alangudi taluk office building. The Keeranur taluk office building would be renovated at a cost of Rs. 52 lakh. In Nagapattinam district, the PWD would be taken up renovation and restoration of the heritage building, now housing the District Court and Munsif Court, at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.90 crore. The policy note also pointed out that the PWD had already taken up conservation and restoration works, which were under progress, on various other heritage buildings in the central region including the Rani Mangammal building at the old District Collectorate complex in Tiruchi at an estimated cost of Rs. 9.40 crore. Conservation works had also been taken up on a portion of Senior Prince’s Quarters in the heritage structure of Thanjavur Palace at a cost of Rs. 2.45 crore. This, apart the PWD had taken up restoration works at the Chief Judicial Magistrate building in Tiruchi at a cost of Rs. 1.34 crore and on the Grand Anicut Canal Executive Engineer quarters building in Thanjavur district at a cost of Rs. 1.23 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-to-take-up-conservation-works/article36160733.ece
29 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Palliative care centre at Tiruchi GH||The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has set up a palliative care facility for terminally ill patients. While an outpatient clinic has been set up, the facility will begin admitting patients as and when the need arises. A palliative care unit will function from the first floor of the Super-Speciality block of the Tiruchi GH every Wednesday from 9 am to noon. Doctors at the clinic will screen patients for illnesses and admit them to the clinic if necessary. Speaking to The Hindu , K. Vanitha, Dean, Tiruchi GH said that patients with any chronic illness will be allowed to meet doctors at the palliative care facility. "There are many patients who suffer intolerable pain, but accept it as a part of the chronic illness. We want to care for them at our hospital," she said. For cancer patients, radiation therapy, chemotherapy and other treatment can be provided. "We want to help relieve the pain of the side-effects that also comes with the illnesses," she said. The Dean said that the facility would be especially for terminally ill patients, for whom five beds have been allotted. "Doctors from all departments, depending upon the necessity, will be available to see the patient," she said. The hospital also plans to set up a hospice to serve as a home for terminally ill patients in the last months of their life. "We are considering the possibilities of setting up such a centre and are discussing it with the Collector," Dr. Vanitha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palliative-care-centre-at-tiruchi-gh/article36160741.ece
29 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHEL employee secures U.K. scholarships||An employee of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Tiruchi, has secured both Chevening and Mansion House scholarships to study in the United Kingdom. S. Shyamaladevi, Deputy Manager, Quality, BHE,L prepared to apply for the scholarships during the COVID-19 lockdown and will soon be pursuing her masters in Sustainable Energy Futures from Imperial College, London. Chevening is the UK government’s international scholarships programme while the Mansion House scholarship is awarded to graduates from countries visited by the Lord Mayor of the City of London. Ms. Shyamaladevi is the ninth Indian in 23 years to be awarded the Mansion House Scholarship. She studied at Sri GRM Girls Higher Secondary School in Tiruvarur where she secured the highest marks in Class 12. Her scores secured her admission into the College of Engineering Guindy, where she pursued Industrial Engineering and was recruited to BHEL through campus placements. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Shyamaladevi said that preparing for the scholarships gave her a sense of purpose during the COVID-19 lockdown. "The pandemic proved that humans can rise above every hurdle and can handle any situation efficiently even if it means working from the confines of our own houses. We must adapt ourselves, however difficult it may be," she said. Ms. Shyamaladevi advised students aspiring to study abroad to prepare for such scholarships. "The intention to make a difference is what matters. Don't worry about the end result, keep faith in yourself and give your best," she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-employee-secures-uk-scholarships/article36160742.ece
29 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||292 fresh COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region reported 292 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Two patients succumbed to the illness in the region. Both who died of the viral infection hailed from Pudukottai. The number of cases reported in most districts in the region has registered a dip. Thanjavur district reported a minute increase in fresh cases. On Saturday, 77 patients tested positive in Thanjavur and 55 in Tiruchi. Tiruvarur district too recorded a slight increase in fresh cases. Thirty-seven patients reported COVID-19 positive in the district, while in Nagapattinam 31 were positive. Pudukottai district recorded 28 fresh cases and Mayiladuthurai 25. In Karur district, 17 patients reported positive, and in Ariyalur 16. The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Perambalur district remained steady with six fresh cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/292-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36160731.ece
29 August 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Yelagiri Hills reopened for tourists||Tourists will be allowed to visit Yelagiri Hills from today. The popular tourist destination had remained out of bounds for tourists for more than a year. The Tirupattur district administration has restored basic facilities, including water supply, rest rooms and roads on the hillock. On Saturday, Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha inspected various civic facilities at the hill station. At present, the hill station, which has 14 hairpin bends, has seven tourist spots, including the famous boat house, herbal farm, children’s park, Punganur lake and a central park. “We have sanitised the hill station. Visitors will not be allowed without masks. Help desk has been set up to guide visitors,” Mr. Kushwaha told The Hindu . A major attraction in the hill station is the artificial lake. Spread over 60 sq m., the Punganur Lake is famous for boating. At present, the boat complex has more than 15 fibre boats, each with a capacity to carry six persons. A herbal farm is being maintained by the Forest Department. Among the prominent herbs at the park are thavasi keerai, nilavembu , nochi, thumbai, avuri and aadu theenda palai . Most of the visitors mainly come from Krishnagiri, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, and Hosur. Boat houses in the spacious boat complex on the hill station are being readied for long distance travellers, especially from Chennai and Bengaluru. The district administration plans to organise food, flower and cultural festivals on the hill station to increase the footfalls to pre-pandemic levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yelagiri-hills-reopened-for-tourists/article36160992.ece
29 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman ends life due to losses in online trading||A woman hailing from Dharapuram ended her life allegedly after incurring losses in online trading. The police said that S. Rathidevi (39), a resident of Kurinji Nagar near Dharapuram, took her ife on Saturday. According to the police, her husband has been running a two-wheeler workshop. The income of the family was hit by the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The police said that Rathidevi, a graduate, ventured into online trading to support the family. However, she incurred losses in the share market. The woman, according to the police, was afraid to inform her husband about the losses. (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-ends-life-due-to-losses-in-online-trading/article36160681.ece
29 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Police hold counselling for repeat offenders||In an effort to encourage motorists, especially two-wheeler riders and autorickshaw drivers, to follow traffic rules including halting at stopline, Vellore District Traffic Police organised counselling sessions for repeat traffic offenders. This is the second such session in less two months at the Traffic Police Station on Vella Mundy Street on Saturday. Based on the CCTV footage on key stretches such as Anna Salai, Fort Round Road, Court Road and Green Circle since June, the traffic police identified110 repeat traffic offenders, mainly for unauthorised parking. Most of the persons identified were from Katpadi, Sattuvachari and Rangapuram on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway (NH 48). They were autorickshaw drivers who do not have allotted space to park their vehicles. More than 30,000 autorickshaws ply in the town. “We organised counselling sessions for the second time mainly for autorickshaw drivers to prevent them from parking in busy areas in the district. Between the two counselling sessions, repeated traffic violations have declined considerably,” Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Vellore, told The Hindu . The counseling team, which was led by reserve inspector (Traffic) R. Srinivasan, and motor vehicle inspectors S. Sakthivel, and Karunanidhi explained about various laws that prohibit such unauthorised parking in public places and punishment, including fines for such offences. At present, such unauthorised parking is done mainly in old bus terminus, Fort complex and Sarathy mansion, Arcot Road, CMC and Katpadi junction in the Fort Town. A special traffic team has been formed to monitor traffic violations including unauthorised parking, rash driving and jumping off the signal at the traffic control room that has been set up in the North Police Station recently. As a first step to ease traffic flow on Anna Salai, only two-wheeler parking has been allowed along the Sarathy mansion, which is located opposite to the Vellore Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-hold-counselling-for-repeat-offenders/article36161065.ece
29 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||15 fresh cases in Vellore, 17 in Ranipet||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,804 with 15 new cases reported on August 28. While 47,395 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 301. The district’s death toll is 1,108. In Ranipet district, 17 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,516. In Tirupattur district, nine new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,563. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 32, taking the tally to 53,253. Out of this, 52,228 have been discharged and the number of active cases stood at 374.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-fresh-cases-in-vellore-17-in-ranipet/article36161066.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mystery of the missing coal||Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji’s statement last week that 2.38 lakh tonnes of coal, valued at Rs. 85 crore, had gone missing from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited’s (Tangedco) North Chennai power plant, and hinting about similar issues in the Mettur and Tuticorin thermal stations, has raised quite a few eyebrows. Sources in the Tangedco said the issue actually first came to light when a senior official brought it to the notice of the then Chairman and Managing Director Pankaj Kumar Bansal about ‘coal shortage’ in the Tuticorin thermal power station. Immediately, a committee was formed to inspect all thermal power stations and prepare a report of the coal loss. But the committee did not take any steps due to the forthcoming Assembly election in the State, they added. With the DMK government assuming power three months ago, both the Electricity Minister and current Tangedco Chief Rajesh Lakhoni convened a meeting of the committee members and asked them to prepare an initial report. The report contained the information on the missing coal, sources said. Mr. Senthilbalaji has accused the previous AIADMK government of mismanagement, and has ordered an investigation. Speaking to The Hindu , former Electricity Minister and AIADMK leader P. Thangamani claimed the ‘shortage’ of coal was identified during August 2020 when he went to New Delhi to meet the Union Power Minister regarding the augmentation of coal supply to the State. He said that when he was notified of the difference between the coal stock shown and the actual available coal, he had ordered an inquiry and formed a committee. “Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic intensified and I became involved with party work for the Assembly election, so the issue could not be pursued further,” Mr. Thangamani added. Denying any wrongdoing, he said he was willing to face any inquiry. Mr. Thangamani also added that the shortage could have been owing to a technical error, and not manual sabotage. As of now, the missing coal issue raises more questions than there are answers available, but let us focus the spotlight on the way Tangedco manages its coal requirements. Assembly line Coal, which is used as the primary fuel at thermal power stations, accounted for 95.54%-98.41% of the total cost of generation of Tangedco during 2014-19, according to a report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on the Public Sector Undertakings in Tamil Nadu for the year ended March 31, 2019. Tangedco meets its coal requirement through indigenous coal as well as imported coal. The indigenous coal is sourced from four subsidiaries of Coal India and Singareni Collieries Company Limited. Imported coal is being procured mainly from Indonesia. The indigenous and imported coal are blended and used in thermal power stations. From the mines, the coal is transported through ports. Further, the stock is routed to the power plants through railways and conveyor systems. The efficiency of a power plant is determined by the quality of coal used, which in turn is measured in terms of calorific value expressed in kilocalories per kilogram (kcal/kg). “This [missing coal] does not seem to be a direct theft of physical coal from the plant. This has got to do with the quality of coal. Imported coal needs to have 6,000 kcal/kg as per tenders, but only 4,500 kcal/kg of poor quality coal come in reality,” Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor, Arappor Iyakkam, pointed out. Due to this, the plant has to use additional load to achieve the same power output as it would have realised with 6,000 kcal. However, in order to cover up the corruption in the quality of coal, the additional loads used are not recorded. Recording it would show more tonnes used per MW of electricity generated, which will indicate lower efficiency and questions about coal quality. Therefore, the stock is used but not shown, he explained. In 2018, Arappor Iyakkam had alleged a major scam in coal procurement and lodged a complaint with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. A former Tangedco official blamed supplier Coal India for the stock loss issue. “Normally Coal India would bill for high quality coal but supply only low quality coal. Moreover, all these years Tangedco has never bothered to take into consideration the loss that happens during transit,” he pointed out. The retired official said that during transit, either through rail or ship, 5%-6% of loss would occur. The transit loss would naturally bring down the calorific value of the coal, resulting in the downgrading of the efficiency factor. However, the transit loss was not accounted for in quantity or financial terms. The managers had not taken this to the notice of senior officials, he added. The former official also said coal transporters would remain silent about it, as they need to compensate for the reduced quantity. K.E. Raghunathan, convenor of the Consortium of Indian Associations, said the key thing to watch out for was whether there was a system to verify the physical stocks with those in the books and whether a periodic audit was done. “If there was no system in place, that should be fixed first,” he added. Lapses in management Interestingly, the CAG report, tabled in the Assembly on June 24, 2021, has dealt with the aspect of coal management in the thermal power stations of Tangedco and pointed out a slew of lapses. The audit observed that Tangedco did not record the shortage of coal from the collieries to the load ports. “There was no provision for periodical assessment of coal shortages and recovery thereof. As a result of this, coal shortages occurring during the past 18 years (2001-19) have not been recorded. Thereby, the Tangedco was unable to assess the shortage of coal,” it added. Tangedco should ensure that coal shortages are recorded at regular intervals and recoveries effected before the closure of contracts to protect financial interest. Tangedco may prioritise the reconciliation of transit loss as it was pending for over 19 years, the CAG said. It also pointed out that Tangedco has not documented or created any logbook for witnessing and recording weighing of coal at mines. For instance, the audit report pointed out that coal unloaded from ships at discharge ports in Ennore and Thoothukudi are accounted on the basis of draft survey reports, without cross-verifying the actual quantity delivered at the coal yard. A draft survey is a calculation of the weight of cargo loaded to or unloaded from a ship from the measurements of changes in its displacement. The technique is based on Archimedes’ principle, it said. The audit pointed out that V.O.C. Port Trust in Thoothukudi estimated a coal spillage of 12,000 tonnes into the sea during unloading during 2015-19. However, this shortage was not reflected in Tangedco’s books of accounts. The Tamil Nadu government in its reply (September/October 2020) stated that there was no provision in the CAG’s audit report and also observed that Tangedco had no separate ‘quality assurance wing’ to cover the entire gamut of coal quality activities. Quality issues are dealt with by only one official, indicating lack of monitoring of procurement activities valuing above Rs. 4,000 crore per annum. A sample survey in the audit report, conducted among Tangedco personnel, showed most of them were not aware of how much kilograms of coal should be collected from each wagon for sampling. They were not aware of the relevant BIS procedure applicable for sample collection and testing, it added. The then State government stated that to rectify the infirmities pointed out, formation of a separate Coal Quality Monitoring Wing was under scrutiny, the CAG said. It also pointed out as against the normative loss of calorific value of 120 kcal/kg, the actual loss during transportation ranged between 140 and 2,256 kcal/kg, resulting in wasteful expenditure of Rs. 2,012.65 crore. Even though there were instances of a drop in gross calorific value (GCV) during consumption immediately upon its receipt on the same day, Tangedco had not analysed the reasons for the same, the CAG said. Further, it said operational efficiency of thermal power stations was regulated through station heat rate, which depended on the quantity and quality of coal. Station heat rate was measured in terms of quantity of coal multiplied by the GCV and divided by number of units of energy generated. The actual station heat rate was in excess of the norm stipulated by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission in all thermal power stations (excluding the Mettur power station I in 2015-16 and the Mettur power station II from 2016-17 to 2018-19), the report said. This resulted in excess consumption of coal of 56.85 lakh tonnes, valuing Rs. 2,317.16 crore throughout 2014-19, it added. The CAG also noted that Tangedco could not reduce specific coal consumption, despite usage of higher proportion of imported coal, having high calorific value, at all thermal power stations. The State government, in its reply, had said the station heat rate could not be achieved owing to the ageing of the power plants, receipt of poor quality of coal and non-operation of plant at full capacity due to load restrictions. However, the CAG said the reply was not convincing because the norm was fixed only after these factors were taken into account. The CAG also pointed out that specific coal consumption, which reflects coal used to produce one unit of energy, remained the same in all thermal stations for all 60 months during 2014-19, irrespective of whether imported coal was blended to a lesser or greater extent. Specific coal consumption did not improve despite blending higher gross calorific value imported coal in thermal power stations, and this was indicative of other operational deficiencies, which need to be analysed by Tangedco, as it continued to incur higher cost for procuring imported coal, the CAG said.  In the revised Budget for 2021-22, the Tamil Nadu government said the installed capacity of Tangedco’s own existing thermal power plants was only 4,320 MW. Out of it, 12 units, generating 2,520 MW, were more than 25 years old and need to be replaced soon, it added. While only an investigation would bring out the actual reason for the missing coal, there are many shortcomings in coal management by Tangedco. Given the State government’s ambitious capacity addition target, how it fixes the issues in coal management would be closely watched.  This does not seem to be a direct theft of coal from the plant. This has got to do with the quality of coal. Imported coal needs to have 6,000 kcal/kg as per tenders, but only 4,500 kcal/kg of poor quality coal come in reality Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor, Arappor Iyakkam   Normally Coal India would bill for high quality coal but supply only low quality coal. Moreover, all these years Tangedco has never bothered to take into consideration the loss that happens during transit A former officialTangedco||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mystery-of-the-missing-coal/article36160638.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Saving elephants, the Hosur way||It was smack bang during the lockdown due to the second wave of COVID-19 this June that young TNPS (Tamil Nadu Police Service) officer K. Kiruthikaa took charge as the Deputy Superintendent of Police in Denkanikottai, Krishnagiri district. In three days, with the help of her boss, Superintendent of Police, Krishnagiri district, E. Sai Charan Tejaswi, she put together a plan to tackle a major issue in the area. Ms. Kiruthikaa’s father, a retired Indian Forest Service officer, helped her, by cajoling the Hosur Forest Department to join the task. Ms. Kiruthikaa and her boss were concerned about the number of murders using guns in the Hosur area, specifically in Denkanikottai, Thally, Anchetty and Kelamangalam. They could not understand how the gun culture had come about in these remote villages lining the Eastern Ghats. “As I made enquiries, it became clear that pretty much everyone in these areas possessed a gun,” said Ms. Kiruthikaa. “These are locally made weapons. Many villagers poach wildlife — deer or kaattu panni [wild pigs]. But the main reason these guns exist is elephant poaching — for the tusks,” she said. Guns and gun makers The first job was to get a tandora (public announcement) out across these villages. Beating drums, the local thalaiyari shouted out the warning. “Whoever has an illegal weapon, must deposit them either today or tomorrow, at the village centre or at the panchayat office. If you do this voluntarily, no case will be filed against you. But if the police find illegal weapons in your possession, cases will be filed,” they announced in Tamil, Kannada and the local dialects. The deadline for surrendering guns was two weeks. Meanwhile, the district police and the Forest Department worked feverishly to identify key persons involved in the manufacture and transport of illegal rifles. Three gun manufacturers were identified — Nanjachari from Unisenatham village near Thally, Krishnamachari alias Krishnan and another Krishnamachari from Denkanikottai and Anchetty. Three gunpowder manufacturers too were put under surveillance — one each from Denkanikottai, Anchetty and Kelamangalam. Two weeks after the first tandora , on July 19, 20 and 21, five special teams comprising six police and forest personnel each, swung into action, and conducted day and night simultaneous raids to ensure no one escaped Thirty-eight live firing guns — single-barrel loaded guns — were seized from 21 peopel who were arrested. Twelve rifles were surrendered, although these were largely not in working order. The two Krishnamacharis were picked up. But, the key gun maker, Nanjachari, had fled. Tracking Nanjachari Three special teams were then formed to track him down. Local lore has it that Nanjachari has been making guns since he was 13. There are rumours that he has helped the forest brigand, Veerappan’s gang, by repairing weapons, something his family denies stoutly. About 8 km away from Thally, Nanjachari’s home nestles on a slope, surrounded by a rose farm on one side and with large tracts of grazing land on the other. The entrance to his modest home is a cowshed. Behind it is Nanjachari’s workshop, once with lathe and foundry machines. The police removed the lathe during the raids. By the time the police landed up at Nanjachari’s house, the 65 year old had fled with his driver Upendra alias Uppi and the gun-maker’s younger brother, Jayaraman. They arrested Nanjachari’s son Lokesh, a relative Venkatraj and a helper, Imran. “We recovered 24 items used for making guns from his residence,” said Sub-Inspector M. Karthikeyan of the Thally police station. “We also found 14 machines that were used in the gun-making process,” he said. Nanjachari was finally arrested deep in the Bannerghatta forests in Karnataka, after weeks of old-fashioned tracking, since the gun-maker did not use a cell phone. He was camping there with Uppi, when the special team surprised them. He was remanded, found to be ill with severe lung ailments, and is now out on bail. “The police have foisted false cases on us,” says Lokesh, who is also out on bail. “Our profession is to create swings for deities in temples. We do not know anything about guns,” he said. Chasing ivory In the past year, official sources say that three instances of tusks being smuggled into Karnataka near the Hosur border have been recorded. The smugglers are invariably from Denkanikottai, Anchetty or Thally. The Hosur district forest officials, however, have not made any arrests or seizures. “The problem is complex due to the migratory nature of the elephants and also jurisdictional issues,” said K. Karthikeyani, District Forest Officer, Hosur. “We are hoping that these raids will help bring the number of weapons down and prevent poaching,” she added. By the end of July, over 80 illegal guns had been recovered across Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. More tandoras and raids have been planned in Hosur in the near future. Elephants migrate between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu via Hosur from October to February every year. If the Hosur police and forest officials manage to break the illegal gun network’s back, the jumbos can migrate in peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saving-elephants-the-hosur-way/article36160649.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-attraction/article36160686.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Assembly passes special resolution||Referring to the protests by farmers since last year, Mr. Stalin said it could be said that no other protests since Independence had such a reach and were so long. “In this situation, it is our duty to oppose the farm laws.” With an “intention to destroy” regulated markets where farmers could sell their produce, the Union government had brought in these laws, he contended. He also pointed out that these laws had not even mentioned the MSP which farmers had been demanding for long. These laws could affect the regulated markets under the control of the State government, he pointed out. Speaker M. Appavu said the resolution was being adopted “unanimously”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-assembly-passes-special-resolution/article36160658.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 1||PMK MLAs did not stop at sporting green shawls to mark the debate on demand for grants for the Agriculture Department. They brought folders that were uniformly green.Two weeks ago, the PMK floor leader had regretted that members forgot to bring green shawls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-1/article36160654.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 2||When AIADMK MLA K. Radhakrishnan wound up his speech after managing to convince the Deputy Speaker of the need for more time repeatedly, the Speaker, who just returned to the Chair, said: “Though you read out achievements of your government, your achievement was to speak for 23 minutes, though you were to speak for just 15 minutes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-2/article36160655.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Snippet 3||A day after a VCK MLA praised the Chief Minister, a legislator from the AIADMK alliance too joined the club. PMK MLA S. Sadhasivam (Mettur) praised the Chief Minister by saying he was in the hearts of the people. He thanked ‘ Thalapathy’ for issuing a government order to implement the reservation for Vanniyars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snippet-3/article36160656.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reopen Classes VI to VIII after Sept. 13’||The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the government should consider reopening schools for classes VI to VIII from September 13 onwards. This can be done after studying the impact of the current reopening of classes (for Class IX onwards) in the coming three weeks, the TAC has suggested. Classes for IX, X and pre-university students commenced from August 23 in the State. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had earlies this month announced the reopening of classes for students of Class IX onwards from August 23, had said that a decision regarding classes VI to VIII would be taken by the end of August. In this background, the Chief Minister has convened a meeting of the TAC and other COVID-19 experts on Monday. There are 29 lakh children in the age group of 11-13 studying in Classes VI to VIII. The TAC that discussed the reopening of schools at its 123rd meeting held on August 26 has said that with the Ganesha festival falling on September 10, a three-week wait before resuming Classes VI to VIII was advisable as it would cover one incubation period. “The impact of the ongoing physical classes, in terms of number of children testing positive, clinical presentation, severity and their management, and response of the parents, teachers, school managements and the public at large, should be studied. The situation will be reviewed on September 8,” stated the report on the TAC’s recommendations. V. Anbukumar, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that the department was keen to reopen physical classes for students of Classes VI to VIII. “We are ready for all permutations and combinations and will work based on the TAC’s suggestion,” he said. On August 23, schools were reopened in the State for Class IX onwards, except those located in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Kodagu, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru districts that had a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of over 2% or slightly lower. This decision impacted a total of 12.2 lakh students. With regard to this, the TAC has recommended that 10% of these students should be randomly tested weekly by RT-PCR and the positivity rate should be reported. “If the TPR exceeds 2% in a school, then the school should be closed for a week, sanitised, the contacts of the positives tested, and further action taken,” the TAC report stated. SOPs for Teachers’ Day The committee has also recommended Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for conducting public functions such as Teachers Day (September 5) in Karnataka. It has advised that the State should desist from holding any public functions in general, especially in the districts/taluks having TPR of more than 2%. “The situation of COVID-19 in the State has remained almost constant with 1,500 to 1,800 new cases being reported daily in the past three weeks. Some districts bordering Kerala are showing higher TPR of over 2%. Holding public functions in these districts is not advisable,” the report stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reopen-classes-vi-to-viii-after-sept-13/article36160584.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CET-2021 results to be out by September 20, says Minister||The results of the Common Entrance Test 2021 will be announced by September 20, and counselling will begin in the first week of October. This was announced by Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan during his visit to the examination centres in Bengaluru on Saturday, the first day of the entrance examination, which was conducted in 530 centres in the State. “On day one, the test was conducted without any discrepancies with all safety measures and COVID-19 protocols in place,” the Minister said. Though 12 candidates were positive for COVID-19 at the time of registration, the reports of four students came back negative when they were tested prior to the exam. “The four students were allowed to write examinations with other candidates. However, those who tested positive were allowed to write exams from the COVID care centres identified by the respective district administrations,” Mr. Narayan added. Despite the weekend curfew at border districts like Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Kodagu, and Udupi, the examination was conducted without hassle. Many students told The Hindu that the biology was very easy, while mathematics paper was moderate and many students found it difficult to complete in 60 minutes. Of the 2,01,834 candidates who registered for CET-2021, on the first day of the examination, 1,62,439 (80.48%) candidates appeared for the biology examination, while 1,89,522 (93.90%) candidates appeared for the mathematics paper. Candidates anxious As it was the first physical examination many were attending in two years, some candidates were anxious. Madhu Murali Krishna, a student of Deeksha College in Bengaluru, said: “The biology paper was easy and I could complete it in time. As I had practised mock tests, I was able to manage my time better. I was happy that all the necessary COVID-19 protocols were followed at the exam centre. This encouraged me to write without stress.” Some students raised objections alleging that a few questions in the mathematics paper were incorrect, and many college managements, too, have decided to write to the Karnataka Examinations Authority. According to a mathematics lecturer, the options provided for two questions were incorrect. As per the schedule, the test for physics and chemistry will be held on Sunday. The Kannada test for Horanadu and Gadinadu candidates will be held on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cet-2021-results-to-be-out-by-september-20-says-minister/article36160578.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Common mobility card still a long way off||Commuters who rely on public transport regularly in the city will have to wait a long time before they will be able to use the common mobility card that will allow them to use both Namma Metro trains and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses. Though the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has taken initial steps for the introduction of the smart card, the BMTC still has a long way to go before it can be rolled out. Common mobility cards are open loop and can be used to purchase metro and bus tickets, pay for parking and toll, and for retail shopping. BMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that testing was in progress. “The metro stations built under phase II of Namma Metro have automatic fare collection (AFC) boxes that allow transactions with the common mobility cards. Fare collection boxes in metro stations that were built under phase I will be upgraded shortly,” he said. He expressed confidence that the common mobility card would be introduced by October for metro passengers. The trial runs, which the BMRCL had started last year, were affected by the pandemic. The metro rail corporation had also floated a tender to select afinancial institution to issue the smart cards. Compatibility On the other hand, the BMTC is still in the initial stage of introducing the project. “Prior to introducing the common mobility cards, we have to procure electronic ticketing machines (ETMs) and do various tests to ensure that the software is compatible. After that, we have to select a financial institution to issue the smart cards. Tender process is on for procuring the ETMs, ” said a BMTC official. The BMTC requires 10,000 ETMs for the rollout. In the past, it had made attempts to introduce smart cards but failed miserably because of various factors, including vendor issues. Public transport utilities have to introduce the cards as per the specifications of the ‘One Nation, One Card’ policy of the Union government. The card enables the passengers to use various modes of transport, pay parking fee, and make other transactions. At present, members of the public use either closed-loop smart cards (which can only be used in metro) or tokens to travel in Namma Metro, and tickets or passes (daily or monthly) to travel in city buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/common-mobility-card-still-a-long-way-off/article36160569.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. gives deadline extension to some projects; homebuyers unhappy||An extension in the completion date of a section of projects has been given by the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA), leaving homebuyers unhappy. Officials said the extension has been given upon directions from government. Kishore Chandra H.C., chairman, K-RERA, told The Hindu that projects that were to be completed by April 1 have been given extension until October 1. “This extension does not apply to projects whose completion date was before April 1. RERAs in some other States have already given extension. In our case, the government has passed the order,” he added. Welcoming the move, Suresh Hari, chairman, CREDAI Bengaluru, said extension of completion date was an urgent need due to the continued challenges faced owing to the pandemic. “After the second wave, the availability of workforce at site, compounded with reduced quantum of workers for safety, has led to delay in completing many planned activities at project sites. This has resulted in delay of projects planned to be completed during this timeline. Extension is an absolute necessity and will certainly help in catching up with lost time. We thank the authority for looking at this essential need favourably,” he said. However, the Forum for People’s Collective Efforts (FPCE) said the notification requires many clarifications as to what transparent method will be adhered to by K-RERA while approving extensions due to the COVID-19 second wave. “We wish to know the actual status of those projects that shall be considered for approval of extension and will this extension really help homebuyers get their homes within the extended timelines. We also want to know how the allottees of these projects will be compensated as for no reason or fault of theirs, they are forced to continue to pay both rent and EMI while K-RERA and the Karnataka government have conceded to the request of the builder community,” said M.S. Shankar, general secretary, FPCE. The FPCE also alleged that in June, they had escalated the issue of “illegally approved extension of projects without following RERA Act Section 6, based on Ministry of Housing and Urban Alleviation (MOHUA) guidance, whereas the Karnataka RERA authorities have to act on any and such directives only from Government of Karnataka.” “Many projects are extended twice using the MOHUA guidance as well RERA Section 6, which has put many homebuyers in financial implications,” FPCE said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-gives-deadline-extension-to-some-projects-homebuyers-unhappy/article36160574.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||35 buses as feeder service||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) is set to launch the 7.5-km metro line from Kengeri to Mysuru Road station on Sunday morning. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri will take part in the inaugural event and travel from Nayandahalli to Kengeri on the train. The line will be opened for commercial operations on Monday. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has identified three metro stations on the extended purple line of Namma Metro to run feeder services. From Monday, the corporation will operate 35 buses as feeder services from Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnanabharathi, and Kengeri stations. A senior official of the BMTC said that for metro feeder services, the BMTC would operate MIDI-buses. “Unlike other ordinary services, 30-seater (or MIDI) buses are ideal for feeder routes. They will be operated from the three metro stations where there are link roads to residential areas. We will maintain a frequency of 15 to 20 minutes,” the official said. The corporation has identified nine routes to run 35 buses. The official maintained that the existing scheduled operations would continue to be operated from R.R. Nagar, Bengaluru University gate, and Kengeri Traffic and Transit Management Centre. Impact on revenue The cash-strapped road transport corporation is likely to suffer more losses once the extended metro line becomes operational. There are six metro stations along the line, which will benefit people living in various residential layouts and complexes located on either side of Mysuru Road. Commuters in the area are likely to shift to metro services as it will only reduce travel time. People living on Mysuru Road will be able to use Namma Metro to reach Baiyappanahalli, and the Central Business District areas such as Majestic and M.G. Road, and also reach various destinations on Tumakuru Road and Kanakapura Road. When asked about the revenue loss, a BMTC official said, “In the past, metro operations resulted in revenue loss, even though initially we may not see a drop in ridership. We are also hoping that the general public, who otherwise rely on private modes of transport, will use the Kengeri metro line.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/35-buses-as-feeder-service/article36160562.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||67 trees to be felled for flyover||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to fell 67 healthy trees for the 2.5-km-long elevated corridor from Ejipura Main Road to Kendriya Sadan via Sony World Junction. The tree officer of the civic body recently issued an order to the effect, a copy of which is available with The Hindu . The final tally of trees that will be felled is reportedly much more than previous estimates. An earlier assessment had put the number at 38, sources said. However, the number increased after a spot inspection. “Several tree branches will prove to be a hindrance to vehicular movement on the up and down ramps of the flyover. This may prove to be dangerous, so these trees are also being felled,” a senior civic official said. However, citizen’s groups and environmental activists have argued that these trees could be retained by constant pruning of the branches to ensure they don’t become an impediment to traffic on the up and down ramps. The order stated that the decision to allow 67 trees to be felled was taken after a spot inspection and allowing time for the public to file objections. Only one objection, which was factually incorrect, was filed, the order notes. As per the order, a total of 96 trees are in the project area. Each of them was examined and a final decision taken to retain 12 trees on site, fell 67, and translocate 17. Translocation The tree officer has directed the translocation of 17 trees to the premises of St. John’s Medical College and Hospital, where the civic body is directed to take care of the trees for a period of three years. The civic body must also plant 10 healthy saplings in lieu of every tree that is felled and maintain them for a period of three years. Work on the 2.5-km-long elevated corridor has stalled for more than six months. In July, the High Court of Karnataka directed the civic body to give a timeline for the completion of the long-pending flyover. According to BBMP officials, around 45% of the work has been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/67-trees-to-be-felled-for-flyover/article36160565.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three-year-old boy stolen a year ago reunited with his parents||A family was reunited with their three-year-old son nearly a year after he was reported missing in November 2020. The efforts of the Byatarayanapura police, who kept investigating the case despite a lack of leads, paid off with the arrest of a 22-year-old habitual offender, who had allegedly sold the boy to a childless couple from a village in Hosur for Rs. 60,000. A year ago, the accused, Karthik, was arrested by the Vijayanagar police for bike theft. After coming out on bail, he started selling vegetables in Hosur. “He befriended a man who told him his relative was looking to adopt a child,” said the police. Karthik often visited his girlfriend’s house in Shamanna Garden. During his visits, he used to see a toddler in the neighbourhood. To make some extra money, he decided to steal the boy and sell him to the family in Hosur. He got the opportunity in November 2020, when he spotted the boy playing outside his house unmonitored. He stole the boy and handed him over to his friend in Hosur. Karthik claimed that the boy was his, the youngest of three children, and that he was looking for someone to adopt him as he unable to care for him because of the financial losses he had incurred during the pandemic. He allegedly told his friend that he would use the money to care for his two other children. Karthik took Rs. 60,000 from his friend and promised to come back with the adoption papers, but never returned. By then, the boy’s parents had reported him missing. “Knowing that his presence in the area would be questioned, the accused stopped visiting his girlfriend in the neighbourhood, thereby evading detection,” the police officer added. Months passed, but the police team did not give up and continued to monitor visitors to the neighbourhood. Karthik, thinking that the case was closed, resumed his visits to his girlfriend’s house. His frequent presence caught the attention of inspector M.N. Nagaraj, who probed his background and found that he had spent time in jail. The police came to know that he had previous cases and picked him up for questioning. A detailed questioning led to his confessing to the crime, following which the child was rescued and handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). He was reunited with his parents at Byatarayanapura police station on Saturday. According to the police, the couple who had ‘adopted’ the boy had lost both their children and were unable to conceive. While Karthik was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, the couple were counselled by the CWC and police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-year-old-boy-stolen-a-year-ago-reunited-with-his-parents/article36160570.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TAC suggests introduction of ‘school bubble’ concept||The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) that examined a proposal on “school bubbles” as an intervention to limit the spread of COVID-19 among school-going children has recommended introducing the concept as “operationally feasible” in the schools of Karnataka. According to a proposal presented at the 123rd TAC meeting held earlier this week, the reopening of schools often poses a challenge in terms of what interventions need to be in place to ensure the safe return of pupils to face-to-face learning. “Children, especially in primary school, tend to have a lot of interactions with their peers on a day-to-day basis. Therefore, on a practical basis, it is extremely difficult to undertake a thorough risk assessment to identify close contacts that would need to self-isolate on the back of a positive case in a school-aged child. School bubbles are one such intervention that seek to pragmatically balance the risk of COVID-19 spread versus ensuring a near-normal experience for learners,” the proposal stated. “Conceptually, school bubbles are a simple yet rigid grouping of a small number of pupils in a year group who tend to remain as a group during school hours. If any pupil tests positive within the bubble, only the affected bubble will self-isolate, not the whole class/year group. Typically, a school bubble will need to be no more than 30 pupils for it to be effective,” the proposal stated. The proposal is based on a similar concept being followed in the United Kingdom, the TAC was informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-suggests-introduction-of-school-bubble-concept/article36160582.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Digital kids zone’ on September 5||Science for Rural India (SFRI), a students’ group at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, will organise a ‘digital kids zone’ on September 5 at 9.30 a.m. A release said their team will demonstrate science experiments using household items relevant to students of Classes VI to X, followed by a live interactive session. There will be two keynote talks by Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman of All India Council for Technical Education, and H.C. Verma, former professor of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. “We have been doing science outreach programmes in and around Bengaluru for the past five years. Our objective is to intrigue curiosity in science among children and create awareness about the need for science outreach activities,” the SFRI said. Every year, during the Open Day of IISc, the team organises an event known as ‘kids zone’ where they demonstrate simple science experiments to schoolchildren. “In the present pandemic situation, we are attempting to reach out to children across the country.” Schools or individuals who want to participate must fill the Google form that can be found on https://forms.gle/fHUQp7QukgjKtwEP6. Registration is free. For more details, visit http://www.scienceforruralindia.in/kids-zone-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-kids-zone-on-september-5/article36160572.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Armed gang tortures and robs two youth from Kerala||A 23-year-old student from Kerala and his friend were allegedly kidnapped by a gang of armed men near Museum Road. They were taken to the outskirts of the city, tortured, and made to transfer Rs. 10 lakh from their bank accounts before they were released. The incident took place earlier this week and a complaint was lodged with the Cubbon Park police last week. The victim, Shahin Hamza, in his complaint, said that he along with his friend Shanis Usman Kutty had driven down from Chennai to Bengaluru in their car. They reached Bengaluru late on Monday night. “In their statement they said that the gang was following them in another car. When they reached Museum Road around 11.30 p.m., six to seven men intercepted them,” said a police officer. The attackers forced the duo into the back seat at knifepoint. One man took control of the wheel and started driving, while four of the associates joined him and overpowered the victims. The remaining gang members followed in their car. Hamza and Kutty claimed that they were taken to an isolated place in Hosur, where they were made to strip, and then tortured. The accused forced Hamza to transfer Rs. 10 lakh online. “The torture continued the whole night and the next day, the gang allegedly took them to an ATM in Hosur, where they withdrew Rs. 15,000 using Hamza’s debit card. The accused dropped the duo near the bank and sped away,” said the police. The police have registered a case and have launched a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/armed-gang-tortures-and-robs-two-youth-from-kerala/article36160586.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gym trainer murdered||A gym trainer was killed by a gang of assailants at Devanahalli Friday. The deceased has been identified as Shivakumar, 28. Shivakumar had been to Devanahalli to his gym in the morning and was returning home on his bike when two assailants, on another bike, followed him and rammed into his vehicle. As Shivakumar fell down, the assailants stabbed him to death before fleeing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gym-trainer-murdered/article36160589.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police nab two juveniles who were planning murder||Alert Byadarahalli police on Friday intercepted three youngsters, two of whom were juveniles, who were allegedly planning to kill two garbage collectors to take over their jobs. While one of the accused escaped, the police nabbed the juveniles. The trio were riding triples in Byadarahalli and were caught by police sub-inspector Murali and constable Kale Gowda, who were checking vehicles as part of a drive. “They attempted to escape, but PSI Murali caught the two boys and later recovered weapons hidden in the boot space of the scooter,” said a police officer. Upon inquiry, the accused allegedly confessed that they worked as door-to-door garbage collectors and were planning to kill two of their colleagues who worked in a different lane so that they could take over their duties. According to the police, their intended victims were deployed at a residential area where they received good tips from households and shop owners almost every day. “The accused wanted the tips and hatched a plan to eliminate their colleagues,” said the officer. The juveniles were produced before the juvenile court, and the police are on the hunt for the third accused. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West division) Sanjeev Patil issued letters of appreciation to PSI Murali and his colleague Kale Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-nab-two-juveniles-who-were-planning-murder/article36160590.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pollution control laws to get more teeth||The State government is planning to amend laws related to prevention of environment pollution to give them more teeth and make offences non-bailable to ensure stringent punishment to environment polluters, including industries and factories. Amendments will be introduced in the coming session of the State legislature, which would meet for 10 days next month. Currently, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board officials are armed with “toothless” laws which empower them only to issue notices to factories, industries, and other establishments that release effluents to river/lake or air. With owners of industries and factories apparently not responding to notices issued by board or department officials, the department has proposed drastic changes in the laws related to prevention of environment pollution, said Ecology, Environment, and Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh. Mr. Singh, after sulking for 15 days over allocation of “low-profile” portfolio, only recently took charge and reviewed the department’s work. He said discussions were held with officials on framing changes to laws. On the lacunae in the existing laws, Mr. Singh said security guards posted at the gates of factories would not permit KSPCB officials to visit the premises to issue notices to the management. Further, notices issued to the factories seeking explanation within 15 days on causes for pollution are not replied to, he said. The Minister said provisions related to registration of FIR and filing of criminal cases would be included in the amendments to ensure non-bailable punishment to polluters. On tourism, he said on the lines of the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline policy, Karnataka’ Tourism Department was planning to “unlock value” in the State’s tourism places, Jungle Lodges and Resorts, and facilities managed by the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation. Elaborating on the proposal to hand over tourism locations such as Nandi Hills to private parties, Mr. Singh said the government would keep the ownership of the land and assets while leasing out management to private parties, which would bring revenue to both the government andprivate parties. On the management of JLR property near Hampi, the Minister said JLR’s facilities remained 80% vacant while a private resort nearby records booking of 80%. “We are planning to run JLR properties by roping in private players, without selling the government’s ownership, on a profit-sharing formula,” he said. With tourism destinations getting no footfall owing to the pandemic, the Minister proposed to spend Rs. 70 crore that was set aside for publicity campaigns for providing basic facilities at 10 major tourism places in the State. On allocation of funds to the Tourism Department, the Minister said the department sought Rs. 650 crore in 2021–22 but only Rs. 228 crore was released. It was decided to hold a meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds the Finance portfolio, to seek an additional Rs. 200 crore in the current fiscal year, he said. Yatri Nivas Mr. Singh, who held meetings for two days with department officials, said they wereexploring the option of handing over Yatri Nivas properties of the Tourism Department to the Muzrai Department as most of the properties were attached to temples belonging to the department. Nearly 80% of the demand for accommodation at Yatri Nivas comes from people visiting temples. The issue would be discussed with Mr.Bommai, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pollution-control-laws-to-get-more-teeth/article36160591.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power disruption today||There will be no power supply in some areas on Sunday on account of maintenance and other emergency works. According to a press release from Bangalore Electricity Supply Company, Chandapura division, the areas to be affected come under 66/11 KV Bommasandra Industrial Area MUSS (10 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Maragondanahally, Shikaripalya, Neotown, Thirupalya, Gollahally, Veerasandra, Hebbagodi, Vinayakanagara, Jigani Link Road, M.T.R. Road, KSSIDC Shed II Stage, IV Phase, Yarandahally, Rayasandra, Huskuru Gramapanchayat, Veerasandra Industrial Area, Ananthanagara Phase I and II, Bommasandra Industrial Area, Bommasandra Village, Vidhyanagara, and surrounding areas. Under 66/11 KV Jigani Link Road MUSS (10 a.m. to 6 p.m.): Jigani Bommasandra Link Road, Pride Vatika Layout, Sattar Sabi Dinne, Jigani, Harappanahally, Kopa Gate, Kempapura, Bandenallasandra, Kyalasanahally, Vabasandra, Nanjapura, Hulimangala, Hullahally Gate, S. Bangipura, Jigani Industrial Area Phase I and II, Nisarga Layout, H. Manchanahally, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-disruption-today/article36160559.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMD issues orange alert in some parts of State||The southwest monsoon has been making its presence felt again after a lull and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has now issued an orange alert in parts of the State. On Saturday, warning of very heavy rainfall was issued for Sunday to Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, and Shivamogga. Heavy rainfall warning i.e., yellow alert has also been issued for Monday to all these places, as well as Bidar, Kalaburagi, and Yadgir. “Thunderstorm with lightening is likely to occur at isolated places over the State. Heavy to very heavy rainfall likely at isolated places over coastal Karnataka and south interior Karnataka,” said the IMD forecast for the next 24 hours. Dakshina Kannada has been seeing thundershowers and gusty winds since Thursday. Bengaluru too has seen intermittent showers in parts. C.S. Patil, Director, IMD, said the monsoon was active over the State and rain was expected till September 1 in many parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imd-issues-orange-alert-in-some-parts-of-state/article36160600.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination: State crosses 4-crore mark||Karnataka’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage touched a milestone on Saturday, with the total number of doses administered breaching the four crore mark. With 6,14,654 doses administered on Saturday, the total inoculations touched 4,06,81,241 till 8.30 p.m. While 98,94,288 people have been fully vaccinated in the State, 3,07,86,953 have received their first dose so far. On Friday, the State had administered a record 10,28,544 doses. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the State was determined to administer over five lakh doses daily from now on. “We are looking at administering 1.5 crore doses a month. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and myself met the Union Health Minister and requested him to provide Karnataka over five lakh doses of vaccine every day. We are determined to cover the entire adult population by the end of this year,” he said. New cases Meanwhile, the State on Saturday reported 1,229 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,45,993. Bengaluru Urban reported 310 cases and zero deaths. This the second time in the past one week that Bengaluru Urban has reported zero deaths. With 13 deaths, the toll rose to 37,261. This is apart from 23 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,289 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 28,89,809. The State now has 18,897 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.66%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.05%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-state-crosses-4-crore-mark/article36160585.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Loan scam discovered after two years||Nearly two years after they approved a personal loan of Rs. 13.9 lakh in November 2019, employees of a private bank, which has a branch at Nrupatunga Road, realised that the documents submitted by the applicant were fake. Bank officials have now filed a complaint with the cybercrime police seeking help to trace the conman. Based on the complaint filed, the police have taken up a case of impersonation through a communication device and cheating under the Information Technology Act “The initial probe has revealed that the accused had submitted documents belonging to some other person to avail himself of a personal loan and credit card facilities. Bank employees failed to perform the necessary verification and due diligence before sanctioning the loan amount and did not realise that the documents were fake until he defaulted on the repayment of loan,” a police officer said. When they were unable to reach the loan applicant, the bank approached the police. “Efforts are on to track down the conman,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loan-scam-discovered-after-two-years/article36160588.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two policemen injured in road accident||A speeding car collided into a highway patrol vehicle, injuring two policemen, at Devanahalli on Saturday. On impact, the patrol vehicle turned turtle and the two police personnel, as well as the driver, were trapped. Passers-by rushed to their help, extricated them and took the policemen to a hospital in the area, where they were treated for their injuries. As a crowd gathered at the spot, the driver of the car that collided into the police vehicle escaped on foot fearing public anger. Traffic was disrupted for some time until the road was cleared. According to the police, the patrolling vehicle was trying to take a U-turn when the car coming from the opposite direction collided with it. “The absconding accused was driving the car rashly and lost control of the wheel. Efforts are on to track him down,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-policemen-injured-in-road-accident/article36160592.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable’s social media account hacked||A head constable attached to the Karnataka State Reserve Police filed a complaint with the South East Cyber Crime police claiming that his social media account had been hacked. The unidentified hackers posted ‘Taliban Zindabad’ on his Facebook account, said head constable N. Umesh. The hackers also put up a disturbing post, ‘I am responsible for my death’ along with the policeman’s photograph. In his complaint to the police, Mr. Umesh said the hackers wanted to harass him and defame his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constables-social-media-account-hacked/article36160580.ece
29 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3D printing facility to come up at Airport City||A 3D printing technology facility will come up at Airport City that is currently under development by the Bengaluru Airport City Ltd., a subsidiary of BIAL. A release from BIAL stated that it has entered into an agreement with Peekay Group. The new facility will house a production centre as well as an experience zone to learn 3D printing and ideate innovative solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3d-printing-facility-to-come-up-at-airport-city/article36160579.ece
29 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||98 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan district reported 98 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two deaths on Saturday. With that, the number of cases has increased to 1,09,402 and the death toll rose to 1,325. Shivamogga district reported 47 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/98-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article36160950.ece
29 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE favours stricter laws||Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa has said the State Cabinet will discuss amendments to existing laws to instil fear among perpetrators of crimes like rape. Speaking to presspersons at Ayanuru in Shivamogga taluk on Saturday, he said he had been in favour of stricter laws to punish the criminals. “When I was in the Legislative Council, I had raised the issue and demanded amendments to laws. Then Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister and K.J. George was the Home Minister. However, no amendments were made. The same laws have continued and they have failed to instil fear among the criminals. The Cabinet would discuss amendments necessary and take action”, he said. He also appreciated the efforts of Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and police officers in arresting the accused in the Mysuru rape case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-favours-stricter-laws/article36160951.ece
29 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Murder case solved||Konanur police in Arkalgud taluk have solved the case of murder of a luggage carrying vehicle driver, reported on Friday, within a day. The police arrested Prasanna, 31, of P.Basavanahalli in Periyapatna taluk on charges of murdering Jagadish. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, on Saturday, told media that both the accused and victim were earning livelihood by operating luggage carriers at Bettadapura in Periyapatna taluk. Prasanna was angry with Jagadish because he was offering services for a lower price, denying him (Prasanna) business. With no income, he hatched a conspiracy to murder him. He called Jagadish on August 26 in the guise of offering him a business and allegedly killed him. The accused is said to have admitted to his crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-case-solved/article36160952.ece
29 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man held for wife’s murder||Arkalgud police, on Saturday, arrested a person on charges of murdering his wife. Mahesh, 35, of Akkalavadi in Arkalgud taluk, allegedly murdered his wife on August 24 and tried to avoid getting caught by terming it a road accident. Mahesh had married Rukmini of Upparakoplu about three years ago. He had often quarrelled with his wife alleging that she was not taking care of his parents. He was also upset as the couple had no children. He allegedly strangulated her to death while taking her to a hospital on his bike. Later he told his family members she was killed in an accident. He also had inflicted an injury on his head by hitting his head with a boulder. Rukmini’s parents had raised doubts over the turn of events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-wifes-murder/article36160953.ece
29 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bommai says KMF processing unit will come up in 18 months||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who laid the foundation stone for a 1-lakh litre capacity milk processing dairy and ultra-heat treatment milk packing unit at Jangamanakoppa in Haveri district on Saturday, termed it as a victory for the farmers’ fight. Addressing a group of farmers after laying the foundation stone for the unit being constructed at a cost of Rs. 90 crore, the Chief Minister said that milk produced in the district will get processed here itself and then would be sold across the nation. He said that project will be completed within the stipulated 18 months and will be dedicated to the nation. He said that the steps are being taken to increase milk production in the district and create the required infrastructure so as to facilitate creation of a separate milk union for the district in the coming years. He called on the farmers to use the incentives being given for increasing milk production and also asked them to engage in dairy activities and contribute towards the development of dairy industry in the district. The Chief Minister attended a series of programmes in Hirekerur, Ranebennur, and Haveri Assembly constituencies on Saturday during which he inaugurated and initiated development works worth Rs. 257.18 crore. Owing to the COVID-19 protocol there were no public programmes. However the Chief Minister addressed small groups of people. During the Haveri programme, the Chief Minister received memoranda from the people of his home district and promised to take requisite action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-says-kmf-processing-unit-will-come-up-in-18-months/article36160788.ece
29 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Reforms required in police system: Satish Jarkiholi||KPCC working president and former Minister Satish Jarkiholi has urged the Chief Minister to improve the police system in the State in accordance with the changing times. Speaking to presspersons at Congress Bhavan in Belagavi on Saturday, Mr. Satish Jarkiholi said that there was a need for ushering in reforms in the police and the CM should initiate the required steps. He said that the reforms were essential in order to prevent increasing crime. He pointed out that there was a shortage of staff in almost all the police stations and the personnel were being forced to work under pressure daily. “There is urgent need for filling up the vacant posts and also there is need for establishing new police stations in accordance with the increased population. This apart, there is a need to adapt of new technology for facilitating better functioning of the department,” he said. On the Home Minister’s statement regarding the victim of the Mysuru gang rape, Mr. Jarkiholi said that it was nothing new that such irresponsible statements were being issued by BJP legislators. On the municipal polls, he said that Congress leaders M.B. Patil, L. Hanumanthaiah, Nasir Hussain, and others would be canvassing for the party candidates on the basis of contribution made towards development of Belagavi during the tenure of the Congress government led by Chief Minister Siddarmaaih. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar too would be holding meeting with workers on Sunday, he said. Taking a dig at BJP’s ‘mission-45’, he said that it could ultimately be reduced to ‘mission-4’. He said the party’s workers were its strength and the party was trying to win more seats. Admitting that there was some confusion due to the last-minute decision on contesting, he said that the party had a strong team, which was actively involved in canvassing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reforms-required-in-police-system-satish-jarkiholi/article36160784.ece
29 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Gokak farmer alleges harassment||A farmer from Gokak taluk in Belagavi district who alleged on Facebook Live that he was being harassed despite repaying a loan is now battling for his life at hospital. The farmer, Laxman Iliger from Makkalageri village, made a video on Facebook Live on Friday evening, during which he accused moneylenders of harassing him despite repayment. He had alleged that the moneylenders, whom he named, had taken away his tractor and had threatened to make him sell his land and house. The farmer reportedly tried to take his life during the livestream and his family members rushed him to the government hospital in Gokak.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gokak-farmer-alleges-harassment/article36160783.ece
29 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 82 lakh in cash seized||The Hubballi police have seized unaccounted for cash of Rs. 82 lakh, which was being brought to the city from Bagalkot and have arrested the driver. The police have now filed a case under violation of the poll code of conduct and are investigating further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-82-lakh-in-cash-seized/article36160785.ece
29 August 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||On Ganesh festival||Regarding different opinions on allowing public celebration of Ganesh festival, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said he had convened a meeting on August 30 and based on experts’ advice and current COVID-19 situation an appropriate decision would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-ganesh-festival/article36160604.ece
29 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Nirani confident of BJP winning civic body polls||Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani was confident of the Bharatiya Janata Party winning the Kalaburagi City Corporation. The party is set to come to power by winning over 35 seats, Mr. Nirani said. He was addressing presspersons after releasing the 15-point election manifesto for the corporation elections to be held on September 3. The BJP, in its manifesto, has promised to allocate adequate funds for the development of the city and is aiming for the Smart City tag. It said that the city will get a 24x7 drinking water facility and the scheme has been approved at a total cost of Rs. 837 crore. The manifesto also promised to lay a pipeline to supply gas to households across the city. The State government will also release a special package of Rs. 500 crore under Karnataka’s Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Vikas Yojana. The BJP also promised good roads, street lamps, underground drainage facilities, the development of parks, free healthcare facilities for all pourakarmikas. and employment opportunities for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes under Skill India initiative. The manifesto also included online approval for house construction. Mr. Nirani said the party workers will be organising Maha Jan Samparka Abhiyan in the city on Sunday where they will go on a door-to-door campaign in all wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirani-confident-of-bjp-winning-civic-body-polls/article36160790.ece
29 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress releases 20-point election manifesto||KPPC working president Eshwar Khandre on Saturday released the Congress’ 20-point election manifesto for the Kalaburagi City Corporation elections to be held on September 3. The manifesto promises basic amenities including 100 pure drinking water units, installation of LED street lamps. construction of a community hall, and a public library in each ward. “We will also construct a cricket stadium and an indoor stadium in the city,” said Mr. Khandre. The manifesto also included the installation of CCTV cameras in every ward, a four-wheeler parking facility in market areas, construction of public toilets, beautification of the city by planting two lakh saplings, and development of tourism places in the city. The manifesto also listed the development works taken up by the then Congress government and the fake promises made by the ruling BJP government. Mr. Khandre said that with the efforts of Congress leaders from the region, the UPA accorded special status to the region through a constitutional amendment. Mr. Khandre alleged that the ruling BJP government failed to effectively implement provisions provided under the 371(J) of the Constitution to benefit the reservation in education and employment in the region.  Mr. Khandre said that the State government has completely failed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-releases-20-point-election-manifesto/article36160782.ece
29 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister faces embarrassing moments||Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani was in for an embarrassment at the BJP’s event to release the election manifesto in Kalaburagi city on Saturday, when he failed to list a single project that has been sanctioned to the district during the present BJP-led Union government’s tenure. When asked about the withdrawal of nearly six to seven projects proposed by the former UPA government for Kalaburagi and Kalyana Karnataka, the Minister tried to defend by stating that the BJP government has earmarked Rs. 500 crore for the Anubhava Mantapa project that will be established on 7.5 acres of land at Basavakalyan in Bidar district. The Minister also tendered an apology for hurting the sentiments of the farmers of the Kalaburagi district by calling them ‘lazy’ recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-faces-embarrassing-moments/article36160780.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Dial 112’: Police focus on women’s safety in Mangaluru||As part of efforts to make people aware about the ‘Dial 112 Emergency Response Support System’ (ERSS) in the city, the Mangaluru city police on Saturday focused on women safety issues while addressing calls made to ERSS. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and B.P. Dinesh Kumar, Assistant Commissioners of Police, and other officers were in the ERSS vehicles that attended to calls made between 8 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. After Olympian Poovamma flagged off the initiative at the office of Police Commissioner, Mr. Kumar and other officers visited the Athena Hospital where a group of women nursing students and hospital staff were waiting to hear about 112. “Is it a new system launched today,” a hospital staff member asked a police officer. Mr. Kumar replied that the ‘Dial 112’ had been working at the Mangaluru Police Commissionerate area since December 2020 and it can be used to seek assistance for all emergency situations. He then made a staff member to dial 112 which made the police arrive at the spot within three minutes of the call. “Our response time is about 15 minutes,” he added. Similar awareness activity was held at the nursing institute in Ullal where Mr. Shankar asked nursing students, who are mostly from Kerala, to seek help of 112 when they are in distress. “Unlike language issue you would face while speaking with those in police station, there will be no such issue for seeking help by dialling 112,” he told students, and asked them to freely report about harassment and other problems they encounter in the city. A short awareness programme was also held at the Karnataka Polytechnic. Mr. Dinesh Kumar held awareness programmes in Surathkal, Panambur, Moodbidri, and Bajpe police station limits. The police addressed 47 calls made to ERSS and nearly 200 calls made to police officers. One among them was call by an elderly ex-serviceman and his wife from Ullal, who had problems with their neighbour. The overall response time was 12 minutes. Earlier, at a formal function, Ms. Poovamma lauded the city police’s initiative and said such a measure would give confidence for women to move freely in cities. More girls should take part in sports, which is also a good career option. Apart from 19 ERSS vehicles, 13 police control room vehicles, seven highway patrol vehicles, three vehicle interceptors, and 24 jeeps of police inspectors were involved in the ERSS awareness drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dial-112-police-focus-on-womens-safety-in-mangaluru/article36160940.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana play with artist performing all roles to be released on OTT platform||A Yakshagana play with an artist performing all the roles of a ‘prasanga’ (episode) is on the verge of making it to the over-the-top (OTT) platform for the first time. Deepak Rao Pejawar from Mangaluru has donned all the nine characters, both men and women, in the ‘prasanga’ titled ‘Hari Darshana’ which is also called ‘Sudhanwarjuna’. Its performance was shot at the All flix studio in Bengaluru for four days in July. Mr. Rao, a postgraduate in business administration and who has a bachelor’s degree in education, presently teaches at an education institute in Bahrain. He is an artiste of the Tenku Thittu (southern) school of Yakshagana for over three decades. The episode shot is presently being edited. The two-and-half-hour show will be released on the OTT platform after a month, Mr. Rao said. The artiste who has many fans, particularly for his ‘sthree veshas’ (roles of women), said that he chose the particular episode because all the ‘nava rasas’ (nine emotions) can be exhibited through the characters. He said: “It is a typical episode of Yakshagana having prime category veshas of Yakshagana theatre. The veshas are like kireeta vesha, pundu vesha, sthree vesha, vidushaka, bannada vesha, and the like.” The initiative is also an effort to have it on record the traditional ‘veshas’ of Tenku Thittu school for the future generation, he said. Mr. Rao said that nowadays many Yakshagana troupes and performers have omitted the characters of Kuvale (sister of Sudhanva) and Sugarbhe (mother of Sudhanva) while performing ‘Hari Darshana’ episode. Thus many will disappear from the performances in the coming days. But he has retained those characters in the performance recorded for the OTT platform. Mr. Rao said that the show will have English sub-titles. “I performed from morning till late evening all the four days. Getting vibes for performance was a challenge as there was no accompanying artiste,” he said. The background musicians included Ravichandra Kannadikatte as ‘bhagavatha’ (singer), Padmanabha Upadhyaya on the maddale, and Murari Kadambalithaya on the chende. Kiran Upadhyaya, who has joined Mr. Rao in his production, said that Yakshagana plays, in which many artistes have performed, entered into the OTT platform just one-and-a-half years ago. Mr. Rao’s performance is a new experiment in Yakshagana. The performance of each character had to be recorded separately and combined later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-a-new-experiment-in-yakshagana/article36160595.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Good turnout for CET in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Despite the weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada, a good number of students turned up for the Common Entrance Test on Saturday. As many as 5,856 appeared for the the biology paper in the morning, while 7,673 wrote the mathematics paper in the afternoon. A total of 8,655 students from Dakshina Kannada have registered for the CET, which is being held in 19 centres across the district. Chemistry and physics papers will be on Sunday, while Kannada examination for Gadinaadu Kannadigas will be held on Monday at two centres in Mangaluru. As many as 3,597 students registered at 10 centres in Udupi district. As many as 2,132 students wrote the biology paper and 3,341 students wrote the mathematics one. Two students wrote both the papers at the COVID Care Centre, said an official press release. Being the first physical examination in over a two-year period, students appeared anxious about the question paper. “Though I had prepared well with model question papers, I was lot curious about the way the questions would be asked. The biology paper turned out to be easy,” said Sumedha S. Kini from Sharada Pre Universiy College. Sneha, from St. Agnes PU College, said absence of physical classes did pose a challenge in preparing for the competitive examinations on their own. “I am thankful for our teachers for being on call to clarify our doubts.” Ms. Sneha said she is focusing on NEET and writing CET was to get a feel of competitive examination. A good number of students, including those from Kasaragod district, were dropped to the examination centres by parents and later picked up after the examination. Among these students included Raymer, a student of Carmel Pre University College, who had come from Bantwal to the centre in St. Aloysius Pre University College. Fearing likely inconvenience because of weekend lockdown, some students turned up around 11 a.m. for the mathematics paper. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Director of Pre University Department, Jayanna, said all examination halls had been properly sanitised. Social distance is being followed at the examination halls and health screening is being done before allowing students to the examination hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-turnout-for-cet-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article36160941.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Good turnout for test in DK||Despite the weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada, a good number of students reported for the Common Entrance Test on Saturday. As many as 5,856 appeared for the biology paper in the morning, while 7,673 wrote the mathematics paper in the afternoon. In Udupi district, 2,132 students wrote the biology paper, while attendance for mathematics was 3,341. Many students, including those from Kasaragod district, were dropped to the examination centres by parents in their cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-turnout-for-test-in-dk/article36160571.ece
29 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Buses allowed on Shiradi Ghat during night||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has allowed round-the-clock movement of government and private buses and emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire services via Shiradi Ghat on Mangaluru-Bengaluru NH 75 through the restored road stretch near Donigal in Hassan district. The movement of all other vehicles have been banned on the ghat stretch from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. Earlier, all vehicles had been allowed on the ghat section only from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Now other vehicles, except the buses and emergency vehicles, will have to continue to ply only during the daytime. The Deputy Commissioner issued a revised order to this effect on Saturday. All the traffic have to move on single-lane system at the affected stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buses-allowed-on-shiradi-ghat-during-night/article36160938.ece
29 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Government Wenlock Hospital here will conduct an interview on August 30 for recruiting nurses to serve in COVID-19 section. The recruitment will be on contract basis. Those who have completed diploma or BSc in nursing and who have registered in the Nursing Council can attend at 11 a.m. with relevant documents. The salary will be Rs. 25,000 per month. Call 2421351 or 2425137.    There will be no power supply to Koteshwara, Kumbhashi, Thekkatte, Kodi, Kavradi, Molahalli, Shankaranarayana, Ampar, Kandluru, Kandavara in Udupi distric on August 31 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer Nagabhushana Udupa H. said on Saturday that those aged above 18 should confirm with their ASHA and nearest health centres the availability of vaccine before visiting vaccination sites in the district on Sunday.    Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport seized 335 grams of gold valued at Rs. 16,21,400 from a passenger on Saturday. The gold had been concealed in bolts and wheel connecting rods of two skating boards, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36160939.ece
29 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cong. was arrogant: S.R. Mahesh||Refuting the Congress party’s accusation that the JD(S) had entered into a secret pact with BJP in the recent mayoral polls in Mysuru, former Minister and JD(S) leader S.R. Mahesh has laid the blame at the doorstep of the Congress. He has claimed that the alliance collapsed because of the State Congress leadership’s failure to speak to its JD(S) counterpart. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Mahesh said BJP had occupied the post of Mayor in Mysuru solely on account of the ‘arrogance’ of the Congress leadership which refused to speak to JD(S) leaders H.D. Deve Gowda or H.D. Kumaraswamy, to continue the alliance. Though Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar tried to speak to him, Mr. Mahesh said he is not in a position to take a decision and he had told Congress leader Tanveer Sait even half-an-hour before the polls about the need for Congress leadership to speak to JD(S) leaders. Mr. Mahesh also recalled former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s disparaging description of JD(S) a couple of months ago and said the party had sent a clear message to the Congress from the former Chief Minister’s home town about the consequences of failure to take the JD(S) leadership into confidence and keep secular forces united. The JD(S) had publicly offered the post of Mayor to the Congress, but the latter’s leaders remained ‘arrogant’, leading to the collapse of the ‘secular’ alliance, Mr. Mahesh regretted. The BJP had approached the JD(S) ahead of the mayoral polls held in February as well as the polls held last Wednesday. It had been told that the JD(S) followed a policy of keeping equidistant from both Congress and BJP, he said. Asked for the reason behind JD(S) fielding a candidate when it did not have enough numbers to win the polls, Mr. Mahesh said the same question should also be posed to the Congress. “I can also say that the Congress had a hidden understanding with BJP”, he said. Earlier, Mysuru City JD(S) president K.T. Cheluve Gowda said the Congress and JD(S) had entered into an understanding after the 2018 alliance and had shared the post of Mayor for the first two years. When the mayoral polls were announced for the third term earlier this year, the JD(S) did not wish to continue the understanding because of the Congress leaders’ disparaging statements about the party. “Though we wished to contest independently even during the mayoral polls held in February this year, the Congress extended its support to us”, he said.  S.R. Mahesh said he had told Congress leader Tanveer Sait even half-an-hour before the polls about the need for Congress to speak to JD(S) leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-was-arrogant-sr-mahesh/article36160955.ece
29 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||NEP facilitates creative thinking: VC||Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said here on Saturday that the National Education Policy-2020 lays particular emphasis on the development of the creative potential of each individual. Speaking after inaugurating a workshop for the members of the syllabus framing committee at the the Department of Social Work here, he said the NEP also gives scope for a skill-based, multidisciplinary educational environment besides multiple entries and exits. He said the NEP is based on the principle that education must develop not only cognitive capacities – both the foundational capacities of literacy and numeracy and higher order cognitive capacities such as critical thinking and problem solving – but also social, ethical and emotional capacities. The policy proposes the revision and revamping of all aspects of the education structure, including its regulation and governance, to create a new system that is aligned with the aspirational goals of 21st century education, including SDG4, while building upon India’s traditions and value system, he explained. Wide range Social work uses its intervention of social case work, social group work, community organisation, social work research, social welfare administration, and social action to solve individual and societal problems. Its scope is wide ranging, from solving societal problems up to policy making, the V-C said. Lingaraj Gandhi, V-C, Bangalore City University; Y.S. Sidde Gowda, Vice-Chancellor, Tumkur University; and University of Mysore Registrar R. Shivappa were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-facilitates-creative-thinking-vc/article36160957.ece
29 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) trying to pacify GTD||Former Minister and JD(S) leader S.R. Mahesh on Saturday expressed optimism that party MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly segment in Mysuru G.T. Deve Gowda will continue in the party. He told reporters here that the continuation would be beneficial not only for the party, but also to Mr. Gowda. “There are two more years for the next Assembly elections. I hope all the confusion will be cleared by then and he will continue in the party”, he said. Mr. Gowda had recently disclosed that he was in talks with former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar to join the Congress. Mr. Mahesh, the JD(S) MLA representing K.R. Nagar, appealed to him to resume participating in the party activities for the sake of thousands of party workers in the region. Referring to Mr. Gowda’s complaint that the party was promoting Mr. Mahesh at his (Mr. Gowda’s expense) in the party, the K.R. Nagar MLA said he was ready to retire from politics if it were to satisfy Mr. Gowda. “I will go abroad during the next elections”, he said while appealing to Mr. Gowda to desist from taking such hasty decisions. Asked if JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy was in favour of retaining Mr. Gowda in the party, he said JD(S) leaders from Mandya district including C.S. Puttaraju would not have called on Mr. Gowda recently had Mr. Kumaraswamy not been in favour of retaining him in the party. Also, former Prime Minister and JD(S) patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda would not have called Mr. Gowda over phone and ask him to remain in the party if Mr. Kumaraswamy was not favour his continuation in the party. Mr. Mahesh admitted that one of the reason for the differences between JD(S) and Congress during the recent mayoral polls was the efforts to ‘demoralise’ the party by the Congress, which was reportedly wooing Mr. Gowda. Social media Mr. Mahesh endorsed Mysuru MP Pratap Simha’s call for clamping down upon the social media fan pages of government officials including IAS/IPS officers. He said he would shortly write to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting as well as the Chief Minister to bar government officials from having their fan pages on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-trying-to-pacify-gtd/article36160954.ece
29 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pratap Simha seeks action against CMC chief||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has sought disciplinary action against Hootagalli City Municipal Council (CMC) Commissioner for reportedly violating the protocol by not inviting Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar and him for the inauguration of the newly formed CMC’s office in the city recently. In a letter to Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham, he pointed out that Mr. Somashekar had played a key role in the formation of the Hootagalli CMC by merging Hinkal, Koorgalli and Belawadi gram panchayats as part of the efforts to create a Bruhat Mysuru Mahanagara Palike. ‘Not informed’ When the Hootagalli CMC was inaugurated on August 27, Hootagalli CMC Commissioner Narasimhamurthy had failed to keep Mr. Somashekar informed though the Minister was in the city. The Commissioner had failed to keep the MP also informed about the inauguration, Mr. Simha claimed. Alleging that the CMC Commissioner had violated the protocol, Mr. Simha asked the Deputy Commissioner to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratap-simha-seeks-action-against-cmc-chief/article36160958.ece
29 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||On the trail of the rape accused||Was a bus ticket for a journey made on August 24 from Talwadi in Tamil Nadu to Chamarajanagar in Karnataka the vital clue that led the police to zero in on the Mysuru gang rape accused and arrest them? Sources said the police teams which scoured the crime scene stumbled upon this ticket which led them to the hideouts of the accused. The heinous crime took place on Tuesday evening and the police had reached the spot by Wednesday morning — much before the news of the crime had broken out — and had cordoned off the area. During their search, they stumbled upon liquor bottles as well, and sources said a bus ticket too was retrieved from the vicinity. The next step was to pursue the lead for which the police examined the call detail record from mobile towers which also provides clue to the location of a person when the calls were made. The police could match one of the numbers from two mobile towers — one of which was close to the scene of the crime and another located en route between Chamarajanagar and Talwadi. This helped them zero in on the suspects, according to sources. However, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood not elaborate on the nature of clues but said they were able to nab the accused based on “scientific and technical evidence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-the-trail-of-the-rape-accused/article36160601.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,KARNATAKA||No demolition of luxury project for now as SC orders status quo||The Supreme Court has ordered status quo on a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order quashing the environmental clearance (EC) granted to a high-rise luxury project by Godrej Properties Ltd. and Wonder Projects Development Pvt. Ltd. in Bengaluru and directing its immediate demolition. A Bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant issued notice to the Centre, the State government, Bangalore Development Authority, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), and others and sought their response in four weeks. “In the meantime, status quo, as it exists today, shall be maintained by the parties,” the Bench said. The direction came on an appeal filed by Godrej Properties and Wonder Projects Development challenging the NGT’s July 30 order. The green panel had imposed a penalty of Rs. 31 crore on the project proponent and said the amount should be used for demolition of the constructions, restoration of the area to the original position, and rejuvenation and reforestation of Kaikondarahalli lake and its surrounding area. The NGT had also imposed a cost of Rs. 10 lakh on the BBMP which allowed the construction/alteration of a storm-water drain passing through the project site illegally. The order had come on a petition filed by Bengaluru resident H.P. Rajanna against the project, Godrej Reflections, being built at Kasavanahalli village in Varthur hobli. This was the second time the NGT quashed the EC. The apex court had earlier set aside the NGT order quashing the environmental clearance granted to the project. Noting that the construction raised by the project proponents had commenced even before the grant of Consent to Establish by tge Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and in violation of the conditions of the EC, the NGT had directed that the constructions made on the site should be demolished immediately. “We impose compensation for damage to the environment as 10% of the cost of the project. The cost of the project mentioned in the application submitted for grant of EC was Rs. 310 crore...,” the green panel had said. The green panel had also ruled that the construction would fall within the buffer zone of Kaikondarahalli lake and was therefore violative of the zoning laws. The top court had asked the NGT to reconsider the matter and said that no construction shall be put up in the meanwhile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-demolition-of-luxury-project-for-now-as-sc-orders-status-quo/article36160567.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More watchful eyes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-watchful-eyes/article36160561.ece
29 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man found charred to death||A 42-year-old man was found charred to death in a van at Arthunkal in Alappuzha on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Rajeev of Chandiroor, Alappuzha. The police said the local people found the van on fire in the early hours. After being alerted by the residents, both the police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel arrived at the scene and put out the blaze. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for post-mortem examination. According to the police, the van belongs to a Chandiroor native. Rajeev used to transport employees of seafood processing companies. “He was reportedly facing financial difficulties. We have launched a probe into the incident,” the Arthunkal police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-charred-to-death/article36160915.ece
29 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Lokame Tharavadu expo a game-changer for Alappuzha’||Contemporary art exhibition ‘Lokame Tharavadu’ is a game-changer and will play an important role in the growth of Alappuzha district, said V. Venu, Additional Chief Secretary (Tourism), on Saturday. Mr. Venu, along with his wife Sarada Muraleedharan, Additional Chief Secretary, Local Self Government Department, and their son Sabarinath, visited the art exhibition being held across five venues here on the day. "While examining the history of every destination, we can find the presence of a unique event. We will realise the importance of this art exhibition in the years to come. Earlier, the State government had planned some projects other than art that were incorporated in various heritage sites. But Lokame Tharavadu proves that these spaces are also a good venue for art. If it is a place for contemporary art now, it will be one for performing arts in the coming days," said Mr. Venu. He appreciated exhibition curator Bose Krishnamachari for putting on display a wide range of works of international quality. The show, being organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation with the support of the State government, exhibits the works of 267 artists, including 56 women, who trace their origins to Kerala. The show was first inaugurated on April 18 this year but had to be closed in May due to the pandemic. It was reopened to the public on August 14 and is set to go on till September 30. In view of the lockdown imposed by the State government, there will be no show on Sunday. All the five venues — the Kerala State Coir Corporation, New Model Society Building, Port Museum, Eastern Produce Company Ltd, and William Goodacre and Sons Pvt. Ltd. — will be reopened on Monday and the exhibition will continue in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol, organisers said. The Durbar Hall Art Gallery in Kochi is also hosting the show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lokame-tharavadu-expo-a-game-changer-for-alappuzha/article36160898.ece
29 August 2021||Hassan/Bengaluru,KERALA||BSY announces State tour||The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, back from a family vacation in Maldives and currently in his home turf Shivamogga, on Friday announced that he would start a Statewide tour “to strengthen the party” after Ganesha festival. This comes ahead of the zilla and taluk panchayat polls expected to be held in the State by the year-end or early next year. However, Mr. Yediyurappa said the tour was aimed at bringing the party back to power in the State in the 2023 Assembly polls. “The party should return to power by winning at least 135-140 seats. I will visit districts along with other leaders and then concentrate on constituencies where we do not have our MLAs,” he said. Double edged However, Mr. Yediyurappa’s proposed tour — for which he has acquired a luxury car worth over Rs. 1 crore — appears to have more than one aim. Through this, he plans on reasserting his leadership over the party in the State irrespective of whether he holds a post or not and subtly promoting his son B.Y. Vijayendra, who is expected to tag along with him through the tour. This has reportedly made many leaders, especially those in the faction that actively lobbied for his replacement, uncomfortable, sources said. This faction sees leadership change as a first step towards bringing the party out of his shadows in the State. “Mr. Yediyurappa is a mass leader and his tour will definitely help the party in the upcoming panchayat polls. But by his persona he tends to dominate the stage. The party needs to fight against it. Otherwise the entire leadership change exercise will go meaningless,” said a senior party functionary, who has identified himself with the other faction. However, Mr. Yediyurappa, who also turned down a gubernatorial post, has claimed an active political role for himself from the day of his resignation, which was acknowledged by tweets of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, then. Mr. Yediyurappa’s active political role, along with promotion of his son,has emerged as the new bone of contention between the two factions. “This essentially means even leadership change hasn’t put an end to factionalism within the State unit,” a senior party leader lamented. Multiple sources in the party said there had been a push back against the former Chief Minister’s proposed tour. “No one is in a position to forbid him from touring the State. After consultations with Arun Singh, in charge of party affairs in the State, Mr. Yediyurappa has now been instructed by the high command to take along other party leaders on the tour and ensure it is not a father-son affair,” a senior party leader said. Rousing welcome Meanwhile, Mr. Yediyurappa received a rousing welcome in Shivamogga when he reached the town Friday evening, first time since he resigned as Chief Minister. He will be in Shivamogga district for four days and will reach his constituency, Shikaripur, on Sunday. The former Chief Minister said that his doors would always be open to people. “Whether I am in power or not, I am there to respond to all your problems. You can come and meet any time,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa said during his tenure as Chief Minister, he had given approvals for many development works in the district and also provided funds for them. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, also in charge of the district, met Mr. Yediyurappa on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsy-announces-state-tour/article36160603.ece
29 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Traffic curbs||Traffic regulations will be in place at Erumpadam on the Kuttikanam-Chappathu stretch of the Kottayam-Kattappana State Highway owing to Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) works in connection with the Hill Highway on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs/article36160899.ece
29 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Encroachment cleared in Munnar||Revenue officials have cleared encroachment of government land and razed a shed illegally constructed near the penstock pipe at Pallivasal in Munnar in Idukki district. The land comes under survey number 46/110 in block number 14 of Pallivasal village. It has been cleared for construction of a tent camp for tourists. Devikulam sub-collector Rahul Krishna Sharma had inspected the area and directed Pallivasal village officer P.H. Vinod to clear the encroachment. Members of the Land Protection Force demolished the shed. The Revenue team was led by Mr. Vinod and special village officers P.A. Sajeev and Shijumon Augustine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroachment-cleared-in-munnar/article36160908.ece
29 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Nenmeni sets a model in farming||The elected members and officials of the Nenmeni grama panchayat as well as officials of the Nenmeni Krishi Bhavan in Wayanad district have set a model in resuming paddy cultivation on fallow land. “The programme titled ‘Nooru meniyude Nenmeni’ is aimed at rejuvenating the paddy sector by sensitising farmers on the significance of resuming paddy cultivation on fallow land, especially in a consumer State like Kerala,” Tigi Cheruthottil, vice president of Nenmeni grama panchayat, told The Hindu . Man-animal conflict Though the civic body had launched a project last year to make it a fallow land-free grama panchayat, only 750 hectares of the 900 hectares could be taken up for paddy cultivation, Mr. Tigi said. “However, we are planning to utilise the maximum fallow land for cultivation, except the area of land where the man-animal conflict is at its extreme,” he said. Twenty-three elected members of the grama panchayat board, along with 31 officials of the civic body and four officials of the Nenmeni Krishi Bhavan, launched the paddy cultivation on 10 acres, including six acres of fallow land, at four areas under the civic body. Each of the officials invested Rs. 6,000 for the cultivation. The paddy harvested under the programme would be contributed to Nenmeni Kuthari, an innovative project of the civic body, free of cost, Mr. Tigi said. “We are planning to launch the project by the end of December to enhance the revenue of farmers from paddy cultivation and attract more farmers to it,” said Anupama Krishnan, Agriculture Officer, Nenmeni Krishi Bhavan. The project is envisaged to procure pesticide-free paddy from farmers at a premium price and producing value-added products from it with the support of private rice mill owners in the area and sell it to the public at an affordable price, Ms. Krishnan said. The civic body has earmarked Rs. 10 lakh for the project during the current fiscal, she said. The civic body has also allotted Rs. 30 lakh to provide Rs. 18,000 as input cost for cultivating paddy on each hectare apart from the usual incentives being offered by the Agriculture Department, she said. I.C. Balakrishnan, MLA, jointly inaugurated the programme at Chembakathode near Koliyadi under the Punjavayal padashekhara samithi on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nenmeni-sets-a-model-in-farming/article36160842.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pineapple farmers seek hike in support price||The community of over 5,000 pineapple farmers in the State has demanded that the government raise the support price of the fruit to enable them to negotiate remunerative prices with commission agents, who ultimately end up selling the fruit in upcountry cities. Pineapple Farmers Association president James George said though the government had agreed to look into the issue of support price, there had been no action. No bargaining power The support price is Rs. 15 a kg, while farmers claim that the production cost ranged between Rs. 23 and Rs. 25 a kg. The government support price is decided on the basis of the production cost plus 20% addition on it. The low support price has deprived farmers of their bargaining power, said Mr. George. Baby John, a veteran pineapple farmer, called for the reintroduction of the system wherein farmers bill commission agents on the basis of the actual cost of the fruit when a consignment is shipped to retail markets in upcountry cities. There is an unwritten agreement between local commission agents and fruit farmers on the returns to be realised from the sale of the consignment. Under the current system, farmers have no control over transactions. Consignments are shipped to retailers’ agents in cities like Delhi. Farmers suffer The agents take delivery, distribute the fruits, and take 8% to 10% commission from the total sales turnover. The farmer finally gets what the commission agent offers after the agent takes the cut irrespective of the price at which the fruit is sold. Mr. George said the system was exploitative in nature, and that an improved marketing system could help farmers realise better prices. Realising better prices is the only way to encourage and sustain pineapple cultivation, now spread over 18,000 hectares in the State. Boost to economy Pineapple farming is worth around Rs. 1,500 crore a year and is a huge support to the State’s economy even as rubber and other plantations have come under tremendous pressure during the pandemic and due to climate change, said Mr. John. Meanwhile, the price of ripe pineapple has brought some cheer to farmers. It hovered around Rs. 23 a kg, while the best quality raw fruit, which is usually shipped to major cities in the country, sold at Rs. 15 a kg in the wholesale market at Vazhakulam, near Muvattupuzha, on Saturday.  Realising better prices is the only way to sustain pineapple cultivation, spread over 18,000 ha in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pineapple-farmers-seek-govt-support-to-raise-bargaining-power/article36160860.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||DPR ready for M.G. Road-NH Bypass corridor||The proposal to extend Thammanam-Pullepady Road to M.G. Road and the NH Bypass and to widen the 4-km stretch into a four-lane one has got a shot in the arm, with the Public Works Department (PWD) readying a detailed project report (DPR) on the long-overdue project. The State government had handed over the implementation of the project to the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), which carried out the preparatory work to kick-start the project. The DPR will be handed over to the KRFB in a couple of days. As expected, a bridge mooted at Kathrikadavu in the city in the early days of the KRFB taking over the work from the PWD does not find mention in the DPR. This could result in commuters having to wait at what could become a junction with traffic signal at Kathrikadavu, official sources said. They cited the need to acquire three more metres on each side of the junction to create service roads, if a four-lane overbridge were to be built parallel to Thammanam-Pullepady Road. This additional six metres over a 500-metre-long stretch will be in addition to the 22-metre width at which the proposed road is slated to be developed. Another alternative is to construct a bridge parallel to Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road. This too will entail minimum land acquisition. Moreover, the existing railway overbridge built by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) at Kathrikadavu has only two-lane width. A dedicated four-lane bridge may have to be built over it, for which the Railways’ permission too will be needed. This could prove costlier than a four-lane bridge parallel to Thammanam-Pullepady Road, sources said. They added that the KRFB would analyse the DPR and submit it to the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for financial sanction. The KIIFB will in turn study the DPR and conduct a site inspection, following which it will be placed before its committee for financial sanction. In the meantime, the KRFB is expected to relocate survey / boundary stones in accordance with the alignment mentioned in the DPR. A new two-lane bridge parallel to the Pullepady bridge and shorter bridges / culverts parallel to the existing ones figure in the DPR. The DPR will also have a sketch of how to redesign Chakkaraparambu on the NH Bypass, where the road that begins from Padma Junction on M.G. Road ends, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpr-ready-for-mg-road-nh-bypass-corridor/article36160854.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,807 new COVID-19 cases recorded in Ernakulam||As many as 3,807 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Saturday. A total of 3,750 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 45 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 17.11%. Cases spiral The regions where positive cases were higher than 50 included Thrikkakara (101), Malayatoor-Neeleswaram (90), Kottuvally (85), Mukkannoor (85), Keezhmad (73), Kalamassery (72), Thripunithura (71), Pallipuram (68), Kunnathunad (67), North Paravur (63), Kalady (62), Mazhuvannoor (61), Sreemoolanagaram (58), Asamannoor (56), Chottanikkara (56), Rayamangalam (55), Palluruthy (53), and Cherannallore (52). Some regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayappankavu, Thammanam, Chakkaraparambu, Panayappilli, Poonithura, Ramamangalam, Ayampuzha, and Elamkulam, according to an official release. As many as 22,194 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district, and 22, 252 tests were conducted on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3807-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-ernakulam/article36160862.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL to facilitate operations to Saudi||With Saudi Arabia’s new international travel protocol becoming effective, Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) is set to facilitate the first commercial departure operation to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) since the COVID-19 outbreak. Saudi Arabia’s national carrier Saudia has scheduled seven departure services till September 30, said a communication from CIAL on Saturday. The first among them will leave CIAL on Sunday, August 29, with 395 passengers. The airport will handle 6,069 international passengers on Sunday and of them 4,131 are departing passengers. Saudia flight SV 3573 will leave CIAL on Sunday morning with 395 passengers. The airline has scheduled three more flights for the week. Indigo will commence departure operations to Saudi on September 2, and the airline has scheduled 12 more operations. CIAL managing director S. Suhas said the company had initiated talks with international carriers to start more services in the sector. “We are happy that all major international carriers and Indian airlines have confirmed their schedules for the sector,” he said in the communication. Besides, arrangements have been made for hassle-free passenger movement at the airport. CIAL has scheduled 21 international passenger departure operations on Sunday, including five services to Doha, four each to Sharjah and Dubai, and one to London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-to-facilitate-operations-to-saudi/article36160863.ece
29 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||To crack a wild mystery, officials plan a recreation||Forest officials of the Malyattoor division are busy recreating a ‘possible encounter’ involving two tigers over an elephant carcass in their efforts to solve the mystery over animal deaths. For the unusual job, they have the decomposed carcasses of a tigress and an elephant, post-mortem examination reports, and reports of presence of another tiger. It all began with beat forest officials spotting the carcasses at Kulathupatti in the Edamalayar forest range last week. The carcasses were found at a distance of 70 metres from each other. The ivory of the elephant was intact in its decomposed carcass. The tiger pelt was partially decomposed with its claws and teeth intact. No evidence of metal snare and bullets could be found, which ruled out poaching, said Ravikumar Meena, Divisional Forest Officer, Malayattoor. The unusual death of the animals took a curious turn with some tribespeople reporting the presence of another tiger. “We are trying to recreate the encounter scene with the help of post-mortem examination reports and some scientific evidence. The primary conclusion is that the tiger might have died after fighting with the other tiger. An analysis of its teeth and bone suggests it was an aged animal. The tigers, which are highly territorial, might have clashed while one was feeding on the carcass. A report will be submitted to the National Tiger Conservation Authority,” he said. The poison factor At the same time, wildlife expert P.O. Nameer felt that the possibility of the tigress falling dead after feeding on the dead elephant needed investigation as it could have been poisoned. “There have been several incidents of poisoning of elephants. The probability of a tiger falling dead after feeding on a poisoned elephant carcass is higher than one being killed in an encounter,” Dr. Nameer. However, Mr. Meena discounted the poisoning theory as he felt that the carcass was found deep inside the forest area where there were no complaints of crop raiding by elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/to-crack-a-wild-mystery-officials-plan-a-recreation/article36160865.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cardinal backs unified Mass||Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church Cardinal George Alencherry in a pastoral letter, sent out to be read in all the parishes of the Syrian Catholic Church during the Sunday Mass on September 5, has called upon the Church members to adhere to the unified system of celebrating the Mass as decided by the synod that met online early this month. The unified system of celebrating the Mass will come into effect from the new liturgical cycle starting on November 28 with the feast of Annunciation, says the letter. It also appeals to the clergy and the faithful to set aside “individual preferences” and work towards the unity of the Church. The division in the Syro-Malabar Church is a long-running one and relates to the way the Mass is celebrated. Point of contention While the vast majority of the parishes under the Church celebrate the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the faithful, in some dioceses Mass is celebrated with the priest facing facing the tabernacle (holy of holies). There are also some parishes where the celebrant faces the people during most of the Mass time and faces the altar or turns away from the participants for brief periods of the rituals. The synod has decided that the celebrant will face the congregation during the introductory rituals and for the sermon. For the rest of the time, the celebrant will face the tabernacle. The Pope has been cited at the beginning of the pastoral letter as calling upon the priests, religious, and the lay believers to use the opportunity for a unified celebration of Mass to cement the overall unity and betterment of the Church.  Pastoral letter will be read during Sunday Mass on September 5 System to come into effect from new liturgical cycle starting Nov. 28||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardinal-backs-unified-mass/article36160877.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Priests’ team seeks status quo||A delegation representing more than 500 priests belonging, among others, to the Ernakulam-Angamaly and Thrissur archdioceses and the Irinjalakuda diocese of the Syro-Malabar Church has appealed to the church hierarchy to maintain status quo with regard to the celebration of the Mass. The group of priests said archdiocesan administrator Archbishop Antony Kariyil assured them on Saturday that, in consultation with the bishops, the decision to implement a uniform code for the Mass by the synod earlier this week would be re-examined and that a delegation would represent the demand before Pope Francis in Rome. The priests demanded that a pastoral letter from Cardinal George Alencherry, head of the Syro-Malabar Church, instructing priests to implement the uniform code of celebrating the Mass from November 28 should not be despatched to the parishes to be read out on September 5. They said reading out the circular would end up in a law and order problem. The priests alleged that Pope Francis’ message of unity in the Syrian church was being “misinterpreted.” They also said at least one-third of the bishops who attended the online synod was in favour of continuing the status quo. They had favoured the celebration of the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priests-team-seeks-status-quo/article36160879.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New Rotary Club office-bearers||P.V. Ramesh is president and Rojan Mathew secretary of the new Rotary Club of Cochin Titans, which is part of Rotary District 3201. The club has a 15-member board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-rotary-club-office-bearers/article36160859.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Health survey to be held in Kadungalloor panchayat||A health survey will be conducted in eight wards of Kadungalloor panchayat which has been affected by industrial pollution. Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve, who attended a meeting here on Saturday to discuss developmental works and address problems facing residents of the panchayat, asked the Health Department to carry out the survey. Elected representatives from the region informed the Minister of the worsening pollution, which was causing respiratory and skin diseases among people. A meeting will be held soon to resolve drinking water shortage in the panchayat. Officials of the Kerala Water Authority and Irrigation Department will attend. Waterbodies in the panchayat will be protected. Re-tarring of roads connecting U.C. College and Edayar will be done soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-survey-to-be-held-in-kadungalloor-panchayat/article36160864.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Quadrennial tiger estimation from Sept. 2||Forest officials will fan out across tiger habitats in the State, starting September 2, for the quadrennial estimation of tiger population. The field directors of Parambikulam and Periyar tiger reserves will serve as nodal officers of the exercise. The estimation is expected to be completed by January 2022, and data will be submitted to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), officials said. This year, data on wild elephant population will also be generated. The Wildlife Institute of India, Dehra Dun, will be partnering with the NTCA for the programme. In Kerala, focus will be on the tiger reserves of Periyar and Parambikulam and Wayanad, Aralam and Kottiyoor wildlife sanctuaries, Wayanad North and South, Kannur forest divisions, Silent Valley, Malayattoor, Periyar Tiger Reserve, and Ranni landscapes. Dung of mega-herbivores and scat samples will be collected for DNA extraction for estimation of the population of mega-herbivores. The last survey, conducted in 2018-19 across the country, had witnessed camera traps being placed in 26,838 locations across 141 sites, and an effective area of 121,337 sq.km being covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiger-estimation-from-sept-2/article36160857.ece
29 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||2,751 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 2,751 new cases of COVID-19 and 2,416 recoveries on Saturday. While 2,733 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include eight persons from other States and 10 health workers, a health bulletin said here today . At present the district has 24,273 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 21,96,972. While 1,931 people completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 3,30,638 primary and 19,396 secondary contacts of the cases, the bulletin said . Alappuzha The district logged 1,943 COVID-19 cases on Saturday ,a health bulletin issued here said . The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 18.47%. Of the fresh cases, 1,900 patients contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 39 others remains unknown. Four health staff also tested positive for the disease, the bulletin added. Meanwhile, 1,244 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 11,557. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases slightly came down on Saturday in Kottayam with 1,680 people testing positive for the disease, a bulletin issued here said . Of the fresh cases, 1,668 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 15.56%. With 193 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikkad which recorded 80 cases . As many as 476 people recovered from the disease during the day, taking the total active cases to 10,683. Meanwhile, 44,183 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,229 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 1,221 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of six cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 16%. With 64 cases, Koyipram reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kodumon , which reported 63 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed six more lives in the district. With 663 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases shot up to 9,623. ( With contribution from bureaus in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta )  The Test Positivity Rate for Alappuzha was 18.47%, Kottayam 15.56% and for Pathanamthitta 16%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2751-test-positive-in-kollam/article36160904.ece
29 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Azheekkal youth’s fishing vlog draws millions||When Vishnu, a fisher from Azheekkal, started vlogging, he was just one among many wide-eyed teenagers smitten by the bug. He started off with some amateurish stuff, but four years down the line he is Kadalmachan, a YouTube icon. His channel now has over 6.3 lakh subscribers and most of his fishing adventures garner millions of views and comments online. And it’s not only curated, algorithm-friendly content that Kadalmachan offers. A range of casual vlogs showcasing his home and family too draw a broad audience. Fisher’s life “I belong to a fisher family and venturing into the sea was part of my routine from childhood. I used to accompany my father in a ‘kattamaram’ and I started working in Azheekkal harbour when I was a Class X student. Basically all my vlogs are reels out a fisher’s life and almost all videos I upload on my Facebook page get an average 1 million views. I still don’t know how this happened as I never expected my channel to become this popular,” says the 21-year-old. While his latest vlog on mackerel harvesting garnered over one million views in few hours, some highly-rated uploads feature the seafood recipes of his mother. A second-year psychology student, Vishnu says his vlogging expeditions come with their own share of risks. “I had to venture into the sea under scorching sun for five days straight to shoot the conch vlog. All five days I had to travel to Tamil Nadu and extracting the conch from seabed is no easy task.” Another popular vlog that shows a pod of dolphins was shot after 16 futile trips to the deep sea. “I waited for nearly a year for the visual that features thousands of dolphins. Each time I travelled up to 100 nautical miles and stayed overnight to capture the visual. Cameras getting damaged due to the wind and salinity is another challenge,” he says. When his volg was grabbing steady attention, Vishnu introduced his mother Sandhaymma who runs a tea stall. Her warm and cheerful demeanour became an instant hit and very soon Vishnu started livestreaming family vlogs featuring his mother and sister Pearl. “I know nobody can learn cooking by watching my vlog, but today Sandhyamma has more fans than me. One of her live cooking sessions had around 25 lakh viewers.” Another vlog that showcases their modest tin-roofed house on the beach too recorded an impressive number of views. “Now a lot of people who visit the Azheekkal beach stop by to meet us,” he adds. Future profession Though vlogging offers him a steady income, Vishnu says he hasn’t zeroed in on it as a future profession. “I am basically a fisher and I still consider it as my main occupation. Though it means hard labour, fishing is my passion and I shoot my vlogs with so much of involvement. Even after four years I am uploading only limited content on my channel and right now I have no plans to become a full-time YouTuber,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/azheekkal-youths-fishing-vlog-draws-millions/article36160901.ece
29 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Man arrested for assaulting minor son||The Kadakkal police on Saturday arrested Nazaruddin, a 57-year-old man, for torturing his minor son. The incident took place on Friday evening and the boy’s mother contacted the police requesting help, the police said. The visuals of Nazaruddin assaulting the 13-year-old were widely shared on social networking platforms and in the footage he is seen repeatedly beating and kicking the boy. Reportedly, the boy was thrashed up for visiting his half-brother. According to police, the boy was beaten up brutally and had several bruises in his body.“He was arrested based on the statement of the boy,” said an official. Nazaruddin was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-assaulting-minor-son/article36160910.ece
29 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Free cancer screening camp from Sept. 13||NS Co-operative Hospital, Kollam, will conduct a free cancer screening camp from September 13 to 18. Experts from the field of surgical and clinical oncology will lead the camp. Online consultation of experts will also be available in view of the COVID-19 situation. For details and registration, contact 9400247045.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-cancer-screening-camp-from-sept-13/article36160909.ece
29 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pala Bishop’s circular urges laity to be on alert||The diocese of Pala on Saturday issued a circular warning the laity against alleged attempts by fraudsters to entrap girls and young women from the community. The circular to the vicars of parishes under the diocese, issued by Bishop of Pala Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, says that fraudsters are primarily targeting women having active social life, especially local body members, to collect details of young women. “Fraudsters will contact these women over the phone and introduce themselves as former vicar or assistant vicar of their respective parish. They will then collect the names and contact details of young women and girls from the community in the pretext of presenting papers or to talk about subjects such as honesty and mother-daughter relationships. The numbers thus collected will then be used for trapping the victims,” reads the circular. The circular directs the vicars to pass on the information to all families in their respective parish and asks them to be vigilant. he circular assumes significance against the backdrop of the love jihad issue being raised by certain sections of the Catholic community in central Travancore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-bishops-circular-urges-laity-to-be-on-alert/article36160913.ece
29 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Nobel laureate to speak||Martin Chalfie, a recipient of the Nobel prize for Chemistry in 2008, will deliver the fourth Berchmans Erudite Lecture, organised by the SB College, Changanassery on September 2. Researchers, teachers and students from different countries will attend the event, to be held online. College Principal Fr. Reji .P.Kurien will welcome the gathering. For registration, visit the College websitewww.sbcollege.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nobel-laureate-to-speak/article36160911.ece
29 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Heavy rain: DDMA on alert in Kottayam||In view of the prediction of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) for possible heavy rain in the district over the next couple of days, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has kick started efforts to coordinate the rescue and relief operations in Kottayam. According to officials, control rooms that function on a round the clock basis have been opened at the Collectorate and Taluk offices and arrangement has been put in place for providing real time information from taluk control rooms to the District Emergency Operations Center. Control rooms have been opened in grama panchayats and municipalities as well. People can contact district emergency operation centre being set up at the district Collectorate on these numbers: 04812 2565400; 04812 2566300; and 9446562236. The Central Meteorological Department has issued orange alert in the district for August 29 and yellow alert for 30. The IMD suggested high to very high rainfall on Sunday. Meanwhile, water level is rising in major rivers in the district such as Meenachil and Manimala following the rain over the past couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-ddma-on-alert-in-kottayam/article36160912.ece
29 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID surge may continue for a few days||The Health Department in Kozhikode expects that the surge in COVID-19 cases and the high test positivity rate (TPR) after the Onam holidays will continue for a couple of more days. 3,292 new cases  A total of 3,292 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Saturday and the TPR was 21.5%. The district has been reporting over 2,500 cases since August 24 and the TPR has been going above 19%. For the past four days, over 3,000 fresh cases have been recorded on each day and the TPR has been hovering around 20%. As many as 1,633 cases were reported on August 23 and the TPR was 18.8%. The next day, fresh cases rose to 2,875 and the TPR reached 19.89%. The TPR surged to 22.7% on August 25 when 3,680 cases were reported. The number of fresh cases on August 26 was 3,461 and the TPR 19.37%. On August 27, as many as 3,362 cases and a TPR of 22.97%, reportedly the highest in the month, were reported. Incubation period Health Department officials believe that the current trend will continue for some more days because more intermingling of people might have happened because of the relaxations in restrictions for Onam. Many people may have travelled within the district and outside, and family get-togethers may have happened at many places before and after Thiruvonam on August 21. Since the incubation period, the time between a person catching the virus and the onset of symptoms for the infection, is around six days, more infections may get reported in the coming days. Meanwhile, the district medical officer said that 3,252 of the fresh cases reported on Saturday. Kozhikode Corporation reported 446 cases. As many as 15,558 samples were tested. With 2,301 people recovering from the infection, the active caseload in the district reached 30,620.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-surge-may-continue-for-a-few-days/article36160846.ece
29 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Work on new KSRTC depot at Thiruvambady to begin soon||Construction work on the proposed Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) depot at Thiruvambady is expected to begin soon with the Thiruvambady grama panchayat deciding to hand over the acquired land after completing the pending registration process. Following a ministry-level discussion, the panchayat will complete the registration process by September 5. As per the agreement, the registration expenses will be borne by the KSRTC. The implementation of the project, approved in 2016 at an estimated cost of Rs. 3 crore, has been pending for over four years. The KSRTC hopes that its rural services can be streamlined with the opening of the new facility. According to the agency, bus services to about 25 destinations can be managed from the proposed depot, thereby reducing the workload on other regional depots. The monitoring of both long-distance services and inter-district trips will be possible from there. The depot also promises uninterrupted service to remote rural areas and tourism spots. The existing bus operating centre at Thiruvambady will also be shifted to the new depot. The project will include better amenities for passengers such as spacious waiting rooms, comfort stations, first aid booth and police aid post. For information on local attractions and ecotourism spots, a tourism information counter has also been proposed at the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-new-ksrtc-depot-at-thiruvambady-to-begin-soon/article36160848.ece
29 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rush for admissions in colleges affiliated to Calicut University||Colleges affiliated to the University of Calicut are witnessing a heavy rush of students for admissions to undergraduate courses this year. Teachers say even those who scored cent per cent marks in Class XII may find it difficult to get courses of their choice. The pass percentage for Plus Two was 87.94% this time and 48,383 students scored A+ grade in all subjects. There are many who scored 100% marks as well. According to sources, though there are around 90,000 seats available in arts and science colleges in the government, aided and self-financing sectors, the number of applicants could be around 2.5 lakh. August 24 was the last for submitting applications for admissions. Right now, the merit percentage will exceed 100 if grace marks and others are added to those who have scored above 90% marks. Among science subjects, undergraduate courses in Physics, Chemistry, and Computer Science are some of the most sought after ones. B.Sc. Psychology is in high demand among humanities courses. Some of the teachers said the government’s decision to increase seats in view of the high demand might not work. “After the increase, the number of seats in Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Commerce courses will go up to the maximum limit of 70. In Bachelor of Science courses, it will reach 55. We will find it difficult to teach in such a congested atmosphere,” said a teacher. Meanwhile, teachers in the self-financing sector have sought more new generation courses for their colleges as only those in government and aided sector were given them last year. Varughese Mathew, president of the Kerala Unaided Colleges Principals Council, suggested that integrated courses should be introduced in all colleges. “Right now, integrated five-year LLB courses are available in law colleges. Students can directly join them after completing Plus Two and clearing the entrance test. Similarly, integrated five-year M.A. courses should be launched in colleges. It will help those interested in the subject,” he added.  Integrated five-year M.A. courses should be launched in colleges Varughese Mathew President, Kerala Unaided Colleges Principals Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rush-for-admissions-in-calicut-varsity-colleges/article36160845.ece
29 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||SC order in quarry case brings cheer to greens||Despite the recent Supreme Court order staying the injunction order of the Kerala High Court against the National Green Tribunal (NGT) norms on distance between quarries and the nearest residential area, illegal stone quarrying continues unabated in the State, say environmentalists. “As soon as the order was issued on August 25, we had informed the Kerala State Pollution Control Board about the same. But, the Board seems to have been inactive as it could not put a stop to blasting in quarries violating norms,” says T.V. Rajan, secretary of the All Kerala River Protection Committee, which is one of the parties in the case supporting the NGT order. Suo motu case  The issue began with a group of local people in Muthalamada, Palakkad, organising a signature campaign against a quarry in their locality and forwarding it with a petition to the Prime Minister, with supporting documents, requesting putting an end to the threat posed by the quarry to their homes. A copy of the same was forwarded to the NGT, based on which the Tribunal suo motu registered a case. In March this year, the NGT passed an order stating that there should be at least 200 metres distance between a quarry and the nearest house. Injunction order However, quarry owners questioned the order in the Kerala High Court. The High Court issued a partial injunction of the order of the Tribunal, according to which it was applicable only to new quarries and also those renewing their licenses. Meanwhile, the quarry owners filed a petition in the Supreme Court questioning the authority of the NGT in taking up an issue based on a complaint to the Prime Minister. Non-compliance “We have won the first phase of the case since we could lift the injunction. Now the distance norm is applicable to all quarries, not just the new ones,” says Mr. Rajan, adding that the Supreme Court will be informed about the non-compliance of quarries during the hearing on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sc-order-in-quarry-case-brings-cheer-to-greens/article36160832.ece
29 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Action sought against fake message||P.P. Venugopal, executive director of the Accredited Network Group of Emergency Life Savers and the head of emergency medicine at the Malabar Institute of Medical Sciences, has approached the cyber cell seeking action against the circulation of a fake message in his name with false details about the outbreak of the third wave of COVID-19. Dr. Venugopal said those who fabricated the message in his name in Malayalam and English languages for misleading the public and health workers were found making it viral for unknown reasons. “Whatever is attributed to my name are false findings and totally misleading. It is circulated with fabricated findings at a time when the government and the health Department authorities are yet to confirm the third wave in the State,” he said. Dr. Venugopal, who sought the support of the police to trace the source of the message, said that it was reportedly creating a huge scare with factually wrong figures about the new COVID-19 cases. “Only people who are familiar to me have understood it as fake. Those who worked behind this fake message should be traced at the earliest to avert such attempts in the future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought-against-fake-message/article36160843.ece
29 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Wild elephant attacks forest officials||Two forest officials sustained injuries after being attacked by a wild elephant in Konni. The injured officials were identified as forest watcher Sindhu and Section Forest Officer D.Vinod. The incident took place in the Adichanpara forest area on Saturday morning, when an elephant attacked a team of forest officials. Though the remaining officials managed to flee, the elephant knocked down the woman official and went on to attack Mr.Vinod. The injured officials have been admitted to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-elephant-attacks-forest-officials/article36160903.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stringent restrictions in district||With lockdown making a comeback after a hiatus, the capital district is set to witness stringent curbs on Sunday. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the entry points of the city would be barricaded and vehicles would be tightly screened. Surveillance and checks would commence as early as 6 a.m. The entry and exit of vehicles would remained barred during the day. Besides, vehicles would be screened at 70 checking points spread across the police station limits in the city. Personnel attached to the traffic police and other special units would also be deployed for the inspections. Movement would be permitted only for essential medical emergencies and those sections that have been exempted from such curbs. Travel curbs Motorists headed for railway stations and the airport would be permitted to travel with their tickets or other travel documents. Those with registration for COVID-19 vaccination would also be permitted to travel, the officer said. Mr. Upadhyay added that vehicles used for travel that was deemed unnecessary under the circumstances would be seized. Only medical stores and outlets selling milk, vegetables and other food items would be permitted to function. Eateries would be permitted to supply food through home delivery from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Wayside stalls cannot function during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-restrictions-in-district/article36161037.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM calls for urgent vaccination of the elderly||It is quite worrying that the number of people dying due to COVID-19 in the State has been increasing in proportion to the rise in disease transmission. However, a significant proportion of the fatalities was elderly persons who are yet to be vaccinated, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here. The few elderly who were vaccinated and yet succumbed to COVID-19 were those who had several co-morbidities, he said. An estimated 9 lakh persons above 60 years and who have co-morbidities remain unvaccinated in the State, significantly contributing to COVID-19 mortality now. Most of these people seem to have vaccine hesitancy or irrational fears over the side-effects of vaccination or could have been swayed by anti-vaccination campaigners. In fact, side-effects of vaccination have been found to be less in elderly than in youngsters. These unvaccinated elderly and co-morbid persons are at serious risk of mortality if they contract COVID-19 and should get vaccinated as soon as possible. List being prepared The list of unvaccinated elderly is being prepared and all efforts would be taken to persuade them to get vaccinated. Mr. Vijayan reiterated that those with co-morbidities should not stay at home if they test positive for COVID-19 as the management during the initial days of the disease is crucial. Delay in hospitalising these persons could result in mortality. He said that in this situation of the pandemic, the government’s sole aim is to protect people from the disease as much as possible and to save lives. While all preparations have been made to combat a possible third wave, the government has also taken vaccination at a campaign mode to administer at least the first dose of vaccine to as many people as possible by September 30. Mr. Vijayan, reacting to the criticism about the “failed Kerala Model”, pointed out that eminent public health experts and epidemiologists like Dr. Gagandeep Kang and Jayaprakash Mooliyil had praised Kerala’s COVID containment strategy as a model for the rest of the country. The low seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the State, as reported by the ICMR, is a clear indicator of the success of the State’s containment efforts. Delta virus variant had arrived much later in Kerala than the rest of the country, which is why the State was now witnessing an increased disease transmission, a situation that all other States had gone through much earlier. The State was thus trying to control disease transmission on the one hand, while trying to reduce mortality and keep people protected through vaccination on the other, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-calls-for-urgent-vaccination-of-the-elderly/article36160868.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Prizes distributed to winners of Pookkalam contest||The curtains came down on the 11th edition of Preethi Power Duo The Hindu Pookkalam@Home Contest powered by ITC Mangaldeep on Friday, with the prize distribution held at The Hindu offices at Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Thrissur and Kozhikode. The contest was conducted on August 19 and 20 in the four cities. As many as 100 teams had participated in the two-day pookkalam contest from their homes, complying with the COVID protocol. Team Suriyothayam, Thiruvananthapuram, led by captain Kohila N. received the first prize of Rs. 25,000, Team Vyoh, Kozhikode, led by captain Vidhu was presented the second prize of Rs. 15,000, while the third prize of Rs. 10,000 was shared by Team Navodaya, Kochi, led by Latha T.N. and Team Pratheeksha, Thrissur, led by Sheena Anand. All winners were given ITC Mangaldeep gift hampers. A consolation prize of Rs. 1,500 was given to Team Thumbapoo led by Anaswara and Team Aarpo Irrooo led by Manavumani, both from Thiruvananthapuram, Team Vadakkans led by Aleena, Team M M Creatives led by Bindu Manoj and Team Darshana led by Sajini Roy, all from Thrissur, Team Baby Nivas captained by Babita P. and Team Padmam led by Anamika, both from Kozhikode, and Team Changathikkoottam led by Rakhi V.V., Team Bhoomika led by Preethi N.G. and Team Chithira led by Geetha, all from Kochi. Onam smile contest All participating teams were given Rs. 1,000 towards reimbursement for flower purchase and also gifts from ITC Mangaldeep and K.P. Namboodiri's Ayurvedics. The winners of the Best Onam smile contest were also given prizes by K.P. Namboodiri's Ayuvedics. The sponsors of the event included Preethi Power Duo (title sponsor), Mangaldeep (powered by sponsor), RKG Ghee (associate partner), K.P. Namboodiri's Ayurvedics (smile partner) Mar Sleeva Medicity, Palai (health-care partner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prizes-distributed-to-winners-of-the-hindu-pookkalam-contest/article36160840.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All SC/ST members to get houses||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the LDF government would eradicate homelessness among Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. Inaugurating the Ayyankali birth anniversary celebrations here, Mr. Vijayan said LIFE Mission would implement the scheme. The Chief Minister also promised free high-speed internet connectivity to SC/ST homes and remote tribal colonies to mainstream marginalised sections into the digital world. The government would improve the protein intake of tribal mothers, children and youth. It actively promoted start-up ventures by SC/ST entrepreneurs. Mr. Vijayan said social reformer Mahatma Ayyankali had dared the feudal caste yoke that had enslaved marginalised people for ages. The feudal rulers had shifted the Praja Sabha meeting to VJT Hall to prevent Ayyankali from speaking at the Durbar Hall in the Secretariat. The LDF government had rectified the historic injustice by naming VJT Hall after Ayyankali. The social reformer’s birth anniversary is an occasion for society to reaffirm the humanist values he stood for. Ayyankali had dared the feudal system by sporting a headdress, wearing a coat and travelling in an ox-driven cart. In 1908, Ayyankali organised a general strike to demand school education for ‘lower caste’ families. He agitated for wages for work and limited labour hours. Mr. Vijayan said Ayyankali’s teachings had immense relevance when some powers were stoking divisions in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-scst-members-to-get-houses/article36160870.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active cases cross two lakh||The COVID-19 case graph in the State seems to be hitting another plateau, with the State reporting over 30,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day. Health experts are watching warily how far the graph will rise. Kerala registered 31,265 new cases on Saturday, when 1,67,497 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate is more or less steady at 18.67%. 21,468 persons recover The State’s active case pool crossed the two-lakh mark yet again for the second time this year and now stands at 2,04,896. The number of patients reported to have recovered on the day was 21,468. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 20,466 with the State adding 153 recent deaths to the official list on Saturday. Current ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients in both public and private hospitals has been rising for the past two days. On Saturday, the ICU occupancy was 2,179. A slow rise The number of patients requiring ventilator support spiralled from 822 on Friday to 883 on Saturday. Hospitalisations and new admissions are beginning to show a slow rise and would need close monitoring. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 has risen since the past two days and was 2,792 on Saturday. Total hospitalisation figures of those with moderate or severe COVID rose slightly from 28,545 on Friday to 29,523 on Saturday. The cumulative case burden in the State now stands at 39,77,572 cases. Cases are rising in all districts, and 10 districts have an active case pool of over 10,000 cases each now. Highest in Thrissur Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases with 3,957 cases, Ernakulam 3,807, Kozhikode 3,292, Malappuram 3,199, Kollam 2,751, Palakkad 2,488, Thiruvananthapuram 2,360, Alappuzha 1,943, Kottayam 1,680, Kannur 1,643, Pathanamthitta 1,229, Wayanad 1,224, Idukki 1,171 and Kasaragod 521 cases.  31,265 new cases reported in State, hospitalisation, ventilator occupancy rising||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-cases-cross-two-lakh/article36160867.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress releases DCC presidents’ list||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has appointed 14 party workers as presidents of the District Congress Committees (DCC) in Kerala. They are arguably a microcosm of the State’s social and demographic make-up. The AICC appears to have given weightage to youth and also age and experience in almost equal measure. It has attempted to accommodate the political aspirations of various caste and religious groups. The announcement of the list caps an intense but low key wrangling between various powers centres in the Congress in Kerala for organisational control. A party insider said the AICC might have slightly modified the list submitted by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran. AICC general secretary in Kerala Tariq Anwar held discussions with senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala after they raised objections to the KPCC’s original list. At the helm The new DCC presidents are P.K. Faisal (Kasaragod), Martin George (Kannur), N.D. Appachan (Wayanad), K. Praveen Kumar (Kozhikode), V.S. Joy (Malappuram), A. Thankappan (Palakkad), Jose Valloor (Thrissur), Muhammad Shiyas (Ernakulam), C.P. Mathew (Idukki), Nattakom Suresh (Kottayam), B. Babu Prasad (Alappuzha), Professor Satheesh Kochuparambil (Pathanamthitta), P. Rajendran Prasad (Kollam), and Palode Ravi (Thiruvananthapuram). Suspended Meanwhile, Mr. Sudhakaran suspended K. Sivadasan Nair, ex-MLA, and former KPCC general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar for commenting publicly about the DCC president selection process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-releases-dcc-presidents-list/article36160872.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nod for Rs. 455.89-crore project for building 11,011 houses||The Union government has sanctioned a Rs. 426.12-crore project for constructing 10,653 houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban)-Life project. The PMAY (Urban)-Life is being implemented by the Union and the State governments and municipal bodies. Its nodal agency in the State is the Kudumbashree. The Central Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee chaired by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary approved the project for homeless who possess land by including it under the beneficiary-led construction component on the basis of detailed project reports from 84 urban local bodies. Besides this, DPRs received under Affordable Housing in Partnership and enhancement components, taking the total amount sanctioned to Rs. 455.89 crore. As many as 11,011 beneficiaries will benefit from the project. Of the 10,653 beneficiaries who have received the nod for house construction at present, 2,513 are on the list provided through the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Departments and Fisheries Department by the Life Mission. Beneficiaries of the Life Mission third phase and those on the landless and homeless list who have managed to secure land on their own are also included on the list. All the 2,513 on the list submitted by the Life Mission will be provided the required urban local body share for house construction through HUDCO loan by the State government. The Union government also sanctioned a Rs. 27.34-crore project submitted by Payyannur, Anthoor, Koothattukulam Kollam, and Kattappana local bodies for building 196 houses under the Affordable Housing in Partnership component for the homeless and the landless. Of the sanctioned amount, Rs. 24.4 crore was the State share and Rs. 2.94 crore Central component, a statement from the Kudumbashree said. A Rs. 2.43-crore project for expansion of 162 houses in Alappuzha, Koyilandy, Kannur and Adoor municipalities has also got the nod. Under this component, an assistance of Rs. 1.5 lakh is given for expanding houses that are less than 21 sq m to 30 sq m in area. Under the PMAY (Urban)–Life, projects of Rs. 4,058.59 crore have been sanctioned till now for building houses for more than 1.02-lakh homeless people who have land. Construction of 86,446 houses has begun, and 68,930 houses have been made habitable. Of them, 58,476 beneficiaries have been given the last instalment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10653-houses-to-be-built-under-pmay-project/article36160907.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State testing in a big way||Kerala adopted the strategy of doing the maximum number of COVID-19 tests possible, using a combination of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests (RAT), so that the infectious people in the community can be found as fast as possible and isolated, thus preventing further disease transmission. Defending the State’s testing strategy, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan pointed out that during a pandemic, when the disease transmission was intense, the priority had to be in testing the maximum and finding and isolating infectious people quickly. The State was thus deploying a good number of RT-PCR tests to test all symptomatic persons. However, doing RAT was more accessible and convenient when a large number of tests had to be done in a community. The results were also obtained faster. RAT could be done in all government hospitals. To be tested again Anyone who tested negative in RAT but still displayed symptoms were again tested by the RT-PCR. The primary contacts of positive cases were also tested using RT-PCR, Mr. Vijayan pointed out. Even if the primary contacts tested negative in RT-PCR, they have to compulsorily go on quarantine, as a matter of caution. He said that the government had not reduced the number of RT-PCR and on Friday alone, 70,000 RT-PCR tests had been done. The Chief Minister was forced to defend the State’s COVID testing strategy during his press conference here on Saturday, following the Opposition’s constant refrain that the State’s pandemic management had failed because of the over reliance on RAT rather than RT-PCR, unlike in other States. All symptomatic persons would continue to be tested using RT-PCR. Mr. Vijayan said the RAT and RT-PCR kits used by laboratories would be subjected to quality checks by district authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-testing-in-a-big-way/article36161041.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pink Police under fire for alleged harassment of child||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) has registered a suo moto case in connection with the harassment of an eight-year girl who was allegedly branded a thief by a woman police officer in Attingal on Friday. The child had accompanied her father Jayachandran to Moonumukku, near Attingal, on his motorcycle to witness the movement of a massive cargo, containing a settling chamber for the trisonic wind tunnel being constructed at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) in Thumba. Shortly after Jayachandran, a rubber tapper who hails from Thonnakkal, parked his vehicle close to a Pink Police car, they were rudely confronted by a woman police officer who was deployed to assist in traffic regulation along the National Highway. She accused the duo of stealing her mobile phone that was kept in the police car. While Jayachandran denied having taken it, the officer purportedly accused his daughter of having flicked it. Eyewitnesses Eyewitnesses claim the officer and her colleague also went to the extent of frisking the man and his child who broke down amid their high-handed approach. The officers were soon left red-faced after an onlooker dialled her phone number only to find the mobile phone lying inside the police car. An incensed crowd, some of who had recorded much of the incident on their mobile phones, condemned the attempts made by the officers to brand Jayachandran and his daughter as robbers. The police party soon left the area, turning a deaf ear towards calls to tender an apology to the father and the daughter. KSCPCR chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar said he had received a complaint from the father. The commission had sought reports from the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural), the Mangalapuram station house officer, and the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO). The DCPO had also been directed to provide counselling to the child, he added. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police is also learnt to have initiated an inquiry to fix responsibility in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pink-police-under-fire-for-alleged-harassment-of-child/article36161045.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Multimedia mega show to help artistes||Ever since the pandemic struck, traditional, folk and other performing artistes have hardly had the opportunity to do what they know best and earn a living. Quite a few have fallen into dire straits and forced to look for other jobs for survival. With such stories trickling in from across the State, the Culture Department has decided to conceive a programme to provide artistes a platform for performance as well as some remuneration. Multiple platforms This led to the idea of Mazhamizhi, a multimedia mega show showcasing more than 150 art forms over a period of 65 days, the curtains for which went up on Saturday across multiple online platforms. More than 3,500 artistes, representing almost all known art forms of Kerala, are part of the initiative. The event also witnesses the coming together of some of the State's cultural organisations as its organisers, including Bharat Bhavan, Folklore Academy, Sangeetha Nataka Academy, Kerala Kalamandalam, Chalachitra Academy, Guru Gopinath Nadanagramam and others. According to Bharat Bhavan member secretary and Mazhamizhi festival director Pramod Payyannur, four teams comprising elaborate video and sound units fanned out across the State to film the artistes and their respective art forms in their own natural surroundings, capturing the essence of what each stands for. It also saved the artistes the hassle of travelling to a common point. For posterity "We have traditional, classical, semi-classical art forms and those performed by differently-abled and transgender artistes, as well as the popular ones such as circus and cycle yajnam . It is about documenting these art forms for the next generations. These have been shot at locations such as Kalamandalam Koothambalam, on the banks of the Nila, Attapady villages, Mishkal Mosque in Kozhikode, Wayanad and other locations across the State. The videos to be showcased are 10-15 minutes long, with the highlights of the performances shown,” said Mr. Payyannur. Separate festival The performers were chosen by expert panels from Kalamandalam, Folklore Academy and other organisations. Each performer will get paid Rs. 2,500 in addition to other expenses. Two groups from each art form have been chosen. Those who could not become part of the first phase will be included in the next phases — Thalir Mizhi and Vasantha Mizhi. Once the Mazhamizhi performances end on November 1, a separate festival for Kathaprasangam, drama and ganamela will commence. Culture Minister Saji Cherian had on Friday said that the project would be extended to all five years of the incumbent LDF government to provide succour to artistes. The performances will be streamed everyday on www.samskarikam.organd across more than 50 Facebook pages, including the pages of Bharat Bhavan and the Culture Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/multimedia-show-to-the-aid-of-artistes/article36160922.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||25 youth cooperatives to be launched in September||Twenty-five youth cooperative societies will start functioning in the State in September, as part of the government’s efforts to use the cooperation sector to tap the potential of the educated young workforce. The novel initiative is aimed at creating employment and income generation opportunities for educated persons between the ages of 18 and 45. It was announced as part of the 100-day programmes of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Entrepreneurships These societies have been envisaged as vehicles for utilising the youth workforce of the State, especially in the service sector. In the long run, the societies are expected to pave the way for entrepreneurial ventures at the regional level and spawn regional start-ups. The 25 societies have completed the registration process, according to the department. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally inaugurate them on September 6. According to the Cooperation Department, it has kept the promises made under the 100-day programmes. The 40-flat care home scheme at Pazhayannur, Thrissur, has been completed. The keys will be handed over to the beneficiaries in September. Cooperative societies provided interest-free loans up to Rs. 10,000 to poor students for purchasing smart phones. Women’s cooperatives were provided entrepreneurship assistance for manufacturing COVID-19 prevention materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25-youth-cooperatives-to-be-launched/article36160847.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Record sale by Kudumbashree at Onam fairs, markets||The Kudumbashree mission has recorded a turnover of Rs. 12.45 crore from the Onam fairs and markets organised by it. The fairs and markets were organised from August 16 to provide the Kudumbashree microenterprises and farming joint liability groups an opportunity to register good sales. The fairs were held at the district and local level in adherence to COVID protocols. Besides those organised on its own, the Kudumbashree joined hands with Supplyco, Agriculture and other departments to conduct the fairs. In all, 905 Onam fairs were organised in local bodies under the respective Kudumbashree community development societies (CDSs). Twenty-one district fairs were also held. Products by 19,704 entrepreneurs and vegetables by 16,404 farming groups were available at the fairs, which did a business to the tune of Rs.9.64 crore. In nine CDSs across Kollam and Malappuram districts, 2,429 kits containing Kudumbashree products were distributed to the needy as per orders received. The Onam markets in the CDSs that prioritised the farming groups’ produce recorded a sale of Rs. 2.8 crore. As much as 7.53 lakh kg of produce from 27,442 farming groups was made available at the Onam markets for the public, a statement here on Saturday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/record-sale-by-kudumbashree-at-onam-fairs-markets/article36161033.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bid to turn Murukkumpuzha into knowledge society||P.N. Panicker Foundation has adopted the Murukkumpuzha village to integrate various development projects initiated by the government and transform the region into a knowledge society. In a statement, foundation vice chairman N. Balagopal said the village, which is spread across four wards of the Mangalapuram grama panchayat, will be developed in association with the local body authorities and the Gandhi Peace Foundation. Each person aged between 10 and 70 years would be imparted digital literacy as part of the endeavour that would be extended to the remaining 16 wards of the grama panchayat at a later stage, he added. Decision taken The decision was taken at a meeting chairman by Mangalapuram grama panchayat president Suma Edavilakam. Expert committee members P. Kamalasanan Pillai, K.G. Baburaj, Murukkumpuzha Rajendran and panchayat secretary V. Jyothis also participated in the meeting.  It will be developed in association with the local body authorities and the Gandhi Peace Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-turn-murukkumpuzha-into-knowledge-society/article36161044.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New KSRTC service for women fish vendors||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan flagged off the Samudra bus service operated by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to transport women fish vendors in the State capital on Saturday. Launched in collaboration with the Fisheries Department, the first-of-its-kind project got under way at the Connemara Market in Palayam. Transport Minister Antony Raju, who presided over the function, said the endeavour would commence with three low-floor buses and would be expanded in proportion to the requirement of fish vendors at a later stage. In the initial phase, the 24-seater buses would ply between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. on a daily basis to transport fish vendors from various harbours to the capital city. The buses have been customised to include various facilities such as roller platforms for easy loading and unloading of fish baskets and rear view camera. While the trips would mostly commence from Vizhinjam currently, the routes and timings could change on the basis of fishing trends and the demands of the beneficiaries, Mr. Raju said. He added that the buses would be operated and maintained by the KSRTC, while the Fisheries Department would pay an annual rent of Rs. 24 lakh for each bus. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said the fish vendors would not be required to pay bus safe or loading charges to avail themselves of the services of the Samudra project. They would be able to alight at the designated vending points where they would be permitted to sell fish. The project would soon be extended to other coastal districts, he said. The Fisheries Department estimated around 400 women to be engaged in the fish vending business in various parts of the district. Among them, around 285 people frequented various markets to sell fish on a regular basis. Elaborating the projects being undertaken for the welfare of the coastal community, Mr. Cherian said 20,000 houses would be constructed in coastal areas within the next three years. These would be in addition to those constructed under the LIFE Mission. He added that the Chief Minister would launch the handing over of keys to 700 houses that had been constructed across 31 constituencies under the Punargeham project on September 16. Efforts to establish seafood restaurants in places across the State including Vizhinjam was progressing. Steps had also been adopted to implement an Aqua Tourism project in the State, Mr. Cherian said. General Education and Labour Minister V. Sivankutty, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, V.K. Prasanth, K. Ansalan, MLAs, Transport Secretary Biju Prabhakar and Fisheries Director R. Girija also participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-launches-bus-service-for-women-fish-vendors/article36160919.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Move to broker peace in toll issue turns futile||Conciliatory talks called by the district administration here on Saturday to resolve the deadlock over toll collection along the NH-66 bypass broke down with the parties remaining firm on their positions. The meeting that was convened by Additional District Magistrate E. Muhammed Safeer was attended by officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and representatives of various political parties. The parties stuck to their demand to defer toll collection until the completion of the construction of the bypass stretch till Karode, near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. Conveying their helplessness, NHAI officials maintained they were bound by their responsibilities to adhere to the user fee notification, unless instructed otherwise by the governments. With the agency reiterating its stance to go ahead with its move to collect user fee at the Thiruvallam toll plaza, the agitators walked out of the meeting. Meanwhile, the protest against the NHAI move appeared to gather strength with more parties and feeder organisations joining the five-day long agitation. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was conspicuous by its absence during the protests, launched its demonstration on Saturday. Alleging that the NHAI had not obtained the Centre’s approval for toll collection, the protesters placed blame on the State government for failing to prevent the activity. Party State committee member S. Suresh accused both the LDF and the UDF of attempting to mislead the public in the issue. He also claimed that General Education Minister and local MLA V. Sivankutty could have instructed the district administration to suspend the collection of user fee. Veteran leader O. Rajagopal, who inaugurated the demonstration, sought the intervention of the BJP-led Central government in resolving the issue. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil said parties had come together for a common issue. He also alleged that toll collection had commenced when almost half of the bypass project was pending. Any attempt to collect user fees and finalise their rates must be made only after its completion. The right of movement of the local community also could not be obstructed under any circumstances, he added. Besides the Congress, Communist Party of India (CPI) and the BJP, organisations including the Mahila Congress, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), and Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union also held demonstrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-broker-peace-in-toll-issue-turns-futile/article36161039.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IT companies play the ‘workcation’ card in Kerala too||Settling down on a grassy patch by a riverside, with a laptop in hand, might be far away from the conventional image of a work day. But, with the many months of work from home, necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, leading to its own share of issues, IT companies in Kerala too have begun experimenting with the idea of a ‘workcation,’ in which your workspace shifts to a vacation spot for a few days. Companies have been sending entire teams, comprising five to 15 employees, to beach resorts or hill stations for 3-7 days to let them get away from the pressures of working at office or home. Nishin T.N., an employee of QBurst Technologies in Thiruvanananthapuram, who recently had a ‘workcation’ with his team of 12 at Kumarakom for four days and three nights, says it was refreshing working with colleagues in a fun atmosphere after months of not meeting anyone. “Before the pandemic, we usually had team outings, but this is the first time work has become a part of vacations. Though it became a trend last year in Bengaluru and Hyderabad, it is just catching on in Kerala. Employees have been raising work-from-home issues, including lack of interaction with others, longer working hours, and the pressure of housework. At the resort in Kumarakom, we hardly ever sat in the room to work, with the workspace shifting from lakeside to lawns. We took all COVID-19 precautions, including RT-PCR tests,” he says. Tailor-made packages The trend has also led to crisis-ridden tour operators coming out with packages tailor-made for IT companies, including a promise of uninterrupted Wi-Fi connection and continued technical support, factors that are most important for the sector. They also arrange kayaking, hiking, or campfires for the entire team, to unwind in the evenings. The workcations are often clubbed with the weekends. The companies bear the entire expenses. “We launched workcation packages in May last year. Before the second wave, teams from Bengaluru- based companies used to take workcations in resorts at Wayanad and Munnar, and in beaches like Varkala. Now, we have tie-ups with IT companies in Kerala. Most enquiries come through Instagram. We have hosted around 700 IT employees in different locations. For bigger groups, we provide a bubble by blocking the entire property for the company,” says Naveen Mathew, who runs the travel startup Tyndis, at the Mizone Incubation Centre in Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-companies-play-the-workcation-card-in-kerala-too/article36160874.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cleaning drive ahead of Plus One examinations||Arrangements for Plus One higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations in the State have been completed. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Saturday convened a meeting of officials and reviewed the arrangements. Classrooms will be cleaned ahead of the examinations that get under way on September 6. Focus will be on sanitisation during the drive that will be held with people’s support on September 2, 3, and 4. Mr. Sivankutty has appealed to MLAs to lead the cleaning drive, which will be coordinated by committees set up in connection with online education. The committees are chaired by a representative of the local body, with the school Principal as the convener. Thermal scanners and sanitisers will be ensured at the exam centres. The Minister directed that uniforms not be made mandatory for students appearing for the examinations. Model exams Model examinations will be held for the Plus One students from August 31 to September 4. Students can appear for the examinations at home. Question papers will be made available to students every morning on the higher secondary portal. After the examination, students can clear doubts with teachers online. The Plus One exam will be held across 2,027 centres, including eight in the Gulf region, nine in Lakshadweep, and six in Mahe. Separate classrooms will be arranged to seat students who have tested positive for COVID-19. Their answer scripts will be collected in special covers as per the COVID-19 safety protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleaning-drive-at-schools-ahead-of-plus-one-exams/article36160920.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Frame laws to check superstition: rights panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the State government to frame laws on the model of the Kerala Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices, Sorcery, and Black Magic Bill, 2019, that was under its consideration or any other model it deems fit to check superstition and black magic in society. Acting on a petition from the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO), Wayanad, commission members K. Nazeer and Babitha B. issued the direction to the Home Secretary and the Social Justice Secretary to enact legislation in this regard. The DCPO had said that a puja was conducted on a 15-year-old girl in the name of warding off evil spirits at Purakkadi, near Meenangadi. It was found that an uncle of the child’s father had been conducting the pujas for a month, and the girl was beaten with sticks in the midst of the rituals. Medicines not given The girl was epileptic and had sought treatment at Government Medical College Hospital earlier this year but medicines had not been given to her. The police rescued the child, and counselled the family, the DCPO said. The police said that as per the child’s statement, the girl was beaten with a stick and directed to drink chicken’s blood to ward off the spirits. A case was registered against the uncle and a chargesheet submitted in the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court.  Girl beaten up in Wayanad in the name of warding off evil spirits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frame-laws-to-check-superstition-rights-panel/article36160990.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,360 cases more in capital||The district’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 2,360 cases as the test positivity rate also grew to 14% on Saturday. A total of 12,853 people were currently being treated in the district. As many as 1,571 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The death toll continued to mount as it reached 3,521 when 10 recent deaths were attributed to the disease on the day. The district administration has placed 29,443 people in quarantine as part of the pandemic management efforts. Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa has declared a new set of containment zones in places including Kannammoola ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Kollamkavu, Mughavoor, Idamala, Padavallikonam and Kannaramkodu wards in Nedumangad Municipality; Chittoor and Njaraneeli wards in Peringamala grama panchayat; Puliyoor ward in Nanniyode grama panchayat; and Manjappara, Kattumpuram, Karette, Plavodu and Arinelloor wards in Pulimath grama panchayat. Pathiriyodu housing colony in Mulluvila ward of Parassala grama panchayat, and Mandapakunnu in Nannattukavu ward of Vembayam grama panchayat have been declared micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2360-cases-more-in-capital/article36161035.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Treat post-COVID ailments for free: KSSP||The Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has demanded that the State government withdraw its order fixing charges for post-COVID treatment for APL (above poverty line) patients in government hospitals. The order went against the government’s health policy, the forum said in a press release. The health complications that follow COVID-19 are not unconnected to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treat-post-covid-ailments-for-free-kssp/article36161040.ece
29 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1921 rebellion a freedom struggle: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the 1921 Malabar Rebellion was an armed insurgency against the British. It was a freedom struggle. Vested interests with no stake in the Independence movement had attempted to de-recognise the agrarian revolution led by Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji. The serfs had targetted landlords who sided with the British. The insurgents opposed those who aligned with the colonial forces irrespective of their religion. Mr. Vijayan said The Hindu had recently re-published a letter to the Editor by Variamkunnath. In the letter, the storied rebel had denied that the Malabar Rebellion was an organised bid by Muslims to evict Hindus from a large area in north Kerala. ‘Secular enclave’ The Chief Minister said Variamkunnath had declared that a Muslim State was not his political objective. The rebel leader wanted a secular enclave resistant to colonial rule and immune to feudal laws. He said people had chosen different paths to resist the British. Some chose armed struggle while others opted for the path of satyagraha. The varied approaches to the same goal had coalesced into the national movement. Freedom fighters had different ideas about the government which was to succeed the British, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1921-rebellion-a-freedom-struggle-cm/article36160871.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kannur varsity accused of flouting norms||The Save University Campaign Committee has alleged irregularities in the reconstitution of the Boards of Studies (BoS) of the Kannur University. Urging the Governor and University Chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan to nullify the reconstitution in a representation, R.S. Sasikumar and M. Shajarkhan, chairman and convenor of the organisation respectively, accused the university authorities of reconstituting the 71 BoS and constituting new ones for two subjects in violation of the prescribed norms by bypassing the Chancellor. A notification issued by the Registrar on August 11 for the purpose, they claimed, violated the provisions of the Kannur University Act 1996 and the relevant statutes that mandated the nomination of chairman and members of the BoSs by the Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-varsity-accused-of-flouting-norms/article36160923.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cooperative society/paddy||A cooperative society designed to address the procurement and marketing issues faced by paddy farmers has come into existence in the State. The Kerala Paddy Procurement, Processing and Marketing Cooperative Society will procure paddy at a fair price from the farmers, mill it and market the rice. Thirteen districts, except Palakkad where a similar society already exists, will be covered by the new cooperative. The society will be headquartered in Kottayam. Rice mills will be established in Kuttanad and Upper Kuttanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cooperative-societypaddy/article36161046.ece
29 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||In pursuit of knowledge amid pandemic||K. Salma Mol of Vadakkekad in Thrissur district was perhaps not among those who were at the receiving end of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has robbed almost two years now. The MTech graduate ensured that she made productive use of every second during the lockdown period by attending more than 200 webinars, 30-odd courses and competing in 25 quizzes. “The pandemic has actually given me such a huge exposure. I could attend such a number of webinars and courses only because of the lockdown. I started attending webinars to keep myself engaged and enrich my knowledge. It soon became sort of an obsession,” says Salma who resides at Manikandeswaram. Household chores Finding time to attend courses and webinars is difficult for many, especially married women. But Salma says she managed to attend the classes after household work. While many prefer to take a nap after lunch or so, Salma would be logging in. “Most of the webinars used to be held after 10 a.m. and hence I could finish my household work before that,” she says. Salma, who did her MTech in Environmental engineering, mostly chose webinars on topics related to her specialisation. Since she did her BTech in civil engineering, she also attended sessions on construction and designing. Free online courses “There are a large number of free courses available online. I attended a few offered by the ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) as well,” says Salma. She attended both national and international webinars, apart from four conferences. An avid quizzer, Salam took part in 25 online quiz programmes, including live ones, and won several prizes. “More than winning prizes, I am interested in acquiring knowledge,” she says, adding that her husband, Mubarak Ummer, and her family have unwaveringly stood by her. Salma, who loves teaching, wants to “keep acquiring knowledge” till she lands a job. “I am trying to get a teaching job in engineering colleges. But it’s tough to find one in the time of the pandemic,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-pursuit-of-knowledge-amid-pandemic/article36160986.ece
29 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Assistant director dies||Jain Krishna (P.K. Jayakumar), assistant director for several Malayalam films, died in Thrissur on Saturday following cardiac arrest. He was 45. He worked as associate director for the movies including Arattu , Kala and The Priest . He had worked with many directors, including B. Unnikrishnan, Anil C. Menon, Sunil Karyattukara, Jibu Jacob and Rohit V.S.  Arattu , starring Mohanlal, was the movie he worked on last. A law graduate, Jain Krishna was member of FEFKA Directors Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assistant-film-director-dead/article36160914.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Celebrating a milestone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrating-a-milestone/article36160834.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tributes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tributes/article36160917.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Watered down||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/watered-down/article36160856.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homage/article36160906.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering a sage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-a-sage/article36161032.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against Central move||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-central-move/article36161049.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Burning issue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burning-issue/article36160989.ece
29 August 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 10 lakh aid given to four orphaned children||Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop on Saturday handed over Rs. 10 lakh financial aid to each of four children orphaned by the COVID-19 in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district. “The State government is committed to extending the financial assistance to the children who lost their parents to the pandemic, in order to support their education and other future needs,” the Minister said. The amount would be deposited in the bank accounts of the children and the interest could be withdrawn to meet their daily needs. The deposit could be withdrawn when they turned 25, the Minister said. S. Ajay Sai Ganesh of Uppalaguptam, Arigela Madhu Srisujana and Arigela Gnana Venkata Sriprasanna of Amalapuram and Lanka Sattibabu of Allavaram mandal received the cheques from Mr. Viswaroop at a programme here. ICDS Project Officer G. Satyavani and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-10-lakh-aid-given-to-four-orphaned-children/article36160999.ece
29 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s bid to protest fuel price hike foiled, leaders arrested||The Kanekal police on Saturday arrested Telugu Desam Party politburo member and former Minister Kalava Srinivasulu along with other party members at Uddehal in the district when they began to march in a rally up to Bommanahal to protest against the steep hike in the fuel prices. They were confined to the Kanekal police station till evening and then released. Mr. Srinivasulu condemned the “high-handedness” of the police personnel in stopping the TDP from holding a peaceful rally to protest against the State government’s alleged inaction to protect public’s interests. “We had informed the police one week in advance, but the Deputy Superintendent of Police, who is supposed to give the permission, stopped us as though we were criminals,” Mr. Srinivasulu alleged. Hefty taxes The leader said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to reduce/scrap the VAT once he comes to power, but on the contrary, he increased it even more in the name of road cess and other taxes. “It is ironical that not a single new road was laid in the State, but huge amounts have been collected in the name of road cess,” he said and pointed out that during the TDP regime, N. Chandrababu Naidu had reduced the fuel price by Rs. 2 a litre to help the common man. The State government lost Rs. 1,120 crore income, but reducing the burden on the people was the TDP’s priority, he added. In Anantapur, former Urban MLA Vykuntham Prabhakar Chowdary led the party in a demonstration in front of the B.R. Ambedkar Statue to protest the fuel price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdps-bid-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-foiled-leaders-arrested/article36161011.ece
29 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. sidelined Telugu: BJP||Criticising the State government’s move to encourage English in schools, the Bharatiya Janata Party has has planned to organise a week-long programme to ‘protect the importance of Telugu’ from Sunday, the birth anniversary of Gidugu Rammurthy Pantulu. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, BJP State media representative Duddukunta Venkateswara Reddy, State secretary Chiranjeev Reddy and BJP Anantapur district president Nandireddy Srinivasulu alleged that the YSRCP government had sidelined the regional language in a bid to encourage English in schools. Even the importance of the Telugu Academy has been watered down by clubbing Sanskrit with it, they added. The party will take up awareness and agitation programmes from August 30 to September 4. They said the party was determined to protect the Telugu language and would protest against the demand/statement seeking repeal of the Cow Slaughter law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-sidelined-telugu-bjp/article36161009.ece
29 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU conducts vaccination drive||The Sri Krishnadevaraya University on Saturday conducted a mass COVID-19 vaccination drive for its students and administered the first dose of the vaccination to 600 students who turned up at the special camp. University Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy inaugurated the drive, while the principals of Arts, Science, Engineering, and Pharmacy colleges attended, ensuring their students came in good numbers. The Vice-Chancellor said that the drive would help the university to fully operationalise the offline classes as there would not be fear of contracting the virus among the faculty and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sku-conducts-vaccination-drive/article36161013.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajnath commissions ICGS Vigraha||The augmentation of India’s security capabilities has ensured that the country has not suffered any terrorist attacks by sea route since the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Saturday. Commissioning the seventh Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV), ICGS Vigraha , built indigenously by Larsen & Toubro for the Coast Guard (ICG), the Minister said the Coast Guard was continuously enhancing the capacity of the nation. Mr. Singh said in the last two years, in cooperation with the neighbouring nations, the force had recovered goods worth more than Rs. 10,000 crore in anti-smuggling operations. He said changes happening around the world would certainly impact the Indian Ocean region and also India, whose interests were directly linked to the Indian Ocean. “Changes happening around the world often become a matter of concern for us. We, as a nation, must keep our guard high during these times of uncertainties and upheavals around the world.” The demand for military equipment was increasing continuously, with reports suggesting that by 2023, the expenditure on security around the world would reach around $2.1 trillion, Mr. Singh said. Director-General of the ICG K. Natarajan said the force had 157 ships and 66 aircraft in its fleet. “Our endeavour is to have 200 ships and 100 aircraft by 2030,” he said. He said all its ships were built in India and the Advanced Light Helicopter Mk-III, manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, was a testimony to the fact. Chief of the Army Staff General M.M. Naravane, Tamil Nadu Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu, and Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu took part in the event.  ICGS Vigraha will be based out of Visakhapatnam and will operate on India’s Eastern Seaboard under the operational and administrative control of the Commander, Coast Guard Region (East).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coast-guard-is-continuously-enhancing-its-capacity-singh/article36160285.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. adopts resolution against farm laws||The Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly on Saturday adopted a special resolution moved by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin urging the Union government to repeal the three contentious farm laws. While legislators of the AIADMK and BJP walked out of the House opposing the resolution, their ally PMK voted in favour of it. The DMK government also announced that it would withdraw cases registered against farmer associations and political parties over their protests against these farm laws. The resolution said, The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 were “not suitable” for agricultural development and farmers’ welfare and therefore urged the Union government to repeal them. Mr. Stalin argued that the act of the Union government in “arbitrarily” enacting the legislations without consulting the States was against the federal principles. “The Union government arbitrarily enacting laws for a Department under the State government even without consulting any of the States is against federal principles. Hence, these laws had to be rejected,” Mr. Stalin contended. The Centre’s action affected the rights of the States and they were being snatched. “The principle of federalism is being questioned. The greatness of democratic institutions is demolished. Hence, these three laws have to be rejected,” Mr. Stalin said. The BJP government in the Centre has created this critical situation to pass a resolution against the three farm laws in the House that usually passed pro-people legislations, the Chief Minister said. Referring to the protests by farmers since last year, Mr. Stalin said it could be said that no other protests since Independence had such reach and were that long. “In this situation, it is our duty to oppose the three farm laws.” With an “intention to destroy” the regulated markets in the country where farmers could market their produce, the Union government had brought about these legislations, he contended. He also pointed out that these farm laws had not even mentioned the Minimum Support Price (MSP) which farmers have been demanding for long. These laws could affect the regulated markets which are under the control of the State government, he pointed out and added that neutral observers said these laws favoured only private players in the sector. Mr. Stalin said passing a resolution against the three farm laws was among the assurances made in the DMK’s Assembly election manifesto. Speaker M. Appavu said with the support of all those present in the House, the special resolution was being adopted “unanimously.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-laws-tn-assembly-adopts-resolution/article36160597.ece
29 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work towards steering society in right direction, students told||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Saturday lauded the National Educational Policy 2020 saying it had modernized the education pattern in Andhra Pradesh. Addressing virtually the tenth annual convocation of Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU) held at Tirupati, the Governor and Chancellor of the university congratulated the students on completing their degrees and asked them to work towards steering the society in the right direction. It was a moment of joy to know that the final year students of B.V.Sc were associating with the Rythu Bharosa Kendrams, he said. The Governor hoped that State government’s tie-up with the Amul Dairy would go a long way in galvanizing the dairy economy in the State. e-classrooms Member and former chairman of Agriculture Research Recruitment Board A.K. Srivatsava, the chief guest, said that the novel methods of e-classrooms had not only brought down the expenditure of teaching, but also enhanced the quality of education. The areas of dairy, fisheries and poultry were becoming part of a strong economy in recent years toward sustainable development. Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy said that strengths of the university included virtual discussions, smart classrooms, incubation centres and laboratories. As many as 37 gold medals were presented to the research scholars, PG and UG students during the convocation. Members of the executive committee, academic council and senior members of the faculty took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-towards-steering-society-in-right-direction-students-told/article36161017.ece
29 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescued rock python recovers, released into thickets||The forest officials of Palamaner range on Saturday released a rock python back into the Jagamarla forest, 60 km from here, after it recuperated from a wound. The python, lying injured near the Chittoor-Bengaluru National Highway at the Jagamarla stretch, was rescued by youth a few days ago. They then informed the forest officials at Palamaner who treated the reptile at their office for three days before releasing it into the forests on Saturday. Simultaneously, a sick peacock, which was rescued by a villager at the same location, was also released into its habitat. The villager had found the bird sick and in an immobile condition on the roadside on Thursday. The bird was kept at the forest range office at Palamaner, where it was treated for illness. The peacock was brought back to the Jagamarla forest on Saturday. Divisional Forest Officer S. Ravi Shankar said it was a welcome sign that the Koundinya wildlife sanctuary, known for its healthy elephant population, is also teeming with varied species of reptiles such as rock python. Appeal to public “As against the general practice of killing them, public nowadays inform us whenever they find an injured or sick animal. Thanks to them, we are able to treat the injured animals in time and release them back into the forests,” he said, appealing to the public once again not to harm any helpless or injured animal or a bird and immediately bring the matter to the notice of forest officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rescued-rock-python-recovers-released-into-thickets/article36161019.ece
29 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entrepreneurship in agriculture should be encouraged: NABARD chief||Chairman of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development G.R. Chintala has said that agricultural activity went on unhindered during the COVID-19 pandemic, offsetting the losses due to economy, and provided employment to 11.2 million people. “I urge the students to make a transformation to social engineering. There is a lot of potential in start-ups in agriculture and allied sectors. Fragmentation of land, poor mechanisation, inadequate storage facilities, and low farmer education and awareness are some of the issues holding back Indian agriculture from achieving its potential. Given these challenges, agri-preneurship and technology are the way forward to accelerate agricultural growth and increase productivity,’’ said Mr. Chintala during his address at the 9th convocation of Vignan Deemed to be University, at Vadlamudi, on Saturday. Agri start-ups Stating that entrepreneurship based out of agriculture combined agriculture and entrepreneurship to tackle a number of challenges faced across the agricultural value chain by disrupting the agriculture system with innovative ideas and affordable solutions, Mr. Chintala said that these agri start-ups had become the missing link between the farmers, input dealers, wholesalers, retailers, and consumers, connecting each of them to each other and providing strong marketing linkages and quality products on time. Agri-preneurs However, agri-preneurs often faced a disadvantage, because of the lack of resources and land they had access to. To promote and nurture agri-preneurs and start-ups, NABARD had set up and supported upscaling of Agri Business Incubation Centres (ABICs) at agriculture universities across the country, with the nearest of them in Hyderabad at the National Academy of Agriculture Management (NAARM). These incubation centres would facilitate the start-ups with necessary resources and business support services, marketing arrangements as well as finance to transform them into viable commercial entities. Later, he presented honourary degree of Doctorate of Philosophy on Achyutha Samata, MP and founder chairman of Kalinga Institute of Technology and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences, Odisha, and Satyanarayana Chava, founder and CEO Laurus Labs Ltd., Hyderabad. Value-based education Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, MP, and president of Indian Council for Cultural Relations, spoke of the deep rooted cultural ethos of the country and the respect India has in the global order. Stating that India was among the fastest growing countries in the world, he said students should imbibe value-based education. The institution presented 21 academic gold medals, 21 best outgoing student awards, one chairman gold medal, three endowment awards, one Best NCC, NSS, and Social Engagement, one best leader award, one exemplary award,two honorary doctorates. Chairman, Vignan Group, Lavu Rathaiah, vice chairman and MP Lavu Srikrishna Devarayulu, chancellor K. Rammoorthy Naidu and V-C MYS Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/entrepreneurship-in-agriculture-should-be-encouraged-nabard-chief/article36160306.ece
29 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State committed to protecting Telugu and its legacy: Suresh||The State government is committed to protecting the Telugu language and its distinct legacy, Education Minister A. Suresh has said. Mr. Suresh was addressing a meeting organised by the AP Telugu and Sanskrit Academy to present the ‘Gidugu Ramamurthy Bhasha Puraskaram’ at Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) on Saturday to mark the Telugu Language Day. Mr. Suresh said the State government had ensured that Telugu was a compulsory language from the school level. The government would also conduct ‘Telugu Bhashotsavam’ on a grand scale next year. Hailing the contribution of Gidugu Ramamurthy in popularising the colloquial use of Telugu language, the Minister said that the common man was able to master the language due to his contributions. Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, said one should fill their hearts with Telugu even as they have English as the medium of instruction. He also announced that Vikrama Simhapuri University would be renamed as Tikkana University. Academy chairperson N. Lakshmi Paravthi said that the Telugu Academy had been revived only after Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy became the Chief Minister, and added that the funds allotted to the academy in A.P. would start coming from Telangana. Later, 13 persons who contributed to the development of Telugu language were given the ‘Bhasha Puraskaram’. They were, S. Raghunatha Sharma, Medasani Mohan, Movva Vrushadripathy, Koduru Prathap Reddy, Vadrevu Sundara Rao, Dhullipalla Ramakrishna, U. Venkata Ramana Murthy, N. Sudha Rani. G.S. Chalam, K. Mohan, Shenaz Begum, M. Jagadish and Penchalaiah. Academy secretary V. Ramakrishna spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-govt-committed-to-protecting-telugu-suresh/article36160288.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another round of land auction by Telangana govt. next month||The Telangana government will go for another round of e-auction of its land at Khanamet and Puppalaguda on the city outskirts next month to sell 117.35 acres. While 22.79 acres in nine plots will be auctioned on September 27, as much as 94.56 acres will be up for sale in 26 plots at Puppalaguda. Principal Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan told The Hindu that the notification will be issued on Monday. The upset price for auction was being worked out. In the auction taken up by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority and Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) on behalf of the government last month, the State government had earned Rs. 2,729 crore from 65 acres over 13 plots at Kokapet and Khanamet. Fifty acres of land offered by HMDA at Neopolis layout in Kokapet abutting Financial District saw bids worth Rs. 2,000 crore. The auction by TSIIC of 14.91 acres at Khanamet Village near Hitex/HICC, abutting Hi-Tec City, realised Rs. 729.41 crore. The upset price for the land at Kokapet was Rs. 25 crore per acre but the bids ranged from Rs. 31.2 per acre to Rs. 60.2 per acre with a weighted average bid amount of Rs. 40.05 crore per acre. It was a small plot of 1.65 acres that fetched the highest bid amount of Rs. 60.2 crore. The biggest plot of 8.9 acres was secured by a real estate firm for Rs. 39.2 crore. Seven out of eight land parcels at HMDA’s Neopolis plots were bagged by real estate firms. A pharma company owner Satyanarayana Reddy Manne secured the eighth land parcel participating in the bidding in his individual capacity. At Khanamet, the bids ranged from Rs. 43.60 crore per acre to Rs. 55 crore per acre with weighted average bid amount of Rs. 48.92 crore per acre. The auction was conducted online on the MSTC platform. The minimum bid amount was kept at Rs. 25 crore per acre and minimum bid increment was Rs. 20 lakh or its multiples per acre. The government hoped to generate Rs. 2,500 crore to Rs. 3,000 crore from the twin auctions. The State government called bids for sale of certain government land parcels on ‘as is where is basis’ in Rangareddy district and appointed TSIIC as nodal agency for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-round-of-land-auction-by-telangana-govt-next-month/article36160289.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||KTR conduct shocking, says Mallu Ravi||Senior vice president of Telangana Congress and former MP Mallu Ravi has expressed shock at the open support of IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao to the abusive language used by Minister M. Malla Reddy against TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy. At a press conference here, he said KTR’s open endorsement of such vulgar language was ample proof that Mr. Malla Reddy was just an actor and KTR and the Chief Minister were encouraging such behaviour by the Ministers on public platforms. He said people of Telangana were ashamed of such behaviour from those in responsible positions. Mr. Ravi said the Congress had written to the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the use of funds earmarked under the SC ST Sub plan. The government had failed to spend Rs. 65,000 crore meant for Dalits in the budget and the Congress had taken up Dalita Girijana Dandora to put pressure on the government. He said it was funny that the Chief Minister talked about spilling his blood for the success of Dalita Bandhu after failing to keep his word on the first Dalit Chief Minister for Telangana. He said all the three villages adopted by the Chief Minister were in the Medchal constituency represented by Mr. Malla Reddy and when the opposition was questioning the promised development, the Labour Minister was getting agitated. ‘Should read history’ At a separate press conference, another senior vice president, G. Niranjan ridiculed KTR’s understanding of the Congress and asked him to go through history lessons on Congress’ contribution to the country and the Indian society. He said Congress treated every individual and every community equally. He reminded that even the Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had picked up their political lessons from the Congress. He alleged that KCR who praised Sonia Gandhi for creating Telangana was now trying to deceive her and her contribution to Telangana. The Telangana society would not spare KCR and KTR for their conspiracy to suppress the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ktr-conduct-shocking-mallu-ravi/article36160817.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP’s ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ takes off||State president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Saturday set off on ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra, a padayatra taken up to expose “corruption in the TRS Government, to question its failures and to strengthen the organisation (party) to bring it to power in Telangana in 2023.” The programme was flagged off at Bhagyalaxmi temple near Charminar. The padayatra was flagged off by national general secretary of BJP in-charge of party affairs in Telangana and Rajya Sabha MP Tarun Chug in the presence of a large number of party leaders and cadre. In the first phase of the padayatra , which is likely to go on till the next Assembly elections, Mr. Sanjay is planning to walk 10-15 km a day for 36 days with a limited number of party leaders and cadre walking along with him till October 2. Union Minister for Culter, Tourism and Development of North Eastern Region G. Kishan Reddy, BJP vice-president and MP Arun Singh, national OBC Morcha president K. Laxman, MPs Soyam Bapu Rao, D. Aravind, S. Muniswamy (Kolar) MLAs T. Raja Singh and M. Raghunandan Rao, senior leaders P. Shekar Rao, P. Muralidhar Rao, P. Sudhakar Reddy, D.K. Aruna, M. Vijayashanti, G. Vivek, several former Ministers, MLAs, MLCs, MPs, padayatra in-charge T. Manohar Reddy and a host of other leaders were present on the occasion. On the first day, the padayatra went on from Charminar to Mehdipatnam with the night stay at G. Pulla Reddy Pharmacy College. Mr. Sanjay and his colleagues in the walkathon covered Madina, Begum Bazar, Exhibition Grounds, Nampally, Assembly and Lakdikapul areas as the drizzle continued from afternoon, drenching the participants. Mr. Sanjay paid homage at Martyrs Memorial, garlanded the statues of Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi and B.R. Ambedkar in front of the Assembly and on the Assembly premises. Earlier, he performed ‘gow mata puja’ (cow puja) at BJP’s office and special puja at the Bhagyalaxmi temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjps-praja-sangrama-yatra-takes-off/article36160286.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||No compulsion for students to attend offline classes: Sabita||Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy said that though the government was opening the educational institutions there was no compulsion for parents to send their children if they are not satisfied with the arrangements. The Minister, who was inspecting the arrangements and sanitation measures at government-run Mahbubia High School here, said all safety measures were being taken in all educational institutions to drive away fear among the parents. She said the government considered it was the right time to open schools and colleges to reduce pressure on students. Moreover, the online classes were not giving the desired results in terms of learning capabilities of students. She said the government had already informed the schools and colleges to collect tuition fee on monthly basis in view of the parents’ inability to pay at one go in the pandemic. Educational institutions too should respond with humanity and not pressurise parents for total payment of fee. The Minister said whenever vaccines for people below 18 years were approved, government would take all measures to vaccinate the children. On the appointment of vidya volunteers and part-time instructors government would take a suitable decision at the right time. Inter I year exams  The Minister said first year exams for those students in the second year of Intermediate would be conducted with prior notice. She said it was not fair and in the interests of students to move into the next year of the course without the examinations. It will lead to needless complications in employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-compulsion-for-students-to-attend-offline-classes-sabita/article36160290.ece
29 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Row over right to landing and marketing at Kakinada harbour||The conflict between two mechanised boat operators’ associations on the right to landing and marketing at the Kakinada harbour in East Godavari district has deepened. Two weeks ago, the Kakinada Mechanized Fishing Boat Owners’ Welfare Association (KMFBOWA) had stopped the boats of its rival, Sri Bhyravapalem Mechanized Fishing Boat Owners’ Welfare Association (SBMFBOWA), from entering the harbour, which was the only anchoring and marketing facility for the 590 registered mechanised boats in operation on the Kakinada coast. Members of the rival association had to stop venturing into the sea for fishing as the boat operators did not have access to anchoring and marketing facilities. “We are not being allowed to enter the harbour for the past two weeks. We are operating 130 boats. We are entitled to use the harbour s per the existing fishing regulations, but unable to enjoy the right,” SBMFBOWA secretary Penapothu Veerraju told The Hindu on Saturday. “As per the A.P. Marine Fishing (Regulation) Rules, 1996, fishing boats registered in real craft have the right to operate their vessels across the coast and land their fishing boats anywhere in the coast of Andhra Pradesh,” the Fisheries Commissioner, K. Kannababu, said in a gudeline issued in July. “The KMFBOWA has been stopping the boats of its rival from entering the harbour as the latter is allegedly offering the catch at lower prices and weakening the market potential at the harbour,” said Fisheries Joint Director (East Godavari) T.V. Satyanarayana. “No association has the right to stop any fishing boat to enter the harbour for landing and marketing the fish. The meeting called for with both the associations on Friday had to be cancelled as they resorted to physical abuse,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. In 2020, the two associations had entered into an agreement under the aegis of the Revenue Department. As per the agreement, 17 boats of the SBMFBOWA were allowed to land and market per day at the Kakinada harbour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/row-over-landing-at-kakinada/article36160593.ece
29 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police observe ‘No Accident Day’ in E.G.||The East Godavari police on Saturday conducted a ‘No Accident Day’ campaign. They erected signboards at the black spots and accident-prone areas across the district to prevent fatalities on the roads. SP M. Ravindranath Babu said the initiative was aimed at creating awareness among drivers on road safety.“Our personnel stood at the black spots and accident-prone areas for 12 hours to alert drivers on the dangers and create awareness on road safety among them,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu. “We are attempting to gain public support to practice road safety initiatives and prevent fatalities in road accidents,” the SP said. The police claimed that the district did not witness any road fatality on the day. The personnel presented flowers to the drivers who wore helmets and fastened seat belts. They appealed to the drivers of heavy vehicles to stop for a moment and wash their faces before proceeding again on the national highways. Special drive Meanwhile, the police registered cases against 1,352 persons for drinking liquor in public places and seized 141 vehicles in the past week. “We appeal to the citizens of Kakinada to inform the police about people drinking liquor in pubic places and help check the menace,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-observe-no-accident-day-in-east-godavari/article36161001.ece
29 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rubber plantations hit by sapling shortage||Gone are the days when planters from Malabar and even Karnataka or Goa reached Pala on overnight buses and returned with rubber saplings in bulk volumes. The planting materials churned out by the rubber heartland here appears not enough to meet even the local requirement these days. At a time when the rebounding prices have brought a ray of hope to the natural rubber sector, the growers are now scrambling for adequate stocks of saplings to replant the crop. From a decade long fall in rubber prices to pandemic induced disruptions and a planting spree in the North East, a host of factors have been attributed to this trend. Josekutty Antony, Secretary of the All Kerala Rubber Nursery Owners Association, said the country-wide lockdown last year and the consequent shortage in labour supply had a considerable impact over the replanting season last year. “Everything came to a standstill, from the plywood units to the saw mills while a majority of the workers had returned to their native places. The nurseries suffered a huge loss as they had to dispose majority of the stocks raised for the season that typically lasts four months from June,” he noted. By the time the country reopened, the replanting season was delayed by at least five months and in view of a persisting uncertainty over the next replanting season, the nurseries cut down their production next season by almost 50%. “While the falling rubber prices since 2012 caused over 50% of the nurseries to wind up operations over the last decade, the loss due to lockdown aggravated the supply chain stress. About half of those who had survived the decade long decline ceased operation over the last one year,” he added. The price of rubber saplings, which fell from Rs. 250 per plant to a record low of Rs. 60 last year, has once again touched Rs. 100. Aby Ipe, District General Secretary of the Karshaka Congress sought to attribute the shortage of planting materials, to a Rubber Board-led expansion of rubber plantations in the North Eastern states. “The Board has sourced over five lakh saplings from the private nurseries since July this year while the nurseries functioning under the agency have already stopped receiving new orders. This has left the local farmers in dire straits,” he alleged. The Rubber Board sources, however, dismissed the allegation and pointed out that it had sourced the planting materials through advance bookings, leaving the nurseries with adequate time to prepare for the local growers. “The ratio of replanting had been coming down across Kerala over the past decade when this sudden hike in prices hit the market. It has naturally spurred the demand for replanting while it will take some time for the supply of planting materials to pick up,” explained a Board official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rubber-plantations-hit-by-sapling-shortage/article36160292.ece
29 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokayukta office opened in Kurnool||People must make use of the Lokayukta office by filing complaints against the alleged corrupt practices of government officials or lack of proper implementation of the government welfare schemes by officers or Village/Ward Secretariat employees, said Lokayukta P. Lakshman Reddy on Saturday. Inaugurating the office of the Lokayukta in Room 3 of the State Guest House in the city along with District Collector P. Koteswara Rao, Justice Reddy said people from the coastal regions made use of this provision in an effective manner, and now that the Lokayukta office had been set up in Kurnool, people from the backward region also should either personally visit or write a letter to lodge a complaint. Any Public Interest petition/complaint filed with Lokayukta was exempt from the Rs. 150 registration fee and it applied to the poor also, said Justice Reddy. “All our staff here will be available even on the telephone for giving information related to the office of Lokayukta and people can just write a letter or send their complaint through a registered post also enclosing Rs. 150 fee to the registrar of the Lokayukta and need not come personally,” he added. An investigation would be done on the complaint and only when the presence of the complainant becomes essential during the trial stage, he/she would be called. People could utilise the services of the Lokayukta in relation to the improper conduct/operation of the irrigation canals, municipal roads, or drains. Welfare schemes implementation-related complaints also could be filed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokayukta-office-opened-in-kurnool/article36161015.ece
29 August 2021||MYSURU/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varsity lifts curbs on women after uproar||A day after issuing a controversial order imposing curbs on the movement of girl students on Manasagangotri campus here after dusk, in the wake of a gangrape incident at Chamundi foothills, the University of Mysore on Saturday withdrew the directive. This came hours after Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan directed the university to withdraw the directive. “University campuses are normally big, but that does not mean we should curb the movement of girl students on campuses. Instead, we should work towards creating a safe atmosphere inside the campuses,” he said. In a note issued here on Saturday, Registrar Shivappa said Friday’s order issued by him stood withdrawn. The university has instead issued an advisory to all the students to be watchful on the campus after dusk as a safety precaution. Also, the order said public entry to Kukkarahalli lake premises would be restricted after 6.30 p.m. as a precautionary measure. More patrolling The Registrar said security guards had been asked to patrol the campus from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. The university’s earlier order had drawn flak from various quarters as it specifically enforced curbs on girl students, who were told not to sit alone or go around unaccompanied on the campus after 6.30 p.m. The Registrar had said the curbs were issued on the oral instructions of the police as a safety measure. The university diktat was criticised as it restrained only girl students instead of taking steps to provide adequate security on the campus. Meanwhile, KPCC Women’s Wing president Pushpa Amarnath on Saturday sought to know why the university tried to curb the freedom of girl students on the campus. “On whose pressure the order imposing curbs on the movement of girl students on the campus after 6.30 p.m. was issued,” she asked. Ms. Amarnath asked why there were no such curbs issued for boys. Such restrictions should actually be imposed on them, she argued. “Is it possible to build a bright future for girls by curbing their freedom?” she questioned. For safer campuses Meanwhile, Dr. Narayan said he had also instructed Vice-Chancellors of all universities to strengthen safety measures by installing more CCTV cameras and improving patrolling within the campuses. He said he would discuss with all the people concerned about stepping up patrolling within the campuses. Universities could also consider the use of drones to tighten vigilance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varsity-lifts-curbs-on-women-after-uproar/article36160283.ece
29 August 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 6 lives in South Coastal A.P.||Six more patients succumbed to coronavirus in south coastal Andhra Pradesh even as active cases rose marginally during the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 2,041 in the region as three patients each died in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. With this, 1,044 patients in Prakasam district and 997 others in SPSR Nellore district so far lost the battle against the dreaded disease, according to a health bulletin. The new infections dipped by 77 over the previous 24 hours, as 139 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 118 others in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease, taking the overall coronavirus cases tally to more than 2.73 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-six-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article36160967.ece
29 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wet spell brings cheer to farmers in drought-prone Prakasam district||The drought-prone district of Prakasam experienced incessant rain under the influence of a weather system in the Bay of Bengal on Saturday, ending the nearly month-long dry spell in August. The coastal mandals in the district witnessed widespread showers during the fag-end of the month as a low pressure area developed over Bay of Bengal off south Odisha-north Andhra coast. The wet spell brought cheers to farmers who were keeping their fingers crossed after sowing rain-fed crops as the district registered 12% deficient rainfall so far this month. The wet spell will continue in the district for the next 48 hours, according India Meteorological Department sources. Motor cyclists, however, had a tough time navigating the roads as drains in different places including Lawyerpeta, Santhapeta, Pragati colony and Balaram colony in Ongole overflowed following the heavy downpour for over three hours. The current spell of rains would lead to improvement in the crop coverage from the present 49% of the normal sown area of 2.12 lakh hectares during kharif season, according to Agriculture Joint Director Srinivasa Rao. Pamur registered a maximum rainfall of 102 mm during the period followed by Inkollu(79.4 mm), J.Pangalur (65mm), C.S.Puram (57 mm), P.C.Palli(53-2 mm), Yadanapalli(41.2 mm), Mundlamur(40.4mm) Martur(40.2 mm), Korisapadu (39.2 mm), Tangutur(39 mm), Maddipadu (36 mm) and Kothapatnam (34.2 mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wet-spell-brings-cheer-to-farmers-in-prakasam/article36160308.ece
29 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers press for full quota of Krishna water for Prakasam||Ahead of the Krishna River Management Board meeting slated for September 1, farmers in Prakasam district are demanding allocation of at least 60 tmcft of water from the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Canal to the drought-prone district after accounting for evaporation losses. They demanded deployment of Central para-military forces to ensure Krishna water for tail-end areas in Prakasam district first. “The assured quota of water eludes farmers in the district year after year owing to over-utilisation in the upper reaches of the river basin. Even in a year when the major reservoirs across the river Krishna, including Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar, are filled to full capacity, the farmers have been denied full quota of Krishna water,” complained All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao, after leading farmer leaders cutting across party lines to the Krishna water fed areas in the district to drum up support at the grassroots level for a protracted struggle. The farmers were entitled to irrigation water for 4.51 lakh acres of land under Ongole, Darsi and Addanki branch canals as per the Bachawat award, he said. “Farmers in the district have been earmarked 1.67 lakh acres under the Ongole branch canal, another 1.17 lakh acres under Darsi branch canal and yet another 1.67 lakh acres under the Addanki branch canal. But they have been suffering crop loss due to inadequate water in at least one lakh acres every year due to alleged failure of the authorities to ensure Krishna water to all tail-end farms,” he lamented. Ministers Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and A. Suresh should take responsibility to ensure full quota of Krishna water to the district farmers without leaving the issue to officials for sorting out, they said. They pressed for convening of the Command Area Development Authority meeting periodically to decide on the cropping pattern and ensure use of water efficiently. Irrigation department officials had submitted a proposal for earmarking 71.99 tmcft of Krishna water for Prakasam district. However, they were perplexed as to why the district administration had reportedly asked the local revenue, police and irrigation officials to restrict water distribution to 52 tmcft of water, said the farmer leaders, including Congress Kisan Cell State vice-president V.Rajagopala Reddy, N.G.Ranga Kisan Samastha general secretary Ch. Seshaiah and Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam Prakasam district secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-press-for-full-quota-of-krishna-water-for-prakasam/article36160979.ece
29 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan forgot his promise to scrap VAT on fuel: TDP||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party staged a novel stir by taking a decorated motorcycle mounted on a hand-pulled rickshaw to highlight the plight of common people due to skyrocketing prices of fuel, on Saturday. The activists, who took out a march from the NTR Bhavan to the Prakasam Bhavan, contended that people had no option but to switch over to human-powered vehicles or go by walk to their destinations as they were no longer in a position to drive motorcycles. They symbolically submitted a petition to a buffalo as the YSR Congress government in the State competed with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre to impose hefty tax on petrol. Leading the protest, TDP State president Damacharla Janardhana Rao said that Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had promised to do away with value-added tax on petrol, diesel and cooking gas during his long march in the run up to the 2019 Assembly elections, had forgotten his poll promise and made the lives of people miserable at a time when they were struggling to cope with the socio-economic crisis triggered by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-forgot-his-promise-to-scrap-vat-on-fuel-tdp/article36160307.ece
29 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Differently-abled demand restoration of pension||Members of the A.P. Differently Abled People Association and activists of the Madiga Reservation Porata Samiti took out a rally to press their demands, including restoration of pension. After paying tributes to the statue of Babu Jagjivan Ram, an independence activist, the activists led by association State president A. Suresh and MRPS Prakasam district working president Anand Madiga demanded a central law to provide for political reservation for differently-abled persons in Parliament and other legislative bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/differntly-abled-demand-restoration-of-pension/article36160968.ece
29 August 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||499 tribal youth get jobs||As many as 499 tribal candidates on Saturday got placements in a job mela conducted here by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency. “Of the 1,500 youth who registered in the job mela, 499 have been recruited by 24 companies. The remaining candidates will be provided training in various skills by the Skill Development Corporation,” said ITDA-Rampachodavaram Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya. Rampachodavaram MLA N. Dhanalakshmi and Mr. Praveen Adithya handed over the appointment letters to the candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/499-tribal-youth-get-jobs-at-mela/article36161000.ece
29 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stages protests against fuel price hike||The Telugu Desam Party organised protests in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts on Saturday against the steep hike in the prices of petroleum products and its cascading effect on essential commodities. At a rally in Rajam of Srikakulam district, former Minister Kondru Muralimohan said the lives of the common people turned miserable with the rapid rise in the prices of petroleum products. He urged the Union and State governments to reduce the tax burden on the fuels to make them affordable to the common man. Former MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi, party senior leader Jami Bhimasankar and others led a rally in Srikakulam where they alleged that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had been fleecing the public with direct and indirect taxes. People were being forced to pay more than what they received through various welfare schemes, they said. I.V.P. Raju and other party leaders staged a protest at Clock Tower in Vizianagaram. They said people were waiting to defeat the YSR Congress Party in the next general election as they were fed up with the heavy tax burden and poor administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stages-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article36161003.ece
29 August 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC Commissioner refutes allegations||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana refuted the allegations levelled by CPI(M) leader and corporator Bl Ganga Rao that user charges for garbage collection were being deducted from bank accounts of citizens. She said that the user charges were being accepted either through Phone Pay, Google Pay or at the counters at the Zonal Commissioner offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-commissioner-refutes-allegations/article36161085.ece
29 August 2021||thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Night curfew, weekend lockdown in Kerala||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has reinstated the night curfew (10 p.m. to 6 a.m.) and the weekend lockdown in the State from Sunday. He said the restrictions were necessary to moderate the steepening curve of COVID-19 infections, reduce hospitalisations and prevent deaths. Mr. Vijayan asked Kerala to brace for a third wave. Infections had spiked after Onam. He said the government had expanded healthcare facilities in anticipation of a possible upsurge in COVID-19 infections spurred by the Delta variant. Mr. Vijayan said the pandemic had hurt social life. “We need to heal the wounds,” he added. On September 3, the government would engage presidents and secretaries of local self-governments. Both the meetings would devise measures to protect life and restore livelihood. The government deputed a senior IPS officer to monitor COVID-19 management, including wearing masks and maintaining physical distance, in all districts.The State registered 31,265 new cases on Saturday, when 1,67,497 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was more or less steady at 18.67%. The State’s active case pool crossed the two-lakh mark yet again for the second time this year and now stood at 2,04,896. The number of patients reported to have recovered on the day was 21,468. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality was 20,466. The cumulative case burden stood at 39,77,572 cases. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases with 3,957 cases; Ernakulam with 3,807; Kozhikode 3,292; Malappuram 3,199; Kollam 2,751; Palakkad 2,488; Thiruvananthapuram 2,360; Alappuzha 1,943; Kottayam 1,680; Kannur 1,643; Pathanamthitta 1,229; Wayanad 1,224; Idukki 1,171; and Kasaragod 521 cases. Telangana’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 325 cases on Saturday as 78,787 samples were tested. New infections included 80 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 26 from Karimnagar, 24 from Khammam, and 22 from Warangal Urban. No case was detected in Nirmal district. The total case tally stood at 6,57,119. Two more patients died during the day, taking the death toll to 3,869. The State had 6,065 active cases. Karnataka reported 1,229 new COVID-19 cases, including 310 in Bengaluru, and 13 deaths, on Saturday, the Health Department said. The day also saw 1,289 discharges, including 329 in Bengaluru. The positivity rate stood at 0.66 per cent, while the Case Fatality Rate was 1.05%. The State now had 18,897 active cases. As many as 1,83,642 samples were tested on Saturday, the bulletin said. PTI RS APR APR APR A total of 1,551 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. While the State recorded 21 more deaths due to COVID-19, there were no deaths in 26 of the 38 districts. Coimbatore continued to report 200-plus cases for the third day in a row. The district led the table with 230 cases. Chennai saw a marginal rise in fresh cases as 182 persons tested positive, compared with 162 on Friday. There were 122 cases in Chengalpattu and 115 cases in Erode. In Thanjavur, fresh cases rose from 58 to 77, while there were 72 cases in Tiruvallur, 62 in Salem and 61 in Tiruppur. Eight districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. The State’s overall case tally stood at 26,10,299. Chennai accounted for a total of 5,43,599 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 2,35,504 cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded a total of 1,65,095 cases and 1,15,621 cases respectively. In the last 24 hours, 1,63,230 samples were tested. The overall positivity rate remained at 0.95%. 4 deaths in Chennai Another 21 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,856. There were four deaths in Chennai and three each in Erode and Salem. There were nil deaths in Coimbatore and Chengalpattu. A total of 1,768 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries to 25,57,884. The active caseload stood at 17,559. These included 2,091 people under treatment in Coimbatore, 1,906 in Chennai, 1,474 in Erode, 1,151 in Chengalpattu and 1,005 in Thanjavur.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Chennai and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-kerala-virus-infections-spike-after-onam/article36160281.ece
29 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Orange alert in nine districts today||The State is likely to see brisk rainfall activity on Sunday also, a India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast indicated on Saturday. A low pressure area has formed over the Bay of Bengal, which is contributing to the current spell. Nine districts — Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki and Kottayam — are on orange alert on Sunday for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Kasaragod, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta are on yellow alert. Several central Kerala and northern districts are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall on Monday also. Thereafter a reduction in rainfall activity can be expected. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Monday as squally weather is expected along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/orange-alert-in-nine-districts-today/article36160294.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||29% dip in infections in the last fortnight in State||The State reported 19 deaths due to COVID and 1,321 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. It was the highest single-day toll in the past fortnight. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,10,566 and 13,807  respectively. The death rate and recovery rate remains at 0.69% and 98.57% respectively. The number of recoveries increased to 19,81,906 with 1,499 recoveries last day leaving 14,853 active cases in the State. Meanwhile, the State witnessed a 29.3% fall in infections and 30.7% dip in deaths in the last fortnight compared to the preceding fortnight. Between August 1 and August 14, 26,016 infections and 254 deaths were reported. However, between August 15 and August 28, only 18,375 infections and 176 deaths were reported. All the districts except one witnessed a downward trend with at least 8% to 48% fewer infections reported in the last fortnight. In Vizianagaram, which has the lowest cumulative tally, 76% more cases were reported. Testing also came down by 15.25%, while the change in positivity rate was less than 0.5%. The number of samples tested in the past fortnight was 8.75 lakh with a positivity rate of 2.09% and in the previous fortnight, 10.32 lakh tests with a positivity rate of 2.51% were conducted. New cases and deaths Chittoor reported five new deaths while Krishna reported four and Nellore and Prakasam reported three deaths each in the past day. East Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool and Srikakulam reported one death each. Five districts reported no new death. Chittoor reported 225 new infections. It was followed by East Godavari (218), Krishna (153), West Godavari (142), Nellore (139), Guntur (128), Prakasam (118), Kadapa (67), Visakhapatnam (42), Vizianagaram (31), Srikakulam (30), Kurnool (16) and Anantapur (12). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,85,192), Chittoor (2,37,447), West Godavari (1,74,036), Guntur (1,72,170), Anantapur (1,57,068), Visakhapatnam (1,54,760), Nellore (1,39,805), Prakasam (1,33,332), Kurnool (1,23,768), Srikakulam (1,21,924), Krishna (1,13,390), Kadapa (1,12,423) and Vizianagaram (82,356).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/29-dip-in-infections-in-the-last-fortnight-in-state/article36160973.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stages State-wide protests against fuel price hike||Blaming what they called ‘faulty policies’ of the YSR Congress Party for the rising prices of fuel and its cascading impact on the rates of essential commodities, leaders and cadres of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Saturday staged protests across the 13 districts of the State. Referring to an uncontrollable rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, the opposition leaders resorted to novel forms of protest to demonstrate the disenchantment of the common man hit by the inflation. Pulling a four-wheeler with ropes and carrying motorcycles on cycle rickshaws and bullock carts, they said prices of fuel had gone beyond the reach of the common man. The protests were staged in 175 Assembly segments. Raising slogans against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, they accused him of taking people of the State for a ride. They said at the time of elections, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had severely criticised the TDP for price rise and had promised to the people that he would solve all their problems if voted to power. The placards they held demanded immediate steps by the government to bring down the prices. They said if that was not possible, the Chief Minister should step down. Padayatra by Atchannaidu In Srikakulam district, the TDP State president K. Atchannaidu and MP Rammohan Naidu came in a padayatra up to the Kotabommali Rythu Bazaar from where a bike rally was planned to be taken out. But it had to be dropped as the police did not permit them to move ahead. A maha dharna at the Dharna Chowk of Vijayawada city was joined by MLA Gadde Rammohan and former MLA Bonda Umamaheswara Rao. The former came in a cycle rally that started at Ashok Nagar. Pointing to the fact that the prices of petrol and diesel had crossed Rs. 100, they attributed it to the ‘inefficiency’ of the YSRCP government. Former Minister Nakka Anand Babu led a cycle rally in Vemur Assembly segment. The party cadre placed a motorcycle on a bullock cart and pulled it with a rope before pushing the two-wheeler into a canal. They said unable to afford fuel prices, people were getting rid of their vehicles. Former MLA Chintamaneni Prabhakar rode a bullock cart at Denduluru to symbolise people’s inability to buy fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stages-state-wide-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article36161068.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chintala bats for integrated farming for better prices||National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Chairman G.R. Chintala has stressed the need for integrated farming for better remunerative prices and soil conservation, and for doubling the income of the farmers. He was addressing the directors of the farmer producer companies here on Saturday. Mr. Chintala said the cost of cultivation could be brought down drastically if the farmers switched over to organic farming. Use of pesticides and fertilizers should be minimal so that the farmers’ produce was not rejected on the grounds of high pesticide residues, he said. The Basmati rice farmers had harrowing times when importers rejected the produce due to high pesticide residues, he added. “Now, the situation is improving after the use of pesticides has been brought down,” he said. In another case, soil enrichment was done with the use of organic manures. In addition, the farmers from the Bundelkhand area had started integrated farming, a mix of horticulture, agriculture, animal husbandry. Mr. Chintala also suggested the farmer producer organisations to plan for ‘organic routes’ on the lines of milk routes. “In milk routes, milk is collected from the farmers before sending it to a single point, say a company. Similarly, organic vegetables and fruits can be collected by a single delivery van, and then processed and sold. It will bring down the operational costs. The farmers can be assured of remunerative prices,” he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chintala-bats-for-integrated-farming-for-better-prices/article36161075.ece
29 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt.’s fiscal profligacy landed people in a debt trap: Yanamala||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has alleged that the government borrowed about Rs. 2 lakh crore in the last two years, but has achieved zero development. “The fiscal profligacy, which has become the YSRCP government’s hallmark, has landed the people in a debt trap,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a release on Saturday. He said government had imposed a huge burden on the people by increasing various taxes, while the steep hike in the prices of essential commodities made their lives miserable. “The State’s revenue was just Rs. 1.50 lakh crore in 2018-19, which increased to Rs. 1.78 lakh crore in 2020-21. The economic growth is zero, which has left the government with no option but to avail the overdraft facility not once or thrice, but 57 times in 2019-20,” he said. The revenue deficit went up from Rs. 13,899 crore in 2018-19 to Rs. 35,540 crore in 2020-21. Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the alarming situation was evident from the total amount of loans being repaid, far exceeding the capital expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govts-fiscal-profligacy-landed-people-in-a-debt-trap-yanamala/article36160975.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advocates’ outfit takes up consumer rights awareness campaign||An awareness drive on consumer rights initiated by the city-based Advocates Association for Social Responsibility and Awareness (AASRAA) has started yielding the desired results. The association members have started receiving complaints from consumers against different enterprises for reasons ranging from charging extra money for using a debit/credit card, hospital managements charging additional money from patients, collection of excess fee by school managements, super markets collecting inflated amounts for carry bags, cinema theatres in multiplexes charging more than the MRP for tickets and snacks, non-issuance of claims by insurance companies, banks and chit fund companies and non-completion of constructions by real estate firms. “In our attempt to spread awareness, we have introduced a toll-free number 180088899895 for people to register complaints besides pressing into service a mobile van to reach out to rural population with a word of caution against the unscrupulous practices they may be ignorant about in their day-to-day life,” said the association’s Krishna district president Tarun Kakani, at a press conference here on Saturday. State-level meet today He said as per the guidelines of the consumer court, the association would issue notices to the erring establishments and try to mediate a settlement, and if it failed, it would lodge a complaint with the consumer court. He said a State-level summit of the association was scheduled on August 29 (Sunday) at hotel Olive Tree at Bhavanipuram where the Krishna District Magistrate R. Madhava Rao would speak about the need to scale up the consumer awareness drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/advocates-outfit-takes-up-consumer-rights-campaign/article36161020.ece
29 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. failed on all fronts’||Jana Sena Party (JSP) political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar has alleged that the YSRCP government has failed on all the fronts, and that the situation is so alarming that it may even put the ‘family silver’ for sale. “Salaries for a month are being paid on the 15th or 18th of the subsequent month, which is making the lives of employees miserable. The debt is piling up as the government has breached all limits in mobilising funds, as it is so desperate to somehow wriggle out of the severe financial crunch,” Mr. Manohar said while addressing a party meeting in Pedana. There were some extraneous factors that led to near bankruptcy of the government, but it had to largely blame itself for the mess, he observed. “The government has been reckless right from day one, and it has completely got its priorities wrong. A major chunk of finances is being spent on welfare at the cost of development. This approach has pushed the State to the brink of disaster, but Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will not learn from his mistakes,” the JSP leader observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-on-all-fronts/article36160974.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘File CB-CID case against Ashok Babu’||Taking cognisance of the report of the Special Chief Secretary, Commercial Taxes, that the service record of P. Ashok Babu, a TDP MLC and former APNGOs’ leader, had been tampered with, the A.P. Lokayukta, Justice P. Lakshman Reddy, directed the Special CS to file a case with the CB-CID. In a recent order, the judge also asked the official to initiate disciplinary action afresh against Mr. Ashok Babu. The order was issued after hearing the complaint of B. Mehar Kumar, president of the A.P. Commercial Taxes Employees’ Association, who had charged the MLC with ensuring wrong entries in his service record, showing him as a commerce graduate, though he never acquired a B.Com degree. Later, the entries were struck off the record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/file-cb-cid-case-against-ashok-babu/article36160982.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||City doctors treat ‘ruptured heart’ with surgery||A team of cardiothoracic surgeons performed a rare heart surgery on a patient, A. Srinivas Reddy, who came to a city hospital with a ruptured heart condition, following a heart attack. The patient has recovered and is in a healthy condition, the doctors have said. “Cardiac rupture is a catastrophic complication following a heart attack, and it is almost fatal. Only 10% of the patients will reach hospital of which only one or two will survive after the surgery,” said Ramesh Hospitals managing director Dr. P. Ramesh Babu.  “The hospital has created history by treating ‘rupture of heart’, a dreaded complication,” said hospital senior general manager Subba Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-doctors-treat-ruptured-heart-with-surgery/article36161070.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over nine lakh doses administered||Over 9.09 lakh vaccines were administered as of 8 p.m. on Saturday in the State, according to the Cowin portal. Special drives After opening vaccination for 18 to 44 age group recently, special vaccination drives were taken up. On Saturday, vaccines were administered at 2,680 government session sites and 75 private hospitals across the State. Of the total 9.09 lakh doses administered, more than 60% were first doses. So far, 2.87 crore doses were administered in the State and 2.07 crore people received at least one dose while 79.63 lakh people were fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-nine-lakh-doses-administered/article36161008.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Co-opted members appointed||Five co-opted members to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Council were appointed on Saturday. Former corporators Nadepu Jagadish, T. Jamala Purnamma and Musunuri Subba Rao were appointed. In the minorities category, Syed Ali and G. Subhashini were appointed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/co-opted-members-appointed/article36161073.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF personnel donate blood||Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion, in association with New City Blood Bank, organised a blood donation camp at its headquarters on Saturday. The camp was organised as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, said Commandant Zahid Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-personnel-donate-blood/article36161071.ece
29 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine drive at all ward secretariats||Vaccination drive will be conducted at all the 286 ward secretariats in the city on Sunday, according to VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh. In a release, Mr. Venkatesh called upon youth to come forward and get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-drive-at-all-ward-secretariats/article36161072.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC buses see rise in patronage||With the COVID-19 cases seeing a decline in almost all parts of the State and after the curfew relaxations, APSRTC buses plying from the Visakhapatnam region are getting reasonably good patronage from passengers. The Occupancy Ratio (OR) of buses running across various areas doubled in the past two months. During May and June this year, the OR was hovering around 35% with the increase in the cases and restricted timings due to curfew. By August, the region saw a gradual increase in the number of passengers boarding RTC buses and the current OR was hovering around 70%, said RTC Regional Manager M.Y. Danam. He said that around 750 buses were being operated from the region on a daily basis. All the buses, which were stopped due to COVID-19 and curfew, were restored, he added. The RTC Complex has been witnessing a good turnout of passengers, coming to buy tickets at the counters. Non-stop services running to Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Narsipatnam and several other places were witnessing good rush. “A large number of people are travelling to attend marriages. August saw hundreds of marriages in the North Andhra region, especially in the last two weeks. Meanwhile, after reopening of colleges, students have started to travel. People, who postponed their work due to COVID-19, are coming to mandal headquarters,” said K. Raju, an RTC bus driver who plies in the Visakhapatnam-Ichchapuram region. Vinayaka Chaviti rush The RTC officials said that the first and the second weeks of September could see more rush due to Vinayaka Chaviti. As festival falls on Friday (September 10), followed by second Saturday and Sunday, the second week of September could see an increase in rush of passengers, they said. Meanwhile, with the reopening of educational institutions, including schools, the OR of the city buses is also witnessing a gradual increase, the RTC officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-buses-see-rise-in-patronage/article36161082.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties mourn Basheerbagh firing victims||Leaders of the Left parties alleged that the Centre has decided to privatise the power sector. The time has come to oppose the move, drawing inspiration from the martyrs, who had sacrificed their lives, in the protest against the steep hike in power tariff at Basheerbagh in 2000. The CPI and CPI(M) leaders recalled that a ‘Chalo Hyderabad’ protest was organised in protest against the decision of then Chief Minister of combined Andhra Pradesh N. Chandrababu Naidu to hike the power tariff in 2000. Huge crowds had gathered at Basheerbagh and staged a protest. The police had opened fire to control protesters resulting in the death of Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Balaswamy and Ramakrishna. Several persons were injured in the firing. CPI State assistant secretary J.V.S.N. Murthy, CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao and others paid tributes to the martyrs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-mourn-basheerbagh-firing-victims/article36161080.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for PG diploma courses||Andhra University in collaboration with Bollineni Medskills, a unit of Aditya Educational Society, is offering several courses like Master of Hospital Administration (two-years), PG Diploma in Critical care Technology (one-year), PG Diploma in Emergency Medicine Technology (one-year) and PG Diploma in Gastroenterology Technology (one-year) for the academic year 2021-2022. According to a press release, eligible candidates in the age group of 20-35 years can apply for the courses. The application format can be downloaded from the website :www.audoa.infrom September 1. Filled-in applications should reach the Office of the Directorate of Admissions, Andhra University, Vijayanagar Palace, Pedawaltair, on or before 5 p.m. on September 30 without fine, and on October 5 with a fine of Rs. 500. The theory classes and practicals will be conducted at Bollineni Medskills at KIMS-ICON Hospital campus at Sheela Nagar. Counselling for admissions will be on October 11. Interested candidates can visitwww.audoa.in. for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-pg-diploma-courses/article36161006.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 42 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 42 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,55,270. The toll stands at 1,071 as no deaths were reported since August 25. As many as 83 persons recovered from the coronavirus, according to the update released by the officials of the Health Department. As on date, the number of recoveries stands at 1,52,950. The recovery rate is around 98.5 %. The number of active cases stands at 1,249.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-42-new-covid-cases/article36161083.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parliamentary committee visits ENC, NSTL in city||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence (SCOD) visited the Eastern Naval Command(ENC) here on Saturday. SCOD Chairman of the Standing Committee on Defence Jual Oram and the 18-member delegation, comprising MPs, officials of Lok Sabha Secretariat and from the Ministry of Defence, were briefed on the role and operational activities of the ENC. The team interacted with Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC. The team was taken on a guided tour of the indigenously built stealth multi-role frigate INS Satpura. The team also visited various facilities of the Indian Navy on the Eastern seaboard. The SCOD members paid homage to the naval personnel, who made the supreme sacrifice, in the line of duty, at the memorial in Naval Dockyard. Later, the team visited the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL). NSTL Director Y. Srinivasa Rao briefed them about the facilities at the lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parliamentary-committee-visits-enc-nstl-in-city/article36161079.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improve amenities at KGH, Collector directs officials||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has instructed the officials of the King George Hospital (KGH) to improve facilities at the hospital. He visited the KGH and inspected wards and blocks here on Saturday. ‘Install CCTV cameras’ Stressing the need for good sanitation at the hospital, he said that patients and attendants should not feel any kind of discomfort at the hospital. The Collector has also instructed the officials to install CCTV cameras on the hospital premises. He inspected the ongoing works like change in equipment, beds, paintings for walls and modernisation of toilets. Mr. Mallikarjuna also asked the authorities to arrange new refrigerators at the hospital. He enquired about the status of works, which he had suggested during his last visit. KGH Superintendent P. Mythili, Resident Medical Officer Vijaya Shankar and other staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improve-amenities-at-kgh-collector-directs-officials/article36161077.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10-km human chain against VSP sale today||The All Trade Unions and People’s Organisations’ JAC has condemned the “adamant attitude of the Modi government” on privatising the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in spite of long-drawn protests. The JAC leaders alleged that the Centre was acting in favour of the corporate groups, ignoring the interests of the workers. They condemned the announcement made by the Finance Minister that public assets, worth Rs. 6 lakh crore, would be sold. “PSUs are not BJP’s properties, and the BJP government has no right to sell them,” they contended. The leaders said that a 10-km human chain would be formed on Sunday from Aganampudi to BHEL from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. to protest against the BJP-led central government’s attitude towards the PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-km-human-chain-against-vsp-sale-today/article36160983.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FDP ends||A five-day online Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on ‘Advanced cyber security and incident analysis’ concluded as part of AICTE-ATAL programme by Andhra University College of Engineering here on Friday. Around 200 teachers and research scholarsregistered for the FDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fdp-ends/article36161076.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl ‘raped’ by stepfather||A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her stepfather at Annavaram village under Chintapalle police Subdivision limits in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. Though the incident reportedly occurred on Thursday, it came to light on Friday night, after the victim’s mother lodged a complaint with the local police. As per the police, the mother of the victim married another man, after the death of her first husband, a few years ago. The accused allegedly committed the crime, when the girl’s mother was not at home. The incident came to light after the girl informed her mother about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-girl-raped-by-stepfather/article36161021.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain forecast as low pressure forms in Bay||A low pressure area has formed over North-West and adjoining West-central Bay of Bengal, off South Odisha and North Andhra Pradesh coasts, with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level, tilting south-westwards with height. “Heavy rainfall is very likely at one or two places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Guntur, Prakasam, Kadapa and Anantapur districts till Sunday and in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Kadapa and Kurnool districts and in Yanam till Monday, and in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts and Yanam till Tuesday morning,” according a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre here on Saturday. Squally winds, with speed reaching 40 to 50 kmph, gusting to 60 kmph, are likely along and off the A.P. and Yanam coasts till Sunday. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till further advice. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) till 8.30 a.m. on Saturday are: Palakonda (Srikakulam district) – 6, Palasa and Pathapatnam (Srikakulam) – 5 each, Kalingapatnam and Ranasthalam (Srikakulam) 4 each, Komarada and Kurupam (Vizianagaram) – 4 each, Mundlamuru (Prakasam) – 4 and Araku Valley (Visakhapatnam) – 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-forecast-as-low-pressure-forms-in-bay/article36160984.ece
29 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha dares TDP to question Centre on rising prices of petrol, diesel||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Bothca Satyanarayana on Saturday dared the TDP to fight against the Modi Government at the Centre over the rising prices of petroleum products instead of trying to corner the YSRCP government on the issue. Addressing the media here, Mr. Satyanarayana said that the YSRCP government was also worried over the rise in the prices of petrol and diesel. “The State government’s role in fixing the prices of petroleum products is minimal,” he said. “A cess of only Rs. 1 per litre has been imposed by the State government for the development of road network,” the Minister said. “The TDP leaders fear to utter the name of the Prime Minister while agitating over the issue of fuel prices, but are ready to blame the YSRCP government. The TDP’s protest is aimed at misleading the people,” he said. Referring to the huge debts availed, Mr. Satyanarayana said, “The State government availed of loans and disbursed Rs. 1.10 lakh crore directly to the beneficiaries’ accounts. It has helped revive the economic activity when people are in distress due to the impact of COVID-19.” “The TDP government too had borrowed nearly Rs. 2.5 lakh crore. It had neither created fixed assets nor transferred the amount to the people’s accounts,” the Minister said. ‘Legal hurdles’ Hoping that Visakhapatnam would soon become the State’s Executive Capital, the Minister promised quick development of the North Andhra region once the proposal materialised. “Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram would have been developed on the lines of Hyderabad and Secunderabad had there been no legal hurdles in making the Port City the Executive Capital,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. “We will overcome all legal tangles and ensure speedy development of the region,” he added. VMRDA master plan Mr. Satyanarayana said that the people’s concerns over the VMRDA’s master plan would be looked into and addressed by the experts’ committee constituted recently by the State government. The Urban Development Minister said the opinion of majority people would prevail in the finalisation of the master plan, which was evolved to ensure planned growth both in Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/botcha-dares-tdp-to-question-centre-on-rising-prices-of-petrol-diesel/article36160980.ece
29 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive launched||Collector A. Suryakumari on Saturday urged people not to neglect vaccination since a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic posed a threat to society. She launched a mega vaccination drive at Saluru in the district aimed at covering at least one lakh people in one day. All people aged above 18 years would be covered under the drive, she said. “As many as 6.12 lakh persons aged between 18 and 44 years are to be covered under the vaccination drive and 106 centres have been set up for the purpose,” said Ms. Suryakumari. District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari and other senior officials said the first and second dose of the vaccine would be administered at the centres which were provided with sufficient stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-launched/article36161004.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State dispenses with grading system||Later, giving in to the arguments of academics that the grading pattern would eliminate unhealthy competition among the top achievers and reduce societal pressure, and based on CBSE reforms, the government further decided to adopt Absolute Grading System and the SSC results of 2011 were released adopting the new mode, but it also indicated the marks. Initially implemented for students from Classes VI to X, the eight-grade pattern from A1 to D2 by defining the range of marks for each grade to arrive at the grade points to facilitate the declaration of grades as well as the results, was later extended up to 10th Class (SSC) till March 2019. For the SSC batch of 2020, no grades were awarded owing to cancellation of the exams on account of the COVID situation. A high power committee constituted by the State government to evolve a fair pattern for declaration of the SSC-2021 results in June, recommended awarding of grades to the SSC batch of March-2020 also as examinations were cancelled for them too for the same reason. But Director of School Education V. Chinaveerabhadrudu drew the government's attention to the need to award marks instead of grades, citing difficulties faced by the students in admission and recruitments to which the government gave its consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-dispenses-with-grading-system/article36160981.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spirometers, masks donated||Aasara, a voluntary orgnaisation from Visalakshi Nagar in the city, donated masks and spirometers worth Rs. 1 lakh to be used by COVID-19 patients in the hospitals under the purview of Andhra Medical College(AMC). AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar thanked Aasara secretary V. Venkata Pati Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spirometers-masks-donated/article36161005.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elected NIPM regional vice-president||U. Chitti Babu, DGM (training) in Visakha Dairy, has been unanimously elected regional vice-president for the Central Region of the National Institute of Personnel Management (NIPM), for 2021-23. The NIPM national body elections were declared on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elected-nipm-regional-vice-president/article36161078.ece
29 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Woman Maoist surrenders||A Chhattisgarh-based woman Maoist cadre, who is suffering from anaemia, gave up herself before the police in Telangana’s border town of Charla in Bhadrachalam Agency on Saturday. Muski Budri alias BR, 30, a Maoist dalam member, a native of Rampur village in Usur tehsil of Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, surrendered before Bhadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police G Vineeth at Charla police station on Saturday afternoon, police said. She had earlier worked as a guard in the protection team of the CPI (Maoist) Telangana State committee secretary Haribhushan alias Yapa Narayana, who died of COVID-19-induced cardiac arrest in Dandakaranya forest region of Chhattisgarh’s Bastar division in June this year, the police added. She used to carry a self-loading rifle while working in the armed squad of proscribed outfit. Her husband Somadal alias Naresh is working as an Area Committee Member in the CPI (Maoist) in south Bastar region. Police said she had quit the CPI (Maoist) due to health problems caused by severe anaemia and vexed with the "failure" of the Maoist leaders to ensure medical treatment to her. She reportedly told the police that she had made up her mind to leave the path of violence and join the mainstream to lead a peaceful life with her young child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-maoist-surrenders/article36160822.ece
29 August 2021||HUBBALLI,TELANGANA||Plans being chalked out to set up textile parks across Karnataka, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the State government is chalking out plans to set up mega textile parks in various parts of the State, including Haveri district. Addressing a press conference in Haveri on Saturday, Mr. Bommai said that already plans were afoot for setting up a park in Shiggaon. Efforts will also be made to promote textile industries in Byadgi, Hirekerur, and Ranebennur, he said. He said that already steps are being taken for establishing an industrial township, spread over 1,000 acres, on the outskirts of Haveri and very soon the project would be initiated. Under the ‘one district, one product’ project, chilli and mango cultivation and related industries would be promoted in the district and NABARD would also be extending necessary assistance in this regard, he said. Vaccine doses The Chief Minister said that of the total targeted supply of 1 crore doses of vaccine for Karnataka, 84 lakh doses had already been supplied. “The plan is to administer 5 lakh vaccine doses daily. Through systematic efforts in September, October, and November we plan to administer the first dose to all eligible persons in the State and give the second dose to 60 to 70% of them. Special vaccination drives and sensitisation programmes will be held, particularly in slums in urban areas,” he said. Referring to his announcements after assuming office, he said Karnataka was the only State that was giving scholarships to farmers’ children. “The focus is on improving the farmers’ lives by doubling their farm income. During my Delhi visit, I had discussions with senior officer Ashok Dalwai, who is in charge of implementing the project,” he said. The Chief Minister also said that a digitisation programme will also be taken up extensively. Mr. Bommai listed out various development projects he inaugurated and initiated in Haveri district on Saturday and said that an era of development had begun in the district. He said the works under the Upper Tunga Project will be completed in a year. “Work on a government medical college has begun and the authorities have been directed to ensure completion of the administrative block and the teaching block within the stipulated 18 months. The mega dairy for Haveri will also be completed in 18 months,” he said.  To a query on Kannadigas stuck in Afghanistan, the Chief Minister said already several had been evacuated and brought back. He said nodal officer Umesh Kumar Yadav was in touch with the Union government and if there was anyone from Karnataka still stuck in Afghanistan and facing problems, steps would be taken to bring them back. Regarding establishing district central cooperative banks in Haveri, he said that there was similar demand in five-six districts and the issue had already been raised. “But since it is a matter of policy decision, it will take some time,” he added.  Through systematic efforts in the next three months, we plan to administer the first dose of vaccine to all eligible persons in the State and give the second dose to 60 to 70% of them. Basavaraj Bommai, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plans-being-chalked-out-to-set-up-textile-parks-across-karnataka-says-bommai/article36160779.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dengue cases likely to surpass last year’s total||In all probability, the number of dengue cases in Telangana this year will surpass last year’s total of 2,173. For, the cases recorded in eight months of 2021 (till August 27) have already touched 2,019. Monsoon rains continue to lash the State, and the season is known to create conditions suitable for rapid mosquito breeding, thanks to increased water stagnation points. With that, vector-borne diseases invariably see a spurt. While 1,206 people were detected with dengue in a matter of 228 days (January 1 to August 16), the next 813 more cases were added to this year’s tally in just 11 days (August 17 to 27). Urban areas vulnerable People in urban localities have to be more cautious regarding vector-borne diseases. Among the 33 districts, the highest number of dengue patients were detected in urban districts. Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri accounted for 48.5% of the total 2,091 dengue patients in the State. Khammam recorded 253 cases while Kothagudem logged 118. In case of malaria, the highest number of cases have been witnessed in Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Mulugu. Of the total 550 malaria patients, 65% belonged to the two rural districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dengue-cases-likely-to-surpass-last-years-total/article36160803.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mosquito nursery on school rooftops||What comes to mind when you think of schools and colleges being shut for months together? A thick layer of dust on benches, chairs, spiderwebs in corners and musty-smelling classrooms. But that’s not all. Roofs of a few school buildings in the city have turned into huge breeding spaces for mosquitoes. Educational institutions across the State are set to reopen on September 1 after a gap of over five months — they were opened briefly in February and shut down from March 24 as signs of the COVID-19 pandemic second wave started being observed. Ahead of the reopening this time round, directions were issued to clean the schools. Government staff who visited schools for the sanitation drive found leaves and sundry garbage blocking water outlets on the building rooftops, leading to rainwater stagnation. Since it has been raining regularly over the past week or so, the rooftops could not dry. The presence of algae indicated that the water had not been cleared for long. Officials of the State Health department have earlier said that even 30 to 40 ml water stagnant in a container for a few weeks is enough for mosquitoes to breed. The sight of pools of water across the rooftop and tiny mosquitoes sent a chill down the officials’ spine. Aedes species of mosquito, which carry dengue virus, breeds in stagnant fresh water. While apartments and other residential buildings surround the school building, no resident has, so far, raised any complaint regarding the issue. Additional Director at National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (Telangana), G. Amar Singh Naik has appealed to people to take out 10 minutes every week to clear stagnant water in and around home. If anyone is detected with dengue, malaria, chikungunya, they can dial ‘104’. Upon receiving this information, Health teams will conduct surveillance activity. During inspection of residential buildings and offices recently, health staff also found water accumulated in plates placed under flower pots, in empty alcohol bottles thrown on the terrace or around home, in empty coconut shells and broken plastic containers among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/school-roofs-turn-mosquito-nursery/article36160801.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth harassing me since TDP days: Malla Reddy||The ongoing spat between Labour Minister M. Malla Reddy and Telangana Congress committee president A. Revanth continued for the fourth day on Saturday with the former making a fresh allegation that the Congress leader had been blackmailing him ever since he secured the Malkajgiri MP ticket in 2014 on behalf of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). “He feels I snatched the party nomination that was meant for him and ever since he has been harassing me,” the Minister claimed at a press conference here on Saturday. “The issue was also brought to the notice of the TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu and I showed all the documents to him as well,” he said. It was widely believed that in 2014 general elections Mr. Revanth Reddy, then in TDP, was in race for the Malkajgiri Lok Sabha seat but Mr. Malla Reddy, who was novice to politics, secured the ticket surprising everyone. The TDP in alliance with the BJP won the seat but Mr. Malla Reddy after a few months of winning defected to the TRS. Mr. Malla Reddy was responding to the allegations made by Mr. Revanth Reddy on illegally acquiring land for his university as well as the medical college owned by him. He refuted the charges and said mere showing of some papers and making wild allegations would not make truth false. He said Mr. Revanth Reddy had the habit of using the RTI to blackmail people and he was doing the same with him. He clarified that his daughter-in-law had just 350 sq yds in Jawahar Nagar and not five acres as alleged by the Congress leader. Similarly, the 16 acres given as gift deed by his relative Srinivas Reddy to him was not where the Malla Reddy university was established, but outside of it. He also showed documents stating that his engineering colleges and other educational institutions were functioning as per the norms and there were no deviations as alleged. The Minister said whatever he had earned was through hard work from selling milk to establishing a university and asked Mr. Revanth to prove where he got his assets from. Advising the Congress president to stop ridiculing others, he asked him to start respecting elders. “There are thousands of students and parents who respect me for the careers and bright future I have given them through my educational institutions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-harassing-me-since-tdp-days-malla-reddy/article36160820.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No curbs on Ganesh idol height||The government is planning elaborate arrangements to celebrate the Ganesh Navaratri festivities on a grand scale by following all COVID norms, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Talasani Srinivas Yadav said on Saturday. The government has not imposed any restrictions on the height of idols and asked the Ganesh Utsav committees led by Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Committee to install idols as per their plans, keeping in mind the conditions in their areas and along the shobha yatra route. Speaking at a high-level meeting convened to discuss the arrangements for Ganesh Chaturthi festivities, he said that the festivities would begin with installation of Ganesh idols on September 10 and end with immersion on September 19. Ministers A. Indrakaran Reddy (Endowments), C. Malla Reddy (Labour), Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, GHMC Mayor Vijayalakshmi, Deputy Mayor M. Srilatha, Government Whip M.S. Prabhakar Rao, a host of civic, police, municipal administration, roads and buildings, health, water works, endowments, BGUC members Raghava Reddy, Bhagawanth Rao, and organisers of other GUCs participated. Mr. Yadav asked the GUCs to bring it to government notice, in case they face any problems with the police. He asked the DGP to give clear instructions to the three police commissioners. Responding to the complaint of organisers of Balapur Ganesh shobha yatra that the road of the procession was badly damaged due to rains, he asked the GHMC Commissioner to visit it on Monday and take up repair works. Khairatabad GUC president Sudarshan appealed to the police to cooperate in organising the festivities and arrange a crane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-curbs-on-ganesh-idol-height/article36160811.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||‘The aim is to end corrupt family rule’||State president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bandi Sanjay Kumar has alleged that every section of Telangana society was unhappy with the Telangana Rshtra Samithi (TRS) rule as the fruits of the statehood achieved with the sacrifices of 1,400 youth who ended their lives were being enjoyed by only one family. Promises made to every section were being belied by the KCR Government, Mr. Sanjay said minutes before setting-off on his 36-day padayatra in the first phase. He pointed out that the KCR Government owed at least Rs. 1 lakh to every unemployed youth in Telangana as the unemployment allowance promised to them before the 2018 Assembly election had not been fulfilled so far. Stating that the government was not taking up recruitment as promised by TRS in 2014 and 2018-19, the BJP leader said about 30 lakh educated youth had enrolled their names in employment exchanges. However, they were ending lives in the absence of any recruitment drive. “Now, the Chief Minister is planning to deceive Dalits by promising them moon with Dalit Bandhu scheme while other sections such as farmers are being betrayed continuously,” he alleged, adding that the BJP was committed to unshackling people from the clutches of TRS and MIM. Addressing the party gathering at Charminar before flagging off the padayatra, national general secretary of BJP in-charge of party affairs in Telangana and MP Tarun Chugh said the walkathon was against the family rule of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and large-scale corruption in his government. He compared the administration in Telangana to that of the folk tale “Alibaba and the 40 thieves”. Stating that the ultimate objective of the padayatra was to fulfil the aspirations of Telangana people for which they had fought for (statehood), the BJP leader said: “KCR’s Lanka will be washed away in the tsunami of BJP’s padayatra to end the Ravan Raj in Telangana and install a BJP government to restore democracy”. Another national general secretary of BJP and MP Arun Singh said Mr. Sanjay’s padayatra would also explain several welfare and development schemes of the Centre which were not being implemented by Telangana. By not implementing the Centre’s scheme the TRS Government was denying several benefits to State’s people, he noted. Union Minister for Culture, Tourism and Development North Eastern Region G. Kishan Reddy said the padayatra was a beginning of the end to the loot of public money by one family, misrule of TRS Government and its unkept promises. He alleged that it was only two families – “Kalvakuntla and Owaisi” – that were ruling the State denying even Metro Rail facility to old city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/the-aim-is-to-end-corrupt-family-rule/article36160816.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Corruption in SRSP canal works in Warangal’||TPCC state secretary Bandi Sudhakar alleged that Irrigation department officials, in association with TRS leaders of the combined Warangal district, had indulged in corruption of about Rs. 100 crore without completing the works, and demanded an inquiry into it. Releasing a letter written to the Vigilance Department and also the Principal Secretary of the Irrigation Department at a press conference here, he said the Rs. 123 crore had been released for the works under SRSP distributary canals in Teegarajupalli, Parvatgiri, Mahabubabad, Dornakal and Teerthala in Khammam district. However, officials and contractors had withdrawn Rs. 17 crore bills without completing the work. The senior Congress leader alleged that Parvatgiri lake work had been taken up with Rs. 20 crore without any quality. Quality control officials had issued the certificate taking bribes from the contractors, he alleged. Similarly, distributary canal works under Package 38 in Geesukonda, Mallampalli and Parkal had been taken up with an estimation of Rs. 123 crore but the contractors here too had failed to maintain quality and in some places secured the bills without doing the work. Mr. Sudhakar said some officials questioning the poor quality of work were transferred with political pressure. Assistant Engineer Ravi who questioned the illegal drawing of bills was transferred and was being threatened, he said, adding that four Executive Engineers had been transferred, indicating the pressure being brought by the contractors. He demanded that the money be recovered under the Revenue Recovery Act immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corruption-in-srsp-canal-works-in-warangal/article36160818.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 325 more cases to COVID tally||Telangana’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 325 cases on Saturday as 78,787 samples were put to test. The results of 1,864 persons was awaited. The new infections included 80 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 26 from Karimnagar, 24 from Khammam, and 22 from Warangal Urban. No case was detected in Nirmal district. The total case tally now stands at 6,57,119. Two more patients died during the day, taking the death toll to 3,869. The State had 6,065 active cases by Saturday evening. From March 2 last year, when the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana, more than 2.44 crore samples have been examined so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-adds-325-cases-to-covid-tally/article36160800.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2BHK houses opened near Chanchalguda||MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao inaugurated 2BHK houses at Pilligudiselu near Chanchalguda on Saturday, and reiterated the government’s commitment for ‘self-respect’ houses for all. Mr. Rama Rao said that Telangana is the only State where such houses worth Rs. 50 lakh each were being constructed and given to beneficiaries free of cost. The 9-floor building with 288 units has lifts and 19 commercial units to take care of maintenance. The building was constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 24.91 crore. There was no compromise on the construction and the beneficiaries would be selected through an open draw without scope for corruption, he said. He said 2BHK houses would be inaugurated at three more places soon, to fulfil the government’s commitment of one lakh units in Hyderabad. But for COVID, all units would have been completed by now, he said. Responding to Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s request for shifting Chanchalguda jail and use the space abutting it also for a public utility, the Minister said he would take the issue to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s notice. He reminded that Warangal prison was shifted from the present position to construct a massive hospital to cater to entire North Telangana districts.“In 70 years, the previous governments could build only three hospitals in city while TRS government has built four hospitals, first one being TIMS at Gachibowli,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2bhk-houses-opened-near-chanchalguda/article36160813.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS urges KRMB to stop Handri-Niva expansion||The Telangana government has raised objection to the expansion works of “unauthorised Handri-Niva Sujala Sravanti (HNSS) Lift Irrigation Scheme” of Andhra Pradesh from its existing carrying capacity of 3,860 cusecs to 6,300 cusecs and requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to restrain AP from diverting water outside the basin and stop the ongoing work. In a letter addressed to the Chairman of KRMB, Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation-General) of Telangana C. Muralidhar reiterated that HNSS was an unauthorised project of AP based on surplus water diversion outside the basin as also violation of KWDT-I (Bachawat) Award and the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. In the first week of June this year, the AP government had given administrative approval for expansion of HNSS Phase-I to increase the carrying capacity of 6,300 cusecs by widening the main canal, extension of structures up to 216.3 km length and construction of additional pump houses from pumping stations 1 to 8 with an amount of Rs. 6,182.2 crore. As per the DPR furnished by AP to KWDT-II (Brijesh Kumar), the project was originally meant to lift 40 tmcft water from 875 ft level of Srisailam reservoir over 120 days – from August to November at the rate of drawing 3,860 cusecs water for taking water as far as 700 km away (Pennar Basin) from the source . “However, pumps were installed to lift water from 833 ft level of Srisailam at Malyala village in Kurnool district. Later, the feeder channel (canal) to the pump house was extended deep inside Srisailam reservoir foreshore at Muchumarri to draw water from 798 ft level itself,” the ENC said. Diversion 3,860 cusecs itself was illegal. By changing water drawal level from 875 ft to 798 ft, AP had also changed the period of flood flows drawal (August-November) to draw water stored in the reservoir almost throughout the year, Mr. Muralidhar wrote. As such, KWDT-I award had stated that Srisailam was only a hydro-electric project and no diversion of water outside the basin was allowed from it. KWDT-I had also stipulated that priority be given to in-basin projects while making equitable allocation for future projects. Similarly, KWDT-II had rejected the demands for allocation of Krishna water by erstwhile AP for 29.57 tmcft to KC Canal and 10 tmcft to Tungabhadra High Level Canal since they were serving outside-basin areas. Further enhancement was untenable as Telangana was pleading for allocation of dependable water to its surplus-based projects within the basin. The ENC urged the KRMB Chairman to stop AP from drawing water to HNSS till KWDT-II finalised the shares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-urges-krmb-to-stop-handri-niva-expansion/article36160815.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Warangal student gets Rs. 20L-a-year placement offer||Kavati Mamatha, an ECE student from Sumathi Reddy Institute of Technology for Women, has been placed in NXP Semiconductors, Pune, as a validation engineer. She has been offered an annual pay package of Rs. 20 lakh. Institute chairman A. Varada Reddy and secretary A. Madhukar Reddy congratulated the student and felicitated her. “Faculty guidance and excellent teaching facilities helped gain strong command over the foundational concepts that have been vital in my interview process,” said Mamatha. Mr. Varada Reddy, in a press release, informed that 90% of the students have bagged campus placements in top MNCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warangal-student-gets-rs-20l-a-year-placement-offer/article36160806.ece
29 August 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two-year-old boy’s body found in pond||A two-year-old boy’s body was fished out from a pond in a graveyard on Saturday. According to Rajendranagar police, the victim, Abu Bakar, used to live with his parents at Jalal Baba Nagar in the Rajendranagar area. Police said that he went missing on Friday evening. Around 11 p.m., his father Abdul Rahman started looking for him. When he could not find him, he approached the police. Police formed teams to look for the victim, and also viewed the CCTV footage to look for clues. The search operation resumed around 9 a.m. on Saturday, when the toddler’s body was found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-year-old-boys-body-found-in-pond/article36160798.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Programme to pave return from career break||A programme to encourage and enable individuals to resume work post their career breaks has been rolled out by ACT Fibernet. It is the second edition of ‘Welcome Back’ initiative, the internet service provider said about the six-week skill development programme in a release recently. The focus will be on corporate fundamentals and alignment of self for work, functional trainings, hands-on experience of working on real-time scenarios followed by assessment and certification. The candidates will be identified on the basis of final assessment post the skill development programme. According to the ISP, the programme is aimed to attract talented professionals who have taken career breaks, either short or long-term, and now desirous to return to work. “Returning mothers, individuals who took breaks due to personal or health issues, volunteer work, ex-defence personnel, individuals whose families have been impacted due to COVID-19 or those who have taken entrepreneurial breaks are eligible to apply. A fixed stipend will be provided to selected candidates. The programme will be undertaken across all cities for roles in the fields of telesales, contact centre support, retention teams among others,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/programme-to-pave-return-from-career-break/article36160804.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Informative session for UK-bound students||More than 200 students headed to the UK for higher education after the borders were opened recently got an insight into the education, administration, lifestyle and new guidelines awaiting them in the post-pandemic world. The informative session was organised by Global Tree, an education consultant group. Srikar Alapati of Global Tree said no student was left wasting a year and online interviews were conducted, engaging universities and students for selection of courses in the chosen universities. The first-year course was conducted through the online mode, and with the restrictions eased now, they are travelling to their destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/informative-session-for-uk-bound-students/article36160807.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vivo Bio inks supply contract with Biological E||Contract research services and lab animal supply company Vivo Bio has entered into a long term supply contract for various products and services with vaccine manufacturer Biological E. The company said it has entered into the contract as a preferred vendor with Biological E, one of the largest vaccine makers in the country. The value of the contract is estimated to be in the range of Rs. 20-30 crore a year for the next three years, Vivo Bio said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vivo-bio-inks-supply-contract-with-biological-e/article36160805.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Teenmaar Mallanna remanded||C Naveen Kumar alias Teenmaar Mallanna, a Youtuber, who was arrested by the Chilkalguda police was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. A police complaint had been filed by Sannidhanam Lakshmikant Sharma, an astrologer, that the accused had threatened him and demanded Rs. 3 lakh from him. The complainant alleged that the accused threatened him on his YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenmaar-mallanna-remanded/article36160827.ece
29 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||MoRD team tours Nalgonda||Joint Secretary Charanjit Singh and Director Raghvendra Pratap Singh in the Rural Livelihoods division of the Ministry of Rural Development toured several villages in Devarakonda and Marriguda mandals in the district on Saturday. District Collector Prashant J Patil said the two-day trip of the Central officers was to inspect delivery of services and entitlements through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and other schemes of the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mord-team-tours-nalgonda/article36160814.ece
29 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Mahabubabad teen scales Mt. Kilimanjaro||Defying age and harsh conditions, a 17-year-old from Mahabubabad district has conquered Mount Kililmanjaro, Africa’s highest point. Bhukya Yaswanth, who hails from Bhukya Tanda, a hamlet of Ullepally village in Maripeda mandal, went for rock climbing training at Bhongir in February 2020 after completing class 10 studies. As he showed expertise in climbing rocks, he was offered a seat at the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, Sikkim. He has earlier climbed a 6,000-metre mountain in Ladakh. His next big goal was to scale Kilimanjaro, the 5,895-metre snowcapped mountain in Tanzania. He left for Africa along with two others from Maharashtra, thanks to financial support of some philanthropists. Four days to the top He started his expedition on August 19, and it took him about four days to reach the top. He headed down to the base and made it in two days. “I do have a big dream of joining the Indian Army and I was informed that mountaineering is something that will add to the weightage for selection. Hence, I choose this,” Yashwant told The Hindu from Africa. The expedition was organised by Trans Adventures company, he added. Yaswnath’s father Bhukya Ram Murthy is working as contract worker in power department while mother Jyothi is a homemaker. Monthly stipend Currently, the teenager is being supported by Sarvodaya Gram Seva Foundation with a monthly stipend. “Some of my friends also extended required assistance to send him to Africa,” said P. Sudhakar Naik, deputy commissioner of Income Tax, who is also associated with the foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahabubabad-teen-scales-mt-kilimanjaro/article36160809.ece
29 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||No eligible family for PDF benefits||The farmers who are going to lose about 272 acres in Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal in the district are not going to get any benefits under Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package. That all of them were not eligible for the package as they were already extended these benefits under the same project in the past was the reasoning being given by the officials. This acquisition is in addition to the about 2,000 acres already acquired by the authorities. “This family is not becoming Project Displaced Family (PDF) due to the present additional acquisition and this family has already availed R&R package as PDF in the same project in their earlier acquisition for their houses and lands,” was what was mentioned by officials in the report on socio-economic survey conducted by the authorities regarding the oustees of Gudatipally pertaining to 272 acres. This was not limited to a few but all those 58 farmers. The details of survey report dated August 26 were made public on Friday and exhibited at the panchayat office at Gudatipally. However, Section 39 of the Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act – 2013) states: “The Collector shall, as far as possible, not displace any family, which has already been displaced by the appropriate government for the purpose of acquisition under the provisions of this Act, and if so displaced, shall pay an additional compensation equivalent to that of compensation determined under this Act for the second or successive displacements.” “The State government issued first notification for Gouravelly project with 1.4 tmcft in 2008 and acquired lands and houses. For additional requirement of 272 acres ,land notification was issued in 2017 first. As it lapsed, notification was issued again on June 4, 2021. We have received R&R package for the project with a capacity of 1.4 tmcft and now the project capacity was increased to 8.2 tmcft and a fresh notification was issued. Hence we are entitled to rehabilitation as we lost our source of income,” Baddam Yella Reddy, one of the oustees from Gudatipally, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-family-eligible-for-pdf-benefits/article36160823.ece
29 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Address problems of Satwar farmers’||Kisan Congress leader M. Kodanda Reddy has urged the authorities to address the problem of Satwar village in Zaheerabad mandal. He said that the farmers were unable to sell their lands even for their financial requirements and hence the issue needed to be addressed on urgent basis. A memorandum was submitted to Additional Collector Veera Reddy. District Congress Committee (DCC) president Nirmala Jayaprakash Reddy, and farmers from the village accompanied the Kisan Congress leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/address-problems-of-satwar-farmers/article36160825.ece
29 August 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||3 killed as bike rams truck||Three youths, close friends and in their early 20s, were killed when their motorcycle rammed a truck near Choutuppal on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in the wee hours of Saturday. Police identified the victims as Medi Harish, 23, from Pittampally of Chityal, and Md. Salman, 23, and Md. Asif, 22, from Hyderabad. They used to live at Ramanthapur and were air-conditioner technicians. The accident was reported at 2.15 a.m., minutes after their bodies were scattered from the crash site, on the highway side near Dharmojigudem stop. According to the police, the trio had visited Pittampally to attend a marriage party and were triple riding back to Hyderabad in their new motorcycle. “The accident took place exactly near the weigh bridge at Dharmojigudem junction, from where a granite-loaded truck was reversing. It was around the same time when the trio in high speed rammed the truck’s rear side,” a police officer present in the crime scene said. The impact was such that the motorcycle was thrown some 50 metres away. Only the one riding the bike was wearing a helmet that broke into several pieces in the accident. Police said the heavy vehicle did not have a cleaner to assist the driver in reversing and the truck also did not bear any significant reflectors. However, the driver claimed to have switched the indicators on. It was learnt that the truck driver, who had immediately escaped the accident scene, returned to the police station later and explained his version. Choutuppal police launched a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-killed-as-bike-rams-truck/article36161029.ece
29 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to increase vaccination pace||The Odisha government on Saturday directed all District Collectors to ramp up vaccination drive to achieve administration of 3.5 lakh doses per day. “The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has now nearly doubled the monthly vaccine allocation to States, and faster vaccine consumption will lead to higher allocation for the State,” Pradipta Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health), said in a communication to all district and urban body heads. Though the scarcity of syringes was raised by some districts, it was resolved, said Mr. Mohapatra. He directed the Collectors to vaccinate all the beneficiaries and teachers and non-teaching staff of government and private schools who are due to get second doses. Vaccination of all pregnant women should also be given priority. By August 26, the State had administered 2.07 crore doses — 1.58 crore as first dose and 49 lakh as second dose. About 14.5 lakh beneficiaries were due for second dose vaccination. The Centre assured to allocate 9,92,380 doses of Covishield and 1,24,590 doses of Covaxin as additional quantity for August 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-to-increase-vaccination-pace/article36160725.ece
29 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan adopts unique farming model||A unique “ease of doing farming” model has been adopted in Rajasthan with the launch of Raj Kisan Saathi portal, connecting the farmers with digital technology to promote advanced agriculture and agricultural marketing. As a single window solution, the portal will issue various licences and accept applications for schemes in the agriculture and horticulture sectors. Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said here on Saturday that the portal would have a total of 144 modules on agriculture and related departments and enable the farmers to apply for the schemes on farm ponds, water tanks, irrigation pipeline, agricultural equipment, sprinklers and greenhouse sheds. CM Ashok Gehlot had announced the initiative in the 2019-20 Budget on the lines of “ease of doing business”. Mr. Kataria said the portal would make all processes easy and paperless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-adopts-unique-farming-model/article36160963.ece
29 August 2021||Mumbai,||Rajnath Singh draws flak for ‘saffronising’ Shivaji||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has landed in a controversy following his statement on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, with the Nationalist Congress Party and Maratha outfits accusing him of twisting history. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was trained by Samarth Ramdas Swami and Dadoji Kondadev in sports activities which made him a national hero,” he had said. Mr. Singh’s remarks came in Pune on Friday during his visit to defence establishments to felicitate armed force personnel who participated in the Olympics. Sambhaji Brigade, a youth organisation working against the saffronisation of Shivaji Maharaj’s life, has condemned the statement and demanded an apology. “His statement is an attempt to glorify wrong history. Shivaji Maharaj never met Samarth Ramdas in his life. The High Court has said this too. RSS historians have never claimed that Ramdas trained the king in sports,” said Santosh Shinde, regional co-ordinator of the outfit. Mr. Shinde said Kondadev was never the guru of Shivaji Maharaj and this was a lie spread by RSS historians. “We condemn Rajnath Singh for spreading the lie and he must apologise,” he said. Both Kondadev and Ramdas, belonging to Brahmin community, had been portrayed by earlier historians as gurus of Chhatrapati Shivaji. A number of bahujan historians have contested this claim with evidences negating the earlier findings. NCP MP Dr. Amol Kolhe said the statement was based on false information and without proof. He said, “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj grew to become a national hero because of the welfare state he created for the people and the moral support the Swarajya had gained.” Mr. Kolhe, who has portrayed Shivaji Maharaj in a Marathi television series, said Dadoji Kondadev was initially not in agreement with the formation of Swarajya. “Historical papers show that he (Dadoji) feared that the efforts to build Swarajya may harm Shahaji Maharaj in the courtroom of Aadilshah. Also, there are a few papers which show that the first meeting between Chhatrapati Shivaji and Samarth Ramdas took place in 1671, much later after the Swarajya was formed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajnath-singh-draws-flak-for-saffronising-shivaji/article36160892.ece
29 August 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 4,831 cases, 126 deaths||Maharashtra reported 4,831 new COVID-19 cases and 126 deaths on Saturday, taking the total case tally to 64,52,273 and death toll to 1,37,026, a State Health Department official said. As many as 4,455 patients were discharged, which took the cumulative recoveries to 62,59,906. The State now has 51,821 active cases. The recovery rate stands at 97.02%, while the fatality rate is 2.12%. The total tests conducted in the State so far climbed to 5,34,56,403, with 2,00,379 samples tested since Friday evening. Districts of Nandurbar, Jalna, Hingoli, Wardha, rural parts of Nagpur and Bhandara did not report any new case since Friday evening. The urban areas of Nanded, Parbhani and Dhule too did not report new infections. On the other hand, Ahmednagar district reported the highest new infections at 789, followed by rural parts of Pune, with 597 new cases. Pune city and rural parts of Solapur reported the highest number of deaths at 18 each. Among eight regions, the Pune region reported the highest new COVID-19 cases at 2,060, followed by 901 cases in the Nashik region. 391 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city recorded 391 new cases and four deaths, while Pune city reported 284 cases and 18 deaths. The Mumbai region reported 850 new cases, Kolhapur 778, Latur region 166, Aurangabad 29, Akola 28 and the Nagpur region reported 19 cases. Of 126 fatalities reported on Saturday, the highest (59) was reported from the Pune region, followed by 28 from the Kolhapur region. The Nagpur region did not report any fresh fatality for the second day in a row. The Mumbai region reported 17 deaths, Nashik 18, Latur two and Aurangabad one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-4831-cases-126-deaths/article36160896.ece
29 August 2021||Mumbai,||Webinar to unlock potential of students||To help children draw links between classroom learning and the real world, International Baccalaureate (IB) in association with The Hindu In School is organising a webinar from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Tuesday. School owners, policymakers and decision-makers in the field of education will discuss the skills students require to make an impact in the world at the webinar titled, ‘The window to unlocking students’ potential’. IB’s programmes for students in the 3 to 19 age group will also be presented. The panellists are Abhimanyu Basu, Head of School, Dhirubhai Ambani International School; Rima Singh, Head of School, DPS International School; Vanita Uppal, Director, The British School, New Delhi; and Rashima V. Varma, Principal, Prometheus School. Mahesh Balakrisnan, Development and Recognition Manager, IB, India & Nepal, will be the moderator. To register for the webinar and to receive a copy of the white paper, log on to bit.do/Unlocking-Potential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/webinar-to-unlock-potential-of-students/article36160894.ece
29 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Gutkha worth Rs. 13 lakh seized in Taloja||The Taloja police have seized sacks filled with gutkha worth Rs. 13 lakh from two abandoned vehicles at Pendhar in Taloja. According to the police, prima facie it is suspected that the banned drug was brought to Taloja for distribution to peddlers and shops that sold it illegally. Acting on a tip-off, the Taloja police searched an abandoned truck and a tempo that were parked at a secluded spot in Pendhar. They found several sacks of pan masala in the vehicles and approached the Food and Drug Administration in Raigad to verify the contents. “The officials at the Food and Drug Administration confirmed that the sacks contained gutkha, which is banned in Maharashtra. We suspect that the accused abandoned the vehicles in a secluded spot so that they did not arouse the suspicion of officials,” said senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan from the Taloja police station. The total gutkha seized was worth Rs. 12.96 lakh, the police said. A case has been registered against the driver and owner of the two vehicles under Sections 188, 272, 273, 328, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the Food Safety and Standards Regulations, 2011. The police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gutkha-worth-rs-13-lakh-seized-in-taloja/article36160895.ece
29 August 2021||Neemuch (M.P.),||Tribal beaten up, tied to vehicle and dragged, dies||A 40-year-old tribal man was allegedly thrashed by eight persons who tied him to a vehicle with a rope that dragged him some distance in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, police said on Saturday, adding five accused were arrested. The tribal, Kanhaiyalal Bheel, died during treatment on Friday. The incident occurred on Thursday morning after a minor road accident involving the victim and a milkman. “Chhitar Mal Gurjar, a milkman, was riding a motorcycle which knocked down Bheel when he was standing on the Neemuch-Singoli road,” Superintendent of Police Suraj Kumar Verma told reporters here. He said Mr. Gurjar lost his cool after the milk spilt and beat up Bheel. He then called up his friends who also roughed up Bheel and tied him to a vehicle passing by. Bheel was dragged for some distance, Mr. Verma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tribal-beaten-up-tied-to-vehicle-and-dragged-dies/article36160724.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||ASHA workers losing hope||When the pandemic hit Delhi, 48-year-old ASHA worker Sushila Devi was scared to go for COVID-19 duty. Her husband, who works for the Border Security Force, was also not with her as he was posted in Srinagar. “He is doing service for the country over there and I am doing mine here. Initially, I used to be scared, but we have to work, right? We (ASHA workers) have risked our lives and worked during the COVID-19 period, but the government is not paying us. This is wrong,” said Ms. Devi, mother of three. Like Ms. Devi, around 6,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) in the city have not been paid incentives for COVID-19-related work done during the second wave, officials and workers told The Hindu . They have not been paid monthly incentives since April for at least two duties: visiting COVID-19 patients at their houses and carrying out surveys in containment zones. ASHA workers do not get fixed salaries like government employees and are paid mostly through incentives, which are low in many cases. An ASHA worker gets just Rs. 100 for distributing tablets to around 200 children at their homes. They also said that their workload has increased since the pandemic. An ASHA worker is to be paid Rs. 100 per visit to a COVID-19 patient under home isolation, along with Rs. 100 per day for refreshment, as per government rules. For surveys done in containment zones, an ASHA worker is to be paid Rs. 500 for surveying less than 50 houses in a day. No clarification “From April, both the incentives are pending. We have not received any clarification from the Health Department,” a district official said. ASHA workers get payment from the district level offices. “These incentives are pending as we have not received money from higher levels. We will pay the ASHA workers when we get the money,” an official of another district said. Another official from a third district said they have paid incentives up to March and ‘approvals are awaited’ from April. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the issue. “No one is getting these two incentives. We have told officials about this, but nothing is happening,” said Kavita Yadav, State coordinator of Delhi ASHA Workers’ Association. She said they have written to the Chief Minister about problems being faced by ASHA workers, but there has been no help from the government. Ms. Devi said her days are hectic due to the pandemic. “There were days when I responded to calls at 10 p.m. and went to give medicines to patients at their house. What more can we do?” she asked. “When I went for surveys, I used to buy sanitisers, gloves and masks with my own money. The government did not provide it,” she added. Priya (name changed), 38, another ASHA worker,said she used to be worried about her two children, aged 12 and 16, when she went for COVID-19 duty. “I used to come home around 6 p.m. and went straight to the bathroom to bathe in hot water and then wash my clothes. After that also, I didn’t go near the kids for a while. I was worried for them,” she said, adding: “I used to wear PPE kits and go inside houses and measure temperature and pulse of COVID-19 patients under home isolation and give them tablets. We worked a lot, but we haven’t got paid for it.” Ms. Priya said she has not got incentives for home visits since April. For surveys done in containment zones, she hasn’t received any money since April 2020, the beginning of the pandemic. “We have to work out of helplessness. If we complain too much, then they will say that ‘if you don’t want the job, then leave it and go’. So, most of us don’t speak up about it out of fear,” she added. Meagre incentives ASHA workers get incentives for different works they do and their monthly pay is an aggregate of points they acquire for such works. But they complain that incentives for many such works are too low. For instance, National Deworming Day is held biannually and Albendazole, a tablet, is distributed to children from one to 19 years of age. For distributing these tablets in her area, an ASHA worker is given only Rs. 100. In Delhi, each ASHA worker has to cover an average of 400 houses, as per officials. About 200 houses will have children in this age group, as per workers and officials, and the worker has to distribute a tablet each to them for just Rs. 100. “I distributed Albendazole to about 200 children in my area for just Rs. 100. I am yet to get that money,” Ms. Priya said. Ms. Devi said she distributed tablets to around 400 children in her area for the promised Rs. 100, which she is yet to get. When the pandemic hit the country, ASHA workers were roped in for various COVID-related works as routine works dipped. The Delhi government gave Rs. 3,000 per month, irrespective of their performance score and work. This was apart from the incentives for individual works. But this has been stopped since March. Officials say it has been stopped as routine work, from which ASHA workers used to earn incentives before the pandemic, have restarted from March. They still get a fixed Rs. 1,000, over and above their incentives, from the Central government every month for COVID-related work. “The government agreed to give Rs. 3,000 after we protested in August last year at Jantar Mantar. They also fixed Rs. 100 and Rs. 500 after it. Before that there was nothing and we worked for the Rs. 1,000 the Center was giving us a month. But the Delhi government did not give the Rs. 3,000 when the novel coronavirus came back this year,” Ms. Yadav said.  We (ASHA workers) have risked our lives and worked during the COVID-19 period, but the government is not paying us. This is wrong Sushila Devi ASHA worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/asha-workers-losing-hope/article36160720.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. nominates three doctors for Padma awards||The Delhi government has decided to recommend the names of three city doctors for the Padma awards after screening close to 10,000 suggestions received from citizens, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. The names of doctors Shiv Kumar Sarin, Suresh Kumar, and Sandeep Budhiraja have been sent to the Centre, after suggestions were screened by a panel headed by Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. This year, the Delhi government had decided to only recommend names of healthcare workers. Suggestions were invited from the public, and over 9,427 responses were filed. “These suggestions were received in respect of 740 healthcare professionals. A committed headed by Mr. Sisodia scrutinised the suggestions and selected three names,” said Mr. Kejriwal. ILBS Vice-Chancellor Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) Vice-Chancellor Shiv Kumar Sarin launched India’s first plasma bank and was instrumental in setting up the world’s first fully dedicated deemed-to-be liver university in 2010. Over 8,000 plasma units were issued from the plasma bank. Recently, Dr. Sarin also started Delhi’s first COVID genome sequencing facility, Mr. Kejriwal said. LNJP medical director LNJP Hospital treated the highest number of COVID-19 patients in the country under the supervision of medical director Suresh Kumar. The hospital successfully treated a record 20,500 COVID-19 patients as well as setting up India’s second plasma bank, the CM said. Dr. Kumar also started a unique video-calling facility to enable COVID-19 patients to interact with their families, and a genome sequencing lab at the hospital. On being nominated, Dr. Kumar said: “I am thankful to the Delhi government for giving me this respect and for honouring my hard work. This is an honour for all the doctors of Delhi who worked tirelessly during the pandemic.” Max Healthcare MD Group medical director at Max Healthcare Sandeep Budhiraja was India’s first physician to use convalescent plasma for the treatment of COVID-19 patients and played a crucial role in delivering care and treatment to COVID-19 patients in Delhi, the CM said. Dr. Budhiraja also provided guidance to COVID-19 patients via virtual consultancy when he himself got infected with the virus. He was also involved in spreading awareness and knowledge about COVID-19 through media, the Chief Minister added. Reacting to his name being shortlisted, Dr. Budhiraja said: “I want to sincerely thank the Delhi government for recognising the great service and sacrifices made by healthcare workers during the pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-govt-nominates-three-doctors-for-padma-awards/article36160717.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. sanctions over Rs. 130 cr. for ambitious HIMS project||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Cabinet has approved the decision to award the contract for the Health Information Management System (HIMS) project to M/s NEC Corporation India Pvt.Ltd. The Cabinet also approved sanctioning over Rs. 139 crore for the ambitious project, which will bring all city hospitals under one platform and eliminate the need for patients to stand in queues for appointments. The system will enable all information about patients to be available at the tap of a button, allow doctors to give appointments over the phone, and allow patients to select appointment time as per their convenienc “The platform will help us know how many beds are vacant in a hospital, the status of medicine stock, number of ventilators, and any other information about medical infrastructure,” he said. e-health cards The Delhi government is also streamlining the process to obtain a eHealth Card, which will contain the entire medical history of the cardholder and they will be able to get treated at any hospital listed on the HIMS. Private hospitals will also be connected to the system in a phased manner. All patient care related services like hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management, back-end services and processes will be brought under the HIMS.  Doorstep delivery In a related development, Mr. Kejriwal announced that the Cabinet had decided to renew the Doorstep Delivery of Public Services scheme with enhanced features and new vendors. “Doorstep delivery provides people the facility to avail 150 services of the government from their homes. All they have to do is call 1076 and an officer comes to their home and gets their work done,” he said. “The Cabinet has decided to further extend the doorstep delivery of public services with new vendors. A lot of enhancements will be implemented in the next phase of the service. This includes making the 1076 number toll free and dividing the work between two vendors,” he added. Under the renewed scheme, mobile sahayaks — responsible for visiting homes and providing services — will be aided with modern technology that will help them in facilitating the services to the citizens at a nominal fee of Rs. 50. Mr. Kejriwal said that soon all services provided by the Delhi government will be made available online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-sanctions-over-rs-130-cr-for-ambitious-hims-project/article36160713.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet approves adding 6,836 ICU beds in seven govt. hospitals||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the Cabinet has approved adding 6,836 ICU beds in seven hospitals at a cost of Rs. 1,216.72 crore. The beds will be ready in six months, the Minister said. “Almost 7,000 new ICU beds are being added to Delhi government hospitals, which at present have a capacity of 10,000 ICU beds, a 70% increase is being made to this number. The beds will be ready within six months,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. The extra beds will help in dealing with a possible third wave of COVID-19 and if the wave does not happen then it will act like additional beds for regular treatment, Mr. Kejriwal added. Of the total 6,836 ICU beds, 1,430 will be added to Delhi government hospital in Shalimar Bagh, 458 in Kirari government hospital, 1,912 at GTB hospital, 1,565 in Raghubir Nagar hospital, 610 at Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, and 525 in Sultanpuri hospital. “The addition of these beds will not only ramp up ICU bed facilities by 70% but will also be monumental in achieving the target of 37,000 COVID-19 beds in Delhi,” read a statement. Mr. Jain said the government is learning from its experiences and trying its best to avoid a third wave. “Our vision is to make ICU facilities readily available in Delhi so that even a normal oxygen bed can be instantly converted into an ICU bed,” Mr. Jain said during an event at the Delhi Vidhan Sabha on Saturday to felicitate healthcare workers. No deaths for third day Meanwhile, the city reported no new COVID-19 deaths over 24 hours for the third day in a row on Saturday. The toll remains at 25,080. Also, 29 new cases were reported in a single day, taking the tally to 14,37,685. A total of 72,434 tests were done in 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 0.04%. There are 393 active cases in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cabinet-approves-adding-6836-icu-beds-in-seven-govt-hospitals/article36160722.ece
29 August 2021||new delhi,||BJP accuses govt. of playing with lives of children||The AAP government is playing with the lives of children by reopening schools without any preparation, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said on Saturday. He added that the government had also put the onus on schools to ensure safety of students as “the State so far has no framework of COVID-19 rules for schools”. He also demanded that the report, on the basis of which the Kejriwal government has decided to reopen schools, be made public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-accuses-govt-of-playing-with-lives-of-children/article36160715.ece
29 August 2021||Washington,||U.S. drone strike targets IS in Afghanistan||A U.S. airstrike in Afghanistan killed two high-profile IS targets and left another wounded, the Pentagon said on Saturday. No civilians were hurt in the attack early on Saturday, which followed the suicide bombing on Thursday that killed scores of people, including 13 U.S. troops at Kabul airport, Major General Hank Taylor told a news conference. The Pentagon declined to say if the people targeted in the U.S. strike were directly involved in the suicide bombing. “They were ISIS-K planners and facilitators. That’s enough reason there alone,” said spokesman John Kirby. “The fact that two of these individuals are no longer walking on the face of the Earth, that’s a good thing,” Mr. Kirby added. Thursday’s attack was claimed by a regional Islamic State chapter. The suicide bombing injected further stress and tension into a situation already fraught with panic and despair for those wanting to leave and for the U.S. forces tasked with securing the operation. The bombing followed a chorus of warnings about an imminent threat and, as people gathered outside the airport on Saturday, the United States issued a fresh alert for its citizens to leave areas around the main gates “immediately”. ‘Future attempts’ In recent years, the Islamic State’s Afghanistan-Pakistan chapter has been responsible for some of the deadliest attacks in those countries — massacring civilians at mosques, shrines, public squares and even hospitals. At the White House, President Joe Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki said U.S. national security experts consider another attack is “likely” and the next few days will be “the most dangerous period to date”. Taliban spokesman Bilal Karimi said in tweet that the group’s fighters had already moved into parts of the military side of Kabul airport, but the Pentagon stressed that U.S. forces retained control over the gates and airlift operations. Racing to meet the Tuesday withdrawal deadline has required close cooperation with the Taliban on evacuee movements and the IS threat. The head of U.S. forces at Hamid Karzai International, Rear Admiral Peter Vasely, is in constant contact with the Taliban official overseeing security around the airport. And with the Taliban poised to take over when the last U.S. plane leaves Kabul, discussions have begun on resuming normal flight operations. Turkish officials have held initial talks with the Taliban in Kabul about helping get the airport back up and running. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the Taliban offer was for them to oversee security at the airport, while Ankara runs logistical operations. The United Nations said it was bracing for a “worst-case scenario” of up to half a million more refugees from Afghanistan by the end of 2021. “We are preparing for around 500,000 new refugees in the region. This is a worst-case scenario,” she said. She stressed the need to boost support for neighbouring countries that already host more than 2.2 million Afghan refugees, and which could soon see the fresh influx.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-drone-strike-targets-is-in-afghanistan/article36160215.ece
29 August 2021||Kabul,||U.S. forces keep up airlift under threat of attacks||American forces working under heightened security and threats of another attack pressed ahead in the closing days of the U.S.-led evacuation from Afghanistan after a devastating suicide bombing. The next few days “will be our most dangerous period to date” in the evacuation, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said, hours before the U.S. issued a security alert for four of the airport gates. The U.S. evacuation of vulnerable Afghans has continued, with Major General Hank Taylor saying there were around 1,400 at the airport on Saturday who have been "screened and manifested for flights today." Altogether, around 1,17,000 people have been flown out of Afghanistan since August 14, the day before the Taliban seized power. The Taliban deployed extra forces around Kabul’s airport on Saturday to prevent large crowds from gathering. New layers of checkpoints sprang up on roads leading to the airport, some manned by uniformed Taliban fighters with Humvees and night-vision goggles captured from Afghan security forces. Areas where large crowds of people have gathered over the past two weeks in hopes of fleeing the country following the Taliban takeover were largely empty. The death toll rose to 169 Afghans, a number that could increase as authorities examine fragmented remains, and 13 U.S. service members. Many Western nations have already completed their evacuation operations ahead of Tuesday’s deadline for the withdrawal of all U.S. forces. An Afghan who had worked as a translator for the U.S. military said he was with a group of people with permission to leave who tried to reach the airport late Friday. After passing through three checkpoints they were stopped at a fourth. An argument ensued, and the Taliban said they had been told by the Americans to only let U.S. passport-holders through. Sense of hopelessness “I am so hopeless for my future,” the man told The Associated Press after returning to Kabul, speaking on condition of anonymity because of security concerns. “If the evacuation is over, what will happen to us?”  Britain’s Defence Ministry said the final flight for Afghan citizens had left Kabul and further flights over the weekend will bring home British troops and diplomats, though they may also carry a few remaining U.K. or Afghan civilians. Britain’s Ambassador to Afghanistan, Laurie Bristow, said in a video from Kabul airport that it was “time to close this phase of the operation now.” “But we haven’t forgotten the people who still need to leave,” he said. “We’ll continue to do everything we can to help them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-forces-keep-up-airlift-under-threat-of-attacks/article36160216.ece
29 August 2021||Washington,||Biden: China still withholding ‘critical’ details on virus origins||President Joe Biden said on Friday that China was withholding “critical information” on the origins of COVID-19 after the U.S. intelligence community said it did not believe the virus was a bioweapon — but remained split on whether it escaped from a lab. The U.S., however, does not believe Chinese officials had foreknowledge of the virus before the initial outbreak of the pandemic that has now claimed 4.5 million lives, according to the unclassified summary of an eagerly awaited intelligence report. “Critical information about the origins of this pandemic exists in the People’s Republic of China, yet from the beginning, government officials in China have worked to prevent international investigators and members of the global public health community from accessing it,” Mr. Biden said in a statement. ‘Not a bioweapon’ “To this day, the PRC continues to reject calls for transparency and withhold information, even as the toll of this pandemic continues to rise.” U.S. intelligence has ruled out that the coronavirus was developed as a weapon, and most agencies assess with “low confidence” it was not genetically engineered. But the community remains divided on the pathogen’s origins, with four agencies and the National Intelligence Council judging in favour of natural exposure to an animal as the likely explanation, and one agency favoring the lab leak theory. Analysts at three agencies were unable to reach a conclusion. The intelligence community and global scientists lack clinical samples or epidemiological data from the earliest Covid-19 cases, it added. Mr. Biden said the U.S. would continue to work with allies to press Beijing to share more information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-china-still-withholding-critical-details-on-virus-origins/article36160206.ece
29 August 2021||Baghdad,||Afghanistan overshadows key West Asia summit||The Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan overshadowed a summit in Iraq on Saturday attended by key regional leaders, with French President Emmanuel Macron warning of the threat Islamic State group jihadists pose. The meeting comes as Iraq, long a casualty of jihadist militancy, tries to establish itself as a mediator between Arab nations and Iran. “We all know that we must not lower our guard, because Daesh (IS) remains a threat, and I know that the fight against these terrorist groups is a priority of your government,” Mr. Macron said, after a meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhemi. Iraq and France “are key partners in the war against terrorism,” Mr. Kadhemi replied. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and Jordan’s King Abdullah II flew in for the summit, while the Foreign Ministers of regional foes Iran and Saudi Arabia were also present. Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, Dubai’s ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, as well as Kuwait’s Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah and Turkey’s Foreign Minister were also present. Iraq has been caught for years in a delicate balancing act between its two main allies, Iran and the U.S. Baghdad has been brokering talks since April between U.S. ally Riyadh and Tehran on mending ties severed in 2016. “It was really not easy to put the Saudis and Iranians in the same room,” a French diplomatic source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghanistan-overshadows-key-west-asia-summit/article36160204.ece
29 August 2021||Beijing,||U.S. Navy ships in Taiwan Strait pose threat: China||China’s Defence Ministry protested on Saturday the passage of a U.S. Navy warship and Coast Guard cutter through the waters between China and Taiwan, a self-governing island claimed by China. A statement posted on the Ministry’s website called the move provocative and said it shows that the U.S. is the biggest threat to peace and stability and creator of security risks in the 160-km wide Taiwan Strait. “We express firm opposition and strong condemnation,” the statement said. The USS Kidd guided-missile destroyer and Coast Guard cutter Munro sailed through the strait on Friday in international waters, the U.S. Navy said. Such exercises are seen as a warning to China, which recently conducted drills near Taiwan and has not renounced the use of force if needed to bring the island under its control. “The ships’ lawful transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific,” U.S. Navy’s Japan-based 7th Fleet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-navy-ships-in-taiwan-strait-pose-threat-china/article36160209.ece
29 August 2021||Tehran,||‘Biden is making same demands as Trump’||Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Saturday accused U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration of making the same demands as his predecessor Donald Trump in talks to revive a nuclear accord. The multilateral deal that offers Iran relief from sanctions in return for curbs on its nuclear programme was torpedoed by Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw the U.S. from it in 2018. A last round of negotiations between Iran and the deal’s remaining parties to revive the 2015 accord concluded in June with no resumption in sight. “America’s current administration is no different from the previous one, because what it demands from Iran on the nuclear issue is different in words, but the same thing that Trump demanded,” Mr. Khamenei said, quoted by his official website. “The Americans truly have no shame on the nuclear issue, and even though they withdrew from the JCPOA... they now talk in a way and make demands as it was (Iran) that withdrew,” he added, referring to the deal by its official name, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-is-making-same-demands-as-trump/article36160211.ece
29 August 2021||Kano,||Nearly 100 abducted Nigerian students freed||Nigerian kidnappers have freed scores of students abducted from three schools in the northwest this year, officials said Friday, following a burst of sudden releases. The mass abductions were part of a string of kidnapping for ransom attacks on Nigerian schools and colleges this year by heavily armed gangs known locally as bandits. Nearly 100 pupils abducted from an Islamic seminary in Tegina, Niger State were reunited with their families on Friday after three months in captivity. Wearing blue headscarves and tunics, the male and female students, some younger than 10 years old, were met by the State Governor and their families. “I have a child and I am very happy. I give God all the glory,” said one father Fasilat Jimoh Danjuma. “Thank God they are back hale and healthy and we are happy.” During the Tegina seminary kidnapping on May 30, around 200 motorcycle-riding gunmen stormed the town in Niger State’s Rafi district before transporting the pupils to a rural hideout. School officials said one pupil had died during captivity. In a separate case, gunmen also released 32 more students kidnapped in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nearly-100-abducted-nigerian-students-freed/article36160212.ece
29 August 2021||Copenhagen,||Scientists find ‘northernmost’ landmass||Scientists have discovered what is believed to be the world’s northernmost landmass — a yet-to-be-named island north of Greenland that could soon be swallowed up by seawaters. Researchers came upon the landmass on an expedition in July, and initially thought they had reached Oodaaq, up until now the northernmost island on the planet. Oodaaq is some 700 km south of the North Pole, while the new island is 780 m north of Oodaaq. Copenhagen University said the “yet-to-be-named island is... the northernmost point of Greenland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scientists-find-northernmost-landmass/article36160213.ece
29 August 2021||Los Angeles,||Bobby Kennedy’s assassin granted parole in California||The man convicted of shooting dead Robert F. Kennedy in 1968 was granted parole Friday. Sirhan Sirhan, now 77, has been behind bars for five decades — despite doubts that he fired the shots that likely changed the course of U.S. politics. Kennedy, the younger brother of slain President John F. Kennedy, was campaigning for the Democratic nomination when he was gunned down in a Los Angeles hotel. Sirhan was sentenced to death in 1969 after pleading guilty. His death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment several years later.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bobby-kennedys-assassin-granted-parole-in-california/article36160208.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Ransomware will dominate the cybercrime landscape’||Cyberthreats are evolving rapidly and becoming more sophisticated and complex. Operators leverage real-world events to deceive individual victims, enterprises and governments all over the globe, including in India, says Anil Valluri, regional VP – India and SAARC, Palo Alto Networks. Excerpts:  What is the latest from the world of ‘bad actors’? Ransomware Evil, REvil or Sodinokibi, a ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) operation has emerged as one of the world’s most notorious and latest ransomware operators. This criminal group provides adaptable encryptors and decryptors, infrastructure and services for negotiation communications, and a leak site for publishing stolen data when victims don’t pay the ransom demand. As per our observation of cases, REvil and its affiliates pulled in an average payment of $2.25 million during the first six months of 2021. Last month, it extracted $11 million payment from the U.S. subsidiary of the world’s largest meat packing company based in Brazil, demanded $5 million from a Brazilian medical diagnostics firm and launched a large-scale attack on dozens, perhaps hundreds, of companies that use IT management software from Kaseya VSA. Unit 42, a response-ready global team comprising threat researchers and cybersecurity consultants, has been monitoring threat actors involved in ransomware attacks and has worked over a dozen REvil cases so far this year. What kind of cyberthreats are likely to increase? Ransomware is going to dominate the cybercrime landscape. A report prepared by Unit 42 and The Crypsis Group incident response and digital forensics firm, notified several disturbing threat trends. In 2020, the average ransom payment by organisations increased nearly threefold ($1,15,123 in 2019 to $3,12,493 in 2020); the highest ransom payment doubled ($5 million in 2019 to $10 million in 2020), and the highest ransomware demand also doubled ($15 million in 2019 to $30 million in 2020). At least 16 different ransomware variants are now exploiting victims by encrypting and stealing/threatening to expose data. The NetWalker ransomware gang leveraged this tactic the most, having leaked data from 113 victim organisations globally. Industry data indicated healthcare was the most targeted and vulnerable sector in 2020 and the sector continues to be under further attacks by RaaS models. India too has witnessed similar attempts of attacks happening around COVID and vaccination. Data witnessed a humongous growth in the last 18 months. Do we have any statistics available? As per an annual study by IDC, DataSphere and StorageSphere forecasts, the quantum of data created and replicated experienced unusually high growth in 2020 due to a dramatic increase in the number of people working, learning, and entertaining themselves from home. Surprisingly, less than 2% of this new data was saved and retained into 2021. The rest was either ephemeral (created or replicated primarily for consumption) or temporarily cached and subsequently overwritten with newer data. The cyber mafia has always been trying to keep pace with protection technology. How can we widen the gap? The need of the hour is an integrated platform using ML (machine learning) and AI (artificial intelligence) to lift the burden off cybersecurity teams. Using AI, the frequently observed threat data and multiple threat feeds can be automated and left to ML algorithms that can decipher attack patterns, leaving cybersecurity teams to spend time on advanced threat hunting. We, at Palo Alto Networks, believe the future of cybersecurity depends on a platform approach, which will allow cybersecurity teams to focus on security rather than integrating solutions from different vendors. The reputational, operational, legal, and compliance implications could be considerable if cybersecurity risks are neglected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ransomware-will-dominate-the-cybercrime-landscape/article36160312.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Volkswagen to test India EV market with ID range by 2023||Volkswagen Passenger Cars India plans to test the electric vehicles market in the country by initially importing limited numbers of its ID range of vehicles by 2022 or 2023, said a top official. “We will be coming with a limited volume either by 2022 or 2023 to build our internal capacity and to test the Indian EV cars market,” said Ashish Gupta, Brand Director at the European carmaker’s Indian unit. “It would be the ID range of EVs. Initially, it would be imported,” he added. Asserting that the current share of EVs in India’s automobile market was pegged at 0.5%, and that it would take four or five years to reach about 5% market share, Mr. Gupta said that that would be the ‘right time’ for Volkswagen to ‘commercially launch’ electric cars in India. On Saturday, Volkswagen introduced its mid-sized Taigun SUV in the city. Mr. Gupta estimated that the market for mid-sized SUVs was about 3 lakh cars per annum. Taigun will compete with Hyundai’s Creta and Kia’s Seltos. “We are planning to sell 4,000 to 5,000 Taigun per month... Pre-booking has started. We may also consider exporting it, depending upon demand,” he added. During 2021, VW aims to sell a total of 30,000 cars in India, against the 22,000 units it sold last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/volkswagen-to-test-india-ev-market-with-id-range-by-2023/article36160315.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Indian Terrain realigns business, goes digital||Hit by the first and second waves of the pandemic, Indian Terrain Fashions Ltd. (ITFL) has realigned its business model and started focusing on digitalisation, e-commerce, children’s wear and sustainability, executive chairman Venkatesh Rajagopal said in the company’s annual report. Digitalisation and e-commerce is going to be a way of life for the future and in keeping with this, the company had unveiled a direct-to consumer (D2C) business through its website, while continuing to build on the partnerships with leading marketplaces such as Amazon, Flipkart and Myntra, Mr. Rajagopal said. The explosive growth of the D2C business is going to play a significant role in pivoting ITFL’s business model to ‘reach far and wide’. Towards this, ITFL was investing resources on technology, people, digital and social media marketing and customer service, he added. The fruition of such expansion plans would not only aid revenues for the future, but also improve the profitability profile which, in turn, would create value for shareholders, the branded apparel company said in its annual report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-terrain-realigns-business-goes-digital/article36160313.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. drafts rules for retro tax closure||In a move that will aid closure of retro tax demands against companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone PLC, the Income Tax Department on Saturday released a draft of rules to drop such demands provided the companies concerned gave an “irrevocable” undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any action in future. Earlier this month, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act 2021 to scrap a tax rule that gave the tax department power to go 50 years back and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas but business assets were in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-drafts-rules-for-retro-tax-closure/article36160537.ece
29 August 2021||Leeds,||India disintegrates, loses by an innings||Ollie Robinson completed a five-wicket haul as England thrashed India by an innings and 76 runs to win the third Test at Headingley on Saturday with more than a day to spare. The hosts levelled the five-match series at 1-1 after India’s 151-run win in the second Test at Lord’s. The tourists, 215/2 overnight, collapsed against the new ball as they lost eight wickets for 63 runs in 19.3 overs on Saturday, with Robinson taking 5/65 for a match haul of 7/81. India’s 278 all out, however, was 200 runs more than its woeful first innings of 78. New ball straight away The visitors resumed on Saturday on 215/2 but, with 80 overs bowled, England took the new ball straight from the start of Saturday’s play. From the moment Cheteshwar Pujara was lbw to Robinson without adding to his overnight 91, playing no shot to Robinson, England was in complete command, with Kohli falling soon afterwards for 55 — his first fifty of the series. Shouldering arms England started the day with three maidens before Pujara — without a Test hundred since a superb 193 against Australia at Sydney in January 2019 — inexplicably played no shot to Robinson. He was initially ruled not out but Robinson had little trouble in convincing England captain Joe Root to call for a review that duly led to the end of Pujara’s 189-ball innings. Anderson thought he had Kohli, 45 not out overnight, caught behind for 46 off the last ball of a superb over. But vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane urged his skipper, who was walking off the field, to review the decision, with replays revealing Kohli’s bat had hit his pad, not the ball. But there was no doubt soon afterwards when Kohli edged a good-length ball from Robinson to Root at first slip. Action replay  Rahane (10) fell in similar fashion, edging Anderson to wicketkeeper Jos Buttler before Rishabh Pant (1), reaching for a wide delivery, nicked Robinson to Craig Overton at third slip. Now the only question was whether India could keep the match going beyond the lunch interval. Tail fails to wag It could not, the tail managing little better than the top-order as Ravindra Jadeja made a quickfire 30. Jadeja fell to Craig Overton and the paceman (3/47) ended the match by having Mohammed Siraj caught in the slips for a duck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-disintegrates-loses-by-an-innings/article36160191.ece
29 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Esha all ready for junior Worlds||Esha Singh is all geared up for the challenges in the 10m air pistol of the ISSF Junior World championship to be held in Peru (Lima) next month and ready to give off her best. The 16-year-old Hyderabadi, who stunned many by winning gold in the women, junior and youth categories at 2018 Nationals, said she doesn’t feel any kind of pressure by way of expectations or the fact that this would be her first major event after the pandemic. “Fortunately, there was no pause in my training thanks to the support system put in place by my father and mentor Sachin Singh and also the constant guidance of Gagan Narang sir (London Olympics bronze medallist),” Esha told The Hindu . “I should also mention the great support from Jayesh Ranjan sir (principal secretary, IT, Telangana Government).” “I am conscious that the competition will be tough as it is an ISSF championship. It being the first big event, there is the possibility of huge surprises and I am aiming to pull off one for my country,” said a confident Esha. “The biggest challenge could well be how quickly I adapt to the conditions.” Morale-booster “Topping the women’s air pistol in the selections in one of the two trials with a total of 244.40 in the Nationals in Delhi should be a huge morale-booster,” Esha said. “And, finishing second in the 50m free pistol in which I competed for the first time is another really satisfying performance,” she added. “The Junior Worlds is a huge platform to showcase your skills. Since we all are waiting for this to happen, there is excitement too in giving off my best,” Esha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/esha-all-ready-for-junior-worlds/article36160793.ece
29 August 2021||BENGALURU,||BFC signs Bruno Ramires||Bengaluru FC, on Saturday, announced the signing of Brazilian midfielder Bruno Ramires on a two-year deal until the end of the 2022-23 season. Ninth signing Ramires, who most recently played for Portuguese Primeira Liga side Belenenses SAD, is Marco Pezzaiuoli’s ninth signing of the summer as the coach plots his moves for his maiden Indian Super League campaign. After graduating from the Bahia Youth Academy, Ramires played for Brazilian sides Vitoria and Cruzeiro. He was part of the Cruzeiro team that secured the Brazilian domestic double in 2014, winning the Campeonato Brasileiro Serie A and Campeonato Mineiro. Prabhakar beats Sunil M. Prabhakar defeated Sunil Nagraik 3-2 (84-102, 102-74, 50-100, 100-88, 100-96) in the second round of men’s senior billiards at the State-ranking billiards and snooker tournament. In boys’ junior snooker, Bharath Tapadia won both his first and second round matches, defeating Md. Dastagir (3-1) and Arzlan A. Wajid (3-0) respectively. KSHA’s cash award The Karnataka State Hockey Association (KSHA), in its Executive Council Meeting held on Friday, resolved to present a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh each to International hockey umpires from Karnataka R.V. Raghu Prasad and Javed Sheikh, both of whom officiated at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. It was also decided to extend Rs. 1.20 lakh to former State hockey player Daniel Rajkumar, who suffered a vascular disease which resulted in amputation of one of his legs below the knee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-signs-bruno-ramires/article36160539.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Have to bring our A-game in every match, says Mithali||Mithali Raj’s women are boarding the plane to Australia in a confident frame of mind. India will take on the Aussies in a multi-format series that includes a historic pink-ball Test. Speaking at an online press conference ahead of the team’s departure, the captain said the Day/Night Test was big for the women’s game and that it would be challenging. “We have never played a Test match under lights,” Mithali said. “(Neither) do we frequently get to play ODIs under lights.” She added the biggest challenge would be to play the pink ball during the twilight period. “That is the feedback we got from interacting with a few of the men cricketers,” she said. “Let us see how we stand up to the challenge.” Mithali said it was good that India could already play two series in the year. “Having said that, we know we are playing the best side in the world,” she said. “Clearly we have to get our A-game in every match.” She said the players were confident after the training they had. “Considering the pandemic situation, we were fortunate to have a camp of 30 players (at Bengaluru),” she said. “We managed to get match simulation and had a couple of games under lights.” About the uncapped pacer, Meghna Singh, coach Ramesh Powar said her experience (on the domestic circuit) could help her in Australia. “She has been a seasoned player for Railways and has been performing well,” he said. He hoped pacers like her would support India’s spearhead Jhulan Goswami on the tour. “We need a pacer who could bowl with her in partnership,” he said.  The schedule:   ODIs: Sept. 19 (North Sydney Oval, 8.45 a.m.), Sept. 22 (Junction Oval, Melbourne, 4.35 a.m.), Sept. 24 (Junction Oval, 4.35 a.m.).   One-off Test: Sept. 30 to Oct. 3, WACA, Perth, 11.30 a.m.   T20Is: Oct. 7 (2.10 p.m.), Oct. 9 (1.40 p.m.) and Oct. 11 (1.40 p.m.), all at North Sydney Oval (all times IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/have-to-bring-our-a-game-in-every-match-says-mithali/article36160196.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Not demoralised by defeat: Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli stressed that the team “will not be demoralised” by the innings defeat in the third Test at Headingley. “We like to be in this situation where people start coming at us with doubts and really start questioning the ability of this team, that is the situation we love best,” Kohli said during a virtual media interaction on Saturday. “I can guarantee you that we will not be demoralised by this loss. Guys in the change-room are hurt and when they’re hurt, they know that they badly want to correct the things that didn’t go well in this game. That is how we are going to play the next two Test matches.” While he said in the post-match presentation that he remains comfortable with the four-pacer template, Kohli added that the pacers will definitely be rotated in the remaining two matches. “That’s a very logical and sensible thing to do. You don’t want to push individuals to a place where they break. That conversation is very important... we will have that conversation with individuals and see who is placed where and who needs a game off. You can’t expect with such short turnarounds like this for guys to play four Tests in a row,” he said. Kohli said the defeat at Leeds was an “aberration”. “This game has been kind of an aberration in how we have gone in this series. First two games, we put ourselves in positions where we won one game and had the opportunity to win the other as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-demoralised-by-defeat-kohli/article36160194.ece
29 August 2021||Liverpool,||Chelsea frustrates Liverpool||Chelsea held out with 10 men for the entire second-half to frustrate Liverpool as the first heavyweight clash of the Premier League season between two title contenders ended 1-1 at Anfield on Saturday. Kai Havertz’s looping header put the visitors in front before Reece James was sent off in first-half stoppage time for handball on his own goal line and Mohamed Salah converted the resulting penalty. Manchester City rubbed salt into Arsenal wounds with a 5-0 thrashing, making it the Gunners’ worst start to a league season since 1954. 300 for Lewandowski Robert Lewandowski scored a hat-trick as Bayern Munich thumped Hertha Berlin 5-0 on Saturday, with the Poland striker passing the milestone of 300 goals for the defending Bundesliga champion. Having scored a record 41 goals last season in the Bundesliga, Lewandowski has already netted five times in three league matches this term.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester City 5 (Gundogan 7, Torres 12, 84, Jesus 43, Rodri 53) bt Arsenal 0; Aston Villa 1 (Buendia 13) drew with Brentford 1 (Toney 7); Brighton 0 lost to Everton 2 (Gray 41, Calvert-Lewin 58-pen); Liverpool 1 (Salah 45+5-pen) drew with Chelsea 1 (Havertz 22); Newcastle 2 (Wilson 55, Saint-Maximin 90) drew with Southampton 2 (Elyounoussi 74, Ward-Prowse 90+6); Norwich 1 (Pukki 44-pen) lost to Leicester 2 (Vardy 8, Albrighton 76); West Ham 2 (Fornals 39, Antonio 88) drew with Crystal Palace 2 (Gallagher 58, 70).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 0 lost to Athletic Bilbao 1 (Williams 34).   Serie A: Lazio 6 (Immobile 5, 15, 45+2, Anderson 47, Hysaj 70, Luis Alberto 85) bt Spezia 1 (Verdi 4).   Bundesliga: VfB Stuttgart 2 (Mavropanos 45, Al Ghaddioui 45+2) lost to Freiburg 3 (Jeong 3, 9, Hoeler 28); Mainz 3 (Lucoqui 15, Szalai 18, Stoeger 90+2) bt Greuther Fuerth 0; Augsburg 1 (Niederlechner 30) lost to Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Iago 3-og, Niederlechner 14-og, Schick 75, Wirtz 81); Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Wimmer 86) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Hauge 22); Cologne 2 (Schaub 82, Lemperle 90+1) bt Bochum 1 (Zoller 90+4); Bayern Munich 5 (Muller 6, Lewandowski 35, 70, 84, Musiala 49) bt Hertha Berlin 0.   On Friday: LaLiga: Mallorca 1 (Dani Rodriguez 27) bt Espanyol 0; Valencia 3 (Wass 3, Soler 45+3, Guedes 60) bt Alaves 0.   Serie A: Verona 1 (Ilic 15) lost to Inter Milan 3 (Martinez 47, Correa 83, 90+4); Udinese 3 (Pussetto 29, Deulofeu 70, Molina 90+3) bt Venezia 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 3 (Reyna 49, Bellingham 69, Haaland 90+1) bt Hoffenheim 2 (Baumgartner 61, Dabbur 90).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-hammers-an-abject-arsenal/article36160201.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||The Tokyo campaign has made the players fearless: Gurjit Kaur||Indian women’s hockey team drag-flick specialist Gurjit Kaur says the players have become fearless since their historic fourth-place finish at the Tokyo Olympics. “Even though we missed out on winning the medal by a whisker, there are a lot of positives to take from this dream campaign,” she was quoted as saying by Hockey India. “People have started watching us, and I am sure our performance will inspire young girls to take up hockey. The Tokyo Olympics 2020 marks the beginning of a new era of Indian hockey. “We have gained a lot of confidence, we have become fearless, and going forward it will certainly help us perform well in major tournaments. I also hope we get the same amount of love and respect going forward.” Speaking on her nomination for FIH Women’s Player of the Year Award, Gurjit said it was a reward for her hard work and sacrifice. “It’s a huge achievement for me to be nominated for the FIH Women’s Player of the Year Award 2020-2021. “For an athlete, it’s one of the best moments when all your hard work and sacrifices get recognised at a world level, and I am really happy to see my name on that list. It will give me extra motivation to do even better for the team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-tokyo-campaign-has-made-the-players-fearless-gurjit-kaur/article36160727.ece
29 August 2021||Spa-Francorchamps,||Verstappen hot in wet qualifying||Red Bull’s Max Verstappen mastered the rain to claim Belgian Grand Prix pole on Saturday, snatching the fastest time in qualifying from surprise package George Russell of Williams. Lewis Hamilton’s Mercedes will start on the second row as he goes for his 100th Grand Prix win. Norris crashes Qualifying was marred by a heavy crash in Q3 involving the McLaren of Lando Norris, whose hopes of a first ever pole bit the dust at Eau Rouge. With Norris thankfully escaping serious injury, nine cars took to the track when the shoot-out resumed after a 40-minute red flag intervention.   The starting grid: Row 1: Max Verstappen (Red Bull) & George Russell (Williams); Row 2: Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) & Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren); Row 3: Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin) & Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri); Row 4: Sergio Perez (Red Bull) & Esteban Ocon (Alpine).   Row 5: Lando Norris (McLaren) & Charles Leclerc (Ferrari); Row 6: Nicholas Latifi (Williams) & Carlos Sainz Jr (Ferrari); Row 7: Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) & Fernando Alonso (Alpine); Row 8: Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo) & Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri); Row 9: Mick Schumacher (Haas) & Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); Row 10: Nikita Mazepin (Haas) & Lance Stroll (Aston Martin) .   The remaining schedule: Sept. 5: Netherlands (Zandvoort); Sept. 12: Italy (Monza); Sept. 26: Russia (Sochi); Oct. 10: Turkey (Istanbul Park); Oct. 24: USA (Austin); Nov. 7: Mexico (Mexico City); Nov. 14: Brazil (Sao Paulo); Nov. 21: Venue TBC; Dec. 5: Saudi Arabia (Jeddah); Dec. 12: Abu Dhabi (Yas Marina) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-hot-in-wet-qualifying/article36160189.ece
29 August 2021||TOKYO,||Bhavina on the cusp of golden glory||Bhavina Patel continued to script history as she became the first Indian to enter the final of a table tennis event in the Paralympics with a hard-fought 3-2 win over China’s Miao Zhang in a Class 4 semifinal here on Saturday. The 34-year-old Indian stunned her World No. 3 opponent 7-11, 11-7, 11-4, 9-11, 11-8 in a showdown that lasted 34 minutes. It was Bhavina’s first victory against the former World No. 1 in 12 attempts. Bhavina will take on another Chinese, World No.1 Ying Zhou, in the summit clash scheduled to be played at 7.15 a.m. (IST) on Sunday. Give 100% “When I came here, I just thought that I would give my 100% without thinking of anything. If you give 100%, the medal will come, that was what I thought,” said Bhavina, who was diagnosed with polio when she was a 12-year-old. “If I continue with this confidence with the blessings of the people of my country, I think I will win gold tomorrow. I am ready for the final and I have to give 100% in the final also,” said Bhavina. PM’s encouragement Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded Bhavina’s incredible achievement tweeting “Congratulations Bhavina Patel! You played excellently. The entire nation is praying for your success and will be cheering for you tomorrow. Give your best and play without any pressure. Your accomplishments inspire the entire nation.” Rakesh advances In archery, Rakesh Kumar continued his impressive run of form to storm into the pre-quarterfinals while teammate Shyam Sundar Swami made a second round exit as Indian compound archers had a mixed day. Rakesh Kumar defeated Hong Kong's Ngai Ka Chuen 144-131 to win his 1/16 elimination match, while Shyam Sundar went down 139-142 against Matt Stutzman of the USA. Javelin star Ranjeet Bhati bowed out after failing to register even a single valid throw in his six attempts in the men’s class F57 final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavina-on-the-cusp-of-golden-glory/article36160193.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three Indians march into the finals||World youth bronze-medallist Bishwamitra Chongtham (51kg) was among the three Indian male boxers to advance to the finals of the Asian youth championships in Dubai. Chongtham beat Tajikistan’s Akarali Abdurakhivonzoda 5-0 on Friday to make the summit clash. Joining him in the finals are Suresh Vishwanath (48kg) and Jaydeep Rawat (57kg). While Vishwanath beat Bahrain’s Fadel Sayed 5-0, Rawat edged out Kyrgyzstan’s Bekbol Murasbekov 3-2. Lashu Yadav (women’s 70kg) and Deepak (75kg) finished with bronze medals after semifinal losses. Kazakhstan’s Gaukhar Shaibekova beat Lashu 5-0 and Deepak went down against Kazakhstan’s Aliaskarov Bakbergen 1-4. India’s medal count went past 35 in the tournament being conducted simultaneously for junior and youth (both men and women). While 20 medals are secured in the youth competition, the junior event will yield 19 podium finishes. The gold medallists in the youth category will be awarded a prize money of $6,000, while silver and bronze winners will claim $3,000 and $1,500 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-indians-march-into-the-finals/article36160548.ece
29 August 2021||KOCHI,||Blasters rope in Jorge Pereyra||Kerala Blasters FC has roped in Argentinian forward Jorge Rolando Pereyra Diaz for the Indian Super League. The striker, the Kochi-based club’s third foreign signing this year, comes on loan from Club Atletico Platense and will be available till the end of June next year. He is expected to join the join the club directly in Kolkata for the Durand Cup which begins on September 5. Title win The 31-year-old began his professional career with the Argentina’s Ferro Carril Oeste in 2008 and after four years there, he went on to play for Atletico Lanus and helped the team win the 2013 Copa Sudamericana. Later, Pereyra moved to the Malaysian Super League team Johor Darul Ta’zim FC, scoring 26 goals in 45 league matches over three years there. While there, he featured in both AFC Champions League-qualification and AFC Cup. “I am glad to join the Blasters and I am looking forward to representing the team and experiencing the energy of the yellow army in the upcoming season,” said Pereyra. “We are proud and happy to have a good player like Jorge Pereyra in our team. We are waiting for some solid performances from him and hope he will fulfil his potential,” said Blasters sporting director Karolis Skinkys.  I am glad to join the Blasters and I am looking forward to experiencing the energy of the yellow army||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-rope-in-jorge-pereyra/article36160851.ece
29 August 2021||CHENNAI,||MCC-A crowned A zone winner||Madras Cricket Club-A walked away with a cash prize of Rs. 64,000 as it was crowned the A zone winner of the Sanmar TNTA Chennai City league on Saturday. Prize money of Rs. 3.60 lakh and trophies of the 28th Sanmar Chennai City Tennis League Championship 2019-2020 and the 11th UCAL-TNTA inter-club mixed doubles tennis championship 2019-2020 were given away at the MPTA-KTC courts. Sanmar Group Deputy Chairman Vijay Sankar gave away the prize money and trophies to the winners and runners-up of the Sanmar TNTA Chennai City Club Regular and Veterans League. S. Srinivasan, CFO, UCAL Group gave away the UCAL TNTA Mixed Double League prizes.  The results: Winners only: Sanmar-TNTA League: Regular League: A zone: MCC-A (Rs. 64,000); B zone: NTC-C (Rs. 32,000); C zone: Madras Club-A; D zone: Presidency Club-C; E zone: Madras Gymkhana Club-C; F zone: Cosmopolitan Club-C.   Veterans 45+: A zone: MCC A; B zone: Madras Club. Veterans 60+: Cosmopolitan Club.   UCAL-TNTA Chennai inter-club mixed doubles league: MCC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcc-a-crowned-a-zone-winner/article36160609.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Learning so much from Anderson’||Ollie Robinson, the player of the match at Headingley, has acknowledged James Anderson’s help during his return to the England set-up after being suspended for a disciplinary investigation into racist tweets he had made as a teenager. “I am learning so much from Jimmy Anderson. Since I’ve come into the England environment, he’s been one of my closest friends. I speak to him every day,” Robinson said. “He showed me the grip for the wobble-seam ball before this match and I practised it in the nets. Then I tried it in the game here and it went quite well.” England captain Joe Root was full of praise for the lanky pacer. “Ollie has been phenomenal. He’s had a big influence on all the Tests he’s played,” Root said. “We knew how skilful he was, but it was a question of whether he could back it up in his third spell with an old ball. He has shown he can.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/learning-so-much-from-anderson/article36160198.ece
29 August 2021||JHAJJAR,||Jagmeet, Ajay triumph||Top seed Jagmeet Kaur overcame a slow start to beat second seed Kashish Bhatia 2-6, 6-1, 6-3 in the final of the Rs. 100,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament here on Saturday. In the doubles final, Kashish and S. Srinidhi were beaten 6-3, 6-4 by Pooja Ingale and Bela Tamhankar.  In Gurugram, Ajay Malik bounced back to beat Karan Singh 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 and win the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament. In the doubles final, the Sood twins, Chandril and Lakshit beat Rudra Bhatt and Utsav Patel 6-3, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagmeet-ajay-triumph/article36160962.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad:,||Scramjet well-prepped to repeat in feature event||The four-year-old gelding Scramjet, who is in good form, should score an encore in the Tiger Roll Plate, the main event of Sunday’s (Aug. 29) races.  MAMMA’S MINK PLATE (1,100m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 1.00 p.m.: 1. Hashtag (3) Gaurav Singh 62, 2. Elegant Stroke (11) Nakhat Singh 60.5, 3. Secret Command (5) Trevor 60.5, 4. Winning Player (6) Ashad Asbar 60.5, 5. Elmira (8) B. Nikhil 60, 6. Hurricane (2) Abhay Singh 60, 7. Bravo (9) A.A. Vikrant 59.5, 8. Turf Monarch (7) Md. Ismail 56.5, 9. Acadian Angel (4) G. Naresh 55.5, 10. Ice Berry (1) C.P. Bopanna 52.5 and 11. Moment Of Silence (10) Ajeeth Kumar 50.  1. SECRET COMMAND, 2. ACADIAN ANGEL, 3. WINNING PLAYER   RED RUM PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.30: 1. Divine Chakram (6) Mukesh Kumar 56, 2. Epsom (8) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 3. Magic Mark (1) Ajit Singh 56, 4. Quality Warrior (9) Kiran Naidu 56, 5. Space Walk (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Sye Ra (2) P. Gaddam 56, 7. Top Diamond (4) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Unsung Hero (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 9. Joy O Joy (3) R. Laxmikanth 54.5 and 10. Siri (7) Ashad Asbar 54.5.  1. SIRI, 2. TOP DIAMOND, 3. QUALITY WARRIOR   FIGHTING FORCE PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.05: 1. N R I Magic (6) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Mind Reader (11) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 3. Mystery (9) Kiran Naidu 59.5, 4. Angel Tesoro (5) A.A. Vikrant 59, 5. Curcumin (12) Deepak Singh 59, 6. Dunkirk (2) Afroz Khan 58, 7. Soul Empress (7) Mukesh Kumar 58, 8. Loch Stellar (8) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 9. Rhythm Selection (4) Abhay Singh 56, 10. Explosive (3) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 11. Rhine (10) G. Naresh 53 and 12. Sacred Lamp (1) Ashad Asbar 52.5.  1. N R I MAGIC, 2. MIND READER, 3. RHINE   BHISHMA PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.40: 1. Horse O’ War (2) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. N R I Sun (5) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Pedro Planet (6) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 4. Lightning Power (10) Ajit Singh 59, 5. Stud Power (4) Ajinkya 58, 6. Due Diligence (1) Trevor 57, 7. N R I Blue (Ex: Blue Cruise) (8) B. Nikhil 55.5, 8. Exponent (9) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 9. Urvasi (7) Abhay Singh 54.5 and 10. Lorena (3) Md. Ismail 53.  1. N R I SUN, 2. DUE DILIGENCE, 3. EXPONENT   RED RUM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m) (Terms), Maiden 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 3.15: 1 Blue Label (9) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Dream Jewel (4) Kiran Naidu 56, 3. General Atlantic (11) B. Nikhil 56, 4. Sea Of Class (7) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. Sharp Mind (10) P. Gaddam 56, 6. Sport On Fire (1) Deepak Singh 56, 7. Aarya (6) N.B. Kuldeep 54.5, 8. Golden Amaris (3) Afroz Khan 54.5, 9. Kimberley (5) S.S. Tanwar 54.5, 10. Reining Queen (2) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5 and 11. Spectacular Cruise (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. REINING QUEEN, 2. SPECTACULAR CRUISE, 3. GENERAL ATLANTIC   SIR IVOR PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.50: 1. Blink Of An Eye (3) Gaurav Singh 61, 2. Blazing Jupiter (4) Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. Four One Four (10) Deepak Singh 60, 4. Different (8) Santosh Raj 59.5, 5. Gusty Note (1) A.A. Vikrant 59, 6. Kingston (6) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 7. Thunder Road (5) Abhay Singh 56.5, 8. Beauty On Parade (12) Md. Ismail 55.5, 9. Art In Motion (7) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 10. Lifetime (2) Trevor 53, 11. California Beauty (11) G. Naresh 52.5 and 12. That’s My Star (9) B. Nikhil 50.  1. BLINK OF AN EYE, 2. LIFETIME, 3. KINGSTON   TIGER ROLL PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.25: 1. Her Legacy (7) G. Naresh 60.5, 2. Scramjet (3) Trevor 58, 3. Mark My Word (4) C.P. Bopanna 57, 4. Mirana (10) Gaurav Singh 57, 5. Horus (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 6. Crazy Horse (5) A.A. Vikrant 54, 7. Mark My Day (9) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 8. Just Incredible (2) Afroz Khan 53, 9. Rapid Fire (6) Ashad Asbar 53 and 10. Saffron Art (1) Ajit Singh 53.  1. SCRAMJET, 2. SAFFRON ART, 3. HORUS   SIR IVOR PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. City Of Bliss (10) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 2. The Prospect (8) Deepak Singh 60.5, 3. Amyra (9) Gaurav Singh 60, 4. Ashwa Jauhar (1) Trevor 59, 5. Greek’s Ace (6) B. Nikhil 58.5, 6. Show Me Your Walk (4) Akshay Kumar 57, 7. Bruno (7) Ashad Asbar 56.5, 8. Aibak (3) Afroz Khan 55.5, 9. Battle Ready (2) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 10. Classy Dame (11) B.R. Kumar 53.5 and 11. Starwalker (5) G. Naresh 53.5.  1. SHOW ME YOUR WALK, 2. CITY OF BLISS, 3. ASHWA JAUHAR  Day’s Best: SCRAMJET  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scramjet-well-prepped-to-repeat-in-feature-event/article36160540.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahman sizzles||Abdul Rahman executed a white slam and was quite robust while clearing four boards for three points in the third round of superleague in the Indian online carrom challenge organised by the All India Carrom Federation. Rahman with 24 points is second behind Abishek Chavan (16). In the women’s section, Nidhi Gupta of Chandigarh led with 76 points after three rounds, one point ahead of Shruti Sonawane of Maharashtra. Shruti had the best performance in the third round with a score of 18 points. After four rounds of the superleague, the top eight each in the men’s and women’s section will make the champions league.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahman-sizzles/article36160960.ece
29 August 2021||Leeds,||Intruder fined and banned for life||YouTuber Daniel Jarvis aka ‘Jarvo69’, who has intruded into the field of play during the Lord’s Test and the ongoing game, will be banned for life on charges of security breach, county sources said on Saturday. Jarvo, who sports the India whites, won’t be allowed in the Leeds gallery in coming days. “Yes, Daniel Jarvis will be banned from Headingley for life. We will also impose financial penalty,” a Yorkshire CCC spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intruder-fined-and-banned-for-life/article36160200.ece
29 August 2021||Chennai,||Double for Duhan||Chirag Duhan from Haryana blanked out the unseeded 15-year-old Aryan Shah of Gujarat without dropping a single game 6-0, 6-0 to clinch the boys’ singles title at the Nippo TNTA ITF Junior U-18 tennis tournament here on Saturday. It was a double delight for Duhan as had won the doubles title on Friday. Due to overnight rain, the finals being held at MPTA-KTC courts Chennai were shifted to hard courts. In the girls’ final, 15-year-old top seed Shruti Ahlawat from Haryana won the title after Lakshmi Prabha Arunkumar of Tamil Nadu retired in the second set trailing 7-5, 4-0 (Rtd). The winner will receive 60 ITF points while the runner up will receive 36 points. Vijay Sankar, vice-chairman Sanmar Group and vice-president TNTA, gave away the prizes in presence of Premkumar Karra, hon. secretary TNTA, and Vivek Reddy, hon. treasurer TNTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/memorable-double-for-duhan/article36160550.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit opens against Foreest||As the stage is set for the 16-player Aimchess US Rapid online chess tournament, Vidit Gujrathi gets prepared to take on Dutchman Jorden van Foreest in his campaign opener of what will the last event on the $1.6 million Meltwaters Champions Chess Tour before the Final. Vidit’s other rivals of the day will be Magnus Carlsen (Norway), Wesley So (USA), Jan-Krzysztof (Poland) and Le Quang Liem (Vietnam). On Sunday, Vidit meets Alireza Firouzja (France), Daniel Noroditsky (USA), Eric Hansen (Canada), Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (France) and Leinier Dominguez Perez (USA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-opens-against-foreest/article36160541.ece
29 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Central beats North||Rising Stars scored a 6-4 win over Sabari Sporting Club via tie-breaker in the final of the VDFA seniors (veterans) football tournament on Saturday. The teams were locked 1-1 at full-time. N. Prabhakar Reddy, SAAP VC & MD and K. Gopala Krishna, president, APFA which sponsored the event, gave away the prizes.  The result (final):   Rising Stars 6 (Sagar, Raju, Datta, Pavan, Sai, Kanaka) bt Sabari Soccer Club 4 (Sri Hari, Deepak, Praveen, Prakash). In tie-breaker.  Central Zone scored a four-wicket win over North Zone in the ACA inter-zonal (under-19) one-day cricket championship here.  The scores:   North 232/9 in 49 overs (Surya Kiran 80, S.V. Rahul 60) lost to Central 236/6 in 42 overs (P. Karthikeya 77, M. Sushanth 54 n.o., U. Sandesh 3/55).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/central-beats-north/article36160966.ece
29 August 2021||Silverstone (UK),||Espargaro savours 'oxygen bubble' of season's first MotoGP pole||Pol Espargaro was made to wait just a little bit longer for the pole position that could revive his disastrous first season at Honda, here on Saturday. The Spaniard had recorded the fastest time of 1min 58.889sec when compatriot Jorge Martin was credited with 1:58 at the end of qualifying for the British GP. It took the timekeepers a few minutes to realise that the Pramac Ducati rider had cut across the chicane.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/espargaro-savours-oxygen-bubble-of-seasons-first-motogp-pole/article36160543.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku — August 29, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-29-2021/article36161112.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A world without artistes||I don’t mind/ Being the non-essential/ knowing you will come looking/ when things are broken/ and nothing else works  In 2020, these lines surfaced on screens followed by a torrent of shares, saves and likes. An excerpt from Artist , a poem written by Guwahati-based Madhu Raghavendra, the verse spoke volumes on what it means to be an artiste in a world in the grip of a pandemic. Shared widely, including by English actor Amanda Abbington, musician Stanley Grill and others, the poem quickly waltzed its way into becoming a lockdown phenomenon. The role of an artiste in unprecedented circumstances has been and continues to be debated, more than ever over the last two years. Madhu’s new collection of poems titled Being Non-Essential (published by Red River), recently launched at Amdavadi, Chennai in an event organised by Prakriti Foundation, is an examination of this very question — and of art itself. “The idea definitely came from the space that artistes were rendered non-essential across the world. It wouldn’t have happened if the poem Artist itself had not spread,” he says. When the popular verse made its rounds, people tried to make it their own — they made music out of it, set it against Russian paintings...the resonance and relatability was palpable. Testament of the times Around this time, Madhu also started writing about the importance of art by pointing at ourselves and our conditioning — of how we are taught to view art as a deviation, rather than a necessity. In his poem titled Why Does Art Go Hungry , he uses the allegory of a grasshopper: In the story of the ants/and the grasshopper/ we tell our children/ to learn from the ants/ to fall in line, to follow, to pick a useful trade..  The farmers’ protests and the brutal second wave of COVID-19 that hit India, bound these pieces together into a compendium of reactionary words, says Madhu, who is also the founder of Poetry Couture, a pan-India initiative that attempts to revive the culture of reading poetry and prose. “Poetry should give hope in times of despair. And shake up society when the things are normal. I also feel that the artiste’s job is to record his time in history. I want people to remember,” says Madhu who, through Poetry Couture, has always looked at taking poetry out of the shelves. “Poetry is an everyday exercise and that should be brought back,” he says. To that end, Read , a poem from this collection, invites one to proudly reclaim one’s words and read poetry “loud enough to reach beyond the radius of hate”. Some works also carry hints of visualisation, like the poem titled Covid Helpline: The lines repeat: Please stay on line/your call is important to us. Between the refrains, is an ECG, gradually on its way to flatlining. Is visualisation an important tool for poetry as a medium? “There are many schools of poetry that have been doing things a certain way. Now, we need to break free and collaborate with artforms. There is opportunity for that now, with digital media.” His next book, Madhu says, is made from everyday waste — “whatever I find in dustbins, when I am walking on streets and so on. Looking at art in everyday things and questioning them is a very 1950s-60s, pop art-inspired way. I think once in a while, it should come back.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-world-without-artistes/article36160884.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Who are Chennai’s caregivers?||Shortly after the second wave of the pandemic abated, cyclist Ramanujar Moulana spent his days riding to the city’s hospitals, clinics, dispensaries and medical colleges. Born out of these rides in those two months is his fourth book,Madras By Cycle: Medical Heritage Trails of Chennai. The guide booklet offers cyclists trails to ride on, in order to learn about the history of Chennai’s medical institutions (like the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital established as early as 1664 for British soldiers, making it just a decade younger than the Taj Mahal), and understand why the city has grown to be a hub for medical tourism. It is accompanied by QR codes for cyclists to map the locations mentioned. The trails include the Madras Medical College (MMC) and its hockey ground which is currently undergoing a facelift; The King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy, which played an important role in supplying smallpox vaccines; and native medicine centres such as the Amrutanjan building and the Dubba Chetty Shop in Mylapore. A special section is dedicated to four pioneer doctors who also had an interest in cycling. This includes Dr. Charles Donovan, the first Medical Superintendent of the Government Royapettah Hospital, and Dr. Ida Scudder, founder of CMC Vellore, who is said to have cycled all the way from Philadelphia to New York to attend the Cornell Medical School in 1898. Mapping the city The booklet is in continuation of Ramanujar’s series of trails exploring OMR/ECR, George Town, and North Chennai, that he releases every Madras Day. For this year, he had planned one on the city’s iconic food joints. And then the second wave of the pandemic began. “We (his group, the Cycling Yogis) had completed most of the food guide before the second wave. But then so many eateries shut down permanently,” he says, explaining why he turned to the medical heritage trail instead. Sankar Nethralaya is the youngest building mentioned in the book, and Ramanujar says the organisation holds a special place in his heart, for helping with his mother’s cataract surgery. Referring to media reports, historian columns, and hospital websites, Ramanujar discovered pieces of history as he charted the rides. “At Stanley Hospital campus, I found an obelisk that mentions the names of Assistant Surgeons of the Presidency who died during the First World War,” he says. “I had also always wanted to visit the Red Fort which is what they call the MMC Museum (owing to its brick facade).” While Ramanujar will start working on remapping the food joints that are still surviving despite the pandemic, he has another idea for a guide book. “I want to focus more on institutions and government bodies, instead of places, like I did before,” he says. “Some of our cyclists are part of the police administration, so I thought it would be nice to document the city’s police heritage. Some of our police stations are over a hundred years old.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/who-are-chennais-caregivers/article36160883.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Spit stop||You and I go to Google Maps to avoid a traffic snarl. Raja Narasimhan and Priti Raja go to the app to get trapped in one. Here is why they drive against the tide. Their ride is clothed in decals that bear a message, and a busy road is where it is most read. The Pune-based couple and their pet Labrador, Cara, drive around in their SUV, letting the vehicle spit out the message — that spitting can kill. After having rolled over vast swathes of Maharashtra and Karnataka, they recently hit Chennai’s busy routes. The couple started their way back in 2010, responding to the swine flu and the fact that India is a tuberculosis hotspot. In the following years, Raja would turn his back on a corporate career and Priti on an entrepreneurial engagement to focus on Sare Jahan Se Acha Foundation, a Section 8 not-for-profit company they had founded. “In the days before COVID-19, our volunteer groups would be working in public places where they would do skits and Zumba on no-spitting. We have done wall paintings and conducted 20-minute sessions for students from Class VI and above in 150 schools in Pune,” elaborates Priti. “Now, due to social distancing, we did not want to step out and talk to people, but they can read these messages.” The decals speak five languages — English, Tamil, Marathi, Hindi and Kannada. The combination of languages changes with the itinerary. Priti explains that at some point they will head into Gujarat, and then, messages in Gujarati would make it to the metal. Attitudes can be unyielding to the toughest of edicts. And, to expect awareness stickers to bend one, reeks of Pollyannish optimism at best and ostrich-like naivete at worst. Let us face it: What are the realistic expectations from this exercise? “We joined hands with volunteer organisations and started pushing for anti-spitting posters in government offices,” explains Priti. In Bengaluru, they have aligned with NGOs to promote the cause. Though started in February, their inter-State road tour has been moving in fits and starts, due to the second wave and continuing region-specific lockdown restrictions. Priti points out that these restrictions define the course of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/spit-stop/article36160880.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A green initiative grows out of a classroom in Perungudi||Would children turn out to be the deus ex machina that turns around the planet’s fortunes? After Greta Thunberg and Licypriya Kangujam, one has to be a fuddy-duddy to discount that possibility. Over 600 school and college students from Tamil Nadu have just joined the rapidly swelling ranks of young environmental activists. These youngsters are batting for a strong hedge of protection around trees in urban spaces and non-forested tracts. On August 27, they made a written plea to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin; V Irai Anbu, Chief Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Government; and Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary, Department of Environment, Climate Change and Forests, Government of Tamil Nadu, for an Urban Trees Protection Act that would prevent abuse and indiscriminate felling of trees in such spaces, and ensure their care. Just as a massive banyan grows out of a miniscule seed, this initiative grew out of a classroom in Perungudi. Rhea Suresh, a Class XI student of Abacus Montessori School in Perungudi, explains that every year as part of a citizenship programme, eleventh-graders decide upon an issue and go about addressing it. M Yuvan, a naturalist who runs what is called ‘Earth Farm Society Curriculum’ at the school suggested to the students that they consider “helping” urban trees. The 20 eleventh-graders were up for it, with the idea of “helpless trees” touching a powerful chord in some of them. Madhumitha Kannan, another eleventh-grader, and Rhea share their experience of having witnessed a tree being felled in their apartment, in Velachery and Perungudi respectively, before any possible alternatives were considered. Madhumitha says existing laws for protecting trees in urban and non-forested tracts are so nebulous that they are hardly protective when push comes to axe. The letter drafted by the students particularly punctuates the idea that trees in private spaces be accorded a dignity commensurate with their age. Decisions to axe trees to deal with practical problems should be defensible, and up for a discussion. To attain wrought-iron certainty about questions around trees, the 20-member students’ team had to go through three rounds of preparation. The first round was one of appreciation. The students were asked to meet up with the trees in their neighbourhood. “Each of us took a list of trees in their area, noting down the species they belonged to. This exercise was carried out in our own localities — in and around our houses, our apartments,” says Madhumitha. Rhea weighs in: “Yuvan sir gave us a reference notebook of sorts that listed around 20 common species that are seen around Chennai. The leaves of the trees that we could not identify, we took photos of and sent to him. There were some trees we could identify, as we were aware of their leaf structures, having learnt about them in the Farm class.” Next up, the students were encouraged to read up on how laws in other states robustly protect urban trees. They particularly mention how helpful learning about tree laws in Maharashtra and West Bengal proved while drafting the petition. While this exercise sharpened their understanding of the various facets to tree protection, it all came together for the students only when they set foot in the Kotturpuram Urban Forest. “We met there as a class, walked around the place, and learnt about the trees there and that is when we decided what the petition was going to be about. A week after that, we started drafting it. Some of us drafted the letter. Some of us made posters. Another group translated the letter into Tamil and so we had the petition in both languages,” says Rhea. Yuvan reveals that founder-trustee of Nizhal Shobha Menon (who is in the vanguard of the campaign for a Tree Act in Tamil Nadu) and social and environmental activist TD Babu brought critical inputs to the petition while it was being drafted by the students. Madhumitha places the various contributions in perspective: “All of us were working on different aspects of the issue to bring together one full campaign. The letter part is the main aspect of it. However, the more challenging part was getting endorsements for the letter. Because, no campaign can be successful without support. Many a time, we are not taken seriously because we are just children.” Before it was dispatched to the afore-mentioned recipients, the petition had received endorsements from over 600 school and college students from around 100 institutions in Tamil Nadu. Yuvan underlines how the range of endorsements elevates the petition from being a one-school initiative to a united call for change. “Trees play important social roles; they protect people. The isthrikarar (the one who irons clothes for a living) and the flower vendor work under a tree. If that tree is protected their livelihood is protected. On a larger scale, if mangroves are protected, livelihoods of the fisherfolk in the region will be automatically protected,” Yuvan illustrates how the petition has an indispensable social and economic sub-text to it.  The more challenging part was getting endorsements for the letter. Because, no campaign can be successful without support. Many a time, we are not taken seriously because we are just children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-green-initiative-grows-out-of-a-classroom-in-perungudi/article36160466.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The old man and the tree: A fable from Second Main Road Kotturpuram||In Aesop’s The Woodcutter and the Trees , the axe the trees help the woodcutter fashion is cruelly turned on them. Deeper meanings have been milked out of this fable, some with convoluted reasoning. The meaning that needs to be — and in all likelihood, meant to be — taken away from it is just this: betrayal of trust. Reading between the lines, betrayal waits to happen to the defenceless. The betrayal may often be unintended, being unthinkingly handed out to them. For Shobha Menon, founder-trustee of Nizhal, a lone and full-grown barringtonia acutangula tree on Second Main Road in Kotturpuram has assumed a similarly “fablesque” stature over the years. She underlines how it recently became a victim of unintended betrayal, as the gashes on its body show. Before going into those details, a short bio that captures the tree’s happier days. A familiar sight on her evening walks, this freshwater mangrove’s fluctuating fortunes have interested Shobha and she has been tracking it. Planted and nurtured by an elderly gentleman, Nagarajan, the tree received care even after it seemed well past the age of caring. He would diligently gather its fallen flowers in, making sure its living space was kept unmessy. Shobha reveals that an existential crisis forced this senior to move to Bengaluru, plunging the freshwater mangrove tree into its own. Taking a step back, it is possible to graft the idea of trust into the handsome barringtonia acutangula . This freshwater mangrove species may be resilient and adaptable to quite a few soil conditions. However, to be an avenue tree, it has left its comfort zone far behind. This species is more easily associated with riverine, pond- and lake-based ecosystems. One can probably even specify where this freshwater mangrove would want to be, if presented with a click of options. This species of barringtonia rules the freshwater tank at the Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary, cradling in its robust arms the emerging new families of big burly birds like the Eurasian spoonbill and the painted stork. It certainly would have been more exciting to be around its kind, and playing host to these elegant birds. But this freshwater mangrove has made itself at home on Second Main Road in Kotturpuram. After the old gentleman had moved out of the locality, there was a raggle-taggle appearance about the tree, surrounded by a mess of fallen and shrivelled flowers. Its seeds were being wasted, crushed by passing wheels. It led Shobha to gather the seeds in — she even presented an evocative account of it in the pages of The Hindu Open Page . Early this week, during a vesper stroll, Shobha found the tree not being its usual self. “It is the time the tree starts seeding and the seeds fall on the road. When I went to check on the tree a few days ago, I found a good portion of it lopped off. There were some seeds on the ground. Recently, a lot of tree pruning happened, probably as part of monsoon-preparedness,” says Shobha. Not for a fleeting second arguing with the tree-pruning exercise — indispensable as it keeps wires out of the reach of tree branches, particularly ahead of the monsoon — Shobha however emphasises that civic-body workers engaged in this work would do better with some knowledge about the trees they lay the secateurs on. “The worker who did it, did it in good faith to prevent the tree branches from touching the wires. But it would have helped if they knew it was in its seeding season — so many seeds would have been in those branches. Those branches have probably been dumped in some place like the Perungudi landfill,” says Shobha. A freshwater mangrove is hardly a regular sight on avenues. That awareness would have got them to wield the secateurs differently, believes Shobha. “It would enable them to ask this question: When you see it seeding, should you just let it be? If they could manage the situation without touching the tree for the time being, they just would do it,” says Shobha, adding that on the other hand, ignorance will only cause someone to wield the pruning shears indiscriminately across the trees. The tree activist remarks that this incident is one of many illustrations of how defenceless trees in urban spaces are, and that applies to heritage trees as well. Shobha remarks that since the time Living Landmarks of Chennai (2018) was published, a few of the 100 heritage trees listed in it have gone. She believes a tree Act with a provision for educating all stakeholders would mitigate against this ignorance among tree handlers of all stripes. She further explains: “When there is a proper Tree Authority, even on a private campus, when you cut a tree, you have to check with them. On private campuses, there is now no checks at all. Many old educational campuses have a lot of old and rare trees. These trees are at the mercy of these institutions. When a Tree Authority comes along, all these would be protected.”  Civic-body workers engaged in tree-pruning work would do better with some knowledge about the trees they lay the secateurs on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-old-man-and-the-tree-a-fable-from-second-main-road-kotturpuram/article36160473.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Inclusive classrooms on the rise||This March, the Gill Nagar branch of D.A.V. Matriculation Higher Secondary School made a new beginning. It opened admissions for children with special needs in the age group of 3.5 and 10 years to encourage inclusive education. A post on its website says the school is putting in place required facilities and bringing on board trained professionals, for the benefit of these students. Vels Vidyashram Senior Secondary School at Dargah Road and Gateway International School at Neelankarai are among institutions that have announced their plans on mainstreaming education of special children, through posts on WhatsApp groups. While welcoming these initiatives, parents of neuro-diverse children point out that it is a drop in the ocean and there is a long way to go for true inclusion to happen. Schools need the right kind of resources, support and the right attitude, they explain. Uma Maheswari had three main criteria while looking for an inclusive school for her daughter with special needs – an occupational therapist, a special education curriculum and a speech therapist. The search was not easy. “I interacted with five institutions before I could zero in on GGN International School at Chromepet. One school did not have enough therapists, another wanted me to arrange my own therapist, and yet another did not have a tie-up with a professional therapy centre to guide the school,” says Uma, whose daughter is in VI grade. Orienting stakeholders Nirmala Thiyagarajan, a parent of a youngster with mild autism, says they need support from stakeholders including parents, teachers and society for integration and inclusion to happen. There are various hurdles that both the schools and parents have to cross to experience mainstream education and it is important that both adopt an attitude of flexibility to see positive learning outcomes, she says. Her son, now pursuing his under-graduate studies, has experienced learning in three environments – regular school, special school and home – and all there contributed towards his development in different ways. “When we realised our son was finding the academics tough in the regular school, we moved him to an open school which turned out to be a good decision,” says Nirmala. Professional support Kalpana Kumar, founder, Kare Therapy Centre, which works with 15 schools in Chennai, says awareness about providing an inclusive environment has increased as many children are being detected with learning disabilities. Both Right to Education (RTE) Act and National Education Policy (NEP) recognise the need for inclusion and expect all stakeholders to contribute towards this goal. “Inclusion is the need of the hour,” she says. For schools to be inclusive, the journey starts by orienting all parents of students in the school, training the teachers, setting up resource rooms and forming a team inside the school to proactively communicate the child’s progress. “In fact, the pandemic has helped the cause of inclusion. We have signed up with five schools this academic year where we hand-hold them towards best practices,” says Kalpana. She says the number of special needs children being enrolled in these school do not matter but what is important is making a beginning and having the right attitude. “We only recommend one or two children in a class,” she says. Challenges for schools S Lazarus, principal, Union Christian Matriculation Higher Secondary School, says schools can find the situation challenging when learning disability has not been identified at an early age. The first thing is to get parents to accept that. “We ask such parents to go in for an assessment and based on the report we are ready to help bridge the environment,” says Lazarus. B Purushothaman, founder and senior principal, Everwin Group of Schools, says inclusion is a slow process but it is worth the effort. “We have 14,000 students on our Kolathur campus and at least 150 are children with special needs. We have seen that it takes around five years to see results but it is worth the wait,” says Purushothaman. Uma adds that they want an environment that is empathic to the needs of the child: “They may not become like normal children but we want them to become independent and learn life skills for which they need to be given the opportunity to build social skills.”  There are various hurdles that both the school and parents have to cross to experience mainstream education and it is important that both adopt an attitude of flexibility to see positive learning outcomes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inclusive-classrooms-on-the-rise/article36160475.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Cloth bags, masks and livelihoods||The two Savitrimai Phule women empowerment centres of Utkarsh Global Foundation at Velachery and Perumbakkam are up against a steep target. Twenty-five thousand masks have to be handed over to the office of the Director General of Police in the city to be distributed to the staff. In regular circumstances, women would gather at these centres to measure, cut, stitch and pack cloth bags. Due to pandemic-related restrictions on the opening of vocational centres, for the last few months hundreds of women are stitching masks from their home. A vehicle ferries the stitched masks to the centres for sterilisation and packing. For this Mumbai-based non-profit that launched its activities in Chennai in 2019 with a ‘Say No To Plastic’ campaign, the pandemic has signified new learnings as well as new beginnings.Having received training in tailoring, these women had been successful in turning their hand to mask-making and making other in-demand tailoring-related products. Dagadu Londhe, president, Utkarsh Global Foundation, says it was at a Swacch Bharat Abhiyan meeting in New Delhi that they got the invitation to start their work in Tamil Nadu. “Along with the Ministry of Environment, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and Greater Chennai Corporation, we conducted various awareness campaigns for school and college students around the use of plastics. Our drive included free distribution of cloth bags made by underpriveleged women that helps them support their family financially,” says Londhe, an advocate. More than 49,000 cloth bags were distributed, which helped employ 25 women. This number increased during the pandemic. “In the last one-and-a-half years, we have engaged with 345 women in making masks and cloth bags, helping them fetch Rs. 5000 a month, on an average,” says Londhe, adding that the pandemic forced the stakeholder they were working with to shift focus and the Foundation engaged the women in making and selling masks. Although the bulk of the orders came last year, the Foundation continues to get orders and support women. “We are not just a skill development centre but our larger aim has to do with employment generation and upskilling the women in new areas,” says Londhe. Last year, 127 women were roped in to market the products. “They were trained in marketing products on Facebook and IndiaMart, which was a new exposure for most of them,” says Londhe. Suganthi Jayashankar, project coordinator, says they reach out to low-income groups. “Most of our beneficiaries are from Perumbakkam as our centre is at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements and getting women to enrol for the free skill development programme was not a challenge. At our centre in Velachery, we target people staying around the locality and when lockdown restrictions were lifted last year we campaigned at the slums,” says Suganthi. Jancy is one of the group leaders who has graduated to teaching other women at the centre. She was able to run her family during the lockdown with her income. “Last year, we had quite a number of orders to keep us occupied. Now that the demand is not as high as it was last year, we pass on the order request to those who do not have any other means of livelihood, single women and those who have lost an earning family member,” says Jancy. The biggest success of our skill development centres is that at least 10 have moved on to start their own units, says Londhe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/cloth-bags-masks-and-livelihoods/article36160463.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||An unfriendly stopover||Two dividers constructed near a bus stop on the Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road are causing considerable confusion among commuters and MTC drivers. Months ago, the State Highways Department constructed a couple of short dividers — one near the halting point and another on the carriageway. While a few bus drivers enter the bay, most of them halt in the middle of the road, near the median on the carriageway. As a result, commuters are forced to run and board the buses. Some have requested MTC to issue a directive to the crew of the route numbers to halt alongside the sheltered facilities. Route numbers 91 (Thiruvanmiyur - Tambaram), 91 cut service (Thiruvanmiyur - Chromepet), 91A (Thiruvanmiyur - Hasthinapuram), 91V (Thiruvanmiyur - Vandalur Zoo) and 91G (Thiruvanmiyur - Guduvancherry) are among buses that take this road. S Swaminathan, a senior citizen, points out that because of the inconvenience caused to commuters, the stop is not being used as much as it could be. For seniors, there is an added reason to avoid this stop — it is constructed at an elevated level, and comes with an ascent do not do much for their comfort. “The stop has a shelter with seats but a section of the commuters stand in the open,” he says. The broken tiles along the railings is a safety hazard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-unfriendly-stopover/article36160485.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||An extra hand really helps||Some parents of children with special needs have been seeking admission in government schools for the flexibility it offers both the children and their parents, thanks to a circular by the Director of School Education. The order issued in September 2019 allows for participation of non-governmental organisations or volunteers in government schools to improve the learning outcomes of children, with the consent of the school head. “Such interventions may include remedial teaching, deputing volunteers, counselling, organising sport activities and conducting health check-ups,” reads the note. It also states that the school heads should keep the chief educational officers informed about such interventions, so that the genuineness of the work done by the NGO/volunteer can be verified. Mano Ranjani, parent of a 11-year-old who is on the spectrum, moved her son from a private to a government school as she wanted him to experience inclusion in the real sense of the term. Until the time schools closed due to the pandemic, she had two volunteers to assist her son in the classroom “I engaged the services of a physical trainer and a special educator. I told them not to focus only on my son but also the others in the classroom who need extra care and attention,” she says. Ranjani says she found her son happier in the atmosphere created at the Corporation-run school in Nungambakkam. “There was no pressure to excel in academics,” she says. The only drawback she found was the school did not have enough special educators. This academic year, Varsha (name changed) shifted to a Chennai Corporation school in Adambakkam. The parents of the child have asked the school if they could engage a volunteer once physical classes begin. “The school wanted us to first experience the environment, and I was happy about that, because that made it clear that they were really trying to include children with behavioural issues,” says the parent. She says her daughter learnt a lot from the private school, especially the environment created for sports but she did not think inclusion was happening in the real sense of the term. “She was a back-bencher that limited her opportunities to socialise with other students and the teachers,” says the parent, adding that a lot depends on the teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-extra-hand-really-helps/article36160476.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedestrians elbowed off the pavements at Third Cross street in Kasturba Nagar||The Federation of Adyar Residents’ Association (FEDARA) has sought measures to keep vehicles and makeshift stalls off the pavements at Kasturba Nagar Third Cross Street. C Ramakrishnan of FEDARA has remarked that these pedestrian facilities require more bollards to be installed at their entry and exit points so that motorists cannot easily take the vehicles on to them for parking. The presence of makeshift stalls on these pavements is another irritant for residents, who point out that the pavements have become vestigial, with much of it out of bounds for residents. The chaos extend to the part of carriageway abutting the pavements, where parked vehicles interfere with the smooth flow of vehicular traffic. Ramakrishnan points out that in some areas, the footpath is broken. Resident S. Kavitha says: “The interior roads including Dhanalakshmi Avenue First Road, Nehru Nagar Second and Third Streets’ are used for parking of two-wheelers. Customers of the establishments on these stretches leave their vehicles wherever they find space.” On Third Cross Street, near Dhanalakshmi Avenue First Road, a good portion of the carriageway is said to have been taken over by traders to display the wares. We have submitted petitions to the Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai City Traffic Police, but no action has been taken so far, say residents of Kasturba Nagar and Nehru Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pedestrians-elbowed-off-the-pavements-at-third-cross-street-in-kasturba-nagar/article36160465.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Perumbakkam secretary gets frontline worker award||N Murugan, secretary of Perumbakkam Village Panchayat, was honoured with Covid-19 warrior ‘Best Frontline Worker Award’ in recognition of his service during the pandemic. He received a medal and a certificate from Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Independence Day celebrations in the city. “With a loudspeaker attached to an autorickshaw, we conducted extensive awareness campaigns about the time and venue of vaccination camps. We conducted awareness exercises driving home the necessity of wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and washing hands. We cautioned people against letting their guard down after vaccination,” says N Murugan who has been in State government service from 2001. A permanent vaccination centre was set up on the premises of Perumbakkam Primary Health Care Centre. “This award motivates me to work harder for residents’ welfare. I dedicate the award to my colleagues in the Panchayat who conducted vaccination camps and also to the sanitary workers for carrying out disinfection drives. I also thank my senior officials at the St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union and the Chengalpet District Collector,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/perumbakkam-secretary-gets-frontline-worker-award/article36160478.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A fundraiser concert for special needs children||Two clubs affiliated with the Rotary International District 3232 — RCC IT City and RCC Green City — have come together to organise a music concert to raise funds for the initiatives of Ekadaksha Trust. ‘Ninaithale Inikkum — Pal Pal Dil Ke Paas’ was held on August 21 and premiered on the YouTube channel https://youtu.be/Yl-y8wVWNz4. Ekadaksha caters to children with special needs. “The fundraiser will help us set up a pre-vocational unit, use technological aids to help children to communicate and also help set up a digital lab,” says Archana Joshi, one of the directors. For more details, visit https://www.ketto.org/a-rotary-initiative-to-help-differently-abled-children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-fundraiser-concert-for-special-needs-children/article36160482.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||What the plea seeks||The petition for Urban Trees Protection Act underscores that in many other Indian states — particularly Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka and West Bengal — such an Act exists and has been used meaningfully to protect the green cover in urban areas. 1. The petition seeks a tree authority comprising Government officials and citizens who will “work for the conservation, education and better management of trees in urban areas”. 2. It bats for heritage status for all trees over 50 years of age, which would automatically accord them “special protection with free and proper maintenance”. 3. There should be regular recording of trees in each zone to ensure their continual maintenance, the petition says. That should be part of a larger “programme to comprehensively map, monitor and care for urban trees”. 4. Besides a tree helpline, a request has been made for a tree app “for the public to report tree abuse”. The app should “be updated about activities and laws, engage actively with urban greening”. The petition also highlights the necessity of creating a culture of accountability where violence/ abuse of trees is met with “heavy fine and penal action”. 5.The petition also spells out “compensatory afforestation” where trees have received the axe. 6. It wants the Act to ensure native and and habitat-specific species are carefully chosen to maintain the ecological balance of a given area. It also seeks “special recognition of mangrove species and promotion of mangrove afforestation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/what-the-plea-seeks/article36160474.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||FOMRRA hails move on toll gates||The removal of toll gates in and around Rajiv Gandhi Salai and the implementation of Metro Rail network, construction of grade separators (flyovers) and other traffic improvements on the IT Corridor have been long-standing demands of residents. The residents were happy to hear related announcements made by EV Velu, State Minister for Public Works Department, in the Assembly session on August 27. While welcoming the announcement that four toll gates in and around Rajiv Gandhi Salai — the Perungudi, Thoraipakkam, Perumbakkam and Kalaignar Karunanidhi Salai toll plazas — would be removed, we would like to point out that there is no clarity about the removal of toll plaza at Navalur. It would help to know the decision about this toll gate as well. The Federation of Old Mahabalipuram Road Residents’ Associations’ (FOMRRA) is looking forward to speedy implementation of these projects which promise a smooth commute on the IT Corridor in a few years’ time.  (Harsha Koda is co-founder of FOMRRA)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fomrra-hails-move-on-toll-gates/article36160461.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Students of Kottur High School reinforce message||For around 20 students of Chennai High School, Kottur, online classes branched off into a new set of lessons, fascinating and one that got them doing their homework offline. Through special zoom sessions, they learnt about trees. Gangadevi, science teacher, reveals that many of these students were in their hometown due to the pandemic, and they were expected to carry out tree-related assignments in those places. “They were provided with a tool-kit for tree identification that would enable them to carry out a survey of trees in their areas, and also note the biodiversity around these trees,” explains naturalist M Yuvan. “Besides, each student had to gather three tree-related stories from old-time residents.” Following the completion of this programme, these students, ranging from classes five to 10, had to articulate how they would want to see trees protected. Gangadevi points out that 13 of the participating students penned down their thoughts. Yuvan underlines the highlight of the initiative: “These letters have been sent to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin; the Chief Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Government, V Irai Anbu; and Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary, Department of Environment, Climate Change and Forests, Government of Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/students-of-kottur-high-school-reinforce-message/article36160470.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Prune this tree’||The residents of Swarnambigai First Street in Gandhi Nagar , Ekkatuthangal, have requested Zone 13 of Greater Chennai Corporation to prune a tree located on the stretch. The tree’s unchecked growth is putting motorists taking the road in a spot of trouble, with the branches blocking the streetlight. As a precautionary measure, the branches of the tree should be cut at the earliest. We have given petitions in this regard to the Zonal officer, but no action has been taken so far. (M Prabhu is a resident of Gandhi Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/prune-this-tree/article36160481.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Handicraft utsav till September 15||Tamilnadu Handicrafts Artisans Welfare Association is organising a handicraft utsav until September 15. Traditional Tanjore paintings, bronze icons, brass lamps, gift articles and sculptures are among the items on sale. The exhibition is taking place at Srushti Handicrafts Emporium, Chamiers Road, Alwarpet. Contact: 9884446747||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/handicraft-utsav-till-september-15/article36160486.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pet shop extends special grooming offer||Dirty Petz, a newly-opened pet shop in Besant Nagar that offers grooming service for dogs and cats, and sells branded food items and accessories for these pets, is having a “1+1” offer for 30 days. As part of this offer, professional groomers R Sanju and P Chandru will offer a range of services, says a press release. Appointment needs to be taken two days before any of the services can be availed. For details, call 9150009691.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pet-shop-extends-special-grooming-offer/article36160453.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36160483.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||An unfriendly stopover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-unfriendly-stopover/article36160455.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A green initiative grows out of a classroom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-green-initiative-grows-out-of-a-classroom/article36160457.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Inclusive classrooms on the rise||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inclusive-classrooms-on-the-rise/article36160459.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||LIFT ME UP||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lift-me-up/article36160480.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Blinded by the moons||In The Illuminated all the lead characters have names that are bright and lustrous — Robi, Shashi, Surjo, Tara, Poornima, Amitabh, Bibek. The first four are members of a family, the fifth, Poornima, their housekeeper/ domestic companion. And how might one think of them? As a solar system that’s missing a few planets? A mini galaxy, maybe? In Anindita Ghose’s confident debut, they really could be one or the other, seemingly bonded while staying independent of one another, only to fall apart when the sun unexpectedly dies on them. Grief is an emotion that many of us are all too familiar with these days, and you feel Shashi’s unbearable loss as if it were your own. Her husband Robi’s death is a double blow because he dies far away from home, while the couple are visiting their son, Surjo, and American daughter-in-law, Laura, in New Jersey. It ends up alienating their daughter Tara, who is unreachable in India. Overcoming loss At this point the story follows two strands, Shashi’s journey back home and onward without her husband, and Tara’s life, first in a Mysuru-based centre for languages where she is enrolled in a PhD programme, and later, in remote Dharamsala where, stung and hurting from a broken relationship, she cuts off contact with the rest of the world. There are others threads too: the spectre of a worrying and frightening hyper-conservatism stalks single women via the MSS, a seva sangh that’s out to ‘take care’ of them; and the rise of C.S. Meenakshi, a feisty fisherwoman-politician who leads a counter-charge. She mostly plays for the reader via television news as background noise. Shashi’s backstory is beautifully told. Forever a foil to the larger-than-life Robi, she now questions her place in their marriage and tries to come to terms with her own diminished existence in the years they were together. Poornima offers an explanation from mythology: perhaps the dwarfed moon can shine bright only when the fiery sun sets. The rise of the moon is celebrated through Shashi’s slow recovery and acceptance of her new reality, the fluctuations in Tara’s fortunes, and the rather astonishing ascent of Meenakshi whose life as a fisherwoman is also driven by the lunar cycle. Even the chapters are titled after phases of the moon. South Delhi loftiness In contrast to the gentle, dignified Shashi is her wayward daughter, Tara. A spoilt “daddy’s girl” (as labelled by Ghose herself) with South Delhi loftiness pasted across her forehead in all caps, she chooses to pursue her PhD in Sanskrit at a centre her architect father built. She thinks herself infinitely superior to everyone around her but smarts at the reciprocal indifference of her peers. In an act of breathtaking arrogance, and because she seeks attention and spotlight above all else, she wilfully chases a much older and controversial visiting professor, Amitabh Dhar, hoping the conquest will lead to a bigger, brighter future in academics. This roundabout approach to achieving her ambitions is somewhat puzzling. After all, she is terribly bright and moneyed. She could have, in the first place, headed straight to the Chicago university (where Dhar works) if she had so desired instead of going to Mysuru. Anyhow, Dhar comes visiting, she convinces herself she’s in love with him, things end badly, and she lands up in Dharamsala. Roomful of mirrors It’s hard to sympathise with Tara. If the character is written with irony it’s too subtle to tell. She rants against perceived injustices and rails against her mother over narratives she’s built up in her head. It’s as if she lives in a roomful of mirrors, always a victim in her own sob-story. All of which would have been excusable in a petulant teenager, but she’s a woman of 25. Disappointingly, the friction between her and Shashi turns out to be trifling, and Shashi’s own doubts about Robi and her marriage go unanswered. Surrounded by her small fan club, Tara blooms again, and Shashi too finds her resolution. Then, suddenly, like a conjurer pulling a rabbit out of a hat, and in a bid to tie up the book’s many plotlines (and make a strong political/ feminist statement), Ghose offers an ending that is as absurd as it is preposterous, casting it into the realm of fantasy. Anindita Ghose writes flawlessly and her scholarliness is on full display. But there’s a lot going on in terms of themes and motifs and as a reader, you constantly worry about what you’re missing.  Despite this, as a tale of loss and separation, misunderstanding and reconciliation, the novel works well. A little less luminosity might have served the book, the characters, and the reader better. The reviewer is the author ofJobless Clueless Recklessand its sequelIn Now & Then.  The Illuminated Anindita Ghose Fourth Estate India  Rs. 599    The rise of the moon is celebrated through Shashi’s slow recovery and acceptance of her new reality, the fluctuations in Tara’s fortunes, and the rather astonishing ascent of Meenakshi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/blinded-by-the-moons/article36160500.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Hindutva’s biggest ideologue||The erasure of Vinayak Damodar Savarkar from public life and memory has been astounding, given the interest in historical figures such as Pt. Madan Mohan Malaviya, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah and others who mobilised Hindu and Muslim identities during the anti-colonial struggle. Irresponsible and often uninformed references to Savarkar’s Hindutva politics and advocacy of ‘Hindu Rashtra’ are drawn attention to, along with his mercy petition to the British government (while incarcerated in the Andamans), and his role in the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi (from which he was exonerated). These have been enough reasons for historians, scholars, and successive governments to ignore a political figure whose ideas continue to influence contemporary society and politics. Comprehensive attempt Vikram Sampath’s two-part biography on Savarkar is one of the first comprehensive attempts to document and contextualise the life of the biggest ‘Hindutva’ ideologue and a highly polarising figure in history, who has invited either eulogies or condemnation.  Part one, released in 2019, Savarkar: Echoes from a Forgotten Past, 1883-1924, explores his childhood influences, political activism, Kalapani imprisonment, and eventual release in 1924. Reform works The newly launched second part, Savarkar: A Contested Legacy, 1924-1966, looks at his reform works in Ratnagiri after his release; his work with the Hindu Sangathans such as Hindu Mahasabha and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) during the freedom movement; his mentoring of young members of the Mahasabha, including Narayan Apte and Nathuram Godse (who later jointly conspired to kill Gandhi); further consolidation of his ideas around Hindu society and caste politics; his opposition to Gandhi’s non-violence and pacifism (also perceived as capitulating to Muslim demands and appeasement); his implication and acquittal in Gandhi’s assassination and its overall impact on his contentious legacy. Sampath’s narrative illustrates how Savarkar’s desire for Hindu unity and consciousness grew stronger as a response to what he perceived as Muslim identity politics and separatism, along with the vitiated environment of communal riots in the country. The conversation between Savarkar and Maulana Shaukat Ali (leader of the Khilafat Movement) is a valuable insight into how the ideas of Hindu unity and shuddhi (reconversion) were positioned by Savarkar vis-a-vis Muslim identity, conversions and the Khilafat Movement. Savarkar believed that Congress under Gandhi took Hindus for granted, never taking on Muslim communalists, not even criticising Muslim atrocities perpetrated on Hindus. Savarkar’s strident critique of Gandhi and Nehru made him persona non-grata within the Indian centrist politics. Myth of Hindu unity Savarkar’s Hinduism was a modernist creed that relied on nation, nation-state, nationalism, and citizenship. People could eat what they wanted (including meat and fish), and he was not a proponent of cow worship. The most significant takeaways in this second volume are Savarkar’s beliefs and advocacy about abolishing untouchability and doing away with the pernicious caste system, which met the approval of B.R. Ambedkar. He also understood its fine nuances, and pointed out that caste discrimination was pervasive and practised by lower castes too, which needed to change for greater Hindu unity. Sampath debunks a popular myth that Savarkar and the RSS always worked in tandem for Hindu identity politics. In fact, the internal differences within the putative Hindutva umbrella were quite sharp, and Savarkar did not enjoy any great affinity with either the RSS founder Hedgewar or his successor Golwalkar. Moreover, Savarkar’s petulance and envy were on display during the rise of Dr. Syama Prasad Mukherjee as his successor in the Hindu Mahasabha. His cosmopolitan beliefs in the European nation-state and enlightened/ reformist religion were closer to Nehru’s ideas, and these, along with his militant nationalism, were antithetical to Gandhi’s more orthodox and ritualistic faith that believed in cow protection, varna system, non-violence and satyagraha. Savarkar did not share a good relationship with either of these architects of the freedom struggle. Ironically, Nehru became the Prime Minister of independent India, while Gandhi, who enjoyed both mass popularity and an exalted legacy, was anointed ‘Father of the Nation’. Hardline foreign policy Savarkar’s take on geopolitics and the conduct of foreign affairs stands out in the book; he propagated a hardline instrumentalist approach to foreign policy where national interests would override any ideological affiliations. Savarkar’s views on geopolitics found appreciation from Rash Behari Bose; it is imperative to underline that another famous Bose, Netaji Subhas Chandra, also held similar views about India’s foreign policy. Sampath attributes the failure of the Hindu Mahasabha in capturing popular public support to Savarkar’s reluctance to forge a broad-based political affiliation and his aversion to active public mobilisations. No wonder that Savarkar was consigned to the Hindutva camp alone, or as Ashis Nandy says, he became the ‘disowned father of the nation in India.’ The book is not just about Savarkar and his contested legacy. It is also a lesson on how to understand and treat ‘differences’, and appreciate the context and nuances of the lives of contested figures like Savarkar in times of ‘cancel culture’ and intellectual intolerance. Sampath equips readers with all the necessary insights and details to revisit and re-evaluate existing opinions about Savarkar — the atheist/ Hindutva ideologue, the freedom fighter/ revolutionary, the prisoner/ survivor, the amateur historian/ poet, the modernist/ nationalist reformer, the hardline political activist/ theorist. He wore many hats in his lifetime and influenced many individuals and events. Sampath brings out the contradictions, complexities and complicities that have shaped his legacy, and this intellectual commitment deserves acknowledgement and appreciation.  The reviewer is Professor at the School of Global Studies, Gothenburg University, Sweden. She tweets @swatipash  Savarkar: A Contested Legacy, 1924-1966 Vikram Sampath Penguin Random House India  Rs. 999||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hindutvas-biggest-ideologue/article36160516.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The people in your life||I recently watched the Tamil movie Vaazhl , and one of the things that stuck me was the line, “The people you meet in your life have the power to change it.” When you come to think about the truth behind the quote, you recall the myriad types of people you have encountered, who have said or done something that essentially changed your life. Real life is not always as dramatic as life on screen, and the changes you experienced may not have been as pronounced as plot twists in movies and novels. But it is undeniable that the people in our lives make a difference. Unfortunately, or realistically, these changes are not always positive. To cite an instance of a negative change, someone I once considered a friend made a passing remark that I was clingy and to this day, when I feel really down, the one thing I ask the people close to me is, if they find me clingy. It is astounding how having the wrong room mate, partner or friend can change your self-image and make you beat yourself up so much. One of the luxuries of growing up is you can make your circle as small as possible. In the series Bojack Horseman , the titular character says, “There is nothing lonelier than a party.” One way I like to interpret the quote is that there is no point being surrounded by a large, booming crowd, especially when you cannot truly talk or open up to anyone from the seemingly amicable crowd. When you fail to create your inner circle, and build relationships with mutual trust and compassion, “One day, you’re going to look around and realise that everybody loves you, but nobody likes you, and that is the loneliest feeling in the world”, as Bojack mentions. I learnt this the hard way but not everyone you find interesting deserves your time and attention. You learn this especially through the rough terrains of your teenage years, with the whole range of friendships, crushes, disappointments and betrayals. The hardest realisation, perhaps, is that even beyond your teen years, the people you encounter throughout your life are always going to be a mix of wholesome and toxic ones. For every person who needlessly tramples upon your self-worth, despite you not reciprocating their cruelty, there are those who will make you feel the way sunshine does after a long winter.  divyavenkattu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-people-in-your-life/article36160494.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Taliban by Ahmed Rashid||What will the Taliban’s sudden return to power mean for Afghanistan? As the insurgents took over Kabul swiftly, heart-wrenching scenes played out — long queues of families at the airport desperate to evacuate, some hanging on to planes and falling to their death, the Taliban patrolling the streets with their AK-47s and rocket launchers, and babies being handed to American soldiers over the airport boundary wall. Why is the Taliban so feared? The Taliban first took power in 1996 and four years later, Pakistani journalist Ahmed Rashid introduced them to the world. His book, Taliban: The Power of Militant Islam in Afghanistan and Beyond , provides an acute insight into the country and its inhabitants as well as into the external powers vested in the region in a new ‘Great Game’. Two tin trunks Rashid goes through the history of the Taliban movement, its origins, their fundamentalism, political and military leaders like Mullah Mohammed Omar and Al-Qaeda’s Osama bin Laden, the contradictions within, the opium trade, the role of oil reserves, as also why Pakistan, the U.S., Russia, Saudi Arabia, Iran and China have interests in Afghanistan. In an updated version that came out in 2010, Rashid narrates why, despite tightening restrictions on the Taliban in 2001, 9/11 happened. The book tries to find out what motivated the Taliban, who supported them, where they got their weapons and funds, and how they arrived at a violent interpretation of Islam. He recounts anecdotes about Mullah Omar, who kept money in a tin trunk to hand out to commanders and plaintiffs: “As success came, another tin trunk was added — this one containing American dollars.” With excessive secrecy around their political structures, little is known about the Taliban. In the 20 years of the American invasion after 9/11, the insurgents seem to have melted into the background to regroup and resurface as suddenly as they had the first time. When the Americans launched attacks in Afghanistan, many Taliban leaders reportedly fled to Quetta in Pakistan, and the new Taliban ‘emir’, Hibatullah Akhundzada, is said to have close ties with the ‘Quetta Shura’. If Afghanistan is a country of contradictions, the Taliban are a manifestation of that. A handful of the fierce Islamic warriors had fought the Soviet Red Army in the 1980s as mujahideen , more had battled against the regime of President Najibullah who hung on to power after the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, but the vast majority, says Rashid, are young Quranic students, drawn from the hundreds of madrassas set up in Afghan refugee camps in Pakistan. Extreme interpretation The Taliban dramatically appeared in Kandahar at the end of 1994. Drawn from the Pashtun ethnic group, they “galvanised Pashtun nationalism. The Pashtuns had ruled Afghanistan for some 300 years but had lost out recently to the country’s other smaller ethnic groups” who are still fighting the Taliban in the north. The Taliban also implemented an extreme interpretation of Islamic law that appalled many Afghans. All girls’ schools were closed, and this brought education to a standstill as most of the teachers were women. Every conceivable form of entertainment including music, TV, videos, cards, kite-flying and most sports and games were banned. The punishment meted out to those found guilty was barbaric. In the sequel to Taliban — Descent into Chaos: The United States and the Failure of Nation Building in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Central Asia — Rashid explains why the NATO and the Americans failed so badly. The two books make sense of complexities on the ground that have led to sharp divisions. Tracing the Taliban’s quest for power, Rashid argues why the world turning away from Afghanistan could have dangerous consequences, as we are witnessing now. The books also foretell, sadly, how hope in Afghanistan can be quickly crushed. “The crossroads of Asia on the ancient Silk Route” is caught once again in a cycle of war and destruction. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Tracing the Taliban’s quest for power, Rashid argues why the world turning away from Afghanistan could have dangerous consequences, as we are witnessing now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/taliban-by-ahmed-rashid/article36160498.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Verse therapy||It was my 20th birthday and it promised to be like any other day. I was still reeling under the shock of my father’s sudden death two years ago. While my mother struggled to make ends meet, I was coping by filling up notebooks with verse. I had not written poetry before; his death at 46 shook something loose and the words would just not stop. My friends in college indulged my frantic scribblings in classrooms under cover of textbooks, on crowded benches when everyone else was gossiping, in smelly Mumbai local trains on the way home. They also gave me a beautiful set of four hardcover books of haiku for my 20th birthday — a thoughtful gift that changed my life, setting me firmly on the path of poetry. Laughter and music Over the years, reading and writing poetry have offered me solace and joy. This year, I signed up for The Sealey Challenge, where participants aim to read a book of poems on each day of August. The books can be of any size but ideally under 100 pages, to keep it manageable. The challenge was started by poet and educator Nicole Sealey as a way of getting herself to read more. It’s a wonderful way to incorporate poetry in your life and although 31 books in 31 days sounds daunting, you can easily finish one in a couple of hours or snack on poems throughout the day. I began with old friends — my beloved books of haiku, their jackets slightly flaky and the pages beginning to yellow now. But the verses still give me a jolt and make me sigh at their genius. Speaking of geniuses, you can always rely on Wendy Cope for a good laugh and on Vikram Seth for poems that trigger memories and music. My son and I read poetry together. He’s always peering over my shoulder, curious about what I’m reading. He enjoys Cope’s dry humour and sarcasm. When I read Marigolds Grow Wild on Platforms , an anthology of railway poetry edited by Peggy Poole, he scanned the index and was intrigued to see two poems, side by side, called ‘Adlestrop’ (by Edward Thomas) and ‘Not Adlestrop’ (by Dannie Abse). He read them aloud to me and we discussed them — what each captured, what the poets were trying to say, the cheekiness of the latter as a response to the first.  One thing this challenge has shown me is how few books of poetry I actually own. Several books of children’s verse notwithstanding, it is a collection that needs replenishing. I also went by recommendations from other participants in the challenge: many shared links to their own chapbooks or books. Others, like Pakistani poet Rakhshan Rizwan, I discovered through Poetry.com . Writer, poet and artist Rohini Kejriwal has also taken up the Sealey Challenge, describing it as “the most intensive way I’ve ever consumed poetry.” Kejriwal has been curating poems since 2015: her popular newsletter, The Alipore Post , brings unexpected art and poetry into your inbox.  Precious gift Kejriwal’s favourite so far has been Fióna Bolger’s debut collection, A Compound of Words . “It’s an extraordinary set of poems about scenes from India as witnessed by Fióna, who spends her time between Dublin and India. Her poems explore the outsider’s gaze, belonging, people and places in India and her style of witnessing and documenting a different culture is just so refreshing to read,” she says. Reading a book a day has been a respite from the monotony of the pandemic life. I read snatches of poetry during the day, stealing a moment here or there in between emails, online lessons and the seemingly endless cooking. Some books are thin enough to be gulped down in one sitting; others need a more careful savouring. Reading so much verse does something to you. It jostles something in your soul; the cadence of the words stays with you long after the page is closed. Kejriwal says she has gone back to writing poetry after many months of abstinence. So have I. There are no prizes for completing the challenge, but for us readers, this has been a precious gift — one that will hopefully carry us through the rest of the year. The writer is an independent journalist and closet poet based in Goa.  I read snatches of poetry during the day, stealing a moment here or there between emails, online lessons, and the seemingly endless cooking||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/verse-therapy/article36160501.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Living in the age of multiple power rivalries and faultlines||International Relations theorists might argue over the inevitability of competition between states, but regardless of what one believes, there is an element of the field whose overriding importance no scholar or practitioner can impugn — geography. Tim Marshall hammered this truth home most emphatically in his 2015 bestseller Prisoners of Geography. The influence of geography is two-fold — it can either make or break policy. The high mountains in the northern and north-eastern parts of India, for instance, serve as a natural frontier. The subcontinental expanse of the United States, away from the theatre of conflict in Europe and with unhindered access to two oceans on either flank, aided its rise to superpower status. However, the absence of a similarly free access to the sea in China has motivated Beijing to build a strong Blue-Water Navy. In many such ways, physical features of the earth profoundly shape global politics and the nature of engagement between nation-states. Geopolitical bearings In the sequel to Prisoners, titled The Power of Geography: Ten Maps that Reveal the Future of Our World, Marshall considers 10 different regions of the world and examines their geopolitical options over the course of the next few decades. With his characteristically felicitous and witty writing, he starts each chapter by introducing the reader to the fundamental geographical realities of a region and its ancient history, eventually winding his way through to the 20th century and then to the present. “The choices people make, now and in the future, are never separate from their physical context,” he writes. “We are entering a new age of great power-rivalry in which numerous actors, even smaller players, are jostling to take centre stage.” The choice of regions and countries considered in the book is timely. Australia, which finds itself in an era-defining dilemma of trying not to antagonise China upfront while remaining close allies with the U.S., gets careful treatment in the first chapter. “Australia looks around its neighbourhood and wonders what role it should play, and whom it should play it with.” Ethiopia, which is currently embroiled in a bloody and harrowing civil war with Tigrayan militias, also receives sharp analysis by Marshall. Despite the many ethnic fault lines that define the country, he believes the union could still be preserved by greater prosperity and equitable distribution of resources. Marshall also addresses the indispensability of water to Ethiopia’s existence and how it could potentially draw the country into conflict with its neighbours. In the final part, Marshall foresees an intensification of geopolitical confrontation between major powers in space, something he argues has every chance of posing the kind of threat to the planet that the nuclear arms race did in the second half of the last century. “With multiple countries racing to be the pre-eminent power in space, and private companies entering the fray, the stage is set for a dangerous cutting-edge arms race, unless we can learn from past mistakes and accept the many benefits of international co-operation.” Thoughtful introduction Though the book offers intelligent insights into the international relations of ten specific regions, it is not an in-depth study of any of them. An expert of geopolitics or regional studies would still learn a thing or two about their trade from The Power of Geography. It must also be stressed that it  is not a superficial work. The author is well-read and has personal experiences working as a journalist in several regions he writes about in the book. Where the book excels, much like its predecessor Prisoners of Geography , is in giving the reader a thoughtful introduction to crucial concepts of international politics through the prism of geography. It would stimulate the reader to learn more about the ideas discussed, but it neither is nor does it intend to be a comprehensive appraisal of the topics it addresses.  The reviewer is a student of International Relations.  The Power of Geography: Ten Maps that Reveal the Future of our World  Tim Marshall Simon & Schuster  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/living-in-the-age-of-multiple-power-rivalries-and-faultlines/article36160511.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On August 29, 1896, the Chinese ambassador, Li Hung Chang, visited New York City and hosted a dinner for both American and Chinese dignitaries. To satisfy both their tastes, his chef is supposed to have come up with a dish composed of celery, bean sprouts, and meat in a tasty sauce. It has since become a staple at restaurants and is served either spicy or sweet. The American version has a fried egg on top. What dish that gets its name from the Cantonese for ‘mixed bits’ is this? 2 In 1889, King Umberto I of Italy and his beautiful wife, the queen, visited Naples. Legend has it that, being tired of the French cuisine popular in other parts of Europe, she asked for the most famous pizza maker in Naples. On her request, Raffaele Esposito made three different pizzas for the queen. A pizza marinara with garlic, a pizza napoli with anchovies and a new one with just red tomato sauce, white mozzarella and a sprig of green basil (the colours of the Italian flag). She loved it, and as a tribute he named the pizza after her. What was the queen’s name? 3 Chongqing, Chengdu, Zigong and Buddhist vegetarian are the four sub-styles of a specific type of cuisine that has its roots in Sichuan, a landlocked province in China. The area’s warm and damp climate led to the development of this spicy style of cuisine as advocated by traditional Chinese medicine. How better do we know this style of cuisine? 4 Farfalle are a type of pasta with a distinctive bow-tie shape that works with both cream and tomato sauce. Its name comes from the Italian word for the insect it supposedly resembles. What beautiful insect does the farfalle pasta resemble? 5 This very popular biscuit that’s usually paired with tea was created by Peak Freans, a bakery in London, in 1874 to commemorate the marriage of the Grand Duchess Maria Alexandrovna of Russia to Prince Alfred. The biscuit became a huge hit, especially in Spain where after the civil war they mass manufactured and exported it to use up a surplus of wheat. What biscuits are these? 6 Harpadon nehereus is a type of lizardfish that makes a very popular dish once dried and fried. Its odour is extremely powerful, and hence it is not transported on passenger trains. Legend has it that these fish used to be sent by the mail train from Bombay to other inland parts. These mail trains were known as ‘Daak’, and this is rumoured to be the origin of the fish’s strange name. How better do we know this odd-looking fish? 7 This is a type of hot sauce made from a paste of chilli peppers, distilled vinegar, garlic and some spices. It is a favoured sauce for seafood and spring rolls, and is even used in cocktails and chips. Its origins are mysterious, but it’s supposed to have been first made by Thanom Chakkapak, a Thai woman from the Si Racha province. What is the name of this sauce? 8 Dame Nellie _____ was an Australian soprano singer who was a worldwide sensation during the Victorian era. Born Helen Mitchell, her nickname comes from the city she was born in, Melbourne. When she visited London in 1892, the French chef of the Savoy Hotel paid tribute to her by inventing a new dessert made of peaches and raspberry sauce with vanilla ice cream, and named it after her. What was her full name and what popular dessert is named after her? 9 Ignacio Anaya was a Mexican chef whose nickname was a short form of ‘Ignacio’. One day in 1940, four women who were regulars at his restaurant asked for a different snack from the usual. Anaya improvised by adding melted cheese and pickled jalapeño to freshly fried pieces of corn tortillas. When asked what it was called, he said it was his special. What was Anaya’s nickname, which the dish is known by, and which should remind you to restart your dance class soon? 10 This particular type of orange is known for having a sweeter and stronger taste than a normal orange. It got its name from the city of Tangier in northwestern Morocco, from where it was first shared with the world. What fruit is this that gives its name to songs by Led Zeppelin, Miley Cyrus and Prince? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36160525.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||On wings of hope||Where is joy to be found? This is a question that I suspect has been plaguing us all, with even greater urgency in times of impending apocalypse and climate doom. I imagine you have read the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s damning new report too. Recently, I left home and hearth for a few days to visit the Nilgiris and found my joy in the calls of birds, langurs, and deer. My favourite moment on this trip was a birding walk I took, guided by avid birder, consultant, and fabulous raconteur Rohan Mathias. In the span of three hours and barely a few kilometres, we spotted 26 kinds of birds with names I had formerly encountered only in nature guides and National Geographic. Between orioles, owlets, parakeets, and shrikes, my heart sangeth over. What was it about my birding venture that sparked such joy? Ethno-ornithologists, who study the long-standing relationship between humans and birds, might tell me to look to folklore, for stories about birds in human culture far exceed those about any other creatures. Think back to your childhood narrative of the canny crow. Anthropologists will point to the constant and repeated appearance of birds as totems, symbols and emblems to this day. Think of nation-states and national birds. Others might point to the colonial legacy of taxonomy, where birds were exotic things of wonder to be collected from the colonies, and stuffed and displayed in museums to study colonial topography. Even Salim Ali, India’s pre-eminent naturalist and ornithologist, cut his teeth at the Bombay Natural History Society after shooting an unusually coloured sparrow for sport with his toy air gun. Perhaps a tinge of the exotic continues to dot my own amazement, even as natural history and bird-watching in the post-colony, not to mention Salim Ali, moved the field to a more humane complex of categorisation, conservation and wonder. Yearning to fly Alternatively, I wonder if it’s the promise of flight that keeps us tethered to the idea of the bird. Remember all manner of half-human, half-bird mythological beings, not least Icarus, who flew too close to the sun. Consider also the history of human flight. It’s not surprising that the Wright Brothers were avid birders and learnt from their contemporary Otto Lilienthal, who studied soaring birds like turkey vultures and hawks. Fans of Sudha Kongara’s recent hit film, Soorarai Potru , inspired by the life and work of Captain G.R. Gopinath of Air Deccan fame, will also remember the scene where the hero watches the movements of a sparrow to draw inspiration for low-cost flight. In a twist in the plot, however, did you know that sparrows are disappearing from urban centres such as Chennai? And of the many individuals who have taken on the mantle of addressing this loss? For example, Ganesan D., a professor at SRM Institute of Technology, has mobilised “sparrow champions” to create secure homes for sparrows across North Chennai; and Sadhna Rajkumar, a nutritionist and fitness consultant, sources terracotta nests from a potter named Perumal to distribute across the city. Homage to beauty My brief encounters of the avian kind may not inspire in me any such capacity for transformation, but what they did was hone both my imaginative and attentive capacities. A few months ago, I sat spellbound by ‘Bird’, a series of four solos choreographed and conceptualised by Preethi Athreya and inspired by Gabriel García Márquez’s short story, A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings . I revisited my memory of this performance to realise again how much I was moved by the incongruity of the human body in its hopeful, albeit tragic, approximation of flight. I also thought that perhaps it was not an approximation as much as an admission of human frailty and rootedness, and a homage to the beauty we call a bird. In her memoir, H for Hawk , Helen MacDonald writes of her attachment thus: “The hawk was everything I wanted to be: solitary, self-possessed, free from grief, and numb to the hurts of human life.” And yet, the bird is precisely that and more, a reminder of everything we are not, and a re-assertion of the human as not the only form of life worth attending to in the world. Emily Dickinson famously wrote, “‘Hope’ is the thing with feathers — That perches in the soul —” and I can never once think of the poem without thinking of a wee bird fluttering away somewhere, waiting to be spotted in times of gloom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/on-wings-of-hope/article36160532.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Next-door nemesis||Dear Agony Akka,  A nonsensical neighbour has been a constant nuisance in our dull lives. My amma says, “He is like one big goonda, don’t complain about him to anyone!”. She is right. Seven years ago, to show off our wealth, we decided to add two floors to our existing house. He came with a ‘measuring tape’ into our house, and ‘ordered’ us to reduce the balcony size and not obstruct his ventilation! Two years later, he added two floors to his house, and now he is getting metal sheet roofing put in the front, back, side and top of his house, slyly occupying our airspace. In the battle that followed, he acted like a memory loss patient (no offence to them, ayyo Rama!) and is saying he did not say anything to us seven years ago! Please help me reset his memory.  — Wild With Fury      Dear WWF,  In my building complex, the most exciting thing that happens is when Mrs. Basu on the fourth floor drops her husband’s pyjamas from the balcony and then shouts at all passers-by to rescue the garment and keep it safely. A close second is the Krishnan family diaries. Mr. Krishnan is short, bald and mean while Mrs. K is tall, fair and meaner. Both have very loud voices and by now we all know the story of the missing brass urulis from Mrs. K’s dowry and the missing hairs from Mr. Krishnan’s head. This monotony of my daily life is broken now and then by Gagadish Washerdev saying poppycock things on TV. That’s all I have. And here you are leading an exciting Hindi cinema type life with one villain, one all-forgiving mother, big house, family feud, memory loss. Why are you writing to me instead of making it into a screenplay? Who knows, maybe director Mani Ratnam will make it into famous film with Vikram as Evil Neighbour who loses memory. In fact, I think you should recommend me for the role of the Good Mother. I can weep copiously and wring hands. I can even roll myself into burning flag and sing anthem. Please remember me when the time is ripe. Meanwhile, let us return to main storyline. First you put up two floors, then Evil N put up two floors. So far, so equal. Then you were forced to make balcony small so that Evil N can get ventilation but Evil N now has anyway shut off all ventilation with metal sheets all around. Frankly, this sounds like ideal situation to me. If all my neighbours would be considerate enough to shut themselves from my view like this, I would be most happy. Neighbours should be like corporation staff — everybody knows they are there but nobody has ever seen them. But you are not happy. So it is time to show off your wealth again. You must now construct one more floor to your house. And this time it is you who must add metal sheets. The sight of your house getting higher and more metallic than his is likely to jog Evil N’s memory powerfully. The No. 1 characteristic of neighbours is an insane urge to compete. It’s as if life is one everyday Olympics for them — Citius car, Altius house, Fortius bank balance. He will respond by bringing in one more floor and more metal sheets. You both can carry on happily like this. No need for permissions because corporation will regularise. One of the houses might collapse but that is a small price to pay when you are teaching the neighbour a lesson. Priorities are priorities.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/next-door-nemesis/article36160524.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Winning decisions||In Charles Goren’s day, no one would even consider opening one no trump with the South hand. Modern bidding methods after a one no trump opening are so good that today’s experts will open one no trump whenever that seems like a reasonable call. There were 10 top tricks in today’s deal, assuming no 5-0 split in spades, and two more might come from either hearts or clubs. South decided that clubs offered the best chance. Preserving a late entry to his hand, South won the opening diamond lead with dummy’s ace and drew trumps in four rounds, shedding his low heart. He led a club to the king, cashed the ace, and led a third round. He had a decision to make when West followed with the 10. He could ruff in dummy and make an overtrick if the clubs were splitting 3-3, but the contract would fail on a 4-2 club split. He would have to use one of his red-suit entries to give the opponents a club trick, opening up that red suit for the opponents. South decided that his contract was a good one and just making it would be a good score, so he discarded a heart from dummy. West won and led a diamond, but South won in hand, ruffed a club, and returned to his hand with the ace of hearts. The two established club tricks brought his total up to 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/winning-decisions/article36160527.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A mango tree in the garden||When I gave a small bag of mangoes from our home garden to the newspaper boy, he smiled graciously, revealing the depth of gratitude in his heart. The solitary mango tree has been a source of happiness for our family and many others around us every summer. It’s about 30 years old now, growing with its tall branches spreading out beyond our open terrace. We feel thrilled seeing mangoes at eye level from the terrace, giving a rare opportunity to touch and feel them. There have been many suggestions about how to use the 300 to 400 fruits every year. We dismissed the suggestion to give the whole tree on lease to merchants as it could wipe out all the fruits in one stroke. Though fruits left half-eaten by squirrels, birds and bats may look like an avoidable waste, we are happy that our mango tree not only keeps us happy but other creations of God too. We stopped buying jam and pickles as we started to make these with the mangoes from our garden. The greatest joy for us was in giving our friends and relatives these organic mangoes. Though the benefits from our solitary mango tree are innumerable, it has a dark side too. The fallen leaves litter our garden every summer. The wind carries them across the fence into the neighbour’s garden, inviting occasional reproach. The greatest problem we faced year after year was in plucking the ripe fruits. When they fall on the ground, they become unfit for consumption. This means that the fruits should be carefully plucked one by one without allowing them to fall. What I wished was a method to pluck the fruits one by one. My son living in the U.S. gave a good solution. He bought for us a small metal basket used for plucking apples. I tied this to a long PVC pole and started to pluck even those fruits at a great height. All my efforts to get one like this for my friends here failed as I did not see any such simple device in our hardware stores. Having such fruit-bearing trees at home is a blessing indeed. They give us organic fruits at no cost and little effort. The biggest joy is in eating the fruits from your own home garden. With a couple of trees at home like this, one can fully use the time productively in the garden. A fruit-bearing tree is a special gift which really has no parallel. eden.alexander@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-mango-tree-in-the-garden/article36160492.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Window to a loved, old, old city||What the late heritage activist and possibly Madras’ finest raconteur S. Muthiah, journalist Vincent d’ Souza, and their team created with Madras Day or Week (the last week of August) since 2004, is an ode to the old city, nostalgia primed, and invoking a warm, pleasant feeling in inhabitants of a city who consider it home. Among the key highlights this Madras Day, held after a pandemic that had wrecked tremendous havoc in the city, COVID protocols still firmly in place, was the launch of Madras inked... Impressions of an artist and an architect . For people who love a city like it is a persona, there seldom is more joy than having parts of the city gift-wrapped for them. Whiff of the past A delightful coffee table book of fine black ink drawings, and detailed descriptions of landmarks that have come to define Madras, Madras inked is a window to a black and white world of the past, literally drawing in anyone thumbing through one of those increasingly rare-to-find category of books, one with superlative production values. But then, form here, has to match the content. Penned by artist Manohar Devadoss, and architect and heritage enthusiast Sujatha Shankar, this book is a joyful coming together of various skills that work so well. At the heart of it, of course is love for an old, old city. While Sujatha’s well-researched notes on each landmark — there are over 40 of them — with two or three versions of some of them, bring out facets that are not part of public knowledge, Manohar’s notes on the same are charming insights into how the work of art came to be. Manohar has his own retinue of fans, not merely for his prodigious talent, including the fine pen work, but also because of the manner in which his life unfolded, and his soldiering on despite adversities. Manohar and his late wife Mahema are not unknown to the people of Madras or Tamil Nadu, even, producing fine ink drawings of landmarks of Madurai and Madras over the years, the latter, as part of their ‘Heritage Greeting Cards for charity’ project. Keen eye for detail Manohar is a self-taught artist who produced intricate sketches despite struggling with diminishing vision, as a result of retinitis pigmentosa. In the characteristic spiritedness that we have come to associate with him, he says: “It warms my heart to know that this book is seeing the light of day after I have become totally blind.” The sketches in the book however, reveal nothing of the disability, as co-author Sujatha says: “Manohar’s sketches have been crafted with architectural precision, and a keen eye for detail.” Sujatha’s detailed descriptions also highlight her close involvement with not only architecture, but also the heritage of this city. The book was her idea, originally, and she has delved deep into resources available adding value to the variegated samples of Madras’ rich heritage structures profiled here, with her architect’s eye. One wonders if a few prints of the drawings could have been included with the book to frame, that might have rendered it even more valuable. And yet, the book itself is a work of art, a joyous, yet serious, celebration of the many-splendoured wonders this city of living history nestles in itself. A collectable for lovers of Madras, certainly.   Madras inked... Impressions of an artist and an architect Manohar Devadoss & Sujatha Shankar CPR Publications  Rs. 2,500||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/window-to-a-loved-old-old-city/article36160513.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Dark matters||This week, the sun rose in Antarctica after nearly five months of winter darkness. The long polar night has always been fertile ground for scientists stationed there who study the physiological and psychological effects of sustained periods of darkness on humans. Do we perceive darkness as the antithesis of light or as its companion? InParadise Lost, Milton talks of night as the unholy time when the original chaos returns to reclaim its space. As the poet went blind, he characterised darkness as illuminating because it chisels the mind to concentrate on the innermost. Light and shadow play hide-and-seek in Bergman’s films, whose gloominess is often traced to the long, black winters of Sweden, the director’s native country. In the recent movie,Midsommar, however, the days of relentless light of a Swedish summer assume a nightmarish quality. Here, horror and murder happen in broad daylight, making us re-examine the association of darkness with terror, and light with lucidity. Perhaps, as Milton said, “The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dark-matters/article36160488.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||One Love and the Many Lives of Osip B.||C.P. Surendran  Niyogi Books Rs. 695 Osip Bala Krishna falls in love with his English teacher, Elizabeth. As he goes on a search for Elizabeth following her disappearance, Osip unravels a few secrets. A story of transgressive relationships, gender politics, nationalism, fake news, and power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/one-love-and-the-many-lives-of-osip-b/article36160496.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||How to Kidnap the Rich||Rahul Raina  Little, Brown Rs. 499 Rudi is a star — he took a national entrance exam and came top. Behind him is Ramesh, a chaiwallah’s son, who takes exams on behalf of wealthy children like Rudi. When someone discovers their secret, blackmail, kidnap and extortion are followed by national disgrace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-to-kidnap-the-rich/article36160503.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Billy Summer||Stephen King  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 899 Billy Summers is a killer for hire and the best in the business. But he’ll do the job only if the target is a truly bad guy. Now Billy wants to retire, but before that there is one last hit to make. This novel is part war story, part love letter to small-town America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/billy-summer/article36160505.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A Slow Fire Burning||Paula Hawkins  Penguin Rs. 699 Laura is seen as troubled, even dangerous. Miriam knows that just because Laura is witnessed leaving the a murder scene with blood on her clothes, she need not be the killer. Carla is mourning her nephew’s murder. Innocent or guilty, all are damaged. Are they damaged enough to kill?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-slow-fire-burning/article36160507.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The Frontier Complex: Geopolitics and the Making of the India-China Border, 1846-1962||Kyle J. Gardner  Cambridge University Press $84 Through an examination of rare British, Indian, Ladakhi, and Kashmiri archival sources, Gardner reveals the transformation of Ladakh into a modern borderland. He provides a history of the rise of geopolitics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-frontier-complex-geopolitics-and-the-making-of-the-india-china-border-1846-1962/article36160509.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Indians in London||Arup K. Chatterjee  Bloomsbury Rs. 1,299 Around Brick Lane, there are hundreds of restaurateurs from East Bengal. In many other ways, waves of migration from the Indian subcontinent have redefined the cultural, historical and literary life of London. Chatterjee chronicles the lives of Indians in London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indians-in-london/article36160518.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Top Game: Winning, Losing and a new Understanding of Sport||Binoo John  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 Why have some nations been at the top of the Olympics medals tally while others have lagged behind? What does it take to become a Roger Federer or a Viswanathan Anand? A journalist looks at ambition and aspiration in sporting history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/top-game-winning-losing-and-a-new-understanding-of-sport/article36160520.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Tales of Hazaribagh: An Intimate Exploration of Chhotanagpur Plateau||Mihir Vatsa  Speaking Tiger Rs. 450 Once pure wilderness filled with sal trees, later a prized garden, and now a land drifting towards environmental devastation through mining and industrialisation, Hazaribagh’s story is one of abundance and loss. Vatsa unravels its history and geography.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tales-of-hazaribagh-an-intimate-exploration-of-chhotanagpur-plateau/article36160522.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||India unlikely to witness a surge in cases in September||NITI Aayog’s penchant for projecting unrealistic trends of daily COVID-19 cases without sharing the basis on which such projections are made continues. On April 24 last year, at the daily Health Ministry briefing, NITI Aayog member Dr. V.K. Paul presented a chart predicting the trend of COVID-19 cases in India. With over 1,500 daily new infections, it showed the cases peaking on May 3, 2020 and then dropping to 1,000 cases by May 12 and down to zero by May 16, 2020. In reality, on May 16, India saw 4,987 cases, the highest single-day spike. In the fourth week of May last year, Dr. Paul clarified that no one had ever said that the number of cases would go down to zero on a particular date. He called it a “misunderstanding”. Now, when the daily fresh cases are under 30,000 since it peaked at over 4.14 lakh cases on May 6 this year, Dr. Paul has come up with a dire warning that India might witness a staggering four to five lakh cases a day next month. With all States except Kerala witnessing a steady decline in daily cases, it is unrealistic to expect daily fresh cases to reach such high numbers in a day in September. For it to come true, the daily cases should very soon begin to increase sharply and grow at an exponential rate all in a matter of three-four weeks. “This strikes me as near-impossible. Delhi, for example, is seeing a record low number of cases in a situation where crowds have certainly increased with respect to a month ago. The situation is the same in all major cities of India,” says Dr. Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University and co-author of COVID-19 modelling studies. Existing protection The fourth sero survey of ICMR found that on an average over 67% of the population nationally have antibodies against the virus. Despite the many limitations of the sero survey, it cannot be denied that a sizeable population have some form of protection against the virus unlike the case early this year. Also, the vaccination coverage has been increasing with every passing day — about 35% have received one dose and less than 10.5% are fully vaccinated as of August 26. Therefore, it appears very unrealistic that the daily cases would not just reach the peak of the second wave but also exceed it to reach five lakhs a day. Unlike the U.S., the U.K. and other countries where it is the third or fourth wave that is being caused by the Delta variant, in Indi it is the second wave that is driven primarily by the Delta variant. Despite unrestricted movement of people in almost all parts of the country and almost all businesses being open, the daily new cases have not witnessed any surge in India since the second wave peaked in early May. Different situation “Given that the bulk of infections in the second wave came from the Delta variant, India's present situation is substantially different to that in other countries. Serosurveys suggest that more than 67% of Indians have antibodies to SARS-CoV-2. Since the larger fraction of them would have been infected recently with the Delta variant, it seems inescapable that most Indians are already protected, either by infection or by vaccination, against the disease,” Dr. Menon says. But is there a possibility that the Delta variant might again cause a huge number of cases each day despite daily new cases steadily declining since it peaked in early May? “It is more likely that the Delta variant will spread steadily through the population at least in some States, picking those who have not encountered the virus yet, but without cases rising at the speed and intensity of the second wave. We are already seeing this in Kerala where serosurveys suggest an overall lower seroprevalence,” says Dr. Menon. But Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, thinks otherwise. “The Delta variant can spread faster and result in a high number of cases, especially in areas that had lower seroprevalence and poor vaccination coverage. We cannot rule out a high number,” he cautions. No evidence It is indeed possible for India to witness a large number of daily cases in September if a variant that is even more transmissible than the Delta variant has already emerged. According to Dr. Babu that doesn’t appear to be the case. “According to the latest INSACOG's genomic sequences report of August 16, there is no supporting evidence for the emergence of extremely transmissive variants other than the Delta variant,” he says. Another scenario where a huge number of daily cases can arise is when breakthrough infections in the fully vaccinated and reinfections in the unvaccinated become rampant. For instance, about 25% of infections among Los Angeles County, California residents occurred in fully vaccinated residents from May through July 25; over 71% were in unvaccinated persons. “On July 25, infection and hospitalisation rates among unvaccinated persons were 4.9 and 29.2 times, respectively, those in fully vaccinated persons,” the report said.The New York Timesreported that breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated people accounted for at least one in five new cases in six States in the U.S.. Breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated people have been recorded in India too but at a low level. But two doses of the vaccine still confer reasonable protection against symptomatic disease and are highly protective against severe disease and death. “That a substantial fraction of the population might turn susceptible again in the month of September seems unlikely. That protection against disease should evaporate altogether, even more so,” Dr. Menon says. So is the dire warning a ploy to ensure that people don't lower their guards but follow COVID-appropriate behaviour so India does not once again experience the terrible situation in terms of new cases, hospitals turning away patients due to lack of beds, and oxygen shortage? “Models don't always predict the exact number of cases for the future wave. Assuming the worst-case situation and preparing for it is the best thing a planning agency can do. If anything, NITI Aayog should be complimented for this effort,” says Dr. Babu defending the agency. But Dr. Menon counters the alarmist projection saying: “I fully understand the need for preparation, but preparing for an unrealistic scenario diverts resources that could be better spent elsewhere.” In all probability, with a large proportion of the population possessing antibodies against the virus either through natural infection and/or vaccination, it is reasonable to expect a milder wave nationally, especially if there is good adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour and if no new highly contagious variant arises. There is a possibility that places where the earlier infections were few and most people are unvaccinated would record more cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/india-unlikely-to-witness-a-surge-in-cases-in-september/article36160273.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||BCG vaccine: 100 years and counting||The centenary celebrations of the discovery of insulin have eclipsed another seminal event in the history of medicine that has had significant impact on human health - the first use of BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin), the vaccine against tuberculosis (TB) in humans. TB is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis, belonging to the Mycobacteriaceae family consisting of about 200 members. Some of these cause diseases like TB and leprosy in humans and others infect a wide range of animals. Mycobacteria are also widely dispersed in the environment. In humans, TB most commonly affects the lungs (pulmonary TB), but it can also affect other organs (extra-pulmonary TB). TB is a very ancient disease and has been documented to have existed in Egypt as early as 3000 BC. Sadly, unlike other historically dreaded diseases like smallpox, leprosy, plague and cholera that have been either eradicated or controlled to a large extent due to advances in science and technology, TB continues to be a major public health problem in the world. According to the WHO’s Global TB Report, 10 million people developed TB in 2019 with 1.4 million deaths. India accounts for 27% of these cases. BCG was developed by two Frenchmen, Albert Calmette and Camille Guerin, by modifying a strain of Mycobacterium bovis (that causes TB in cattle) till it lost its capacity to cause disease while retaining its property to stimulate the immune system. It was first used in humans in 1921. Sole vaccine Currently, BCG is the only licensed vaccine available for the prevention of TB. It is the world’s most widely used vaccine with about 120 million doses every year and has an excellent safety record. In India, BCG was first introduced in a limited scale in 1948 and became a part of the National TB Control Programme in 1962. One intriguing fact about BCG is that it works well in some geographic locations and not so well in others. Generally, the farther a country is from the equator, the higher is the efficacy. It has a high efficacy in the UK, Norway, Sweden and Denmark; and little or no efficacy in countries on or near the equator like India, Kenya and Malawi, where the burden of TB is higher. These regions also have a higher prevalence of environmental mycobacteria. It is believed that these may interfere with the protective effect against TB. However, in children, BCG provides strong protection against severe forms of TB. This protective effect appears to wane with age and is far more variable in adolescents and adults, ranging from 0–80%. A large clinical trial between 1968-1983, by the ICMR’s National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (then called the Tuberculosis Research Centre) in Chengalpattu district of Tamil Nadu, indicated that BCG offered no protection against pulmonary TB in adults, and a low level of protection (27%) in children. India is committed to eliminate TB as a public health problem by 2025. To achieve this goal, we would not only need better diagnostics and drugs but also more effective vaccines. Over the last ten years 14 new vaccines have been developed for TB and are in clinical trials. Of particular interest is a Phase 3 clinical trial by the ICMR, of two vaccines; a recombinant BCG called VPM 1002 and Mycobacterium indicus pranii (MIP). MIP was identified and developed into a vaccine in India. Results of this trial are eagerly awaited. In addition to its primary use as a vaccine against TB, BCG also protects against respiratory and bacterial infections of the newborns, and other mycobacterial diseases like leprosy and Buruli’s ulcer. It is also used as an immunotherapy agent in cancer of the urinary bladder and malignant melanoma. In progress Interestingly, it has been observed that in some countries that have had BCG vaccination as a national policy, the burden of SARS CoV-2 morbidity and mortality was significantly less compared to countries which did not. Clinical trials to know if this is indeed true, are underway, including in India. In these distressing times of Covid-19, it is interesting to compare development of vaccines for Covid-19 and TB. For Covid-19 in about 18 months,17 vaccines have received emergency use authorization in various countries, and 97 are in clinical trials. For TB, a single vaccine has been in use for the last 100 years and 14 new vaccines are in clinical trials. For R&D of Covid-19 vaccines, US$ 8.5 billion have been earmarked (Global Contributions to ACT- Accelerator, Vaccines category); for TB the amount is US$ 0.117 billion (Global Funding for TB Vaccine Research, 2019). If viewed in the backdrop of the deaths caused by these two diseases (Covid-19 - 1.7 million in 2020; TB - 1.4 million in 2019), one can see the stark inequity in investment in vaccine development. While we commemorate the centenary of BCG vaccine use in humans, we need to acknowledge that more effective vaccines are needed to reach the targets of TB elimination. The experience and success of development of new vaccines for Covid-19 have shown that this is possible if TB gets similar political, financial and pharmaceutical support. (Dr. M S Jawahar is Former Deputy Director, ICMR-NIRT, Chennai and Dr. Lalit Kant is a former Head, Division of Epidemiology & Communicable Diseases, ICMR)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/bcg-vaccine-100-years-and-counting/article36160268.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||IISc completes technology transfer of oxygen concentrators to 24 companies||Over the past year, researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have been working on solutions to address the oxygen shortage due to COVID-19. Two key efforts in this direction have been the development of oxygen generation systems and oxygen concentrators. The oxygen concentrator is an indigenous design developed by IISc researchers led by Praveen Ramamurthy, Professor in the Department of Materials Engineering. The group had already been working on oxygen concentrators since March 2020. A prototype capable of producing oxygen at more than 93% purity at five litres per minute (LPM) and 82% at 10 LPM was developed by August 2020 itself. The researchers then modified this prototype which now delivers more than 93% purity oxygen at 10 LPM within three minutes. The stability and performance of the system was monitored continuously for more than eight months. Clinical trials have been completed, and the system was found to perform on par with compressed oxygen cylinders. Till date, the technology has been transferred to 24 companies, and about 35 units have been supplied to various hospitals. Recently, the Government of Karnataka issued a circular for the supply of two units each to 2,508 public health centres from the licensees, says a press release. Another solution catering to needs of the hospitals is an oxygen generation system based on technology developed by an IISc team including researchers Arashdeep Singh and Anand M Shivapuji, and led by S Dasappa, Professor at the Centre for Sustainable Technologies. The process is based on a twin-bed swing adsorption system integrated with storage and discharge vessels, and various safety systems. In one of the variants, a cylinder-filing mechanism has also been incorporated using a boost pump. The oxygen produced fulfills the quality requirements prescribed by Indian Pharmacopeia and can be used in ICUs/CCUs/OTs and other clinical wards. Last month, the first unit based on this system was installed at the Pobbathi Medical Centre in Bengaluru. On 15 August 2021, Prof Rangarajan, the Director of IISc, inaugurated an open-source design for a medical oxygen generation system with 50 LPM capacity. The system will be installed at St Mary’s Polyclinic in Lucknow. A unique feature of this system is the capability to fill about ten 47-litre cylinders at 200 bar pressure within 24 hours, apart from supplying oxygen to patient beds. Preparations are underway to ship the system to the Lucknow hospital. IISc has also signed technology transfer agreements with four agencies from across the country for installing oxygen generation systems at various capacities (50 LPM-1000 LPM) to meet the requirements of hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iisc-completes-technology-transfer-of-oxygen-concentrators-to-24-companies/article36160274.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. to press China on COVID-19 origin probe||The U.S. will continue working with others to press China to cooperate with investigations into the origins of the COVID-19, President Joe Biden said."The U.S.will continue working with like-minded partners around the world to press the China to fully share information and to cooperate with the WHO's Phase II evidence-based determination into the origins of COVID-19 - including by providing access to all relevant data and evidence," Biden said. Biden's statement came shortly after the release of an unclassified summary of the US intelligence community's assessment on the novel coronavirus origins that was largely indeterminate apart from the determination that it was likely not a bioweapon. The US Intelligence Community said that the cooperation of China will be needed to reach a conclusive assessment on the origin."China's cooperation most likely would be needed to reach a conclusive assessment of the origin. Beijing, however, continues to hinder the global investigation, resist sharing information and blame other countries, including the United States," the unclassified summary of the report on assessment on the novel coronavirus origins said. The US Intelligence Community has concluded that China's unwillingness to participate in the investigation reflects its own uncertainty about the possible consequences of the probe as well as Beijing's frustration with the international community that uses the issue to exert political pressure on China, reported Sputnik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/us-to-press-china-on-covid-19-origin-probe/article36160275.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Fin design||What makes fish fins so strong yet flexible? Peer into any fishbowl, and you'll see that pet goldfish and guppies have nimble fins. With a few flicks of these appendages, aquarium swimmers can turn in circles, dive deep down or even bob to the surface. Researcher from the University of Colorado Boulder have uncovered ( Science Robotics ) the engineering secrets behind what makes fish fins so strong yet flexible. The insights could one day lead to new designs for robotic surgical tools or even airplane wings that change their shape with the push of a button. The fins are remarkable as they achieve feats of dexterity even though they don't contain a single muscle. The fins are made of many stiff 'rays’ and each of the rays can be manipulated individually just like the fingers, but there are 20 or 30 of them in each fin. They report that the key to fish fins may lie in their unique design. Each ray in a fin is made up of multiple segments of a hard material that stack on top of much softer collagen, making them the perfect balance between bouncy and stiff. Each of the rays in a fin in Goldfish has a layered structure, a bit like a bakery éclair: The spikes include two layers of stiff and mineralized materials called hemitrichs that surround an inner layer of spongy collagen. But those layers of hemitrichs aren't solid. The engineer and his team decided to use computer simulations to examine the mechanical properties of fins. They discovered that those segments can make all the difference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/fin-design/article36160271.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Storms across Europe||Climate experts have shown there will be a significant future increase in the occurrence of slow-moving intense rainstorms across Europe. The scientists estimate that these slow-moving storms may be 14 times more frequent across land by the end of the century. It is these slow-moving storms that have the potential for very high precipitation accumulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/storms-across-europe/article36160277.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Lonely flies||Lone fruit flies quarantined in test tubes tend to sleep too little and eat too much after only about one week of social isolation. The findings, which describe how chronic separation from the group leads to changes in gene expression, neural activity, and behaviour in flies, provide one of the first robust animal models for studying the body's biological reaction to loneliness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/lonely-flies/article36160279.ece
29 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ansari’s brother Sigbatullah, former Minister join SP||In 2016, amid an internal feud in the Samajwadi Party (SP), Akhilesh Yadav had opposed the merger of the Quami Ekta Dal of controversial politician Mukhtar Ansari with his party, to guard his clean image ahead of the 2017 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Akhilesh, who was then the Chief Minister, even sacked a senior Minister, Balram Yadav, for facilitating the merger, which was eventually revoked despite intervention by his uncle, Shivpal Yadav. Joined the BSP As Mr. Akhilesh took control of the SP, the Ansaris who have clout in parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh, went on to extend support to the rival Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), vowing to teach him a lesson. They called him an egotistic person and accused him of tainting the image of the Ansaris and humiliating them for his own “branding”. In a shift from an image-conscious approach to a politically opportunistic one, Mr. Akhilesh on Saturday inducted Mukhtar Ansari’s elder brother Sigbatullah Ansari, a former MLA from Mohammadabad in Ghazipur, into the SP. Mr. Sigbatullah lost the 2017 election on a BSP ticket, while Mukhtar retained his seat, Mau, but his son and debutant Abbas Ansari lost by a thin margin. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Mukhtar’s second brother Afzal Ansari contested from Ghazipur on a BSP ticket and won as part of the SP-BSP alliance. The support of the Ansari family, which has been under the radar of the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the State, is expected to boost the SP in Ghazipur, Ballia, Mau, Azamgarh, Varanasi and surrounding areas, and is also seen as a move to prevent a division of Muslim votes. Ambika Chaudhary back Along with Mr. Sigbatullah, Ambika Chaudhary, former U.P. Minister from Balia and a former aide of SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, returned to the party after spending more than four years in the BSP. Mr. Chaudhary, who served as Minister during the tenures of both Mr. Mulayam and Mr. Akhilesh, was overwhelmed with emotions at his joining ceremony. “There are ups and downs in politics. But who stands by you at the right time, is your friend,” Mr. Akhilesh said. The SP chief said be would try to bring back all those leaders who were close to Netaji, his father, to the party as it looks to challenge the BJP in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ansaris-brother-sigbatullah-former-minister-join-sp/article36160614.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman, lover among 7 held for killing husband, dumping body||A 22-year-old woman, her mother and her boyfriend have been arrested among seven persons for allegedly killing her husband and stuffing his body in a trolley bag before throwing it in a drain, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) said that the accused have been identified as Muskan, her mother Triza alias Menu (48), her boyfriend Mohammed Jamaluddin alias Jamal (19), Koshlender alias Aman (18), Vishal alias Kallu (22), Vivek alias Bagadi (21), and Rajkumar alias Rajapal. Tattoo found on hand The police said that they received an information on August 10 regarding a body inside a suitcase lying in a drain. When the police reached the spot, a decomposed body of a man was found with a tattoo “Naveen” written on his right hand. The body was shifted to mortuary for post-mortem. A murder case was registered and probe started. During the probe, the police found that Naveen was reported missing from Neb Sarai police station, two days after the body was found. The missing report was lodged by Naveen’s wife Muskan, a resident of Devli, who had stated that he had been missing since August 8. The first red flag for investigators was that she didn’t mention that Naveen had a tattoo on his right hand while informing about his description. Eventually, the victim’s brother confirmed his tattoo. Quarrel broke out The police also found that Muskan had left the couple’s rented room a few days ago and was staying at her mother’s house with her two-year-old daughter. A night before Muskan left, a quarrel broke out between the two. The police traced Muskan to Khanpur with the help of technical surveillance. Muskan allegedly tried to mislead the investigation. She said that the couple were living separately for the last seven months. The police said that on August 7, Naveen visited her and quarrelled with her to the point of physical abuse. She also called the PCR and was taken for medical examination. The next day, Naveen’s brother told her that he hadn’t returned after which she lodged a missing report. When the police checked her version, it was found that she had made the PCR call but no medical examination was conducted. Her call detail records were analysed and it was found that she was in touch with a man who was later identified as Jamal. During sustained interrogation, it was revealed that on the night of August 7, she was with Jamal at her residence and Naveen came there and became annoyed due to Jamal’s presence. After a heated argument, Jamal along with his friends killed Naveen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-lover-among-7-held-for-killing-husband-dumping-body/article36160708.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||How was the backward classes policy restored?||The story so far: The 105th Constitution Amendment was notified on August 19 after it received the assent of President Ramnath Kovind. It is aimed at restoring to the States their power to identify socially and educationally backward classes. The Opposition set aside its differences with the government and supported the Amendment, which was passed during the stormy monsoon session with the required special majority. The Amendment became necessary to undo the effect of a Supreme Court verdict that States had lost their power to include or exclude communities in the ‘Backward Classes’ list after Parliament enacted the 102nd Constitution Amendment. Why was the Amendment required? Through the 102nd Constitution Amendment, Parliament created a National Backward Classes Commission, vesting it with the power to be consulted by the Centre as well as the States in all matters concerning the ‘socially and educationally backward classes’ (SEBCs). In a bid to clothe the Commission with the same powers as the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Commission, Parliament used wording identical to the existing provisions relating to the SC/ST Commission. Thus, under Article 342A, it was laid down that the President shall notify a list of SEBCs in relation to each State and Union Territory in consultation with the Governors. This was called the ‘Central List’, and once it is notified, only Parliament alone could make changes to it. Based on this, the Supreme Court, while considering a challenge to the Maratha reservation in Maharashtra on various grounds, concluded that after this Amendment came into force, States can no more notify or identify backward classes, and only the President could do so, and further changes could be made by Parliament. What was the reaction of political parties? The Union government had argued vociferously in court that neither the Centre nor Parliament intended to take away the State’s power to identify SEBCs. The use of the term, ‘Central List’, meant that what the President notified was a list of backward classes for the purpose of the Central government and its instrumentalities, and did not affect the lists maintained by the various States. Political parties in the Opposition blamed the Centre for enacting a flawed law that led to the court coming to such a conclusion. As there was a political consensus that the Supreme Court’s interpretation required to be undone by law, it was decided to amend the Constitution once again to clarify the State’s role in identifying SEBCs. It was introduced as the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021. After its passage and on receiving presidential assent, it was notified as the Constitution (105th Amendment) Act, 2021. What does the 105th Amendment do? Parliament adopted fresh legislation to undo the effects of the Supreme Court’s interpretation. Therefore, it contains specific clauses that seek to restore the original intention of having a ‘Central List’ for the purposes of the Union and letting States retain their respective lists. It first adds a proviso to the effect that the requirement that the National Backward Classes Commission should be consulted on policy matters will not apply to the State lists of SEBCs. It specifies that the list of SEBCs notified by the President shall be only for the purposes of the Central government alone, and that the ‘Central List’ means only the list “prepared and maintained by and for the Central Government”. Further, the 105th Amendment clarifies that every State or Union Territory may, by law, prepare and maintain for its own purposes a list of SEBCs and this may be different from the Central List. These changes are aimed at undoing the conclusion of three judges on the five-Judge Bench in the Maratha reservation case that the term ‘Central List’ applied to all SEBCs notified by the President and that it was the only List “for the purposes of the Constitution”. Finally, to end all debate on how SEBCs are defined, the latest Amendment also changed the definition given in the 102nd Amendment. Originally, “socially and educationally backward classes” were described as “such backward classes as are so deemed under Article 342A for the purposes of this Constitution”, that is, those found in the List notified by the President under Article 342A. This has now been changed to the effect that SEBCs are those so deemed under the same Article for the purposes of the Central government, or the State or the Union Territory.  The Union government had argued vociferously in the Supreme Court that neither the Centre nor Parliament intended to take away the State’s power to identify SEBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-was-the-backward-classes-policy-restored/article36160202.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Cloverleaf’ loop opens on Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated the ‘Cloverleaf’ loop, ramps and service roads developed on the Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover which will save both time and distance for commuters between Akshardham, Noida and vice versa. The project is part of the Barapullah elevated road corridor under Phase-Ill extension from Mayur Vihar to Sarai Kale Khan and the ramps and service roads are an essential part of the project. Bring relief “The service roads, cloverleaf loop, ramps, and cycle track are being inaugurated today. This will bring a huge relief to the people of this region as well as the entire East Delhi area from traffic jams,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The project has been constructed to avoid the red light signals at Mayur Vihar Phase-l Junction, which will further reduce carbon dioxide emissions and noise pollution by the vehicles at red light, the government stated. Save travel distance These ramps and service roads will save approximately 1.5 km of the travel distance. Traffic congestion led to a huge mess and nuisance, especially during peak office hours, which will end after the opening of ramps and service roads, the government also stated. The Chief Minister also took to Twitter to share the news and said, “Inaugurated the new ‘Cloverleaf’ built on Mayur Vihar Phase-1 Flyover today. With the opening of these loops and ramps of the Barapullah Phase-3, the people of Delhi will experience a lot of convenience in travelling. Especially people travelling between Delhi & Noida will benefit a lot from it.” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Twitter, “Today Chief Minister Shri Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the ramp, cycle track and service road in Mayur Vihar Phase-1. This will give great relief to the people of East Delhi from traffic jams. Roads are being transformed all over Delhi by the Kejriwal Government [sic].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-opens-cloverleaf-on-mayur-vihar-i-flyover/article36160704.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The 10% edge||The story so far: The Centre is set to list India’s largest insurance firm, state-owned Life Insurance Corporation of India, on the stock exchanges to help meet disinvestment targets for the year. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved the IPO in July. Earlier, actuarial firm Milliman Advisors was appointed to assess the embedded value of LIC. Currently, at least 16 merchant bankers, including global players HSBC, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup and BNP Paribas, are in the race to help manage the public issue. The government is expected to announce its choice shortly. Next, a Group of Ministers constituting the alternative mechanism on strategic disinvestment will approve the actual quantum to be placed on offer. Why is LIC coming out with a public offering? The government has in recent years found it difficult to meet disinvestment targets. Divestment of stakes in Air India and BPCL has been delayed for various reasons, including COVID-19, and may see fruition this financial year. The Centre has an ambitious disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for FY22. A successful LIC IPO, in which the government will sell a sizeable stake, will help it meet this goal. While a date has not been announced, the listing of LIC is expected in the third or fourth quarter of 2021-22. How much could the Centre mop up via the IPO? Chief Economic Adviser K. Subramanian had said in March that the LIC IPO could fetch up to Rs. 1 lakh crore. While the LIC Act of 1956 has been amended to allow the listing, details as to the number of shares on offer or the price band are not yet out. The amendments allow for an increase in the authorised share capital of LIC to Rs. 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs. 10 each. How will it benefit those with policies? The government has said it would reserve up to 10% of the issue size in the IPO for LIC policyholders. The 2021 amendments to the LIC Act states “any reservation made by the Corporation in favour of its life insurance policyholders on a competitive basis in a public issue… shall be made in a manner similar to that applicable to a reservation on a competitive basis for employees in a public issue”. Markets regulator SEBI’s rules state the aggregate of reservations and firm allotments for employees in an issue shall not exceed 10% of the proposed issue amount. Market rules also set out that an issuer company can offer the shares to employees at a discount of maximum 10% to the floor price. There are reports that the government could offer a discount on the issue price for LIC policyholders. Currently, LIC pays 5% of its surplus to the government and the rest to policyholders. That could change as it will become accountable to shareholders for dividend payments. The sovereign guarantee by the government for policies, though, will continue post-IPO. Why is there talk of a split IPO? The stock market has seen numerous public offerings recently, such as food delivery facilitator Zomato’s Rs. 9,375 crore mop-up. Overall, investors were hungry enough to absorb Rs. 27,000 crore in IPOs between just April and July. Financial services provider Paytm has also lined up an IPO worth Rs. 16,600 crore — making it the largest so far in India, topping Coal India’s Rs. 15,200 crore offering in 2010. By the time the LIC IPO hits the road, investors may not have enough appetite to absorb the entire offering at one go. Splitting the IPO in two parts with the second tranche being a follow-on offer would make it a first-of-its-kind offering in the country. What changes did SEBI make to smoothen LIC IPO path? In February, SEBI tweaked its rules to allow promoters of companies with a market capitalisation of Rs. 1 lakh crore post-IPO to reach 10% public shareholding in two years and raise that figure up to 25% in five years. Earlier, any company with a market cap of Rs. 4,000 crore and above had to achieve 25% public shareholding in three years. Why is the market agog with expectation for this IPO? Life insurance in India is still nascent, with only about 2.82% penetration as of 2019, according to insurance regulator IRDAI. So, the addressable market is huge. Two, about two decades after private players have been allowed entry, LIC’s market share is still at a high of 66.2%, as per IRDAI’s FY20 report. According to primeinfobase.com, the value of equity holdings of LIC, India’s largest institutional investor, touched an all-time high of Rs. 7.24 lakh crore as on March 31, 2021 — across almost 300 companies in which it had at least 1% stake.  Market rules set out that an issuer company can offer shares to employees at a discount of maximum 10% to the floor price. The government could offer a discount on the issue price for LIC policyholders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-10-edge/article36160203.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Help out Afghan students: DU colleges||A joint statement issued by Women’s Development Cells and Equal Opportunity Cells of various Delhi University colleges demanded maximum assistance to Afghan students studying at the university. The statement said that despite assurances from the university, students had not received any assistance yet. Visa extensions “There are around 200 Afghan students studying in DU in various undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Those students who are currently in Afghanistan and had been attending online classes are now finding it difficult to travel to India. The students who are still in India are afraid, not only for their families back home but also due to the prospect of their visas expiring soon,” read the statement. Stating that Afghan students had been raising concerns, the statement said, “We urge that the university administration, of not only DU but all universities with Afghan students, assist the Afghan students with visa extensions, family migration, economic assistance such as providing scholarships from the Indian Council for Cultural Relations.” The statement added that following a meeting with Afghan students on August 19, the university had assured support on visa extensions and hostel accommodation. “However, as of yet, the students have received none of the assistance that had been promised during the meeting,” the statement said.  We urge the administration, of not only DU but all universities with Afghan students, to assist them with visa extensions, family migration joint statement by Women’s Development Cells and Equal Opportunity Cells||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-assistance-given-to-du-afghan-students/article36160706.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet submitted in Dalit girl rape case||The Delhi police on Saturday filed chargesheet in the Delhi Cantonment rape case in which a nine-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped, murderd and later cremated without her parents’ consent on August 2. The police said that a 400-page chargesheet was submitted by Crime Branch and that they have sufficient evidence against the four accused who have been chargesheeted — Kuldeep Singh, Laxmi Narayan, Radhey Shyam and Salim Ahmad. All the accused are currently in judicial custody. The accused were charged under Sections 302 (murder), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 376D (gang rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The four have also been chargesheeted under Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and Section 3 (offences of atrocities) of the SC/ST Act. The report was filed before Duty Magistrate Manu Shree, who kept it for the consideration of the court concerned for August 31. SIT formed The case was transferred from Delhi Cantt police station to the Crime Branch on August 5 following which a Special Investigation Team was constituted for professional and speedy investigation under the supervision of DCP (Crime Branch) Monika Bharadwaj. “Scientific, technical and other evidences were gathered and analysed, besides recording testimonies of relevant witnesses. Besides, assistance was taken from Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini, as well as Delhi Police’s Forensic Experts on Biology and Odontology. Forensic psychologists were also engaged during interrogation of the accused. After gathering sufficient evidence on record, the chargesheet has been filed,” said a police spokesperson. “It may be recalled that on Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s direction that the investigation be completed expeditiously and chargesheet be filed within 30 days, the chargesheet has been submitted within 30 days, keeping in view the sensitivity of the case,” he said. “Filing of chargesheet by the Delhi police shows zero tolerance and commitment of the government under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi to act speedily to ensure stringent punishment to those committing crimes against women and girls,” the statement said.  On Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s direction that investigation be completed expeditiously, the chargesheet has been submitted within 30 days Delhi Police spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-file-400-page-chargesheet-against-4-in-dalit-girl-rape-case/article36160705.ece
29 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police file 400-page chargesheet against four in Dalit girl rape case||The Delhi police on Saturday filed chargesheet in the Delhi Cantonment rape case in which a nine-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and then burnt without her parents’ consent on August 2. The police said that a 400-page chargesheet was submitted by Crime Branch and that they have sufficient evidence against the four accused who have been chargesheeted - Kuldeep Singh, Laxmi Narayan, Radhey Shyam and Salim Ahmad. The case was transferred to the Crime Branch on August 5 following which a Special Investigation Team was constituted for speedy investigation under the supervision of DCP (Crime Branch) Monika Bharadwaj. “During the investigation, scientific, technical and other evidences were gathered and analysed, besides recording testimonies of relevant witnesses. Besides, assistance was taken from Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini, as well as Delhi Police’s Forensic Experts on Biology and Odontology. Forensic psychologists were also engaged during interrogation of the accused. After gathering sufficient evidence on record, the chargesheet has been filed,” said the Delhi police spokesperson. The police said that keeping in view the sensitivity of the case, the chargesheet has been submitted within 30 days against the four accused persons who are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-file-400-page-chargesheet-against-four-in-dalit-girl-rape-case/article36160948.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Congress leaders discuss roadmap for next year’s civic elections||Delhi Congress leaders on Saturday discussed the road map for next year’s municipal elections, but some of them expressed displeasure over the party’s decision to involve AICC observers in the process to select block presidents of its city unit. The leaders also discussed organisational issues during the meeting. The AICC observers, all MLAs from Haryana, were appointed earlier this month for each of the 14 districts to prepare for elections to the three municipal corporations next year. “It was decided that the 14 AICC observers will now take feedback to suggest names of block presidents. This exercise will duplicate earlier appointment of block observers appointed by Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar in January and delay preparations for the civic polls,” said a senior leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-leaders-discuss-roadmap-for-civic-polls/article36160709.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||No one above law: court raps singer Honey Singh||A Delhi court on Saturday came down heavily on Punjabi singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh for not appearing before it in a domestic violence case filed by his wife Shalini Talwar. “No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly,” metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh said. Mr. Singh moved an application seeking exemption from appearance in the case, citing medical reasons. Meanwhile, his wife, Shalini Talwar, appeared physically before the court. Expressing displeasure, the court told Mr. Singh’s lawyer, “Honey Singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments.” The metropolitan magistrate gave Ms. Singh one last opportunity to appear before the court, and asked him not to repeat this conduct again. Shalini Talwar has sought Rs. 20 crore as compensation under the Protection of Women From Domestic Violence Act. Breaking down in the courtroom, she said, “I am left with no option. I gave him 10 years. I left everything. I stood by him. He has abandoned me.” In response, the judge said she is concerned about the petitioner’s mental wellbeing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-one-above-law-court-raps-singer-honey-singh/article36160712.ece
29 August 2021||Hyderabad,||Narasimha Rao’s house to become a museum||The personal computer sent by his son P.V. Prabhakara Rao in 1986 will find a place in the museum being set up in former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s ancestral village of Vangara in Karimnagar district of Telangana. “My father collected over 15,000 books. Some of them are housed in Hyderabad at the Ramananda Tirtha Memorial Trust. Some of these books will be part of the museum being developed,” his daughter Surabhi Vani Devi said. Rao’s belongings, his favourite chair, and a series of photographs showing his journey will also be on display. Rao’s biographer Vinay Sitapati has written about the 45 cartons that filled up a large truck when Rao had planned his move from Delhi to Hyderabad in May 1991 before fate steered him in a different direction. The biography has a series of photographs which will be displayed at the museum, which is expected to be ready in a year. On Friday, Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud laid the foundation stone for the museum which will showcase the life of the former Prime Minister. It was from the two-storied bungalow in Vangara that Rao began his journey as a scholar and went on to become the Prime Minister who changed the nation’s economic bearings. “His personal typewriter, his big collection of books and many other objects the former Prime Minister used will be part of the museum. We are working with the family and other people in contact with him to share objects to recreate his life,” informed B. Manohar of the Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation. “Our house had suffered damage due to lack of maintenance but now it has been restored and visitors to the museum will get an intimate glimpse of the life of my father,” said Ms. Devi, who is a Member of the Legislative Council in Telangana. The State government’s plan includes creating a Vignana Vedika Park, Memorial Museum and an entrance arch at a cost of Rs. 11 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/narasimha-raos-house-to-become-a-museum/article36160612.ece
29 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Naga women draw flak for tying rakhis on jawans||A section of Naga women in Nagaland and Manipur has been slammed for tying rakhis on the personnel of the paramilitary Assam Rifles during the recent Rak- sha Bandhan celebration. The Naga Mothers’ Association, an apex women’s organisation catering to all Naga tribes, said the “questionable” act of some women was shameful when “Nagas are yet to see justice for war crimes and human rights violations allegedly committed by the armed forces”. “For us Naga women, traumatised by a genocidal history of rapes, molestation, killings, village groupings, inhumane atrocities at the hands of Indian armed forces under the impunity of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), it is a shame and a black day to witness our women tying rakhis and felicitating these very armed forces,” the association said in a statement. The BJP had organised the Raksha Bandhan celebration in Nagaland’s Dimapur. A students’ body had taken the initiative in Manipur’s Tamenglong. “…It is unacceptable and questionable in the continuing violations of human rights as long as Nagas are forced to live under the AFSPA in these Naga areas and without justice for the past history of human rights violations. The haunting cries of families of victims for justice in the numerous incidents over the decades are yet to be heard and justice served,” the association said. It urged the national secretary of BJP Mahila Morcha, Aienla Jamir, the party’s Dimapur District Mahila Morcha chief, Avi Aomi, their teams and the students’ body and the women in Tamenglong to join the Naga women instead of taking part in such “objectionable programmes”. The association insisted that their objection was not about “cultural practices or religious differences”. Most Nagas are Christians. “They must join Naga women if they are true Nagas who love their people and raise their voices to government of India and central BJP leaders for repeal of the AFSPA and justice for crimes committed by the Indian armed forces, including the Assam Rifles,” it said.  The haunting cries of families of victims for justice in the numerous incidents over the decades are yet to be heard Naga Mothers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/naga-women-draw-flak-for-tying-rakhis-on-jawans/article36160610.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||Defamation case against BJP leader in DTC case||Delhi Cabinet Minister Kailash Gahlot has filed a criminal complaint against BJP MLA Vijender Gupta accusing him of defamation in a matter related to the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation. The case was listed before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey, who adjourned the matter for September 1 as the physical copy of the complaint was not produced in the court. Mr. Kailash, who is the Transport Minister in the AAP government, has alleged in his complaint that Mr. Gupta defamed him and tarnished his reputation. “The accused intentionally, for mala fide purposes and to gain political mileage, has levelled defamatory, scandalous, mischievous, false and scurrilous allegations on the complainant both verbal as well as in writing,” the complaint alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/defamation-case-against-bjp-leader-in-dtc-case/article36160710.ece
29 August 2021||New Delhi,||No one above law: court raps Honey Singh||A Delhi court on Saturday came down heavily on Punjabi singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh for not appearing before it in a domestic violence case filed by his wife Shalini Talwar. “No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly,” metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh said. Mr. Singh moved an application seeking exemption from appearance in the case, citing medical reasons. Meanwhile, his wife, Shalini Talwar, appeared physically before the court. Expressing displeasure, the court told Mr. Singh’s lawyer, “Honey Singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments.” The metropolitan magistrate gave Ms. Singh one last opportunity to appear before the court, and asked him not to repeat this conduct again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-one-above-law-court-raps-honey-singh/article36160947.ece
29 August 2021||August 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Waiting for tourists||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/waiting-for-tourists/article36160616.ece
