02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 239 new cases of COVID-19 and 2 deaths||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 239 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 4,789.This is the first time that the city has crossed the 2,000 mark in active cases.The day also witnessed two COVID-19 deaths taking the death toll due to the deadly virus to 59.As many as 2,670 patients have been cured till date while 2,057 are active cases.A 27-year-old male, resident of Sector 44, who was a patient of diabetic ketoacidosis, died at GMCH-32 on Tuesday.A 75-year-old male, resident of Sector 23, who had a history of hypertension, died at GMCH-32 due to type 1 respiratory failure on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-239-new-cases-of-covid-19-and-2-deaths-135292
02-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali adds four deaths, 160 new cases to COVID tally||Four coronavirus deaths and 160 new cases reported on Wednesday took the district’s tally to 89 deaths from 4,093 infections, officials said,Two of Wednesday’s four deaths happened at Chandigarh Hospitals.A 20-year-old woman died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32---the youngest fatality of the day. A 49-year-old man from Dera Bassi who died at Chandigargh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research had pre-existing kidney problems.The remaining two---a 45-year-old woman with cancer and a 58-year-old woman from Phase 10 who was diabetic and had hypertension---died at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Meanwhile, 43 patients recovered and were released from hospitals in the last 24 hours.    Mohali urban (55), Gharuan (31), Kharar (29), Dhakoli (33), Dera Bassi (6), Boothgarh (5) and Lalru (1) all reported new COVID-19 cases.Forty-four per cent cases are still active.Where Mohali standsTotal cases: 4093Active: 1822Cured: 2182Deaths: 89||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-adds-four-deaths-160-new-cases-to-covid-tally-135288
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh discontinues odd-even closure of shops from September 4; to resume inter-state bus operations||The UT administration on Wednesday has decided to discontinue the odd-even closure of shops in congested markets from September 4.This decision comes after a review meeting chaired by the UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, here. However, the onus of maintaining social distancing and ensuring mask-wearing will be on shop owners.In view of the rise in COVID-19 cases, the Administration had ordered the closure of the shops on the basis of odd-even formula in 12 congested markets—including Patel Market in Sector 15, Shashtri Market in Sector 22, Sadar Bazaar and Palika Bazaar in Sector 19 etc, of the city.During the course of the meeting, it was also decided that the Apni Mandis would not be operated, until further orders.However, Organic Markets could function with necessary precautions near Nagar Van.The Chief Conservator of Forests will ensure proper social distancing and sanitization in the area.The Administrator appealed to the citizens, market associations, volunteers and Municipal Councillors to advise people to immediately approach the Administration for medical help, in case of initial Covid symptom."Adequate beds, medicines and facilities are available for the treatment of corona patients", he added.Badore directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrates to keep a watch over their areas and find out and report symptomatic persons, if any, for immediate Covid check-up. Early detection will save valuable lives.He also directed ramping of information, education and communication (IEC) activities to make people aware about following strict hygiene and take precautions to prevent infection.KK Yadav, Deputy Commissioner (in charge), stated that 14,594 challans have been issued for various violations; such as not wearing masks and social distancing.Sanjay Kumar Jha, Secretary Personnel, stated that the typing test is taken by Panjab University for selecting employees of UT Administration had been suspended due to Covid-19.The university authorities would take appropriate decision on the matter shortly. It was further decided that inter-state bus operations should be resumed at the earliest convenient.Badnore focused on taking care of vulnerable patients to keep the mortality rate low. He also directed that the complaints being received from various patients and persons in Control Room should be attended to urgently.“It must be ensured that persons with symptoms are immediately transferred to hospitals for medical treatment, without any delay,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-discontinues-odd-even-closure-of-shops-from-september-4-to-resume-inter-state-bus-operations-135282
02-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 135 COVID-19 cases; tally at 2,544||Panchkula reports 135 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district total to 2,544.Coronavirus cases:About 990 cases are active, and 1,531 patients have been cured and discharged.Till date, Panchkula has conducted 38,784 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-135-covid-19-cases-tally-at-2-544-135278
02-09-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Bars in Chandigarh to open under strict adherence to Covid norms||Tipplers have a reason to rejoice in the city, as doors of the bars will be open for them once again! However, serving alcohol to customers comes with a lot of responsibility, considering there are strict rules to comply with — social distancing norms and other Covid-19 protocols. So, how are the bar-owners gearing up for the big re-opening?The picture is not all that rosy, but there is hope for business. And this, Vipul Dua, owner, Peddlers-35, says, “May or may not be the actual scenario. Our documents are ready with license fee that needs to be submitted to the Excise Department, but we are waiting for the exact guidelines. Having said that, from how things are, we are prepared to re-open the bar. The bottles are all sanitised, the distance between tables and chairs is in place and it will be 33 per cent staff at the bar too. As far as we are concerned, there will be only dining facility; no dancing at Peddlers because social distancing on the dance floor can be a challenge.”Taking no chancesRestaurants have seen a handful of diners since they resumed service, but bar operations could mean a significant difference. Ramandeep Marwah, general manager, JW Marriott, Sector 35, Chandigarh, says, “We have enhanced protocols at 35Brewhouse — right from reservations to a safe dining experience to maintaining social distance. As we move from being aesthetically clean to clinically clean, we look forward to welcoming our guests back.”Temperature checks, frequent use of sanitisers for guests and staff, mandatory handwash for the staff every 30 minutes, paperless payment and menu... At Virgin Courtyard, an Italian restaurant in Sector 7, chef Hari is quite excited, “It is good news from the business point of view, as this move will add to our sales. We will sanitise all the bottles of beer and wine before taking them to the bar. Rest whatever guidelines come from the UT government will be followed.”Testing timesMayank Bhatt, brand head at Social, Sector 7, says, “We are happy that bars can re-open in Chandigarh now. It will give us some much-needed revenue in these testing times. At Social, we are ensuring that all safety protocols are followed — be it our kitchen and other staff in recommended PPE gears, or the sanitisation of tables, chairs, etc, after each use. We have also facilitated a fully contactless ordering and payment process via the customer’s individual phone.”Adds Zorawar Kalra, MD, Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd, who owns Farzi Cafe, Sector 26, “It is a welcome move; however, we are still awaiting the official go-ahead. It will enable more restaurants to take the plunge and open, which will subsequently lead to a significant increase in employment. Having said this, the safety of our patrons remains our top-most priority and we will adhere to all guidelines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bars-in-chandigarh-to-open-under-strict-adherence-to-covid-norms-135078
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration lifts curbs in three zones||The UT Administration today removed the restrictions from three micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the restrictions had been removed from a block of 24 houses from house number 2778 to 2801 in Sector 40, a block of 32 flats from house number 6445 to 6448-C and house number 6449 to 6452-C in Sector 56, and a block of 11 houses from house number 491 to 495 and house number 501 to 506 in Sector 15 on the basis of recommendations received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee.He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas by the municipal authorities would be conducted and the residents would be advised to observe social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-lifts-curbs-in-three-zones-134920
02-09-2020||---||5 more deaths, Mohali toll 85||Mohali, September 1Five Covid-19 deaths and 163 new cases were reported from Mohali district today. As many as 86 patients were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours.A 65-year-old man from Lalru died of the virus at the Civil Hospital, Ambala. He was also suffering from a cardiac ailment. Two fatalities — that of a 41-year-old man from Sector 68 and a 65-year-old woman from Phase 1— were reported from Grecian Hospital. An 89-year-old man from Gharuan died in a hospital in Sohana. He was also suffering from hypertension. A 51-year-old woman from Kharar died at Ivy Hospital. Most of the positive cases reported today were from Mohali urban (72), Gharuan (36), Dhakoli (19), Kharar (18), Dera Bassi (eight), Kurali (seven), Banur (two) and Lalru (one).The district has so far reported 3,933 positive cases, of which 1,709 are active. As many as 2,139 patients have been discharged. The death toll has reached 85. Yesterday, seven persons had died, while 104 new cases were reported from the district.Scare at PUDA officeOne of the patients who died at Grecian Hospital was serving as a supervisor in PUDA Bhawan, Sector 62. Earlier, two SDOs of the building branch (C1) were found infected with the virus. Employees in the office are concerned about the rising number of cases from the office and have demanded sanitisation of the premises. “The entire staff are being asked to report for duty despite strict orders from the government against it. Officials and outsiders can be seen in the office even after 7 pm,” said an employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-deaths-mohali-toll-85-134922
02-09-2020||---||3 succumb, 179 cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 1The district today reported three deaths and 179 cases of Covid. With this, the district toll today rose to 23 and the tally to 2,409.Those who succumbed to the virus are a 64-year-old man from Sector 20, a 54-year-old man from Sector 19 and a 66-year-old woman from Pinjore.The fresh cases include 22 from Pinjore, 14 from Old Panchkula, 11 from Sector 19, nine from MDC, eight from Sector 10 and Surajpur, seven from Sector 21, six each from Kalka, Sector 2 and 21, five each from Sector 11, 12-A and 26, four each from Sector 16, 20 and Morni, three each from Sector 4, 15, 17, 25, Pinjore, Ramgarh and Nanakpur, two each from Sector 6, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15 17, 20, 26, Industrial Area, Phase II, Kalka and Raipur Rani and one each from Sector 5, 7, 10, 27, Rajiv Colony and Barwala.As many as 922 cases are active in the district, while 1,464 patients have been cured and discharged. So far, 33,400 Covid tests have been conducted in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-succumb-179-cases-in-panchkula-134924
02-09-2020||Amit Sharma||Outsiders behind rising crime in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1A large number of people contributing towards the rising crime graph in the city are outsiders. As many as 42.57 per cent convicts and 40.34 per cent undertrials lodged at Burail Jail in 2019 were outsiders.The prison statistics of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reveal that of the 404 convicts, including 16 women, lodged at Burail Jail as on December 31, 2019, only 228 were from Chandigarh, while 172 belonged to other states and the remaining four from other countries.Similarly, there were 580 undertrials, including 33 women, in the jail as on December 31, 2019. Of them, 332 were city residents, while 234 were from other states and 14 from other countries.The police claim that besides being an education hub, the city witnesses a lot of visitors from neighbouring states, especially Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, due to which the probability of outsiders indulging in crime is also high. “The nightlife in Chandigarh is active with discotheques and bars attracting visitors even from neighbouring states, who have been seen indulging in brawls and firing incidents in the past,” said a police official.The NCRB report states that almost 52.5 per cent convicts lodged at Burail Jail were aged between 18 and 30. Of the 404 convicts as on December 31, 2019, 212 were between 18 and 30 years of age, 158 convicts (39 per cent) were aged between 30 and 50, while only 34 convicts (8.4 per cent) were above the age of 50. According to the report, 984 inmates were lodged in the jail in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outsiders-behind-rising-crime-in-chandigarh-134926
02-09-2020||---||Ram Darbar man dies, 204 test +ve||Chandigarh, September 1The city today reported one death due to Covid-19, besides 204 fresh cases.A 76-year-old man of Ram Darbar, Industrial Area, Phase 1, succumbed to the disease at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. He was also suffering from hypertension, coronary artery disease, diabetes and chronic kidney disease.A 24-year-old youth of Hallo Majra was brought dead at the GMCH-32 on August 25. His samples were taken and the report, which came out on August 28, confirmed that he was Covid positive. However, the case did not add to the toll and was counted under the head of deaths due to other reasons. Meanwhile, the UT Covid tally today stood at 4,550. The city has 1,939 active cases and as many as 2,551 patients have been cured of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ram-darbar-man-dies-204-test-ve-134928
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||SBI official dies, later tests Covid positive||An SBI official, aged around 45 and residing in Sector 42, fell unconscious at his house today after which he was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. The police said the victim was later found Covid positive.He has been identified as Kunal Kishore. The police said Kunal fell unconscious in the afternoon after which his family rushed him to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.The victim was sick for the past two days. His samples were taken for the Covid test, which turned out to be positive, said a police official. The Sector 36 police are looking into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sbi-official-dies-later-tests-covid-positive-134929
02-09-2020||---||Don’t proceed with admissions, High Court tells Panjab University||Chandigarh, September 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Panjab University (PU) not to proceed with admissions to BA, BCom, LLB (Hons) and five-year integrated law course on the basis of a circular dated August 11 and guidelines uploaded on the website of the university on August 25.The order will remain in force till the university takes a decision on holding an entrance examination for the five-year law course.A Division Bench of the High Court also directed the university to reconsider its decision to scrap the undergraduate law entrance examination for the five-year law course, after asserting that the reason put forth by the university for doing away with the same did not appear to be justified.The direction by the Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan came after counsel Arun Bakshi confirmed on the behalf of the university that it would indeed hold the entrance examination for the three-year law course.Responding to a High Court query, Bakshi attempted to justify the decision of the university on the grounds that the admissions to the three-year law course would require the holding of an entrance examination as the final-year examination for some graduate courses such as BA had not yet been conducted.On the other hand, the results of Class XII examination had been declared. “The university felt it could dispense with holding of an entrance exam and make admissions on the basis of marks obtained in the Class XII examination,” he added.The Bench asserted the court did not find the reason to be either satisfactory or reasonable. There was generally a little scope for inclusion of law-based subjects in the syllabus for Class XII. As such, it was not possible to make a comparative assessment of candidates’ suitability for admission to the five-year law course solely on the basis of marks obtained in the Class XII examination.“It would not be safe or reliable to either give equal weightage to the performance of students in the science, arts and commerce streams in the 10+2 level or give preference to one over the other in adjudging the suitability for the five-year law course,” the Bench added.Before parting with the judgment, the Bench added that the common law admission test (CLAT) for admission to the national law schools for the current academic session had not been scrapped. The UGC stand on holding entrance tests for admission to various courses was also required to be taken note of.The Bench added that the varsity was required to take a fresh decision not later than September 15, keeping in view the court observations and the grounds mentioned in the petitions. The decision was directed to be uploaded on the university website immediately.“Till such time, the university will not proceed with making admissions to BA, BCom, LLB (Hons) and five-year integrated law course...,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-proceed-with-admissions-high-court-tells-panjab-university-134930
02-09-2020||---||Panjab University offers relaxations in fee, student parties still unhappy||Chandigarh, September 1The Panjab University (PU) authorities today offered relaxations in fee payment to students, which included 5 per cent fee relief across the board, payment of fee in four instalments, full waiver for differently abled students, 50 per cent relaxation for EWS and introduction of EWS seats in self-financed courses.“We have given our best. We offered several concessions in terms of fee waiver, which also include payment of fee in four instalments, but the student parties are not ready to accept these,” said Dean Student Welfare SK Tomar.Student protesters again misbehaved with officials, who reached out to them asking them to end the protest. “At this hour of crisis, students should help the authorities rather than sitting on protests. We have been in constant touch with them and working to meet their demands. We have come up with a solution, which will definitely help them. They should also maintain the integrity of the university,” said one of the officials, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) said they would continue their protest tomorrow. “We will continue to protest till our demands are met. We will take out a rally tomorrow,” said Harish Gujjar, a member of the party.The authorities have been trying to find a solution in favour of the students for the past one month. Various student parties, including NSUI, AISA, ASA, AISF, CYSS, PSU (L), SOI, SOPU, SFS, Y4S, INSO, PUSU, SFI, PUCSC, have been protesting and demanding relief for the students. Their demands include charging of only tuition fee and reimbursement of charges, including examination fee, and others.The institution is already facing an estimated revenue loss of Rs80 to Rs90 crore (including one semester fee of Rs70 to Rs75 crore). However, the estimated cost savings are Rs20 to Rs30 crore from various parameters such as non-conduct of semester exam, less electricity bill and others. The net loss is approximately Rs64 crore. The university has also not received a second quarter grant, while the Punjab Government is also yet to release its promised share.VC approves recommendationsPU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar has approved the recommendations made by a committee on Tuesday. The matter will now be referred to the Syndicate for final approval. After adoption of fee relief for the students, the university is likely to face a loss of nearly Rs 1-1.5 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-offers-relaxations-in-fee-student-parties-still-unhappy-134931
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University freezes dearness allowance||The PU has decided to freeze the dearness allowance of employees and pensioners, stated an order passed by Finance and Development Officer Vikram Nayyar.The order stated, “In pursuance of the authorisation given by the Board of Finance duly approved by the Syndicate/Senate, the Vice-Chancellor has approved to adopt the Central Government notification, freezing of dearness allowance (DA) to the PU employees and pensioners.”“It has been decided that the additional installment of the DA, due from January 1, 2020, shall not be paid. The additional instalments of the DA and dearness relief due from July 1,2020, to January 1, 2021, shall also not be paid. As and when the decision to release the future instalments of the DA and dearness relief will be restored prospectively and will be subsumed in the cumulative revised rate effective from July 1, 2021. No arrears from the period of January 1, 2021, till June 30, 2021, shall be paid,” the order stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-freezes-dearness-allowance-134932
02-09-2020||---||JEE (Main) held in Chandigarh amid precautions||Chandigarh, September 1Thousands of JEE (Main) aspirants today appeared for entrance test at five centres in Chandigarh. The aspirants reached the venues at 7.30 am, while the exam started at 9 am.The exam was conducted as per the issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) and students were provided with masks and sanitisers. “Computer sets were sanitised and adequate arrangements were made to ensure social distancing inside the examination hall. Over 7,000 students appeared in both Chandigarh and Mohali centres,” said an official.“The arrangements were good. Invigilators made sure about following SOPs and other protocols. There was a brief technical issue related to server, which was fixed well in time,” said Shristh Manchanda, a student. The exams are scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6 at various centres in two shifts on each day.“NSUI has been asking the government to postpone the exam for the sake of students’ safety, but the government insisted on conducting these tests. We tried our best to provide transportation to the needy students. Leaders of other states such as Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan have come forward to help the students, whereas city MP Kirron Kher remained absent in the hour of crisis,” said Manoj Lubana, NSUI social media chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jee-main-held-in-chandigarh-amid-precautions-134933
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Call on exams: Committee urges Panjab University VC to be present||The standing committee for conducting Panjab University (PU) examinations has requested the Vice-Chancellor (VC) to be present while taking any decision on conducting final-year examinations, said sources.A meeting of the standing committee was held today and it has been proposed to call the Syndicate meeting in the presence of the VC to record the decisions. “The VC has been requested to call the meeting to record the decision. The minutes will be distributed to the members. It was jointly decided by the standing committee. The VC can call the Syndicate tomorrow or anytime,” said a committee member.The panel members have requested the PU Controller of Examination (CoE) to prepare data for conducting exams, mode and feasibility of the project. “Students should prepare for their exams and they will be given ample time. We have prepared all data, number of centres, students, what other universities had done, what suits us online or offline, policies for following the MHA’s SOPs and others. Our centres are ready to conduct the exam and we are already having all plans ready. We are ready to give presentation, whenever required. As soon as the PU VC or the committee approves, we will announce to conduct exams,” said Parvinder Singh, CoE, PU. — TNSPunjab likely to give nod to physical examSources said the Punjab Government might allow conducting physical examinations across the state, which would automatically make the PU follow the same pattern. The notification in this regard is likely to be issued in a few days. The decision is expected as the state may not conduct online examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/call-on-exams-committee-urges-panjab-university-vc-to-be-present-134934
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teachers’ union requests DHE to issue clear guidelines||The Chandigarh District Council of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) has requested the Director (Higher Education) to issue clear guidelines for college teachers as principals of some local colleges are forcing their faculty to attend college regularly against the recent MHA guidelines to encourage online teaching and work from home. “The teachers’ union is concerned about the safety and well-being of teachers and their families in the pandemic times,” said Dr Madhu Sharma, district president of the union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-union-requests-dhe-to-issue-clear-guidelines-134935
02-09-2020||---||Parents protest against private school, demand fee waiver||Mohali, September 1A group of parents of children studying in a private school in Phase VIII gathered outside the school premises and protested against the school authorities for demanding tuition fee by September 5.They alleged that the school authorities had been sending “threat” messages on phone and emails, saying that the name of the student would be struck off from online classes, the student would not be allowed to sit in the first-term exam and their upcoming CBSE registration would be withheld.The school authorities insisted that they were only asking for tuition fee.One of the parents displayed the principal’s reply to a fee waiver request (e-mail) where the principal asked the parent to encourage her wife (child’s mother) to take up a job. “I am sure your wife must also be working, if not, encourage her to do so.”The protesting parents rued that no official or representative of the school was willing to talk to them. The school authorities refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-private-school-demand-fee-waiver-134936
02-09-2020||Naina Mishra||MHRD asks Chandigarh Administration to improve dropout rate||Tribube News ServiceChandigarh, September 1The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has asked Chandigarh to improve the dropout rate, especially at the secondary and higher secondary level.This is highlighted in the Program Approval Board (PAB) report-2021, wherein the Centre pointed out that the dropout rate in Chandigarh is higher with 11.9 per cent at the higher secondary level (classes XI and XII).Besides, the ministry also pointed out that net enrolment ratio (NER) had decreased significantly at higher secondary level (classes IX and X) from 99.84 per cent to 72.96 per cent in the year 2018-19.During the 2019-20 review meeting, the UT had committed to improve the dropout rate especially at secondary level and bring down the ‘Out-of-School Children’ (OoSC) to zero.The UT Education Department informed the Centre, “Labour from other states migrates to Chandigarh with their family members, including children in the age group of 6-14 years. Household survey is undertaken every year to map all out of school children, who are enrolled in special training centres in nearby government schools. However, some children remain out of school due to the seasonal migration.”The local department also stated that the dropout rate at secondary level for the year 2018-19 was 4.53 per cent. The dropout rate was expected to go down in 2019-20.The Centre has also asked Chandigarh to give details of children mainstreamed along with schools. The UT was also advised that the unrecognised madrasas may be recognised through some education board to make them eligible for regular grant under the Scheme to Provide Quality Education in Madrasas (SPQEM) scheme, so that children studying there are mainstreamed and not treated as OoSC.64 per cent vacant posts at SCERTThe MHRD has also pointed out that the vacancy of academic positions in the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) is 64.44 per cent. “These vacant posts need to be filled up on priority as it is also directly impacting the Performance Grading Index (PGI) indicators,” said the Centre.The UT had previously assured in 2019-20 that it would reassess the requirement of teacher posts and fill up all vacancies within six months.The meeting of the Project Approval Board for considering the Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWP&B), 2020-21, for Samagra Shiksha for Chandigarh was held on June 16, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mhrd-asks-chandigarh-administration-to-improve-dropout-rate-134937
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Lights for cycle tracks suggested at committee meet||A meeting of the Standing Committee of the Administrator’s Advisory Council constituted under the head “Traffic Management” was held under the chairmanship of Rajesh Kumar, former Mayor, Municipal Corporation, at the Police Headquarters in Sector 9 here today.SSP (Traffic and Security) Manoj Kumar attended the meeting as a member secretary to the advisory council, along with all DSPs posted in the traffic wing and other committee members.During the meeting, it was deliberated that there is a need to construct multi-level parking at busy locations in the city.The members also suggested that strict action needs to be taken against auto drivers for not affixing fare meters.Construction of traffic police booths with toilet facilities at major intersections for the welfare of police officials was also suggested.It was also suggested that cycle tracks should have lights for the safety of cyclists during night hours. The members also suggested that the traffic police should also check dangerous driving in the city and take strict action against violators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lights-for-cycle-tracks-suggested-at-committee-meet-134939
02-09-2020||---||CRRID staff, faculty mourn Pranab Mukherjee’s death||Chandigarh, September 1Faculty and staff of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) met under the chairmanship of Professor RP Bambah, chairman, Governing Body, today to mourn the death of Bharat Ratna former President Pranab Mukherjee.Prof RP Bambah said Pranab Mukherjee made the most valuable contribution in the development of academic and other related activities of the CRRID not only as a minister but as a great scholar. He visited the institute every time he was requested to participate in various programmes organised by the CRRID, particularly pertaining to peace, harmony and security in South and Central Asia.Prof RS Ghuman, Senior Professor, CRRID, while remembering the former President, said peace and harmony were dear to him and he upheld the values throughout his life.Professor Sucha Singh Gill, Senior Professor, CRRID, said he was a “Sankat Mochan” to bring harmony between the government and the opposition whenever there was a conflict in the Parliament. He had a great capacity to accommodate dissenting voices and strengthen democracy in the country.Dr Rashpal Malhotra, executive vice-chairman, said it was a personal loss to him. He had an opportunity to closely work with him. The CRRID faculty and the staff would miss him for his valuable and friendly interactive sessions he had with them during his several visits as a minister as well as the President, he said.A two-minute silence was observed by all present to pay tributes to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crrid-staff-faculty-mourn-pranab-mukherjees-death-134940
02-09-2020||---||Big Bazaar charges for carry bag, fined||Chandigarh, September 1Big Bazaar’s claim that rates for carry bags have been displayed prominently at its store in Elante Mall has failed to find favour with the UT District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.Acting on a complaint filed by a city resident, the commission has asked the store to pay Rs1,100 as litigation expenses and Rs100 as compensation for harassment and mental agony. The store has also been asked to deposit “punitive damages” of Rs5,000 in the consumer legal aid account.The commission issued the order on the complaint of Shubham, a resident of Sector 47-C, Chandigarh. The complainant said he purchased some articles on April 19, 2019, from the store and was charged Rs12 for a carry bag despite a protest. He claimed it was the store’s duty to provide carry bags.Big Bazaar pleaded that notices mentioning charges for carry bags were displayed prominently in the store. The complainant had also consented to be given a carry bag for an additional charge.After hearing the arguments, the commission said big stores such as the opposition party never allowed customers to bring carry bags within the premises. It said charges for carry bags could not be separately foisted upon consumers and this amounted to unfair trade practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-bazaar-charges-for-carry-bag-fined-134941
02-09-2020||Sandeep Rana||Gyms at community centres closed for yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1Gyms at community centres here have been lying closed for the past two to five years.With no policy or planning to run such gyms, a majority of these never opened after inauguration. Some gyms at community centres in Sector 22, Sector 49 and Mahila Bhavan, Sector 38, remained open for some time. These gyms also closed in no time due to non-payment of fee to trainers. Another hurdle that these gyms have been facing is that the Municipal Corporation has no policy to appoint a gym trainer.“There are 46 community centres in the city and about 50 per cent of the centres have gym facilities. All modern community centres already had gyms. Later, gyms were added to old centres also. With no one to look after the gyms, several machines are in need of maintenance,” said a senior MC official privy to the development.“Youths in our area were happy that there is a gym in the locality. However, it was closed after sometime. Officials said machines are getting damaged as there is no one to look after them. There is also no trainer,” said a youth.An agenda to run gyms on a PPP mode was to be taken up in the recent House meeting. However, it could not be done.Councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, who was also a member of the revenue generation committee, said: “Hopefully this agenda will be taken up in the next House meeting. If we outsource the gyms, then only we can run these properly.”However councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said: “First of all, the MC needs to come out with a policy to hire a fitness trainer. Then only we will be able to run gyms”.Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party president Prem Garg said: “It is a sheer wastage of public money. They should have framed a policy first, then opened the gyms.”As per engineering wing officials, the budget of small gyms ranged between Rs7 lakh and Rs8 lakh each, while bigger ones cost between Rs22 lakh and Rs23 lakh each to the corporation.MC has no policy to appoint trainerSome gyms at community centres in Sector 22, Sector 49 and Mahila Bhavan, Sector 38, remained open for some time. These gyms were also closed in no time due to non-payment of fee to trainers. Another hurdle that these gyms have been facing is that the Municipal Corporation has no policy to appoint a gym trainer.BudgetAs per engineering wing officials, the budget of small gyms ranged between Rs 7 lakh and Rs 8 lakh each, while bigger ones cost between Rs 22 lakh and Rs 23 lakh each to the corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gyms-at-community-centres-closed-for-yrs-134942
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Traders launch awareness poster to tackle pandemic||Members of the Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, under the leadership of association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, have started an awareness campaign to make the public aware about Covid safety measures. Panchhi said as UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore desired that the Market Welfare Associations should start a special campaign of 3Ws (wash your hands, wear your mask and watch your distancing) to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the association came forward with an awareness poster, mentioning “wear mask for your safety” (mask pehan kar hi nikle, mask nahi pehanna samajhdari nahi hai). The awareness poster released by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, he said. Panchhi said it was decided to distribute posters among members of the association with a request to display these at their shops to spread awareness among customers. “This campaign is a small contribution towards the city and our nation,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-launch-awareness-poster-to-tackle-pandemic-134943
02-09-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Railways records 68.5% growth in goods revenue this fiscal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1In the current financial year 2020-21 (April to August), the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has recorded goods revenue of Rs1,159.28 crore, which is 68.5 per cent higher as compared to Rs688.02 crore in the same period last financial year.In August this year, it earned goods revenue worth Rs235.49 crore, which is 73.4 per cent higher than Rs135.77 crore in August 2019.Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) GM Singh said the division had recorded revenue achievements despite the challenging circumstances of the pandemic.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager/Freight Services Vivek Sharma said the division’s business development unit is regularly approaching new customers to augment share of Railways in freight transportation.In order to augment freight services over the division, various measures were undertaken as formation of business development unit, dedicated freight twitter handle to reach out to more prospective customers, integration of freight queries to helpline number 139, infrastructure improvement of goods shed and business-friendly proposals to helm the wheel of economy.Highest loading average so farThe division has loaded 890.84 wagons on an average per day in August this year, which has shown 54.12 per cent improvement from 578 wagons average per day in July 2019. The division calls it the highest-ever per day average so far. In August, the division loaded a total of 615.5 rakes, which is the highest ever. It also recorded the highest number of container rakes loaded at 86.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-records-68-5-growth-in-goods-revenue-this-fiscal-134945
02-09-2020||---||Social distancing norms go for a toss during ration distribution||Chandigarh, September 1Social distancing went for a toss during the distribution of dry ration among beneficiaries at the community centre in Mani Majra here today.The beneficiaries were advised to avoid crowding at the distribution centre, but a large number of people reached there and jostled with each other to get ration.As officials of the Department of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs had a tough time in controlling the crowd, the police were called to control the crowd. The police used mild force to manage the crowd.The Department of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs has started the distribution of foodgrain free of cost among registered DBT food beneficiaries. Under the scheme, five-kg wheat is being provided to each member of a family per month and one-kg chana per family per month for five months (July to November) under the extended Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).For the distribution of foodgrain, the Administration has fixed 11 centres to cover all areas of the city. In the first phase, five centres have been started where registered beneficiaries can get their entitled food grains free of cost. These five centres are Government High School, Hallo Majra, community centre, Mauli Jagran, community centres, Burail, and Sector 25, community centre, Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-during-ration-distribution-134947
02-09-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI plans infectious disease hospital at Sarangpur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1To deal with pandemics such as Covid-19, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) will write to the Union Health Ministry for building an infectious disease hospital at the Sarangpur centre.PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said: “The institute will propose to the Central Government about creating a 200-bed infectious disease hospital at the newly acquired land in Sarangpur here.”Experts have time and again pointed out the need for building an infectious disease hospital as there is an acute need to build new infectious disease hospitals that have facilities and expertise to manage all kinds of infection.A group of PGI experts had also published an article citing that healthcare organisations must be ready with their contingency plans for managing several patients with contagious infectious disease.“Ideally, every large hospital should have a facility that can function as a high-level isolation unit. An isolation unit ensures that healthcare staff and the hospital are equipped to deal with infectious disease outbreaks. Unfortunately, such facilities do not exist in several hospitals, especially in resource-limited settings. In such a scenario, healthcare set-ups need to convert their existing general structure into an infectious disease facility,” stated an article.Prof Ram said: “The hospital is expected to have a facility of high-level isolation unit, which will be equipped to deal with infectious disease outbreaks. It will have negative pressure rooms, an isolation technique used in hospitals and medical centres to prevent cross-contamination from room to room.”“There have been several outbreaks in the past such as H1N1, but we always forget the need to build an infectious disease hospital. This facility at Sarangpur will be used for infectious diseases such as plague, dengue, coronavirus and viral illness,” said Professor Ram said.The institute had converted a general building into infectious disease hospital after the UT Administration had requested for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-plans-infectious-disease-hospital-at-sarangpur-134948
02-09-2020||---||Restrictions in urban areas of Mohali till September 30||Mohali, September1The Mohali administration has ordered that the weekend curfew in all municipal towns of the district will continue till September 30. Further, the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 7 pm and 5 am within the municipal limits of cities throughout the week.The shops and malls will remain open till 6.30 pm and will be closed on weekends while those dealing in essential commodities will operate till 6.30 pm daily.Much to the delight of shopkeepers, the odd-even system for opening shops in the market has gone.Restaurants, including those in malls, can be opened till 6.30 pm on weekdays. On weekends, only home delivery will be allowed till 6.30 pm. Hotels and liquor vends can also open till 6.30 pm daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restrictions-in-urban-areas-of-mohali-till-september-30-134950
02-09-2020||---||Finance Secretary Ajoy Sinha relieved, Chandigarh Administration re-allocates depts||Chandigarh, September 1The UT Administration re-allocated the departments held by Finance Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha and Special Secretary Harish Nayyar after the completion of their deputation with the Administration today.However, seven officers have either been relieved or have retired in the recent past with no replacement.Sarpreet Singh Gill had joined the UT Administration last month and was given the charge of Special Secretary (Health), besides other charges.In March 2018, the Chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board was relieved and the board has not got a replacement yet. In 2019-end, two senior officers -- Education Secretary and Transport Secretary -- retired and till date no replacements have been given. The departments are being looked after by other officers.Recently, two senior police officers -- SSP (Law and Order) and DIG (Security and Traffic) -- were relieved without any replacement.Sinha was holding the charge of 16 departments. Most of the departments under him have been given to Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home), in addition to his existing departments. He will now head 21 departments, including Finance, Excise and Taxation, Planning and Estate. He has also been appointed the Chief Electoral Officer and Chief Administrator.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Manoj Parida will be the Chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board. Earlier, the charge was held by Sinha.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has been given the additional charge of the Transport Department.To find Sinha's replacement, the Administration had already sent a panel of three names of Punjab-cadre IAS officers to the Ministry of Home Affairs for approval.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they had taken up the matter with the Ministry of Home Affairs to get replacements at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finance-secretary-ajoy-sinha-relieved-chandigarh-administration-re-allocates-depts-134956
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pay fee by 2 pm today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-fee-by-2-pm-today-134971
02-09-2020||Mohali||Four injured in car crash||Auto driver killed in mishapDera Bassi: A 32-year-old auto driver was crushed to death under a truck near the Lehli light point on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway on Monday night. The auto driver lost control of the vehicle and rammed it into a truck ahead. The auto driver died on the spot while the truck driver fled from the spot. TNSTipper uproots electricity polesZirakpur: A recklessly driven tipper uprooted three electricity poles along the road near the police post in Dhakoli on Monday night. Residents had to go without power for hours as the supply was interrupted in the area. Harbhajan Singh, SDO, PSPCL, Dhakoli subdivision, said the estimate of loss was being prepared and it would be recovered from the owner and the driver of the tipper. Dhakoli police post incharge Kulwant Singh said they impounded the tipper after registering a case against its driver. TNSPSPCL recovers dues of Rs 56 lakhZirakpur: The PSPCL recovered Rs 56 lakh from 182 defaulters since August 24. Special recovery teams have been constituted to recover the power dues. The drive will continue till the month-end. A PSPCL official said the connections of consumers declared defaulters would be cut. TNSChandigarh University gets new vice-chancellorChandigarh: Prof Parag Diwan on Tuesday joined as the Vice-Chancellor of Chandigarh University, Gharuan. The university Chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu welcomed Diwan at the official investiture ceremony held virtually. The newly appointed VC advocated for the need to focus on emerging areas in technology such as block chain technology, data sciences. TNSVarsity releases cut-off listChandigarh: The Department of Evening Studies – Multi Disciplinary Research Centre, Panjab University, released its cut-off on Tuesday. According to Prof Mahesh Sharma, chairperson of the department, cut-off for BCom went up to 11.80 per cent with weightage and 95.80 per cent without weightage in general category, whereas the cut-off for BA remained 92.20 per cent in general category. TNSYouth ends life in BaltanaZirakpur: A 20-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Harmilap Nagar, Baltana, here. The deceased has been identified as Sushil Kumar, a resident of Harmilap Nagar, Phase 1. Baltana police station in-charge Kulwant Singh said they received information from the hospital that a youth had been brought dead. Sushil went to sleep in his room last night. However, he did not open the door in the morning. When the family members broke open the door, they found him hanging. They took the victim to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police are investigating the matter. TNSTaxi operators hold protestChandigarh: Members of the Independent Driver Union on Tuesday staged a protest against unauthorised cab operators who are running operations without even having approval from the UT Administration. Union president Milan said the Administration must take action as Covid-19 had affected adversely the taxi service, which remained off-road for quiet sometime. TNSStone laid for community centreMohali: Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone of a modern community centre at Phase 3B1 here. Sidhu said this state-of-the-art community centre would cost Rs5 crore. The funds for the construction were provided under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme. The community centre would be fully air-conditioned and soundproof with a lift, halls in the basement and the ground floor, lawns and open parking area. A separate ramp would also be constructed for the disabled persons. TNSMan arrested with marijuanaPanchkula: The Crime Branch, Sector 26, arrested a person with 10.1-kg marijuana from Madawala village here on Tuesday. The suspect has been identified as Biru, a resident of a hutment near the railway crossing in Pinjore. The suspect has been remanded to one-day police custody. A case has been registered against him under the NDPS Act at the Pinjore police station. TNSSix held for car driver’s murderPanchkula: The Crime Branch, Sector 26, has cracked a murder case in which a car driver, Pradeep, was found dead near Madawala village in Pinjore on July 10. The police have arrested all six suspects, including Rajiv Kumar, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Panchkula, on Tuesday. Rajiv was produced before a court, which remanded him in one-day police custody. Pradeep was said to have died in a road accident. A case was later registered on his wife’s complaint. The post-mortem report revealed that his death was not due to accident, but the cause of the death was strangulation as there were marks on his neck. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-injured-in-car-crash-134973
