04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration decides against opening Sukhna this weekend||The Chandigarh Administration has decided to keep Sukhna Lake closed to the public over this weekend, officials said---a development that comes as the union territory continues to report an alarming number of infections.The Chandigarh Administration decided in August keep Sukhna Lake closed to the public over weekends.The decision to continue to keep it closed for weekends comes on a day when Chandigarh reported 203 new coronavirus cases and five deaths.Chandigarh has been reporting a spike in coronavirus cases since the beginning of September, consistently reporting over 200 new cases each day.The UT has reported 922 new COVID-19 cases in less than a week since September 1.Almost 40 per cent of the UT’s cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-decides-against-opening-sukhna-this-weekend-136358
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||203 new coronavirus cases take Chandigarh’s tally to 5,268||Chandigarh reported 203 new coronavirus cases on Friday---a development that takes the union territory’s COVID-19 tally to 5,268.The UT also reported five deaths on Friday, taking its death toll to 68. Three of the Friday’s five fatalities were people over 70.Test results of an 80-year-old man from Sector 19 who had heart problems, a chronic kidney injury, was diabetic and had hypertension came back positive on Friday two days after his death at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Wednesday.A 72-year-old male man from Sector 52 with heart problems, diabetes and hypertension died on Friday at the PGIMER.  Another 72-year-old man from Raipur Khurd with hypertension and Bell’s Plasy died at the Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 32.A 51-year-old woman from Sector 32 with diabetes and hypothyroidism died at GMCH-32.A 36-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony who died of refractory shock sepsis and viral pneumonia at GMCH-32 also tested positive for COVID-19.Chandigarh has been reporting a spike in coronavirus cases since the beginning of September, consistently reporting over 200 new cases each day.The UT has reported 922 new COVID-19 cases in less than a week since September 1.Almost 40 per cent of the UT’s cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/203-new-coronavirus-cases-take-chandigarhs-tally-to-5-268-136354
04-09-2020||---||Mohali reports four COVID-19 deaths, 272 cases||Mohali, September 4Mohali on Friday reported the highest spike of COVID-19 cases at 272 and four deaths, taking the caseload in the district to 4,495.Meanwhile, 82 patients also recovered and were discharged from various hospitals across the district in the past 24 hours.The four deaths include that of a 38-year-old man of Phase 3B2, who died at Gian Sagar; a 63-year-old woman of Sector-114, who died at Mayo Hospital, Mohali; a 52-year-old woman from Shahimajra, who died at PGI. All three were diabetic.The fourth death is of a 58-year-old man from Baltana, who died in PGI.Of the 272 cases, the maximum were reported were from Mohali urban (93), Dhakoli (56), Gharuan (59), Kharar (34), Dera Bassi (18), Boothgarh (6), Lalru (4) and Banur (2).As of now, the district has 2,058 active cases.With the new recovered cases, the number of recoveries in the district has climbed to 2,343 with 94 deaths reported to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-four-covid-19-deaths-272-cases-136336
04-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports one death and 127 COVID-19 new infections||Panchkula reports one death and 127 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the district death total to 25.About 1,056 cases remain active in the district.Covid-19 death:A 90-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 21, succumbed to the deadly virus. She had diabetes mellitus.The fresh cases include 30 from Pinjore, 13 each from Kalka, Raipur Rani and Sector 15, 4 from Sector 27, 3 each from Chandikotla, MDC Sector 4, Sector 12A, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 5 and Sector 6, 2 each from Sector 18, Sector 25, Sector 28, Sector 4 and Surajpur, one each from Abheypur, Billa, Burj Kotian, Chandimandir, Garhi Kotaha, Hangola, Indira Colony, Industrial Area, Khera Sita Ram, Manak Tabra, Manakpur, MDC Sector 6, Nanakpur, Police Line, Ramgarh, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 14, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 2, Sector 23 and Sector 7.Meanwhile, 1,720 patients cured of the deadly disease. To date, Panchkula has conducted 41347 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-one-death-and-127-covid-19-new-infections-136333
04-09-2020||---||PU offers 5 per cent fee waiver to students for current semester||Chandigarh, September 4Panjab University Vice Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar, in anticipation of approval of the Syndicate, has approved the 5 per cent fee exemption across all courses to all students of the varsity and its Regional Centres for the current semester.To facilitate the payment of fee, all students are allowed to deposit the course fee in four equal instalments instead of two instalments. The students who have paid the full fee, the remaining will be adjusted in their next instalment.Also, 100 per cent fee concession has been granted to physically challenged students whereas the EWS concession will be extended to the students of traditional courses also as a special measure.The concessions offered are over and above the different kinds of concession, scholarships and schemes (involving an amount of Rs 5 crore), which is already being offered by the University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-offers-5-per-cent-fee-waiver-to-students-for-current-semester-136325
04-09-2020||---||Chandigarh administration to resume inter-state bus service from Sept 16||Chandigarh, September 4The Chandigarh administration has decided to resume inter-state bus service from September 16.The administration had suspended the interstate bus operation on March 23 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) had briefly resumed the inter-state bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10, but those were suspended immediately after a few days over a sudden increase in the coronavirus cases.As per the new guidelines issued by the Central Government, the UT administration has decided to resume the inter-state bus service of the CTU buses and other State Transport Undertakings (STUs) with effect from September 16.The administration has also allowed the HVAC/AC buses to operate with all COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government from time to time. The buses have to maintain the standard operating procedure (SoP) as preventative measures. The CTU has a total strength is 514 buses, of which 361 run on local or suburban routes and 153 run on the inter-state routes covering Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir.Before the lockdown, the CTU buses used to travel nearly 1.20 lakh km per day and approximately two lakh commuters used to commute daily in the CTU buses.Sabzi Mandi to be shifted back to Sector-26 before September 15The UT Administration has also decided to shift back the fruit and vegetable market from ISBT-17 to Sector 26.Due to the spread of COVID-19, the Sabzi Mandi was shifted from Sector-26 to ISBT-17.“Now, since the inter-state operation of CTU buses and other State Transport Undertakings would be started from September 16, therefore, the Sabzi Mandi has to be shifted from ISBT-17 to Sector-26 well before September 15,” states an official statement.An office-bearer of the Grain Market Association, Sector 26, said that it was an unnecessary exercise carried out by the administration when they have to be shifted back to Sector 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-resume-inter-state-bus-service-from-sept-16-136303
04-09-2020||---||Chandigarh education officer tests positive for Covid-19||Chandigarh, SeptemberDistrict Education Officer Harbir Singh Anand has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He is the second person from the District Education Office to contract the infection in last four days.   Earlier, a District Education Office employee had been infected by the virus.Chandigarh had reported the highest single-day spike of 276 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 5,065.Also, the death toll in the UT reached 63 with four more deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-officer-tests-positive-for-covid-19-136263
04-09-2020||---||Chandigarh sees 4 deaths, 276 cases, 213 recoveries||Chandigarh, September 3The city today reported four deaths, taking the toll to 63, and the highest single-day spike of 276 Covid cases, raising the tally to 5,065.All those who died were already suffering from some disease. A 72-year-old man from Mauli Jagran, who breathed his last at a hospital in Sector 48 yesterday, was a case of hypertension and Cor Pulmonale. A 65-year-old man from Sector 48 with a history of hypertension and asthma died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali.A 58-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran was a known case of hypertension and diabetes mellitus. She died due to cardiac arrest at the Sector 48 hospital yesterday. A 44-year-old woman from Mani Majra had a history of Type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. She had tested positive and died at the GMCH-32 yesterday.Meanwhile, 213 patients recovered from the virus today. Among them were patients placed under home isolation, who have completed 10 days of isolation and are asymptomatic. There are 2,116 active cases in the city.2 cops posted at UT Police HQ test positive for virusA lady head constable and a constable posted at the Public Window at UT Police Headquarters in Sector 9 tested positive for Covid. They had not been attending the office for the past few days.Earlier, a Home Guards volunteer posted at the Public Window had tested positive. Several people visit the window daily to submit their complaints.Meanwhile, sanitisation was carried out at the Public Window desk, the entry to the Police Headquarters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-4-deaths-276-cases-213-recoveries-135866
04-09-2020||Mohali||60-year-old woman dies, 130 more +ve in Mohali||A 60-year-old woman from Shahpur village died due to Covid-19 at the GMCH-32, taking the Mohali district toll to 90.Meanwhile, 130 new cases were reported today and 79 patients were discharged from the hospital post-recovery. The new cases surfaced in Mohali urban (55), Gharuan (25), Dhakoli (15), Dera Bassi (14), Kharar (10), Lalru (6), Boothgarh (4) and Banur (1).As of now, there are a total of 4,223 cases in the district, of which 1,872 are active. As many as 2,261 patients have been cured till now.Yesterday, four deaths and 160 new cases were reported from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-year-old-woman-dies-130-more-ve-in-mohali-135867
04-09-2020||Mohali||Chemists shops, labs open 24X7 in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chemists-shops-labs-open-24x7-in-mohali-135868
04-09-2020||Panchkula||Another death, 128 infections in Panchkula||The district reported another Covid death today, taking the toll to 24. It also saw 128 fresh cases.A 41-year-old man from Pinjore, who had comorbidities such as diabetes meticulous and renal failure, succumbed to the virus.Haryana Speaker dischargedHaryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta on Thursday tested negative for Covid and was discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Gupta will stay in home isolation for 15 to 20 days on the advice of doctors. The 72-year-old politician had tested positive for the virus on August 24.The fresh cases include 18 from Pinjore, 16 from Sector 20, 12 from Sector 15, seven from Kalka, six each from Sector 8 and Sector 26, five from Sector 21, four each from Sector 10 and Sector 25, three each from Sector 9, Sector 18, Barwala and the ITBP, two each from Sector 2, Sector 4, Sector 6, Sector 7, Sector 16, Sector 19, Ashiana, Sector 20, Bir Ghaggar, Madanpur, the MDC, Sector 4, and Raipur Rani, and one each from Sector 12, Sector 17, Sector 23, Sector 28, Amravati, Chandi Kotla, Chandimandir, Kandiawala, Indira Colony, Morni, Kot, Nanakpur, Surajpur, Sarakpur and Ratta Tibbi.As many as 1,055 cases are still active, while 1,593 patients have been cured and discharged.Panchkula district has conducted 40,067 Covid tests so far.Panchkula college hostel turns care centrePanchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Thursday notified the boys’ hostel at Government PG College in Sector 1 and the community centre in Sector 6 as Covid care centres.The Deputy Commissioner also formed a joint committee consisting of Incident Commander Naveen Sharma, Dr Anuj Bishnoi and Municipal Corporation Executive Officer Jarnail Singh for proper execution of his orders and regular monitoring of these two centres. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-death-128-infections-in-panchkula-135869
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers target brother duo, rob Rs6,000, mobile in Chandigarh||Six miscreants riding two motorcycles reportedly robbed a brother duo of Rs6,000 and a mobile phone near Kishangarh last night.The police received information about the incident at 12.05 am following which a PCR vehicle rushed to the spot.Sources said the victims, Sukesh Kumar and his brother Mukesh Kumar, residents of Bhagwanpura, Chandigarh, reported that they worked at a pizza store in Sector 26 and were returning home on a cycle when the miscreants stopped them near the bridge between Kishangarh and Sukhna Lake. The suspects threatened the duo and assaulted them.Victims work at pizza storeSources said the victims, Sukesh Kumar and his brother Mukesh Kumar, residents of Bhagwanpura, Chandigarh, reported that they worked at a pizza store in Sector 26 and were returning home on a cycle when the miscreants stopped them near the bridge between Kishangarh and Sukhna Lake. The suspects threatened the duo and assaulted them. Sukesh said the suspects snatched Rs6,000 and a mobile phone from him.Sukesh said the suspects snatched Rs6,000 and a mobile phone from him.The suspects then escaped towards Kishangarh.Sources said the suspects were not wearing masks and the number plates of their motorcycles were covered with paper.The police have registered a case at the IT Park police station. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed at Kishangarh village was being scrutinised.City Beautiful sees spurt in snatchings since JulyChandigarh has witnessed a spurt in snatching incidents July onwards. At least 23 snatching incidents have been reported since July, including nine in August.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-brother-duo-rob-rs6-000-mobile-in-chandigarh-135879
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gold chain snatched at Maloya Chandigarh||Snatchers, it seems, are on the prowl in the city and have created a scare among residents, especially women.Two motorcycle-borne miscreants targeted an elderly woman on Wednesday. They snatched a gold chain from the 64-year-old victim at Maloya.According to the police, the victim, a resident of Maloya Colony, reported that two persons riding a motorcycle snatched her chain near a park in the vicinity of her house on September 2.The police were informed, who visited the spot. A case has been registered at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gold-chain-snatched-at-maloya-chandigarh-135908
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University international hostel is  now a Covid care centre||A Covid care centre has come up at Panjab University International Hostel in Sector 25 where patients can get themselves admitted on a payment basis.Earlier, the UT Administration had roped in James Hotel to function as a Covid care centre on a payment basis from August 16 with certain conditions. However, the hotel sought to be exempted and the Administration acceded to its request.Doctors and nurses from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 (GMSH-16) have been deployed at the new Covid care centre. The hospital will take care of sanitisation and disposal of medical waste generated there. An ambulance will be provided by the Additional Deputy Commissioner, UT.Charges collected from patients will be deposited in the Covid Care Fund.A UT spokesperson said, “The facility will be available to doctors of the GMSH-16 and the GMCH-32, who contract infection and are asymptomatic. However, no charges will be taken from them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-international-hostel-is-now-a-covid-care-centre-135933
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Interim bail for accused in Sector 33 firing case||Four months after a Sector 33 resident alleged that four youngsters resorted to firing after reaching his house, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted interim anticipatory bail to an accused.Bahadur Singh had moved the High Court against the Union Territory of Chandigarh for pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered on May 31 for attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 452, 307 and 34 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act at the Sector 34 police station following the firing incident that took place the same day around 5.30 pm.The petitioner submitted that his name did not figure in the FIR and it was a case of no-injury. His counsel added that the petitioner was sought to be implicated on the basis of a disclosure statement by Deepak, alias Deepu. As per the statement, the petitioner allegedly facilitated a hideout for the accused.Except for the disclosure statement made by co-accused, there was no other material/evidence to connect the present petitioner with the alleged offence, his counsel contended, adding that co-accused Harinder Singh had already been granted interim bail by the High Court vide an order dated July 16.“The petitioner is directed to appear before the investigating officer and join investigation. In the event of arrest, the petitioner shall be released on interim bail subject to the satisfaction of the arresting/investigating officer. The petitioner shall join investigation as and when called upon to do so and he shall remain bound by the conditions envisaged under Section 438(2) of the CrPC, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interim-bail-for-accused-in-sector-33-firing-case-135934
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||MC starts issuing notice to 27K property tax defaulters in Chandigarh||As many as 27,000 property tax defaulters in the city are being served notices in a phased manner by the local Municipal Corporation.While 15,000 defaulters are yet to pay their house tax dues, 12,000 are commercial property owners owing tax to the civic body. So far, the corporation has collected Rs40.65 crore as the levy. In the last fiscal, the MC had earned Rs53.35 crore. The defaulters have been asked to clear their dues within 30 days. Those not paying their tax dues will be served another notice. Following this, they will be issued the final notice.Later, proceedings for removing the water connections of residential tax defaulters and attaching the properties of commercial tax defaulters will be started.“We have already started issuing notices. Those not paying their dues despite the final notice will be liable to lose their water connection in the case of residential tax or face attachment of property in the case of commercial tax,” said MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, who heads the tax branch.In March, the MC had prepared a list of over 5,000 residential tax defaulters whose water connections were to be disconnected. However, it could not be done due to the Covid pandemic. Officials claimed that the defaulters cleared their tax dues later.Till July 31, tax payers were getting 20 per cent rebate on residential tax and 10 per cent on commercial tax. The defaulters will now have to pay a fine of 25 per cent and 12 per cent interest on the tax dues.The tax can be paid at Sampark centres or online on the MC website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-starts-issuing-notice-to-27k-property-tax-defaulters-in-chandigarh-135935
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University final-year exams from September 17||Panjab University (PU) will conduct final year examinations of last semester classes from September 17 to 30. This has been confirmed by highly placed sources.A meeting of the standing committee for conducting examinations and charging fee was chaired by the PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, today. Sources confirmed that it has been decided to conduct the examination in blended (online/offline) mode for four hours duration, which includes downloading question paper and attempting answers and uploading scanned copy of answer sheets on designated email IDs.Examination to be of four-hour durationSources said, “It has been decided that the duration of the examination will be four hours. The set-up includes one hour for downloading examination paper, two hours for attempting answers and one hour for uploading scanned answer sheet. It has aslo been proposed that a student, if unable to upload the answer sheet, may submit it at the nearest centre/college or send it by speed post at the address provided within the stipulated time. Earlier, the standing committee had requested the Vice-Chancellor (VC) to call the Syndicate meeting for taking any decision on conducting final-year examinations. However, considering the urgency of the matter, the VC decided to chair the meeting of the committee today.“As per the time given by the UGC we have to conduct these examinations this month only. All universities have to conduct examinations before September 30. So, it has been decided to conduct examinations from September 17 to 30,” said a committee member while seeking anonymity.“The exam duration will be of four hours wherein students have to download examination papers, scan answer sheets and send these at designated emails. Helpline numbers will be provided to students. Special focus will be on students from far-flung areas. All details will be disclosed soon,” the committee member added.Meanwhile, a PU spokesperson denied receiving any such information till the filing of this report. “The meeting was held today, however, there is no official confirmation about date of examinations,” the PU spokesperson added.When contacted regarding any decision on exams, Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examinations, said, “Cannot confirm any information unless I get in writing.” Meanwhile, another official, who did not wish to be named and was present at the meeting, confirmed the development. The official is also a member of the standing committee.All entrance tests scrappedIt was also decided to scrap all entrance tests keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has been decided to scrap all entrance tests, including the test for the five-year and three-year law courses and others. The decision has been taken while taking into consideration the fact that no other university has conducted entrance tests in the ongoing pandemic,” said a committee member.“In order to run their shops, owners of a few coaching institutes have approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for conducting examinations. However, the constitutional committee has decided to scrap all entrance tests,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-final-year-exams-from-september-17-135936
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||JEE (Main) day 3: Students find exam easy||Today, it was third day of the JEE (Main) entrance test, which was conducted in the UT and Mohali. Though students maintained that the examination was easy, there was no provision of ramp for physically challenged students at few centres in the city. Some students also claimed that examination centres in Chandigarh did not have adequate facilities for physically challenged students.“Yes, there was some problem, but temporary arrangements were made after the issue was raised,” said a student. Over 7,000 aspirants are appearing for the JEE (Main) exams in the UT and Mohali. In all, there are five centres to host exams till September 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jee-main-day-3-students-find-exam-easy-135937
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar dwells on app for kids||The Department of Community Education and Disability Studies, Panjab University, organised a national webinar in collaboration with the Madras Dyslexia Association on “MDA Avaz Reader”, a dedicated app for kids with reading difficulties on Thursday.Harini Ramanujam and Mala R Natarajan, CEO and special educator, respectively, of the Madras Dyslexia Association, were the resource persons on the occasion. Dr Dazy Zarabi, chairperson of the department, said there were 77 participants benefited from deliberations of the resource persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-dwells-on-app-for-kids-135938
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teacher develops paint app for kids||A home science TGT teacher Roseleen, working at Government Model High School, Sector 38 (West), has developed a mobile application ‘Pallete for Kids’. “I worked on the concept to make learning fun for primary students. This app will develop innate capabilities of kids, who will be able to use various colours with pointer to write and draw in any language without using pen, pencil and paper,” said Roseleen. It has been rated globally by IARC and is available at Google Playstore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teacher-develops-paint-app-for-kids-135939
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||L&T CFO’s bail plea junked, asked to join investigation||The Court of Rajeev Goyal, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has dismissed the anticipatory/blanket bail application of Uma Charan Rath, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of L&T Infrastructure limited, Mumbai, and directed him to join the investigation of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh Police within 15 days.The police began the investigation on the complaint of Sanjay Jain, a resident of Panchkula. Jain is one of the directors of CSJ Infrastructure Limited. He was also one of the promoters of the Elante Mall, Industrial Area, Chandigarh.Jain, in a complaint to the police on December 18, 2019, had levelled allegations of cheating and forgery against directors of L&T Infrastructure. The police summoned Rath to join the investigation on July 4, 2020, but he did not turn up. He was summoned again on August 28, 2020, to be present on September 2, 2020. However, instead of appearing before the investigation agency, he filed anticipatory/blanket bail in the court. The anticipatory/ blanket bail application came for hearing today, which was opposed by the complainant’s counsel, Sumeet Abrol.Rath in his bail application refuted all charges and said that he had no personal participation in other matters except in finances of the company, being its CFO. After hearing both the parties the court dismissed the anticipatory/ blanket bail application with direction to Uma Charan Rath to join the investigation within 15 days. The court also directed the police that if a case was registered against Rath then he would be given a week’s notice before his arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-cfos-bail-plea-junked-asked-to-join-investigation-135940
04-09-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||4 of gang held with 11-quintal copper at Mandi Gobindgarh||The district police claims to have unearthed a gang involved in the theft of copper at Mandi Gobindgarh with the arrest of four of its members. The police recovered 11 quintals of copper from them whereas four other members of the gang were still at large.Addressing mediapersons, the Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal, said five to six looters entered the premises of Swastik Impex Industry at Mandi Gobindgarh and took hostage all the four security persons deployed there. They looted copper from the premises of the industrial unit, the SSP added.Earlier, such thefts were reported from other industries in the town, the SSP said. A special team of the CIA staff led by DSP (Investigation) Raghbir Singh was constituted to crack theft cases, the SSP added.The team succeeded in nabbing four members of the gang identified as Ram Babu, alias Arjun, a resident of Bihar, Sandeep Kumar, alias Sonu, and Deepak Kumar, both residents of the UP, and Jaggi Khan, a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh, the SSP said.The police recovered 11 quintals of copper from them, the SSP added. During preliminary investigation, the suspects revealed that there were eight members in the gang out of which four were at large, the SSP said. They would be arrested soon, the SSP added. With the arrest of these thieves, more theft cases were likely to be solved, the SSP said. They were already facing more than dozen cases of thefts, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-of-gang-held-with-11-quintal-copper-at-mandi-gobindgarh-135941
04-09-2020||Mohali||Home collection of samples a non-starter in Mohali hospitals||Home collection of samples for Covid testing at private hospitals has been a non-starter till now in the city. The facility is not available at two biggest private hospitals of the city. There is no provision for the home collection of Covid samples even at government hospitals of the district. In some cases, sample is collected if the authorities feel that a patient is not in a condition to visit testing centre.‘Covid Spike not abnormal’Begining from March 20, when first Covid case surfaced in Mohali, the count of positive patients rose to 1,000 in 138 days. The district crossed the 2000-mark in just 13 days. In the next eight days, the 3000-mark was breached. The Covid cases went up from 3,000 to 4,000 in just seven days. The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said, “It is on expected lines. We have not witnessed any abnormal spike and have been successful in keeping it steady.”4,000 cases: Latest 1,000 in seven days“In case a patient cannot come we collect his/her sample at home. Alternatively, we send an ambulance from hospital and patient is dropped back at his/her home after he/she gives sample,” said the Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh.Sources said the facility never began at private hospitals and labs due to health concerns of paramedics. Spokespersons of the two private hospitals confirmed, “Our hospitals do not provide the facility of collecting samples from home.”“Already a large number of samples are being collected at hospital,” said a private hospital spokesperson.The administration’s plan for providing private medical care to Covid-19 patients in home isolation has also not taken off. “Eighty patients have availed this service of which some are in home isolation while others have been discharged from hospitals. Some have opted for the 17-day course even after being discharged from hospitals,” said a spokesperson of Fortis Hospital“The service began a few days ago. Only two patients have availed this package till now, but we are getting queries,” said a spokesperson of Max Hospital.Mobile testing vans on roadsFor the first time, two mobile testing vans of the Health Department will be on city roads to collect Covid samples from the vulnerable areas. “The vans will be visiting places where doctors feel there is a need to take samples. This is in addition to mobile testing units already stationed at designated places,” the Civil Surgeon said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-collection-of-samples-a-non-starter-in-mohali-hospitals-135942
04-09-2020||Mohali||‘Happy that PUBG has been banned’||The uncle of a 15-year-old boy, who had spent Rs 2 lakh on PUBG, said, “We are very happy that the game has been banned. My nephew was under stress for long after we took his mobile phone. I had written to the Prime Minister, the President and the Education Minister, demanding a ban on the game in June.” “When I asked my nephew about the news, he smiled and said he could still play the game through a Canadian-based server,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/happy-that-pubg-has-been-banned-135943
04-09-2020||Panchkula||FIR against ex-teachers, but not ABVP, for staging protest in Panchkula||Expelled PTI teachers on Thursday accused the police of adopting “double standards” after they were booked for carrying out a procession in defiance of the DC’s order banning protests in the district and not ABVP members, who also staged a protest in Sector 5.The Sector 5 SHO, Inspector Lalit Kumar, said, “We have booked former teachers for neglecting administrative order of ban on protests. The FIR has been filed under several sections of the IPC and Epidemic Act.”The police officer made it clear that no arrest had been made yet in the case.When asked about why no action against ABVP members, who also staged a protest, the SHO said, “We are examining Lockdown 4.0 guidelines in the matter. If justified, only then we will file a case against them.”Surender, a former teacher, said, “This is clearly double standard. Why no FIR against ABVP members as they too staged a protest like us?”When contacted, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said, “The district administration has ordered FIRs against those involved in demonstrations in the district in defiance of previous orders of ban on protests.”“Many offenders have been arrested,” he added.“I spoke to DCP Mohit Handa and asked him to take action against persons, who neglect the administration’s orders of ban on protests,” he said.Around 60 to 70 student members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest in front of Shiksha Sadan in Sector 5 over fee hike by higher educational institutions in the state. PTI teachers, around 200 in numbers, carried out a procession over demands of their reinstatement and cancellation of the PTI exam held on August 23.The DC had ordered a ban on protests in the district last Friday in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, DCP Mohit Handa did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fir-against-ex-teachers-but-not-abvp-for-staging-protest-in-panchkula-135944
04-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||5 more deaths, 16 new cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Five deaths and 16 new Covid cases were reported from the district today. With this, the district toll rose to 37 and the tally to 1,165.Congress MLA from Amloh, Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha, was found infected with the virus. He wrote on his social media account that he had tested positive, whereas all his family members were negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh, said till today, 26,787 samples had been collected, of which, 25,756 tested negative and 1,165 positive. Now, there are 209 cases in the district as 919 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital.He said residential houses near the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital, Bhathan Khurd Khamano village, Pagro Factory in Chanarthal Kalan and ward number 10, Amloh, had been declared micro-containment zones. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-deaths-16-new-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-135945
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 Pandemic: PGI sets up plasma bank||The PGIMER has created a plasma bank facility in the Department of Transfusion Medicine on the directions of Punjab Governor-cum-UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.The plasma bank will cater to the needs of patients admitted to the PGI and other government and private hospitals of the city on a first-come-first-served basis. Convalescent plasma will be issued exclusively based on the ICMR guidelines for its off-label use. The request form must contain information on the clinical condition of the patient and severity of disease as per the ICMR treatment guidelines.First-come-first-served basisThe plasma bank will cater to the needs of patients admitted to the PGI and other government and private hospitals of the city on a first-come-first-served basis.Convalescent plasma will be issued free of cost to patients admitted to the PGI and other government hospitals in Chandigarh. However, in private hospitals, minimum processing charges will be levied as per the policy of the institute.The government and private hospitals in the Union Territory of Chandigarh, desirous of using convalescent plasma treatment, need to register with the Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI, through e-mail (plasmabankpgi@gmail.com) by registering phone number and e-mail ID of designated nodal officer of the hospital.The nodal officers of government and private hospitals will send the patient clinical detail information on the above email ID preferably in routine hours (8 am to 5 pm) or as and when required.In response, the PGI plasma bank team will guide them further. Once clinical indication for transfusion of convalescent plasma is approved by the clinical team of PGI, attendants of the patient can submit request form, along with his/her sample, declaration form and clinical form at reception (room number 3056, third floor service B-block, Nehru Hospital) in the Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI. A minimum of three hours will be required to process this request following all Covid-19 precautions.After confirmation of the blood group of the patient, one unit (200 ml) of group specific convalescent plasma will be issued.Convalescent plasma will be issued free of cost to patients admitted to the PGI and other government hospitals in Chandigarh. However, in private hospitals, minimum processing charges will be levied as per the policy of the institute. The plasma bank committee of the PGI has recommended that nodal officers of hospitals outside the PGI should share a list of Covid-19 recovered patients discharged from their hospitals with the Department of Transfusion Medicine and motivate them for plasma donation in the PGI. The recovered Covid-19 patients, who are willing to donate convalescent plasma, can contact and fix their appointment for screening and testing with Dr Suchet Sachdev (7087009487) and Dr Divjot Singh Lamba (7087003371).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-pandemic-pgi-sets-up-plasma-bank-135946
04-09-2020||Panchkula||Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta accuses Panchkula hospital of overcharging||Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta has alleged overcharging at the hands of Paras Hospital located near Gurdwara Nada Sahib here.She claimed that she was billed Rs 96,270 for her Covid treatment at the time of discharge from the hospital on September 1. Mehta alleged, “I was overcharged for PPE kits and N95 masks used by doctors and other health professionals. Many other charges such as those of ECG tests and cannula were wrong. When I asked them to share medical reports, they refused.”Ashish Chadha, facility director, Paras Hospital, said,“Mehta had a policy of a lower coverage amount. Hence, there was a proportionate deduction in insurance claims as there is a cap on charges such as room rent, ICU rent and doctor visits. Only ECG costs were wrongly included due to a human error. Even that was resolved later.”The CMO, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “Mehta had sent a formal complaint on my official ID, which I am yet to check. If she was overcharged, we will take action.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-ranjeeta-mehta-accuses-panchkula-hospital-of-overcharging-135977
04-09-2020||---||Court allows CBI to take handwriting samples of suspended Chandigarh Police inspector||Chandigarh, September 3Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, Chandigarh, today allowed the CBI to take the handwriting samples of suspended inspector of the Chandigarh Police, Jaswinder Kaur, and Bhagwan Singh in a bribery case.Jaswinder Kaur is currently lodged at Model Jail, Burail. The court issued the direction after both accused gave their consent for taking samples.Public prosecutor KP Singh had earlier moved the application before the court on behalf of the CBI to allow the agency to take specimen of handwriting samples of the accused. The court, in the order, directed DSP Seema Pahuja, CBI, to visit Model Jail, along with one subordinate and two independent witnesses, on September 4 to obtain the specimen of signature of Jaswinder Kaur.The court further directed the CBI to also take specimen signature of Bhagwan Singh, who is on bail. His samples are to be taken in the office of the CBI (ACB), Chandigarh, in the presence of two independent witnesses.Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. An FIR was registered against accused Jaswinder Kaur and Bhagwan Singh, a private person, at the behest of Gurdeep Singh under various sections of the PC Act, 1988. After the CBI laid a trap, Bhagwan Singh was caught red-handed while allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs1 lakh on behalf of suspended Station House Officer Jaswinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-allows-cbi-to-take-handwriting-samples-of-suspended-chandigarh-police-inspector-135979
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Traffic cops who issued less challans asked to explain||A total of 68 traffic cops, who issued less number of challans between July 17 and August 25, have been asked for an explanation for their “under performance”.The explanation was sought by Deputy Superintendent of Police (traffic administration) Kewal Krishan.The notice stated, “It has been observed from the perusal of challan data from July 17 to August 18 that you have prosecuted three to four traffic violators on a daily basis, which is not acceptable. According to the traffic scenario in Chandigarh, so many violations are being reported throughout the city. Further, you have been provided with proper infrastructure and sufficient manpower to cater to problems and curb violations.”The notice further mentions, “Your performance is not up to the mark and isvery poor.”Krishan said the aim was to ensure that police personnel perform their duties with full dedication. “Effective challan drive will lead to less traffic violations, which will further result in less road accidents and will ultimately save lives that are lost in road accidents due to violations such as speeding, red-light jumping, helmetless riding, etc,” the Deputy Superintendent of Police said.He said on an average, some of the traffic cops had issued three to four challans on a daily basis, which was very less.The cops, who were issued notices, have been asked to appear before the Traffic Lines, Sector 29. Some of the cops assured they would be careful in the future.The 68 cops, who have been issued notices, are eight sub-inspectors, 32 ASIs and 28 head constables.A traffic cop from whom an explanation was sought said they could issue a challan only when someone was found violating a traffic rule. Compelling a challan on someone without any violation was unreasonable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-cops-who-issued-less-challans-asked-to-explain-135980
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||High Court orders status quo on dumping ground in Kalka||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the maintenance of status quo on a petition filed by 15 residents of Kalka seeking directions to restrain the state of Haryana from setting up a dumping ground for manufacturing compost manure.The Division Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu also put the state on notice. Accepting the notice, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Shubhra Singh prayed for and was granted a four-week time to file a written statement in the matter. The case will now come up for hearing on October 6. The direction came on a petition filed by Hem Chand and others through counsel Surjit Singh Salar. The Bench was told that the petitioners were residents of Bitna Seuri and Vasudev Pura village and the compost manure site was being set up in their locality. Salar said hospital, shops, hotels and residences existed in these densely populated areas. A government school was also there in Vasudev Pura. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-orders-status-quo-on-dumping-ground-in-kalka-135981
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Installation of street lights on cycle tracks begins in Chandigarh||Riding a bicycle will soon be convenient during night hours in the city as the UT Administration has started installing street lights on cycle tracks across the city.The process of installing street lights on the stretch from Sector 22/23 towards Kisan Bhawan has already started.The project worth Rs9 crore will cover cycle tracks of the entire city and is expected to be completed within a few months.“The work of installing street lights has begun. All cycle tracks across the city will be covered under this project. The allotted budget for this project is around Rs9 crore” said Mukesh Anand, Chief Engineer, UT Administration.Cycle tracks were introduced under the concept of Chandigarh Master Plan 2031- a cycle-friendly city. Around 70-km cycle track network is across V-2 and V-3 roads. The existing cycle track along V-3 roads was also upgraded and a total of 11 longitudinal green belts were developed as green corridors for both pedestrians and cyclists.Earlier this year, after The Tribune highlighted problems of cycle parking at Sukhna Lake, the UT Administration came up with dedicated parking stands followed by the announcement of making the same in major markets of Chandigarh. In 2018, on the recommendations of residents’ welfare associations, traffic lights were installed on cycle tracks. “This is a good step by the Administration as Chandigarh is a cycle-friendly city. The cyclists will be able to use these tracks during night hours. Also, it will increase beatification of the city,” said Manoj Kundu, a cyclist.Another cyclist said, “This was much-needed thing as Chandigarh is known to be a cycle-friendly modern city of India,” said Pushpinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/installation-of-street-lights-on-cycle-tracks-begins-in-chandigarh-135982
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gross GST collection stands at Rs138.5 cr in August||The gross GST collection of the UT Administration stood at Rs138.52 crore in August, according to figures released by the Union Ministry of Finance. The revenues for August are nearly 13 per cent down of the GST collected in the same month last year.The Excise and Taxation Department has created history by achieving 100 per cent returns compliance in filing of monthly tax returns in India under the GST regime for 2017-18 and 2018-19 and 99.25 per cent in the financial year 2019-20. The department had launched ‘Mission 100%’ in January this year to accomplish 100 per cent returns compliance in filing of monthly tax returns (GSTR-3B).In August 2019, Rs160 crore was mopped up from Goods and Services Tax (GST). Of the gross collection, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) is at Rs26.34 crore, State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) Rs36.61 crore, Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) Rs74.88 crore and cess Rs0.69 crore.An official of the Excise and Taxation Department said the UT would get nearly Rs100 crore of the gross revenue collected.The official said the GST collection in July was Rs108 crore, which could be the highest so far after the lockdown. Due to the imposition of the lockdown, the UT got meagre revenue of Rs13 crore in April, which increased to Rs41 crore in May. However, with selective opening of various business establishments in Unlock.1, the revenue collection witnessed a sharp increase and the UT recorded a collection of Rs71 crore in June.On a little decline in revenue collection in August, the official attributed it the relaxation given by the government to the taxpayers with turnover less than Rs5 crore in filing of returns till September.The official said tax collection would further improve in the city with opening of bars in hotels and restaurants.The Excise and Taxation Department has created history by achieving 100 per cent returns compliance in filing of monthly tax returns in India under the GST regime for the year 2017-18 and 2018-19 and 99.25 per cent in the financial year 2019-20.The department had launched ‘Mission 100%’ in January this year to accomplish 100 per cent returns compliance in filing of monthly tax returns (GSTR-3B).The department took a number of initiatives to achieve ‘Mission 100%’ such as regular interaction with trade and industry, setting up of help desk in the office to assist the taxpayers in filing returns, regular SMSes on the mobile phones of taxpayers and sending regular messages on their e-mails.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gross-gst-collection-stands-at-rs138-5-cr-in-august-135983
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Body found at Dadu Majra||One held with fake currencyAmbala: The special task force of the Ambala police have seized fake currency notes of Rs26,000 and arrested a man in connection with the case on Thursday. The suspect has been identified as Ajit Singh, a resident of Kamal Vihar, Ambala City. In his complaint at the Ambala City police station, STF ASI Ram Kumar stated that acting on a tip-off, a naka was set up near new vegetable market. Ajit was on his way from Patiala towards Ambala City to circulate the fake currency notes in the market. He was spotted on a motorcycle and 12 notes of fake currency in the denomination of Rs2000 each and four notes in denomination of Rs500 each were recovered from his possession. The total amount of the fake notes was Rs26,000. A case has been registered under sections 489-A, 489-B, 489-C and 420 of the IPC at the Ambala City police station. Ambala City SHO Ram Kumar said, “The suspect will be produced before a court on Friday.” TNSMore evacuation flights this monthMohali: The Chandigarh international airport authorities on Thursday said Air India would operate a total of five evacuation flights from Sharjah, Doha and Dubai to Chandigarh and two similar flights from Chandigarh to Doha in September. “Indigo will operate two air bubble flights from Dubai to Chandigarh on September 9 and September 23, respectively. The detailed information of these flights will be dispersed in a regular manner on the day of operations of these flights,” the PRO of the airport said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-at-dadu-majra-135984
