06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 261 new coronavirus cases; two die||Chandigarh reported 261 new coronavirus cases on Sunday and two deaths, a medical bulletin from the Chandigarh administration said in the evening.Two men in their 50s---a 58-year-old man from Dhanas and a 50-year-old man from Manimajra---died at Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.  The bulletin said both were diabetic, and the Manimajra resident also suffered from hypertension.The developments took the union territory’s death toll to 71 from 5,763 infections. Chandigarh has been seeing a rise in both cases and fatality count since the beginning of this month. The UT has been reporting 200-plus infections every day since September 1 and has added over 1,440 infections and 15 deaths in less than a week.Forty-four per cent of the UT’s cases are still active.  Meanwhile, 149 people were released from quarantine from hospitals as well as home isolation, the bulletin said.Tricity's cases riseThe development comes on a day when Mohali reported 215 new coronavirus and eight deaths, and Panckhula recorded 137 new cases and two more deaths. Tricity’s total single-day count on Sunday stands at 613.Tricity’s been showing an uptick in cases since the beginning of this month, adding 3,777 cases---27 per cent of the its total 13,723 cases so far--- in less than a week since September 1.About 42 per cent cases are still active in the tricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-261-new-coronavirus-cases-two-die-137365
06-09-2020||Mohali||8 coronavirus fatalities take Mohali’s death count past 100||Mohali reported eight coronavirus deaths and 215 new cases on Sunday, taking the district’s infection count to 4,882, officials said.Four of the eight new fatalities were people over 60---a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon, a 71-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, a 64-year-old woman from Phase 2 and a 60-year-old man from Kurali. All four died at GMCH Patiala.Two of those who died were in their 40s---a 41-year-old man from Mohali and a 45-year-old woman from Mubarikpur. They both died at GMCH Patiala.  A 57-year-old man from Nayagaon who had hypertension died in Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 32, and a 55-year-old woman from Kharar died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.Mohali urban reported 87 of Sunday’s COVID-19 infections. Cases also came from Kharar (36), Gharuan (33), Boothgarh (2), Dhakoli (42), Dera Bassi (11), Banur (2) and Kurali (2), officials said.Mohali reported 96 new recoveries on Sunday.Forty-six per cent of Mohali’s cases are still active. The district’s death toll now stands at 107.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-coronavirus-fatalities-take-mohalis-death-count-past-100-137344
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||UT Director of School Education tests positive for coronavirus||Chandigarh’s Director of School Education Rubinderjit Brar tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, officials said.The development that comes a day after District Education Officer Harbir Singh Anand died of COVID-19. Anand, 58, died two days after he tested positive and had opted for home isolation.The UT Education Department had announced it would run COVID-19 tests for all employees of the District Education Office on Monday after four other employees tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-director-of-school-education-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-137318
06-09-2020||Aditi Tandon||Centre rushes high-level teams to Punjab, Chandigarh amid rapid surge in Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 6As India overtook Brazil to become the world’s second-most COVID-affected nation, the government drew out a plan to help states contain the disease.The Ministry of Health has rushed Central teams to Punjab and UT of Chandigarh, which have been witnessing a recent case surge and high mortality.The high-level teams will assist in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of COVID patients with the aim to reduce mortality and save lives.They will also guide in effectively addressing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow-up.The two-member teams will comprise of a Community Medicine expert from PGIMER, Chandigarh and an epidemiologist from NCDC.These teams shall be stationed in the state and UT for ten days to provide extended guidance in managing COVID.Punjab has reported a total of 60,013 cases, whereas it has 15,731 active cases on date.It has registered 1739 deaths. The testing per million figure for the state is 37,546 (India’s average figure is 34,593.1 at present).With 4.97 per cent, it hovers at the lower spectrum of cumulative positivity.Chandigarh is reporting 2095 active cases, whereas its cumulative cases stand at 5268. Testing per million and cumulative positivity stand at 38054 and 11.99 per cent, respectively.The Centre is actively supporting the states that are seeing a sudden surge in the number of COVID cases and those that are reporting high mortality by deputing multi-sectoral Central teams. The aim is to reduce overall case mortality to less than 1 pc.India’s COVID-19 load today crossed 41 lakh with a record 90,632 daily infections.As many as 31,80,865 people have recovered, taking the national recovery rate to 77.32 per cent.But the total load of 41,13,811 with 70,626 deaths (1,065 in 24 hours) has the Centre worried.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-rushes-high-level-teams-to-punjab-chandigarh-amid-rapid-surge-in-covid-cases-137263
06-09-2020||---||Mohali traders defy weekend lockdown||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 5Most shopkeepers opened their shops in the town, defying the weekend lockdown imposed by the Mohali administration.The markets at Phase I, II, V and VII remained open today and people were seen shopping there. Last week too, shopkeepers had defied the weekend lockdown but the police eventually prevailed over and got the shops closed. Today, a large number of shops remained open.‘Losing bIz to UT’The administration is not seeing that Mohali residents are now going to Chandigarh to buy things.-  Sarabjit Singh Paras, General secretary, Mohali Beopar Mandal‘Can’t meet expenses’Due to the weekend lockdown in Mohali, it is impossible for us to recover the running cost of the shop. - Amrik Singh Sajan, a shopkeeper at Phase 3B2Vineet Verma, president, Mohali Chamber of Commerce, said, “Traders do not want to clash with the administration but the government should understand their compulsion and let them do business. Most of them have to pay rent for their shops. There are other expenses also. The administration is ruining the traders financially so it was decided to open the shops today.”Phase 7 market on Saturday.Sarabjit Singh Paras, general secretary, Mohali Beopar Mandal, said, “There is no lockdown in Chandigarh and shops remain open on the weekend as well. However, we are not allowed to open shops on the weekend. The administration is not seeing that Mohali residents are now going to Chandigarh to buy things.”Amrik Singh Sajan, a shopkeeper from Phase 3B2, said, “Due to the weekend lockdown, the shops are opened only 20 days a month. It is impossible to recover the running cost of the shop, pay electricity bills, workers’ salaries and meet other expenses.”The shopkeepers’ major grouse is that all rules and regulations are imposed on them while liquor vends are operating with no fear of the police or the administration. “They are open on all days till 11 o’ clock. Is this justice? Is this how they are going to control the pandemic,” asked an irate shopkeeper.The shopkeepers refused to close their shops and staged a protest demonstration when the police tried to close the markets. Some shops in the Phase VII market were open till 7 pm.“If the government has imposed a lockdown then the traders’ tax, GST and electricity bills should be waived and people should be stopped from going out for non-essential activities,” said another shopkeeper. Sources said a group of traders had been holding meetings for the past two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-traders-defy-weekend-lockdown-137010
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records over 200 cases for 5th day in row||For the fifth consecutive day, the city reported more than 200 cases of Covid. Today, 234 fresh cases surfaced in the UT, taking the tally to 5,502.UT DEO dies of CovidDistrict Education Officer Harbir Singh Anand (58) died of Covid at the GMCH on Saturday. Anand had tested positive for the virus on Thursday and had opted for home isolation. On Friday night, his condition worsened and he was rushed to the GMCH. He was a resident of Nayagaon. His death is neither counted in the Chandigarh Covid toll nor it is reflected in Mohali toll.A Covid death was also reported today, taking the toll to 69. A 27-year-old youth from Sector 14, who had Type 2 diabetes, succumbed at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32.Chandigarh has seen a significant rise in the number of Covid cases since the beginning of the month. The UT has reported over 1,156 new cases and 13 deaths since September 1, as compared to 219 cases and five deaths in the first five days of August.Nearly 39 per cent of Covid cases in the city are active.UT District Education Officer Harbir Singh Anand died of Covid at the GMCH around 4 am today. He was 58.Anand had tested positive on Thursday and opted for home isolation. On Friday night, his condition worsened as his oxygen saturation level dipped. He was rushed to the GMCH. His death is neither counted in the Chandigarh Covid toll nor of Mohali. He was a resident of Nayagaon.Members of the UT Joint Action Committee of teachers appealed to the Administration to make a policy for providing financial help to employees who contracted the virus on duty. Meanwhile, four more employees of the District Education Office have tested positive. The UT Education Department has decided to test the employees of the District Education Office for Covid on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-over-200-cases-for-5th-day-in-row-137049
06-09-2020||Panchkula||Three more die in Panchkula||The district today reported three Covid-induced deaths, taking the toll to 28. Besides, 142 fresh cases of coronavirus surfaced, raising the tally to 2,941. Six of the new patients are employed at Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence.An 80-year-old man from Pinjore, a 55-year-old man from Majri Chowk, Old Panchkula and a 55-year-old man from Pinjore succumbed to the virus. All three had co-morbidities. Fourteen persons from Haripur tested positive for Covid today. Among the new cases, 13 each were reported from Kalka and Sector 15, nine each from Raipur Rani and Sector 20, seven from Sector 19, six each from the MDC, Sector 4, and Sector 14, five each from Sector 10, Sector 25 and Sector 26, four each from Pinjore and Sector 12, three each from Amravati, Barwala, Sector 16, Sector 21, Sector 27 and Sector 9, two each from Chandikotla, Indira Colony, Sector 12-A, Sector 2 and Sector 7 and one each from Kot, Madanpur, the MDC, Sector 5, Old Panchkula, Raipur Rani, Sector 11, Sector 6 and Surajpur. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-die-in-panchkula-137051
06-09-2020||Mohali||8-month-old girl among five succumb in Mohali||The district today reported five Covid-induced deaths and 172 new cases. As many as 79 patients were discharged from the hospital in the past 24 hours.An eight-month-old girl became the youngest Covid fatality in Mohali. She succumbed to the virus at the PGI in Chandigarh today. The patient, a resident of Phase 1, was admitted to the hospital on September 3. “The cause of her death is septic shock and Covid pneumonia,” said an official of the Health Department. A 60-year-old man from Kurali breathed his last at the GMCH in Patiala. A 52-year-old woman from Dera Bassi died at the PGI.A 60-year-old man from Mohali too died at the Patiala hospital. He was suffering from an auto-immune disease. A 65-year-old man from Kansal, who was a patient of diabetes, succumbed at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh.Among the fresh cases surfaced in the district today, Mohali reported 55, Kharar (24), Gharuan (38), Dhakoli (28), Dera Bassi (9), Boothgarh and Kurali (7), Lalru (3) and Banur (1).So far, the district has witnessed a total of 4,667 Covid cases, of which 2,146 are active. As many as 2,422 patients have been discharged from the hospital while 99 have lost their lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-month-old-girl-among-five-succumb-in-mohali-137060
06-09-2020||Panchkula||Flesh trade racket busted at guest house in Morni||The local police busted a flesh trade racket being operated from a guest house near Bajorli village in Morni here.On a tip-off, the police conducted a raid on Shiwalik Guest House and rescued two women, who were allegedly forced into prostitution. The manager of the guest house was arrested.A police spokesperson said a decoy customer was sent to the guest house around 9.30 pm on Friday.The guest house manager, identified as Isham Singh from Chandimandir, demanded Rs7,000 from the decoy customer for providing him a woman and booking a room. After the deal was struck, the manager booked the room while the decoy customer informed the police.Panchkula ACP Raj Kumar, Chandimandir SHO Deepak Kumar and several police officials reached the guest house around 10.50 pm and conducted a raid.The police nabbed the guest house manager and recovered a mobile phone and Rs7,000 from him. The manager told the police that the guest house was owned by Mahendra Singh of Bhoj Naita. The police also rescued two women, who revealed that they were forced into prostitution by two Zirakpur residents — Harjeet and Mani.A case was registered against the manager and the owner of the guest house besides the two suppliers under various sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. ACP Raj Kumar said, “A hunt is on to nab the three suspects who are absconding.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flesh-trade-racket-busted-at-guest-house-in-morni-137062
06-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh 70% active cases in home isolation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5Amid a growing infection rate of the city, nearly 70 per cent of the active Covid patients have opted for home isolation.This has left the Covid care centres almost vacant as barely 621 patients are lodged at 10 centres in the city. Of nearly 2,100 active cases, 1,480 patients have opted for home isolation.When to seek medical attentionPatients in Covid care centresA 55-year-old patient, who preferred home isolation, said, “There is no need to get oneself admitted to a hospital or Covid centre when a similar treatment is possible at home. More than anything, it is the separation from family and mental exhaustion that disturb a patient most at a centre.”Dr G Dewan, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said, “Patients are more likely to recover in home isolation with the family around. The psychosomatic issues of a patient are resolved under home isolation. With a large number of patients opting for home isolation, the available resources are not exhausted and provided to needy patients.”“The list of patients under home isolation is shared with Covid helpdesk officials at the Chandigarh Housing Board office. Our focus is on the patients with co-morbid conditions. Repeated health follow-ups are done by doctors via phone,” he said. Dewan said, “A rapid response team is available round the clock for patients under home isolation. If a patient develops breathlessness or any other complication, an ambulance is dispatched to his/her residence and the patient is referred to either the GMCH or the PGI.”As per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, patients suffering from immune-compromised status (HIV, transplant recipients, cancer therapy etc) are not eligible for home isolation. However, patients aged above 60 and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/kidney disease, cerebrovascular disease etc shall only be allowed home isolation after evaluation by the treating medical officer.Wellness kitsThe home isolation patients are being provided with wellness kits comprising paracetamol, Vitamin C, multivitamin with zinc, ORS and Azee tablets.Pulse oximetersDr G Dewan said, “Even though our rapid response team carries oximeters for a check-up, patients are advised to purchase pulse oximeters for regular monitoring of oxygen saturation level at home. The saturation up to 95 per cent is satisfactory. In case it is below that level, a doctor should be informed immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-70-active-cases-in-home-isolation-137063
06-09-2020||---||It’s official, Punjab University to conduct final semester exams from Sept 17||Chandigarh, September 5Panjab University today officially announced to conduct final semester exams of both postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) courses in a blended (online/offline) mode from September 17 to 30.Exam procedureScraps entrance testsHowever, the practical examinations for UG/PG exit or terminal classes will be conducted online from September 10 to 15. The roll number of the students will be uploaded on the university’s website from September 12.The UG exams will be of two hours: from 9 am to 11 am. The question papers, as per the date sheet, will be uploaded on the website, puchd.ac.in, at 8.30am and these will also be emailed to the Chairperson/Director/Principal, who will send the question paper to the students concerned using different electronic modes. The Director/Principal of the institute/college/USOL will also upload the question paper on their official website from where the students will download the paper.After two hours, the students will send back a scanned answer book by uploading the same to the source. If by any chance, they are unable to submit online, they can submit the same in a sealed envelope physically to the nearest nodal centre or by registered/speed post and a list of all nodal centres will be uploaded on the university’s website.Similarly, the PG exam will be held from 10 am to 12 am.Special chanceIn case, the student cannot appear online, a special extra chance will be given to appear for the physical exam as and when the situation improves. The evaluation will be completed within five days of termination of exams and results will be declared accordingly.Coordination committeePU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar has constituted a special monitoring coordination committee, which will monitor day-to-day issues related to exams, technical hurdles, administrative issues and logistics pertaining to online exams. A special dedicated email will be generated by the controller office for addressing grievances regarding online exams. The nodal centre will be created where all kinds of facilities related to online conduct/post conduct activities will be provided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-official-punjab-university-to-conduct-final-semester-exams-from-sept-17-137097
06-09-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration in no mood to give full grant-in-aid to MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5In what seems to be a blow to the cash-starved Municipal Corporation (MC), the Chandigarh Administration is in no mood to give any relaxation in cut in Rs425 crore grant-in-aid (GIA) due to the Covid-19 pandemic.‘Own funds inadequate’Reacting on recent letter shot off by Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav requesting for not deducting the grant, a senior UT officer said, “Cut will be there since our own funds are inadequate due to the Covid-19 pandemic.”Reacting on recent letter shot off by Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav requesting for not deducting the grant, a senior UT officer told Chandigarh Tribune, “Cut will be there since our own funds are inadequate due to the Covid-19 pandemic.”The corporation recently wrote to the Administration to release its full GIA of Rs425 crore, which the UT deducted a few months ago.The civic body has been facing an acute fund crunch over the last few years, but on its part failed to do much other than just raising taxes.The MC failed to dispose of its vacant booths and could not curtail its wasteful expenditure. The MC has been asking for funds from the Administration, but all in vain.However, due to its added responsibilities during the Covid times, it needs more funds, which has been highlighted in a letter to the Secretary, Local Government i.e. UT Home Secretary. It has been pointed out that more funds are required for the sanitation of quarantine areas, additional manpower, machinery, purchasing PPE kits and sanitisers.The civic body has committed an expenditure of about Rs 60 crore each month. The unavoidable expenditure includes salaries, pension, electricity, water bills, maintenance and other costs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-in-no-mood-to-give-full-grant-in-aid-to-mc-137101
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||26K to appear for NDA exam in Chandigarh||As many as 26,013 candidates will appear for National Defence Academy (NDA) examination scheduled to be held in 65 government schools of the city tomorrow.The exam will consist of a mathematics paper to be held from 10 am to 12:30 pm and a general ability exam from 2 pm to 4:30 pm. As there are no examination centres in Punjab and Haryana, students from both states are expected to come to Chandigarh to take the exam.InstructionsAmid the Covid-19 pandemic, some new rules are to be followed during the NDA 2020 written exam. These include mandatory wearing of mask/face cover for all candidates. The candidates without a mask or face cover will not be allowed to enter the venue. They will have to remove their masks for verification, whenever required by the examination functionaries.The candidate may carry a hand sanitiser (small size) in a transparent bottle. They will be requested to follow all Covid-19 norms such social distancing as well as personal hygiene inside the examination halls/rooms as well as within the premises of the venue.Dates of NDA,JEE (Main) clashStudents desirous of taking both JEE (Main) and the National Defence Academy (NDA) exam are in a dilemma as the date and time of the two exams are clashing. Some students have also written to the National Testing Authority (NTA) authorities regarding the change in exam dates, but no communication has been received from the latter so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26k-to-appear-for-nda-exam-in-chandigarh-137102
06-09-2020||---||3 Mohali teachers bag state award||Mohali, September 5Three teachers from the district have bagged the State Teacher Award-2020.Kuljeet Kaur, a biology teacher at the GSSS, Kurali; Sandhya Sharma, Principal, GSSS, Gobindgarh, and Amanpreet Kaur, CHT, GPS Amlala, have been felicitated for their commendable work.The Education Department under the guidance of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Education Secretary Krishan Kumar conducted an online function to honour the teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-mohali-teachers-bag-state-award-137103
06-09-2020||---||Placement rate at PEC improves||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5Punjab Engineering College (PEC) observed a 28.05 per cent increase in the total number of placement offers this year, said officials. The minimum cap (cut-off) to become eligible for placement has also been removed.The Office of Centre for Information and Media (CIM) organised an online session with PEC Director Dr Dheeraj Sanghi and Head, Career Development and Guidance Centre, Dr JD Sharma.“In 2019-20, PEC observed 28.05 per cent increase in the total number of placements. A total of 461 offers have been rolled out to the 2019-20 batch (as compared with 360 last year) through campus placements. A total of 145 companies participated in the placement session,” said Sanghi. He said despite the pandemic, PEC had improved in the NIRF rankings from 78 last year to 68 thsi year. “The average salary was recorded at Rs10.2 lakh per annum, an increase of 8.5 per cent from last year (Rs9.4 lakh). Pre-placement offers (PPO) increased from 83 to 89, a positive growth of 7.2 per cent,” added Sanghi.“The highest salary offered to the 2020 batch is recorded at Rs42 lakh (per annum) by Microsoft and the average package in 2019-20 has been 10.2 lakh.”Coding sector popularThe highest number of offers was made in the coding sector, followed by core companies, analytics and consulting firms. “According to the special placement drive (SPD) from June 1 to June 30, there were more than 22 companies that conducted the virtual process for placements in a short span of time,” said Sharma.Nearly 83 per cent of students have joined the companies and the remaining are in the process of waiting to hear from their employers. “We are still continuing with the 2020 placements till September 2020. Internships also witnessed a boom with more than 75 partner companies and several new companies on board. The highest internship stipend was recorded at Rs1.5 lakh per month. A total of 26 students were offered international internships for six months,” Sharma said.Special focus on students scoring less CGPA“PEC became the first institute to award degrees to 2020 batch pass-outs in order to help them move forward with their jobs and joining. We have started early training batches, lowered eligibility criteria for placements and are making special efforts for the students, who scored lower CGPAs. This is coupled with free online courses being made available to all students of PEC on reputed online platforms,” said Sanghi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/placement-rate-at-pec-improves-137106
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Schools, colleges celebrate Teacher’s Day||St Soldier’s, Mohali, organised a function to honour teachers to mark Teacher’s Day. The event began with a speech by Principal Anjli Sharma. She applauded teachers for their promptness in learning to use technology and various video-conferencing apps for successfully conducting online classes. Chairman Karnail Singh Brar honoured the teachers with awards for their outstanding and meticulous work during the last session. Seven teachers were felicitated for completing 10 years in the school.Teacher-student tradition explainedOn the occasion of Teacher’s Day, the Department of Guru Nanak Sikh Studies organised a programme, ‘Role of Guru & NEP 2020’, at Google Meet. Research scholars, students and a few alumni remained associated with the programme and explained the teacher-student tradition and significant role of teacher in students’ life.Webinar on NEPA webinar on ‘Badalte Bharat ka Swarup: National Education Policy’ was organised by the Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP), in collaboration with Dr BR Ambedkar Centre, Panjab University, to celebrate Teacher’s Day.Teachers’ work applaudedChandigarh: Punjab Engineering College (PEC) virtually celebrated Teacher’s Day. Director Dheeraj Sanghi. emphasised the deification shown by the teachers to move swiftly from the traditional mode of teaching to online mode and applauded them for their work.Online panel discussionTo commemorate the birth anniversary of Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, an online panel discussion was organised by the Department of Education, Panjab University. The panel discussion was inaugurated by Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University. Prof Kumar highlighted the importance of teachers in the building of a nation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-colleges-celebrate-teachers-day-137107
06-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Joint Director post to be filled soon: Sports Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5The post of Joint Director Sports (JDS), which has been lying vacant for the past 10 months, is expected to be filled soon as the Sports Secretary confirmed that the process to get nod from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) was on the verge of completion. Awaits UPSC replySince Chandigarh does not have any rules or policy for promoting its own coaches, the JDS chair is filled by a person from outside the cadre.The process has been opposed many a times. However, the demand to promote eligible coaches to higher ranks has been ignored.The UT follows Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993. As per the Clause, the post of the JDS should be filled by a Class-I officer of the state or the Centre having an experience and background of sports or sports administration. No criteria or re-drafting has been framed to promote coaches even after an initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997.“We don’t have any option. Since we follow Punjab rules, we cannot fill this Grade-I post directly. We started streamlining the process after I joined in. We had recently sent some queries to the UPSC and are expecting to start the process soon. I believe the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed things,” said KK Yadav, Sports Secretary.“There should be an inter-departmental promotion policy for the benefit of coaches. If a coach becomes District Sports Officer (DSO) and then JDS, it gives stability to the department and its functioning. Let’s see, what UPSC clears for us. We are expecting to get over with this soon,” said Yadav.‘It’s about giving a chance”Former DSO KS Bharti, who also remained JDS for a brief period, said former Adviser Vijay Dev had clearly instructed the Home Department to not keep the post vacant for a period of four months. “The orders are very well notified in the records of the department, but no one implements these. The coaches in the department are well experienced in handling things and once you attain knowledge in clerical work, things start moving in the right direction. It’s about giving a chance,” said Bharti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/joint-director-post-to-be-filled-soon-sports-secretary-137109
06-09-2020||---||Cheating case against builder||Chandigarh, September 5The Chandigarh Police have registered a cheating case against a builder.A case under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 34 police station on the complaint of a woman, a resident of Nada Sahib, Panchkula.The woman alleged that PL Middha, Director, M/S UT Builders and Promoters Limited, Sector 34-A, cheated her of Rs 35 lakh on the pretext of selling flats at Dera Bassi and Zirakpur.The police have booked the builder and initiated investigations into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cheating-case-against-builder-137129
06-09-2020||---||Chandigarh fails to improve ranking, remains at 29th position||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5The UT has failed to improve its ranking and remained at the 29th position in the national ranking on ease of doing business ranking released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade today.In the previous joint ranking released for the years 2017-18, the UT had gained two steps and ranked 29th. It was placed at the 31st position in 2016.However, top states under the State Reform Action Plan - 2019 are Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. Neighbouring Haryana ranked at the 16th position and Punjab at the 19th position.The ranking was based on the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan started in 2015. The Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 includes 180 reform points covering 12 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single window system, labour, environment, etc.The larger objective of attracting investments and increasing ease of doing business in each state was sought to be achieved by introducing an element of healthy competition through a system of ranking states based on their performance in the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan.The ranking this time gives full weightage to the feedback from over 30,000 respondents at the ground level, who gave their opinion about the effectiveness of the reforms. State rankings will help attract investments, foster healthy competition and increase ease of doing business in each state.The main reason behind low ranking in ease of doing business in Chandigarh was non-implementation of the Chandigarh Industrial Policy of 2015, said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries.“Major points of the setback are non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold and no increase in FAR. There is rigidity of the rules here, leaving no scope for growth and ease of doing in business,” he said adding that Chandigarh’s loss is Punjab and Haryana’s gain.“This is a serious matter. The Administration needs to do serious introspection. It may outsource consultants for thorough study and analysis, involving the industry, who are the real stakeholders. Bringing in changes/amendments in age-old rules and regulations will not only add value to the revenues of the industry, but also to the state exchequer,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fails-to-improve-ranking-remains-at-29th-position-137146
06-09-2020||---||Sector 42 residents object to electricity bills of six months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5Facing financial crisis due to the pandemic, several residents of Sector 42 here have received electricity bills of the past six months in one go.The residents said the Electricity Department should have issued bills as per the cycle being followed before the lockdown. Due to the lockdown, jobs and/or business of several people had been affected and now the department had sent electricity bill of six months.NR Saini, a member of the Resident Welfare Association, Sector 42, said they had raised the issue with the Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) to be taken up with the higher authorities.Seeking relief from the authorities, Hitesh Puri, chairman, CRAWFED, said he had written a letter to the higher authorities in this regard so that people do not face any kind of trouble.Saini said the Administration should allow them to pay the bills in two or three instalments so that the people are not burdened.A senior official of the Electricity Department said there might be some cases and they were looking into it.Consumers would not able to get the benefit of lower slabs in the six-month bill, said RK Garg, a social activist.Earlier, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission had directed the Electricity Department to switch over to monthly billing system for all categories of consumers, except agriculture water pumping supply, in order to reduce financial burden on the consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-42-residents-object-to-electricity-bills-of-six-months-137147
06-09-2020||---||Probe 2 plaints of caste discrimination, DC told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has asked the UT Deputy Commissioner to inquire into two complaints of discrimination on caste basis. The complaintIn a complaint filed with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, UT, Akash, Babita, Jonny, Sokinder, Vikram, Rupinder Singh and Sandeep Singh stated that they had joined Infosys Red Cross Serai, PGI, as house-keeping staff and chowkidars two years ago through Asmi Industries. The serai manager started harassing them. Heused to belittle them by using coercive language against them, they alleged.The complaints were filed by Akash Kumar and others and Rupinder Singh and others under the SC/ST Act against the manager of Infosys Red Cross Sarai, Chandigarh, for harassment on caste basis.In the complaint filed with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes office, UT, Akash, Babita, Jonny, Sokinder, Vikram, Rupinder Singh and Sandeep Singh stated that they joined Infosys Red Cross Serai, PGI, as house-keeping staff and chowkidars two years ago through Asmi Industries. The serai manager started harassing them. He used to belittle them by using coercive language against them, they alleged.The complainants alleged the official used to ill-treat them as they belonged to the SC category.Due to the pandemic, the serai was designated as a Covid care centre and persons suffering from coronavirus were admitted there. When they requested the manager to give them sanitisers and masks, the manager abused them and discharged them from their duties without giving any prior notice and reason, they alleged.“We were discharged from our duties just because we demanded what was rightfully ours,” they said.The Commission also asked the Deputy Commissioner to submit the facts and information on the action taken on the allegations within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-2-plaints-of-caste-discrimination-dc-told-137149
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Playgrounds inaugurated at Mani Majra's Modern Housing Complex||Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Jagga inaugurated playgrounds at the Modern Housing Complex in Sector 13 (Mani Majra) here today.Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president of the RWA, Modern Housing Complex, said the demand of over 12,000 residents of the MHC comprising flats, duplex houses and Rajeev Vihar for a playground had been fulfilled.He said since there was not a single playground in the MHC, children used to play in garage leading to injuries, apart from damaging properties and four-wheelers.Responding to a letter written to the Chief Engineer recently, a vast stretch of a vacant land behind duplex houses was converted in to ad-hoc playgrounds.He said officials assured them that the playgrounds would be maintained properly.SA Qureshi, general secretary, urged residents to encourage young ones in their respective areas to make use of this sports facility.VP Nagpal, president of the Senior Citizens’ Welfare Association, MHC, thanked the Municipal Corporation for the playgrounds. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/playgrounds-inaugurated-at-mani-majras-modern-housing-complex-137150
06-09-2020||---||Veggie vendor accuses  policemen of thrashing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5A vegetable vendor has alleged that he was thrashed by police personnel at Dhanas. Sources said the police personnel were asking vendors to park their vegetable carts at some distance to maintain social distancing.Lucky alleged that he was asked to remove his cart and park it somewhere else following which he moved little ahead. However, a cop arrived there and slapped him.The incident led to an altercation following which Lucky was forcefully taken by the cops in their private car, which was recorded by a local resident on a mobile phone.Lucky alleged that the cops took him to a place and thrashed him. They later asked him to give a written apology else he would be framed in a case.The police refuted the allegation and claimed that in view of the pandemic, vegetable vendors were asked not to park their carts together as people also gather there, which violates social distancing norms. However, vendors don’t follow the directions and argue with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veggie-vendor-accuses-policemen-of-thrashing-137151
06-09-2020||---||People voluntarily come forward to give samples at Mohali hospitals||Mohali, September 5More and more people are coming forward to give their samples for Covid testing at various hospitals in Mohali district.Close to 100 people were seen queuing up for registration at the Civil Hospital in Phase VI here today. The registration process begins at 9 am and samples of all individuals, who reach the hospital till noon, are collected. The hospital authorities have made arrangements to ensure that there is no overcrowding and the people are not inconvenienced during the sampling process.“After the registration process, people have to take a seat and wait for their turn. They are called one by one to give their samples at the Covid testing pod. It hardly takes two minutes to give a sample,” said Naresh Kumar, a local resident who came to give his samples.Health officials say people are coming voluntarily to ensure their well-being. “Some of them are hale and hearty. But they do not want to take a chance. There are persons who have mild fever or any other potential symptom. They too want to get themselves tested for Covid-19 without any delay,” said one of the testing staff.Young, middle-aged and elderly persons could be seen patiently waiting for their turn in the seating area.Inquiries from several persons revealed that it takes only one-and-a-half-hour for the entire process once you enter the hospital.“One can easily walk-in and get himself or herself tested without any hassle. No documents, not even Aadhaar card, are required for undergoing Covid test. All you have to do is register yourself by giving your details such as name, age, address and phone number. I heard that giving a sample is a painful process, but I found it comfortable,” said Shreshta, a local resident.Health officials said: “Normally, the test report comes in three days. If a person tests positive, he is contacted on the cell phone. If the report is negative, a person can collect his/her report from the hospital”.Helpline for collection of samples from homeMax Hospital on Saturday announced the start of collection of samples from home for Covid testing in the tricity. RT-PCR tests will be conducted at the rates fixed by the government. For collection of samples from home, a helpline number (0120-4868010) has been launched. The facility is available from 8 am to 8 pm. On Friday, The Tribune had highlighted that home collection of samples for Covid testing had not taken off in Mohali hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-voluntarily-come-forward-to-give-samples-at-mohali-hospitals-137152
06-09-2020||---||Positivity rate ranges from 15-20% in Panchkula district||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 5“Weeks after the introduction of rapid antigen tests to boost testing in Panchkula, district’s positivity rate, which indicates prevalence of Covid-19 infection, using kits ranges between 15 and 20 per cent,” said the Health Department. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive to total tests.On the other hand, the positivity rate for Covid-19 during RT-PCR was about 20 per cent in the last four days.Rapid antigen tests involve checking nasal swab sampled for antigens that are found on or within the virus SARS-Cov-2 that causes Covid-19.Officials said, “Unlike RT-PCR, which is the gold standard time for Covid diagnosis and takes at least seven to eight hours to show results, antigen test gives immediate results.”According to protocol, every positive report from rapid antigen tests is considered as ‘true positive’, while negative samples of symptomatic persons have to be re-tested by RT-PCR.Panchkula is aggressively using rapid antigen tests. The antigen tests are being conducting at all 19 sampling centres. Kits have also been distributed among anganwadi and ASHA workers, involved in house to house survey, to test suspected patients using the same.Of the 42,682 samples taken from across the district through both RT-PCR and antigen process till September 5, 3,791 have come out positive, of which 2,971 are Panchkula residents. The cumulative positivity rate is 8.8 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/positivity-rate-ranges-from-15-20-in-panchkula-district-137153
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||41 AC buses to be added to Chandigarh fleet||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will soon get a fleet of 41 AC buses for long routes.An official said the CTU had recently floated a tender for procurement of new 41 fully built-up HVAC diesel BS-VI buses. The allotment of the tender was under process, he added.The cost of a bus would be nearly Rs 37 lakh and have seating capacity for 47 persons with adequate space for luggage, he said. The buses would also have LED TV for entertainment of the passengers, he added.The buses would ply mostly on long routes in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, he said.Meanwhile, the UT Administration had yesterday decided to resume interstate bus service from September 16.The Administration had suspended the interstate bus operation on March 23 in view of the Covid-10 pandemic.The Administration has also allowed the HVAC/AC buses to operate with Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government from time to time.Buses have to maintain standard operating procedure (SoP) as a preventative measure to spread the pandemic of Covid-19. The CTU has a total strength is 514 buses, 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 run on interstate routes covering Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir.Before the lockdown, the CTU buses used to travel nearly 1.20 lakh km per day and approximately 2 lakh commuters used to commute daily in the CTU buses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/41-ac-buses-to-be-added-to-chandigarh-fleet-137154
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||65 donate blood at camp||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in collaboration with OT Staff Welfare Society PGI, Chandigarh, organised a blood donation camp to commemorate Teacher’s Day. As many as 65 donors participated in the event. The camp was inaugurated by DSP Ram Gopal.ABVP Punjab state president Dr Rajan Bhandari, Chandigarh mahanagar president Rajneesh Sharma, secretary Ajay Sood and Vibhag Sangathan Mantri Sandeep Azad were also present at the camp. Event convener Sukhraj Gill thanked all donors. Senior Deputy Mayor Ravikant Sharma, Joshi Foundation chairman Vineet Joshi, ABVP Chandigarh mahanagar vice-president Rajneesh Behra, joint secretary Riya Swami, Dr Amit Narula and Teginder Singh were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-donate-blood-at-camp-137155
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Let’s combat pandemic together: Babla to Guv||“The coronavirus pandemic has now reached alarming heights, but the Administration refuses to learn a lesson and wake up from deep slumber,” wrote, Devinder Singh Babla, leader of the Opposition in the MC, to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.“On August 12, I had personally written to His Excellency calling for an immediate joint meeting of the Administration and the corporation, but unfortunately nothing substantial came out of it. Till date, we are still waiting for the minutes of the meeting and the action taken thereafter,” Babla state in the letter to Badnore.“Our Member of Parliament seems to be more interested in having nursing homes in residential areas rather than dealing with the epidemic,” Babla added.“We are shocked that besides having a world class institute like the PGI we are asking for medical help from the Centre. The whole system and planning to deal with Covid has collapsed and may God be the saviour of the city residents,” said Babla.“My humble request is to rise above all political parties and their differences and combat this pandemic together in the interest of humanity and mankind,” said Babla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lets-combat-pandemic-together-babla-to-guv-137156
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGI Covid duty orders to be reviewed||The PGIMER director has confirmed that orders regarding Covid duty at Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE) and off days would be reviewed.“Genuine demands of the Nurses Association have already been given due consideration, which include six hours duty for seven days followed by five days off and provision of transport during duty period,” said Prof Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER“The PGIMER administration has given due attention to safety, security and comfort of healthcare workers during the war against the Covid-19 pandemic. We understand the fact that nurses make the heart of any healthcare system and are the most essential asset in these challenging times,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-covid-duty-orders-to-be-reviewed-137158
06-09-2020||---||Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked due to landslide||Mandi, September 5The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked for traffic movement on Saturday morning due to a massive landslide near Dwada in Mandi.A large number of vehicles got stuck on both sides of the road. These were either coming to Mandi from Kullu side or going to Kullu from Mandi side. A majority of the commuters walked back to either Kullu or Mandi.Many landslides were reported in the area since morning. A huge portion of a hilltop came down on the road and the land continued to slide, posing a threat to the workforce of the district administration and the National Highways Authority of India who were trying to restore the highway.Additional District Magistrate, Mandi, Shrawan Manta said the workforce and the machinery had been engaged to clear the road but land kept sliding.“It is difficult to clear debris from the road at Dwada, which is prone to landslides, at night. Big boulders have been falling down on the road. However, the highway is expected to be restored for traffic movement by Sunday afternoon,” he said.“We have diverted the traffic via Kataula between Mandi and Kullu district for the movement of light vehicles until the Chandigarh-Manali highway is restored for traffic movement. Adequate police force has been deployed at Dwada to monitor the situation,” he added. People are advised to avoid travelling on the Chandigarh-Manali highway till it it is restored for traffic movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-manali-highway-blocked-due-to-landslide-137121
06-09-2020||---||‘Humiliated’ by panchayat, Dera Bassi man ends life||Dera Bassi, September 5In an incident that reeks of kangaroo court proceedings, an elderly man committed suicide due to humiliation after he was forced to take off his turban and place it at the feet of a village panch.The police have booked six persons, including the village sarpanch, for abetting suicide of a 52-year-old man Shyam Singh in Shatabgarh village near here today. The deceased, in a suicide note found in his pocket, stated that he was ending his life by hanging to death after facing humiliation by the village panchayat. On the basis of the statement of the deceased’s son Virender Singh, police have booked sarpanch Usha Devi, her husband Baljit Singh, former sarpanch Jai Singh, Ranjit Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Jagpal Singh.Inspector Gurwant Singh said, “The deceased’s son said that a false case was foisted on his father for obstructing the construction work of streets in the village.Shyam Singh claimed it to be his property while the accused claimed that it was village land.” A village panchayat was called where the deceased was asked to apologise by placing his turban at former sarpanch Jai Singh’s feet. Feeling humiliated, my father committed suicide,” said Virender Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/humiliated-by-panchayat-dera-bassi-man-ends-life-136997
