08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports new high with 377 coronavirus cases||Chandigarh recorded 377 new COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours--- reported a new single-day high for the union territory---an administration-issued medical bulletin showed on Tuesday evening.This over a hundred cases more than its previous high of 276 new cases on September 4, and takes the union territory’s figures to 6,372.Chandigarh also reported one death---a 72-year-old woman from Hallomajra who died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 on Tuesday. The bulletin says she died of “complex cardiorespiratory complications” that the virus caused.Chandigarh’s cases have been spiralling all of this month---the UT has been recorded over 200 cases each day since September 1, and has already recorded 2,026 new coronavirus cases and 19 deaths since then. More than a quarter of Chandigarh’s cases are still active.The development would also mean that cases on in the tricity---Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula---would hit a record single-day high of 714 for the first time.Chandigarh’s upward graph in COVID-19 cases corresponds with a similar increase in cases in both Mohali and Panchkula---the three together have nearly 15,000 cases, 38 per cent of which are still active.   Tricity has seen a 145 per cent rise in cases since the end of August.The Tricity’s death toll stands at 227.Where Tricity standsChandigarhTotal: 6372Active: 2334Deaths: 75MohaliTotal: 5274Active: 2206Deaths: 116PanchkulaTotal: 3315Active: 1240Deaths: 36||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-new-high-with-377-coronavirus-cases-138280
08-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths and 169 COVID-19 cases||Panchkula reports two deaths and 169 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 36.The city records 3,315 cases.COVID-19 deaths:A 69-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 19 succumbed to the deadly disease.Both suffered from diabetes.COVID-19 cases:Among the fresh cases, 18 from Kalka, 14 from Pinjore, 8 from Sector 15, 7 each from Bhairon Ki Shair, Sector 14 and Sector 19, 6 each from Banna, Sector 16, Sector 20 and Sector 21, 5 each from Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 25, Sector 27 and Sector 4, 4 each from MDC Sector 5 and Sector 26, 3 each from Barwala, Marranwala, Moginand, Ramgarh, Sector 12A and Sector 17, 2 each are from Abullapur, Industrial Area Phase 2, Karanpur, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 2, Sector 28 and Tipra, one each from Abheypur, Amravati Enclave, Bhainsa Tibba, Chandimandir, Indira Colony, Kot, Lohgarh, Maheshpur, Manakpur, Sector 12, Sector 22, Sector 3, Sector 6, Sector 7, Surajpur and Tagra Hakimpur.Panchkula has 1,240 active cases. To date, the city has conducted 47,057 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-2-deaths-and-169-covid-19-cases-138255
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 3 deaths and 168 COVID-19 cases; total at 116||Mohali reports three deaths and 168 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 116. The district records 5,274 cases. At least 317 patients have recovered from the deadly disease. COVID-19 deaths: 1. A 40-year-old male from Sunny Enclave died in Sohana. He had hypertension. 2. A 70-year-old female from Dera Bassi died at GMCH 32, Chandigarh.3. A 58-year-old male from Mohali died at PGIMER. He had liver disease. COVID-19 case: Mohali reports 2,206 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-3-deaths-and-168-covid-19-cases-total-at-116-138246
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University releases datesheet for online exams of exit classes||Panjab University on Tuesday released the datesheet for conducting the online exams of undergraduate and postgraduate exit classes. The datesheet has been released along with the guidelines and is available on the PU website (http://puchd.ac.in). The university announced the development in a tweet saying:"The datesheet for conduct of #onlineexams of UG/PG exit classes has been released alongwith the guidelines. Visit PU website for details: http://puchd.ac.in"The datesheet for conduct of #onlineexams of UG/PG exit classes has been released alongwith the guidelines. Visit PU website for details: https://t.co/g4hqnTsiCw@ugc_india @PunjabGovtIndia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-datesheet-for-online-exams-of-exit-classes-138179
08-09-2020||Mohali||6 more dead in Mohali, 224 fresh cases||Six Covid deaths and 224 new cases were reported from Mohali district today. As many as 117 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours.A 71-year-old man from Sector 71 died at Ivy Hospital, Mohali. An 84-year-old man from Mohali was the eldest fatality of the day. He was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and was admitted to Grecian Hospital. The youngest fatality of the day was a 33-year-old woman from Sector 91 who died at Shalby Hospital. A 58-year-old woman from Jawaharpur died at Command Hospital, Chandimandir. She was also diabetic and hypertensive. A 70-year-old woman from Phase IV died at a Sohana hospital. At Mayo Hospital, a 57-year-old man from Sector 78 died today.Most of the cases reported were from Mohali urban (82), Dhakoli (67), Gharuan (28), Kharar (27), Dera Bassi (16), Lalru (three) and Kurali (one).As of now, there are a total of 5,106 cases, of which 2,358 are active. As many as 2,635 patients have recovered from the virus till now. With six deaths today, the toll in the district has gone up to 113. Yesterday, eight deaths and 215 new Covid cases were reported.What the DC saysOn September 4, 946 samples were collected in the district — 669 for the RT-PCR test, 19 for TruNat and 258 for the antigen test. Similarly, on September 5, 855 samples were collected — 554 for the RT-PCR test, 23 for TruNat and 278 for the antigen test. — Girish Dayalan, Mohali DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-dead-in-mohali-224-fresh-cases-137848
08-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula district reports 2 more deaths, 88 cases||The district today reported 88 new Covid cases and two deaths. At least 20 cases have not been added to the final count for unspecified reasons. Hence, the tally of cases in the district stood at 3,146 with 1,214 active cases.An 86-year-old woman from Sector 4, who was hypertensive, succumbed to the disease. A 55-year-old woman from Pinjore with chronic kidney disease also died of Covid.Among the fresh cases, 18 are from Kalka, 11 from Pinjore, four from Sector 19, three from Sector 20, two each from the MDC, Sector 5, 10, 16, 21, 25, 26, 4, Tangra Kaliram and Tipra, and one each from Amrawati, Budanpur, Haripur, Indira Colony, Khera Sita Ram, Ratewali, Sector 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 28, 6 and 8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-district-reports-2-more-deaths-88-cases-137849
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to shift testing centres from market in Sector 11||Covid testing centres will be shifted from the Sector 11 market by Thursday. UT Adviser Manoj Parida assured the local market association that the centres would be shifted to Parade Ground, Sector 17, Exhibition Ground, Sector 34, sites at IT Park, Sector 42 lake, Sector 10 road near the museum and Mani Majra. Private laboratories have to follow all precautions and safety measures.Earlier, a delegation of traders, led by Diwakar Sahoonja, president of the Market Welfare Association, Sector 11, Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, and councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu held a meeting in this regard with Parida. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-shift-testing-centres-from-market-in-sector-11-137850
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||3 more lose life in Chandigarh||The city reported three more deaths due to Covid-19 today, taking its toll to 74.A 45-year-old woman from Dhanas died at the PGI in Chandigarh. She was diabetic. A 72-year-old woman from Sector 43 died at Sohana Hospital in Mohali. A 50-year-old woman from Sector 37 died of acute respiratory distress syndrome at the PGI.Meanwhile, the city reported 232 fresh Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 5,995. Covid-19 cases have been spiralling in the city since the beginning of this month. The UT has been consistently reporting infections in triple digits. It has added 1,649 new cases, over 27 per cent of the total cases, and 18 deaths in a week since September 1.Nine more DEO office employees infectedNine more employees of the DEO office in Sector 19 here were found infected on Monday. Education Secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill has ordered that the DEO office and the UT Education Department office in Sector 9 will remain closed on Tuesday for sanitisation of the premises. A total of 19 employees from the department have tested positive so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-lose-life-in-chandigarh-137851
08-09-2020||Mohali||Breather for Mohali traders||Mohali traders heaved a sigh of relief after the Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, announced some relaxations in the lockdown in urban areas. The government has allowed opening of non-essential shops on Saturdays and relaxation in timings till 9 pm from Monday to Saturday. Now, the night curfew will be in place in all cities/towns from 9.30 pm to 5 am. It has also been decided to align opening of non-essential shops in Mohali with the rest of the tricity.Other decisionsNight curfew in all cities/towns from 9.30 pm to 5 amHotels, restaurants to remain open on all days, including Sundays, till 9 pm“It is a huge relief for us as most of the customers are government employees who prefer shopping on weekends,” said Sushil Anand, a shopkeeper at Phase 3B1.Traders have been on the warpath with the government and the administration as they have been suffering losses due to the discriminatory rules and regulations in the tricity which forced Mohali customers to go for shopping in Chandigarh and Panchkula. “It will bring some relief to Mohali traders as they look to rebuild their lost business,” said Amrik Singh,” a Phase 3B2 shopkeeper.As per the revised guidelines, hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open on all days, including Sundays, till 9 pm. After this, home delivery of food will be allowed.“It is a good decision for eatery owners,” said Sant Singh, owner of a food stall in Phase VI. Mohali Beopar Mandal general secretary Sarabjit Singh Paras said: “It is a wise decision. It should be implemented across Punjab, not just in Mohali.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/breather-for-mohali-traders-137852
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Swindler deletes Chandigarh DSP’s fake Facebook profile||The fake Facebook (FB) profile of a UT DSP has been deleted by the swindler before the cyber crime investigation cell could further investigate and trace the suspect.A police official at the cell said they looked for the fake profile, but found it deleted.“We need the URL (uniform resource locator) of the account to trace the suspect. However, the account was deleted, following which we could not get the URL,” the official said. A fraudster had created a fake Facebook profile of DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel and demanded money from people as financial help.Fraudster sought money A fraudster had created a fake Facebook profile of DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel and demanded money from people as financial help.The fraudster created a fake Facebook profile of DSP (East) Dilsher Singh Chandel and sent friend requests to people. While some people accepted the request, others ignored it. Soon after a friend request was accepted, the fraudster started a conversation on the Facebook messenger and requested them for financial help. The suspect mentioned that the money could be transferred through Google Pay.After getting such messages, people informed the DSP about friend requests being received by them followed by messages for financial help. The DSP then posted a message on his Facebook profile cautioning everyone about the fake Facebook profile created on his name. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swindler-deletes-chandigarh-dsps-fake-facebook-profile-137853
08-09-2020||Panchkula||Two Ludhiana men held for flesh trade in Panchkula||The police have arrested two Ludhiana residents for their alleged involvement in a flesh trade racket being operated from a guest house near Bajroli village in Morni here.The suspects have been identified as Harjeet Singh and Karamjeet, who allegedly used to “supply women”. Both were staying at Zirakpur.The police, on the evening of September 4, had conducted a raid on Shiwalik Guest House and rescued two women, who were allegedly forced into prostitution.The manager of the guest house, Isham Singh from Chandimandir, was arrested during the raid.Isham had demanded Rs7,000 from a decoy customer for providing him a woman and booking a room. The fourth accused — owner of the guest house, Mahendra Singh of Bhoj Naita village – is still out of the police net. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-ludhiana-men-held-for-flesh-trade-in-panchkula-137854
08-09-2020||Mohali||Mataur residents, cattle herders on warpath; MC team attacked||Mataur residents are on a confrontation path with a group of cattle herders who release their animals at night, leading to road mishaps, damaging property and leaving the vicinity dirty with cattle dung.The matter reached a stage where villagers sat on a protest pitching tents in the middle of the road yesterday.A day earlier, the residents herded 100 head of stray cattle from roads into a walled compound of the Sector 71 community centre and locked it. They guarded the area till 2 am. Once the residents left, owners freed the cattle by breaking the wall of the compound early in the morning.A team of the Mohali Municipal Corporation was today sent to catch the culprits, but cattle catcher Sham Lal and his team were attacked by a group of people.The police have booked 12 persons under Sections 186, 323, 283, 341 and 506 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.Local MLA and Cabinet Minister Balbir Sidhu had to come at the protest site on Sunday to pacify the protesting villagers. He had assured the residents that “the culprits would be booked and this hooliganism would not be tolerated.”Hardeep Singh, a Mataur resident, said: “This has become a daily affair. Besides cattle creating nuisance, these people come to blows. They are not afraid of attacking MC teams and heckling cops at the police station. We will keep protesting till they stop this hooliganism.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mataur-residents-cattle-herders-on-warpath-mc-team-attacked-137855
08-09-2020||Panchkula||Traffic cop hit by Audi in Panchkula, injured||A traffic cop was seriously injured when an Audi car, coming from the Tawa Chowk side, hit him near Bella Vista Chowk this evening.The incident occurred around 7 pm when SPO Raj Kumar was crossing the road, the police said.The policeman, who reportedly sustained serious injuries, was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. The car driver fled the spot, despite attempts to stop him.The police are now trying to locate the car driver through the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the spot, the police said.Inspector Sukhdev, SHO of the Traffic police station, said, “Onlookers claimed the car was bearing a Chandigarh registration number. We are investigating the matter.” — TNSHit by truck, 3 cops hurtDera Bassi: Three cops were injured when a truck hit a stationary PCR vehicle near Pratap Factory here on the main highway on Monday night. In-charge Satpal Singh, gunman Arjun Singh and constable Mohan Lal were injured. The truck driver sped away from the spot. A case has been registered against an unknown driver for reckless driving and damaging government property. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-cop-hit-by-audi-in-panchkula-injured-137856
08-09-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Contradictory Covid report confuses family||Two contradictory Covid reports of a Amloh resident — Rohit Garg — has created confusion not only among members of the family but also raised questions over the authenticity of Covid tests being conducted.Rohit Garg’s father Brij Bhushan said his son voluntarily got himself tested for Covid at the Amloh Civil Hospital on August 29. He said his son received the report on August 31 and was tested positive. He said Rohit Garg quarantined himself at home and all other family members were also in isolation. He said to their surprise, on September 5, Rohit received a text message from the Health Department that his Covid report was negative. He said they contacted the health authorities, but did not get any satisfactory reply. He said the contradictory reports had put a question mark on the authenticity of the reports. He said the family was upset and stressed due to the confusion.Civil Surgeon Surinder Singh said he had verified from the testing lab in Patiala that Rohit Garg was tested positive.He said the messages were sent by an agency hired by the Health Department and he can’t comment on the negative report message sent by the agency.Meanwhile, two more deaths were reported in the district today, taking the tally to 42 and 31 new Covid cases were reported.The Civil Surgeon said till today, 27,987 samples had been collected and of these, 1,236 tested positive. He said 1,034 were cured and 160 were active cases in the district. He said the test result of 176 was awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contradictory-covid-report-confuses-family-137857
08-09-2020||Mohali||Sampling increased twofold in Mohali district, says Dayalan||The Covid-19 sampling in the district had been increased twofold, said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.“From around 350 per day, the authorities are now collecting 850 to 1,100 samples daily,” he said.Dayalan said the move was aimed at early detection of Covid so that treatment could be started well in time, besides preventing its spread.“To match the sampling pace, the testing has also been doubled. On an average, 850 tests are being conducted now,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. He said on September 4, 946 samples were collected in the district — 669 RT-PCR tests, 19 TruNat and 258 Antigen tests. On September 5, the health teams collected 855 samples — 554 RT-PCR tests, 23 TruNat and 278 antigen tests.The number of sampling teams had been increased to 26 from 20 to cover the high-risk population, said the Deputy Commissioner.Dayalan said they wanted to keep the case fatality rate under control.He said now, anybody suspicious of having contracted the virus can visit any of the nine flu corners for getting tested and then submit an undertaking form for direct home-isolation if he/she reported positive.In such cases, patients based on their pledge would be allowed home-isolation and tracking teams would monitor their health level daily, added Dayalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sampling-increased-twofold-in-mohali-district-says-dayalan-137858
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Branch manager denied bail in housing loan case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the custody of a bank manager will be required for proper investigation of a case involving disbursement of housing loans.Among other things, the Bench was told that the petitioner was required for custodial interrogation for recovery of approximately Rs3.27 crore, which had been directly and indirectly diverted to the company of a co-accused.Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul asserted prima facie it appeared to be a “huge scam”, especially when the petitioner in his affidavit had admitted sanctioning loans to borrowers on his seniors’ directions and without adhering to proper procedure. “Hence, his custodial interrogation, as prayed for by the State counsel, will definitely be required for proper investigation of the case,” Justice Kaul asserted.Dismissing the bail petition filed by Nishan Lal Ghanaut, Justice Kaul added the allegations against the petitioner were serious in nature. He had admitted in his affidavit that 19 housing loans were sanctioned by him in his official capacity albeit “on the asking of senior bank officers”.Before parting with the order, Justice Kaul added nothing contained in the order would be construed as an expression on the merits of the case. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, the petitioner’s counsel had earlier told the Court that he was falsely implicated in the FIR and was made a scapegoat to the exclusion of other persons wielding a “lot of influence”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/branch-manager-denied-bail-in-housing-loan-case-137859
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University releases date sheet||Panjab University (PU) today released the date sheet for online examinations to be held in a blended (online/offline) mode from September 17 for undergraduate/postgraduate/diploma/vocational and other courses.The date sheet has been uploaded on the Panjab University website (puchd.ac.in) with the timings of examinations and other details.GuidelinesThe Controller of Examination office has asked the principals of all affiliated colleges/departments to share with university active email ids (at least two), mobile numbers (with WhatsApp of the college for emergency communication) and names of two senior faculty members of the college/institute /department, who will be engaged for conducting the final semester examinations for undergraduate/postgraduate and other exit classes. The office will be sending exam-related material and other documents to the principal/chief coordinator/ controller of examinations of colleges through the university website/ email in the coming days. It has beenalso decided to appoint a nodal officer for conducting examinations. The principals concerned have been asked to dispatch information through email at arconduct@pu.ac.in by September 8.Viva vocePanjab University has allowed conducting viva voce /presentation of exit classes for undergraduate/ postgraduate/vocational/diploma and other courses till October 6. In this regard, a letter has been issued to all principals of affiliated colleges/departments to make necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of viva-voce/presentation in an online mode. The list of examiners is to be sent to the office of the Controller after the termination of the examination.Seeking benefits for research scholarsChandigarh: Panjab University (PU) student parties — NSUI and ABVP — submitted a memorandum to the authorities regarding problems being faced by PU research scholars. They claimed that the research scholars should be called back to the campus, should be allotted hostel and AC Joshi Central Library and department libraries should be made functional again. They demanded that the last date for the submission of bills and related documents must be extended. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-date-sheet-137860
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to launch email to assist pupils||A few days after Panjab University (PU) announced conducting exams for final year/semester from September 17, the authorities have now decided to activate a 24x7 email ID, probably from tomorrow, for the convenience of students.Swinging into action for conducting examination through a blended mode (online/offline), the authorities have decided to synchronise inputs of all stakeholders for the benefit of students.“Conducting these examinations is a challenge due to the pandemic. Besides updating information on the university website, a 24x7 email is likely to be launched tomorrow for handling students’ queries. Covid cases are being reported from the PU. So, things are getting delayed. We want to provide students with all technical assistance in a few days,” said Parvinder Singh, Panjab University Controller of Examinations.On students’ curiosity over re-appear examinations, reimbursement of entrance test fee and others, Singh said a committee had already been formed by the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor (VC).“In first phase, we are conducting the final exams. The Panjab University VC has formed a committee and in the coming days, decisions on such issues will also be taken. The intermediate re-appear cases have already been promoted,” said Singh.Sources said the university was yet to take a call on the students having re-appears in odd semesters. “The competent authorities have to take a call on this,” replied Singh.A special monitoring coordination committee has been constituted to look after day-to-day issues, technical hurdles, administrative issues and logistics pertaining to the online exams. A nodal centre will be set up for all kinds of facilities related to online exams.Testing underwayThe email ID created to help students — onlinefinalexam.sep2020@pu.ac.in — is under testing. It will be made open to public after an approval from experts. On Monday, a detailed programme for college and datasheets was uploaded on the university website.UGC on re-appearAs per the University Grants Commission guidelines issued in April, students of terminal semester/ final-year students with backlogs (exam re-appear) should compulsorily be evaluated by conducting examinations in the offline (pen and paper)/ online/ blended (online and offline) mode as per feasibility and suitability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-launch-email-to-assist-pupils-137880
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with heroin gets bail||A local court has granted bail to an accused, Ravinder Kumar, who was arrested with heroin.Ravinder Kumar was arrested near Khalsa College, Sector 26, with 55 grams of heroin for which he could not produce any permit or licence. While the counsel of the accused claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case, the public prosecutor opposed the bail.The court said the accused had been in judicial custody since July 26, but the trial of the case is likely to take a long time and no useful purpose would be served by keeping him behind the bars. The court said in light of the facts, the accused is ordered to be released on bail subject to his furnishing Rs50,000 personal bonds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-heroin-gets-bail-137895
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Forest department challenges bail to tattoo artist, manager||The Forest Department has challenged the order of the Judicial Magistrate (First Class) allowing bail to tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh and his manager Deepak for allegedly confining a monkey, (rhesus macaque) in captivity and exhibiting it by sharing its picture, along with him, on his Instagram account.The department sought the remand to rescue the wild animal and complete the investigation in the case. The Judicial Magistrate (First Class) granted bail to both suspects last month.The UT Forest and Wildlife Department had sought 14-day remand of Kamaljeet and Deepak after they were arrested on August 19 for violating the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Singh owns a tattoo studio in Sector 35 here. Officials of the department arrested the suspects on a complaint that they kept a monkey and posted its photos on Instagram.In the order, the Judicial Magistrate (First Class) said the investigating officer could not produce any document to prove that at the time of the arrest, as per the directions issued by the Wildlife Crime Investigation Manuel, photographs and fingerprints of the suspects were taken and other guidelines issued by the Supreme Court were followed.The counsel for the suspects submitted that they had been detained illegally. In their statements, the suspects denied having any animal in their custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forest-department-challenges-bail-to-tattoo-artist-manager-137902
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||MC contractor accused of fleecing gardeners||High drama prevailed in the Sector 29 nursery of the Municipal Corporation (MC) where gardeners alleged that the contractor was charging Rs2000 per month from them for job security.Caught on cameraThe contractor provides manpower to the MC. “The contractor collects money from poor contractual employees and distributes it among some officers and councillors too,” alleged Prem Garg, president, AAP.Party workers visited the MC nursery at Sector 29 today and recorded videos of the contractor’s men collecting money from gardeners. The workers were seen giving Rs2,000 per head. A total of Rs1.10 lakh was collected, the AAP claimed.AAP organising secretary Vikram Singh Pundhir received complaints from MC gardeners that the contractor, who supplied manpower to the Horticulture Department of the corporation, was forcing poor contractual employees to pay him Rs2000 per month, otherwise he would fire them from the job. The hapless employees had no option, but to pay the amount to save their jobs, he said.AAP members immediately called the PCR and statements of the workers were recorded on camera. The police then rounded up the contractor’s men. A similar incident was recorded by AAP volunteers in a garden in Sector 33 on Saturday.Garg demanded immediate dissolution of the MC and an investigation by the CBI into the full working of the MC. He has also made a complaint to the Commissioner in this regard.Refuting all allegations, MC officers said it was an issue between the contractor and his manpower.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-contractor-accused-of-fleecing-gardeners-137903
08-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Furnace blast: Three succumb to burn injuries||Three of the six workers, who were injured in a furnace unit blast in Mandi Gobindgarh, succumbed to burn injuries at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, today.They were admitted to the hospital with 65 to 80 per cent burn injuries. Their bodies were handed over to their relatives after the post-mortem examination, said investigation officer ASI Nirmal Singh. The police have registered a case under Sections 287, 336, 337 of the IPC. No arrest has been made so for. The deceased have been identified as Ram Adhar, Surinder Kumar and Seharyad Khan 21, all residents of Uttar Pradesh.On August 29, of the 10 workers, who were injured in the incident, six were referred to the GMCH-32, while the remaining were referred to the Civil Hospital, Mandi Gobindgarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/furnace-blast-three-succumb-to-burn-injuries-137904
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore launches online drive against malnutrition||UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today launched an online campaign to promote the Centre’s nutrition programme, Poshan Maah-2020Poshan Abhiyaan (PM’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment) was formally launched by the Prime Minister from Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, on March 8, 2018.Badnore shared a video message in which he reiterated the UT’s commitment to wipe out malnutrition from the city and the country and called on people to participate in the Jan Andolan.Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2020 will have two major activities to be carried out at grassroot level — Identification and tracking of children with Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) and plantation drives for promotion of kitchen gardens.UT officials also launched the Poshan Sanhita, a voluntary model code on nutrition.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Rashtriya Poshan Maah-2020 was repositioned from conventional to digital mode of Jan Andolan, wherever required.A gamut of activities have been planned to push for the cause of holistic nutrition such as launch of CBE pamphlets and incremental learning approach takeaway booklet, identification and tracking of children with Severe to Acute Malnutrition (SAM) and launch of low-cost recipe booklet.Various webinars shall be organised on nutrition-rich food, anaemia, diarrhoea and prevention of malnutrition. Various online competitions and other social media activities such as panel discussions, press conference involving Doordarshan, All India Radio, etc, shall be organised regularly in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-launches-online-drive-against-malnutrition-137905
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||e-governance services launched||Five e-governance municipal services were launched in city today.Legal Case Management, Apni Mandi and Day Market, Public Relations, Sports and Cultural Branch and Agenda Management, were launched by MC Mayor Raj Bala Malik and Commissioner KK Yadav.The addition of these services will add to the ease of management of various municipal works along with the improving of efficiency of the staff.Various stakeholders such as municipal officers, related mandi contractors, retailers, etc, will be able to coordinate online.The Commissioner said the e-governance project was being implemented by Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) for approximately 28 municipal services, which upon implementation would facilitate the municipal staff and the citizens of Chandigarh.With the implementation of online services, citizens will be able to get services such as water and sewage connections, online booking of community centres, submission of the property tax, grievance redressal, etc, at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-governance-services-launched-137906
08-09-2020||Panchkula||Meeting on reservation of wards today||After the Local Bodies Department issued a final draft for division of wards, the adhoc committee will meet to decide on reservation of wards for the Scheduled Castes or Other Backward Class population on the basis of the percentage at Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 tomorrow.The draw of lots for reservation of wards for women will also be held on Tuesday.The city has been divided into 20 wards.Earlier, in July this year, the Haryana Cabinet had okayed bifurcation of the Panchkula MC, paving the way for Kalka, Pinjore to have a separate council. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/meeting-on-reservation-of-wards-today-137907
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid dialysis facility may hit other critical patients||The UT Administration’s recent directions to the PGI on reserving two more machines for maintenance dialysis of Covid patients is likely to affect Covid-negative patients with serious kidney-related complications in need of emergency dialysis.The number of patients on regular or maintenance dialysis in the city is pegged at 230. The PGI records have revealed that those needing emergency dialysis is more. The city has a total of 118 dialysis machines, 43 in government sector and 75 in private and charitable ones.At present, the PGI was administering 30-35 dialysis daily on non-Covid patients, said Dr HS Kohli, Head of Nephrology. PGI. The PGI has three stations for 16 Covid patients on dialysis. Also, staff, who monitor dialysis to Covid patients, were only assigned to non-Covid patients after being tested negative and a break of five to seven days, he said.Previously, Dr Kohli had communicated to the PGI administration, “At the cost of providing maintenance hemodialysis (MHD), we should not neglect patients with acute kidney failure following trauma, surgery, delivery and a host of medical conditions, pancreatitis being one.” Concerns over febrile illnesses with multi-organ involvement in July, August and September were also raised.He had said, “There is need for a dedicated MHD centre for Covid patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), who do not require ICU care or active medical interventions, so that these patients continue to receive procedure.”It was also proposed that Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, a designated Covid care facility, which had a functioning dialysis unit (with 4-8 dialysis stations) and infrastructure could be adapted to make it as a dedicated Covid-19 MHD unit without any significant inputs.The administration had, in an August 19 order, directed two private dialysis centres — Rahi Care Dialysis, Sector 22, and Dharam Hospital, Sector 15 — to reserve two dialysis machines each for Covid patients on maintenance dialysis.However, they are yet to comply with government’s orders.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “First of all, dialysis patients don’t require any extra staff, only laboratory technician-type fellows. If they need more staff, they will get more staff.”He added, “Out of the total of 230 patients on maintenance dialysis, I assume only 10-15 patients could be Covid positive. For these patients, we have ordered GMCH-32 and two private nursing centres to reserve two machines each. Thus, the PGI has also been asked to keep two more, so six machines will be enough for Covid infected. We will issue a letter to the PGI in this regard.”Reserve isolated area with machines for Covid: ExpertOn an idea model for managing Covid positive patients on dialysis, Dr Vevikanand Jha, president of International Society of Nephrology and chair of Global Kidney Health at Imperial College, London, said, “There is simply a matter of anticipating this issue. It was foreseen and solutions were described early in the course of the pandemic. Professional societies had brought out guidelines.”The strategy emphasised preparedness — screen patients using reliable and efficient methods, pick those who are positive and provide them treatment (dialysis) in a separate area that is isolated from the uninfected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-dialysis-facility-may-hit-other-critical-patients-137908
08-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula tests record 1,442 samples in 24 hrs||Though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has time and again recommended the RT-PCR as the preferred test to detect Covid, Panchkula is aggressively using rapid antigen test (RAT) kits, which is not considered highly accurate.The strategy has significantly increased the district’s overall testing capacity with 1,442 samples tested in the past 24 hours.As many as 1,047 tests were carried out through rapid antigen test (RAT) kits, of which 224 were found positive. Only 395 tests were conducted using the RT-PCR.To date, Panchkula has conducted 45,614 tests with over 3,000 using RAT. The overall positivity rate of RAT ranges between 15 and 20 per cent in Panchkula.The ICMR had recently said if an individual developed symptoms following a negative RAT, an RT-PCR should be done.Focusing on walk-in testing amid the rising cases, the Panchkula administration has increased testing centres from 19 to 21 and appointed doctors as nodal officers to regularly monitor each one of them.The sampling centres are the Civil Hospital, Western Command Chandimandir, CHC, Raipur Rani, Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital, ADH, Kalka, Government Dispensary, Sector 7, Ojas Hospital, Urban Health Care Centre, Sector 16, ONQUEST lab (private), CHC, Nanakpur, PHC, Pinjore, PHC, Kot, PHC, Barwala, PHC, Barwala, Polyclinic, Sector 26, PHC, Surajpur, Government Dispensary, Sector 20, Government Dispensary Sector 21, Polyclinic, MDC, Sector 4, Government Dispensary, Sector 25, PHC, Morni, and Urban Dispensary, Sector 19.12,024 in high-risk groupDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Monday said as many as 12,024 persons had been identified as high-risk population under the fourth phase of house-to-house survey. More than 1.33 lakh people have been screened under the current phase of the survey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-tests-record-1-442-samples-in-24-hrs-137909
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre of Excellence for Badminton: Engineering Dept yet to discuss matter||The proposal to convert the Sports Complex at Sector 38 (West) into Centre of Excellence for Badminton has made no development as the plan to make some building changes at the arena is still stuck with the UT Engineering Department.Earlier this year, considering the achievements of local trainees, an exclusive centre for badminton coaching was proposed, which would function under the UT Sports Department. For this, a dedicated sitting area, a warm-up area, tuck shops and other minor changes at the arena were proposed.The facility has not only produced many international players, but has hosted major national ranking championships.Mukesh Anand, Chief Engineer, UT Administration, was unavailable for comment. However, another official, requesting anonymity, said the Engineering Department was waiting to hold discussions with the Sports Department.“We are yet to discuss the matter. The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed things and we are trying to work on it as soon as possible. Except swimming pool, minor changes can be made to have more space for players, coaching staff and visitors. The pool can be also used by shuttlers for fitness purposes, which makes this centre convenient in terms of coaching under-one-roof programme,” said a source in the Engineering Department.“The complex lacks adequate facility to adjust spectators, seating area for players and needs to have more facilities such as space for recovery of players, etc. During championships, many parents and spectators come here to watch their wards playing. However, since it’s an indoor sport, only limited people are allowed inside,” said an official of the UT Sports Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-of-excellence-for-badminton-engineering-dept-yet-to-discuss-matter-137910
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four arrested for gambling||Burglar held, gets judicial custodyChandigarh: A burglar has been arrested by the operation cell of the UT police for a theft in the Industrial Area, Phase II. The suspect has been identified as Manish Patel (20), a resident of EWS Colony, Maloya. The police recovered four stolen cooler motors from him. Earlier, two of his accomplices, Rinku, alias Tunda and Yogesh, alias Pandit, were arrested on August 30. Manish was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody. The police said Manish was earlier booked in a case of robbery in 2015. He was convicted in the case. TNS‘Private hospitals play stellar role’Mohali: Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said private hospitals were playing a stellar role in Covid care by dedicating major part of their facilities to critical patients. He said the hospitals had increased the isolation ward strength, ventilators and ICU capacity and were rendering full support to the administration in these trying times. While inaugurating the upgraded existing level 3 neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at Max Hospital, Mohali, he said the state-of-the-art NICU would be another milestone in healthcare being extended to the people. TNSFDA seizes eight samplesAmbala: A team of the Food and Drugs Administration, led by district food safety officer Gorav Sharma, on Monday seized the samples of ghee, milk and tea from Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment. The team has taken a total of eight samples for analysis. Subhash Chander, designated officer, food safety, Ambala, said, “Six samples of ghee and one each of milk and tea have been taken from different shops and dairies in Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment. The samples would be sent to Food Laboratory, Karnal, for analysis and the results are expected to come after 15 days.” TNSTeachers’ union holds protestMohali: The Education Provider Teachers’ Union on Monday staged a protest against the state government for not regularising their services. They took out a rally from Gurdwara Sri Amb Sahib, Mohali, to YPS Chowk. A memorandum was handed over to the Mohali tehsildar, who reached the spot. Union leader Ajmer Singh said the CM had promised to get their jobs regularised in December 2016, but to no avail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-arrested-for-gambling-137913
08-09-2020||Nurpur||Nurpur police arrest rape accused in Chandigarh||The Nurpur police team arrested a rape accused, identified as Gurpal Singh (28), from Dadumajra in Chandigarh late last evening and produced him in court on Monday. The court has sent him in police remand till September 10.A 23-year-old woman hailing from a nearby village in Nurpur, in her complaint, had alleged that the accused had sexually exploited her and also made a video while committing the crime in May. She was living with her father in Chandigarh, where they had private jobs. She had come in contact with the accused who was running a boutique at Dadumajra.The complainant alleged that when she returned to her native village after the lockdown, the accused started threatening her of uploading her video on social media. She also alleged that the accused had also extorted money from her by blackmailing her. Depressed, she also tried to commit suicide last Friday at her home by burning herself. Her parents rushed her to the Tanda medical college, Kangra, where she is battling for life. Meanwhile, her father approached the Kangra SP.The Nurpur police dispatched a special team to Chandigarh on Saturday to arrest the accused. A case has been registered against the accused for sexual exploitation, extortion, criminal intimidation and abetment to suicide bid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nurpur-police-arrest-rape-accused-in-chandigarh-137877
