09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports over 300 coronavirus cases for second day||Chandigarh reported 332 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, a health bulletin said in the evening---the second day the union territory has reported over 300 cases.The UT’s tally now stands at 6,704 infections, 37 per cent of which are still active.Chandigarh also reported two deaths, taking its death toll to 77. A 30-year-old man from Dhanas died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 on Wednesday. He had tubercular meningitis and hemiparesis, a condition characterised by weakness of one side of the body.The second fatality was a 76-year-old woman from Khuda Jassu who was diabetic and had hypertension. She died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on September 9.Chandigarh has been reporting a spike in cases since the beginning of September, when it began reporting over 200 infections a day. Infection numbers reached a new high on Tuesday, when the UT recorded 377 new COVID-19 cases.Chandigarh’s cases have risen exponentially in less than 10 days---the UT cases have registered a 150 per cent rise since the beginning of the September.The development also comes on a day when Mohali also reported 307 new COVID cases---its highest single-day rise yet since it first reported infections in March---and eight deaths. Panchkula meanwhile reported 143 new cases and three deaths.The UT’s rise in cases is part of a general upward trend in cases in the tricity since the beginning of the month. The tricity has added 5,397 new cases to its tally since September 1---about 34 per cent of the tricity’s total 15,743 cases.Just over 37 per cent cases are still active in the tricity.Tricity total: 15,743ChandigarhTotal: 6,704Active: 2,484Deaths: 77MohaliTotal: 5,581Active: 2,154Deaths 124PanchkulaTotal: 3,458Active: 1,266Deaths: 38Cases since September 1Total:  5,397Mohali: 1,811Chandigarh: 2,358Panchkula: 1,228||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-over-300-coronavirus-cases-for-second-day-138795
09-09-2020||---||Panjab University releases final instructions to students ahead of exams||Chandigarh, September 9Panjab University on Wednesday released final instructions to the students who are eligible to appear in the first-ever blended (online/offline) examinations from September 17 to 30.The students will get their admit card from their respective colleges, departments and regional centres from September 12 onwards. Private students or those of University School of Open Learning (USOL) will be able to download their admit card from examination website after logging in from September 12 onwards.In case, any student doesn’t remember the password, same can also be downloaded from the home page of the examination website by entering details—name, father’s name, mother’s name and other details. The candidates are required to send an email to ugexam@pu.ac.in or pgexam@pu.ac.in, if they are unable to download the admit cards.Question paperThe students of regular college, department or regional centres will receive the question paper as per date-sheet for a particular day from their respective college or department using different electronic modes. Like admit card, if any student doesn’t remember the password, same can also be download from the home page the examination website by entering details. Meanwhile, private and USOL students will be able to download question paper as per date-sheet for a particular day in similar manner as mentioned for downloading of admit card at login. The question paper, as per date-sheet for a particular day will be available on the website:8:40am (9am to 11am exam time) for slot 1 (as given in previous instruction), 9:40am for slot 2 (10am to 12 pm) and 1:40pm for slot 3 (2pm to 4pm).In case any student doesn’t have mobile or facing network problem, he or she can seek help from the nearest nodal centre of their area.InstructionsCandidate must attempt the question paper in blue ball-point pen and in own handwriting. The candidates have to solve the question paper from their remote location on A4 size printable sheets (preferably lined) in own handwriting. The maximum page limit is 12 sheets, of which only one side has to be used. They will not be asked to attempt any compulsory question. The candidate will be required to attempt 50% of the question paper by choosing any questions.However, the candidate shall ensure that he or she has attempted an answer carrying 50% of the maximum marks where 50% is fraction. The answer should be reasonable/specific and to be covered within time limit of 2 hours. The candidates have to fill University Roll No. (in figures and words), name, class/semester, name of paper, code of paper, total number of pages written, signature and date of exam on the first page. The candidate will be required to scan all attempted sheets in a serial order along with admit card and merge them into a single PDF file.ProcessThe first page of PDF file should be admit card (compulsory) and answer-sheet submission. The regular students will be required to submit PDF file of answer-sheet to the college e-mail/website/hard copy through registered post/speed post to their respective college/department/regional centre within 4 hours from the start of examination.Meanwhile, private or USOL students will be required to submit PDF file of his or her answer-sheet to the college e-mail/website/hard copy through registered post/speed post to the nodal officer of their area for the same purpose within 4 hours from the start of examination.For visually impairedThe visually impaired or disabled students have been allowed to have assistance from scribe/writer as per university rules and no permission is required for the same from the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-final-instructions-to-students-ahead-of-exams-138793
09-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 8 deaths and 307 COVID-19 cases||Mohali reports eight deaths and 307 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district's death total to 124. The city's coronavirus tally stands at 5,581. At least 3,303 patients have recovered from the deadly disease. In the last 24 hours, 351 have cured of coronavirus. COVID-19 deaths: 1. A 45-year-old man from Majatri died at GMCH, Patiala. 2. A 57-year-old woman from Sohana died at GMCH, Patiala. She had kidney disease, diabetes, and hypertension.3. A 58-year-old man from Sahora died at DH, Mohali. He was diabetic.  4. A 48-year-old man from Banur died in Gian Sagar.5. A 66-year-old man from Gillco Valley died at GMCH 32. He had liver disease.  6. A 70-year-old woman from Phase 4 died in Grecian. 7. A 59-year-old woman from Balongi died in Grecian. 8. A 59-year-old from Zirakpur died at Ivy hospital. COVID-19 cases:  Mohali records 2,154 acitve cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-8-deaths-and-307-covid-19-cases-138787
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||UT to take assistance from councillors for early detection of symptomatic patients||Expressing concern over the rising number of coronavirus cases, the UT Administrator has asked MC Commissioner KK Yadav to take assistance from area councillors for the early detection of symptomatic persons.He also directed the MC Commissioner to set up a control room where councillors could report suspected cases in their areas to facilitate their testing, quarantine, transportation and admission to hospitals. Yadav said the control room would be made functional by Thursday.The decision was taken during a war room meeting, presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.Badnore asked public representatives to collect information about symptomatic and suspected cases in their areas and inform the health authorities for early detection and treatment. This would also help reduce fatalities.PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said at the meeting that they had 251 Covid patients at Nehru Hospital Extension, of which 79 belonged to Chandigarh, 82 to Punjab, 43 to Haryana, 27 to Himachal Pradesh and eight to Uttar Pradesh.He further stated that 804 samples have been tested, out of which 81 positive cases belong to Chandigarh. He added that they have received 10 more ventilators from the central government.Dr. B.S. Chavan, Director-Principal of GMCH Sector 32, said, they tested 939 samples, of which 287 from Chandigarh were found positive. He also said 212 patients have been cured and discharged.Dr. Chavan further mentioned that additional 20 ventilators have been received by them from Central Government for covid patients.Dr. G. Dewan, Director Health Services stated that they have tested 1023 samples, out of which 151 were found positive.He mentioned that 1,614 persons were in home isolation and have been monitored by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-to-take-assistance-from-councillors-for-early-detection-of-symptomatic-patients-138784
09-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths and 143 COVID-19 cases||Panchkula reports two deaths and 143 COVID-19 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the district's death total to 38.The coronavirus tally stands at 3,458. The city records 1,266 active cases.COVID-19 deaths:A 52-year-old man, who also had diabetes and hypertension from Raiwali (Barwala) village, and a 67-year-old woman from Sector-19, who had chronic kidney disease, succumbed to the deadly disease.COVID-19 cases:Among the fresh cases, 21 are from Pinjore, 12 each from Sector 15, Sector 17 and Sector 20, 9 from ITBP, 8 from Sector 8, 6 from Kalka, 5 from Raipur Rani, 4 each from Sector 11, Sector 16 and Sector 19, 3 each from Bhainsa Tibba and Sector 10, 2 each from Industrial Area, Nanakpur, Rajiv Colony, Sector 12, Sector 23, Sector 4, Sector 7, Sector 8 and Surajpur, one each from Abheypur, Barwala, Haripur, Batwal, Fatehpur, Kharag Mangoli, Moginand, MDC Sector 5, MDC Sector 4, Nada Sahib, Old Panchkula, Rajipur, Sector 12A, Sector 14, Sector 18, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 24, Sector 3, Sector 21, Sultanpur and Tagra Kaliram.To date, Panchkula has conducted 48,268 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-2-deaths-and-143-covid-19-cases-138783
09-09-2020||New Delhi||38 teachers get CBSE Awards; 2 each from Punjab, Chandigarh, 3 from Haryana||Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday presented CBSE Awards to 38 teachers and principals for their contribution to school education. According to CBSE officials, the awards were presented for the year 2019-20 in the honour of teachers and principals for their valuable contribution towards improving school education, innovation, and dedication. The list of awardees includes two educationalists from Punjab, two from Chandigarh, and three from Haryana. Teachers: 1. Alka Sharma from Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan Sohan Lal Public School, Amritsar. 2. Yogesh Gambhir from Desraj Vadhera DAV Public School, Phillaur. 3. Ram Kumar Sharma from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37-B, Chandigarh. 4. Anuja Sharma from DAV Model School, Sector 15-A, Chandigarh.5. Punneta Malhotra from K R Mangalam World School, Gurugram. 6. Rashmi Malik from Salwan Public School, Sector 15 (II), Gurugram. 7. Arti Chopta from Amity International School, Sector 46, Gurugram. According to CBSE officials, since 2018, CBSE follows an online selection process. The applicants are evaluated based on general and specific criterion under each category and several parameters related to school education and their contribution.The awardees include primary and middle-level teachers, language teachers, science, social science, physical education, mathematics, economics, IT, fine arts teachers, school counsellors, vice principals and principals. They were presented a merit certificate, a shawl, and a cash prize of Rs 50,000. Speaking on the occasion, Pokhriyal said, that Teachers lay the basic foundation of education. He said, that teaching is a most respected profession and the purpose of these awards is to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those teachers, who through their commitment have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students.The Minister highlighted, that in the New Education Policy 2020, teachers have been placed right at the centre of the education system. It has been mentioned in the policy, that all the schools must have an adequate number of teachers and such environment shall be provided so that work culture in the schools is enhanced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/38-teachers-get-cbse-awards-2-each-from-punjab-chandigarh-3-from-haryana-138769
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||A new high: 377 cases weigh down Chandigarh||The city recorded 377 new Covid cases, a new single-day high for the UT. This is over a 100 cases more than its previous high of 276 new cases, recorded on September 4. The case tally of the UT now stands at 6,372.Private rooms for Covid patients at Sec 46 hospitalChandigarh: A private room complex dedicated to Covid patients, comprising eight beds, has been commissioned at Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Sector 46-B. The facility will be provided on the UT-approved charges. The hospital has started a sample collection centre for RT-PCR (Covid-19 test) on its premises. The hospital also started online services such as OPD appointment, OPD consultation and sample collection from home. These can be accessed through www.sdach.ac.in. TNSChandigarh also reported one death due to the disease. A 72-year-old woman from Hallo Majra died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 today.She died of complex cardio-respiratory complications caused by the virus. Cases have been spiralling in the city this month. The UT has recorded over 200 cases daily since September 1 and has already recorded 2,026 new coronavirus cases and 19 deaths since then. More than a quarter of the cases in the city are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-new-high-377-cases-weigh-down-chandigarh-138553
09-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh witnesses single-day infection positivity rate of 38%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The city today reported its highest single-day spike of 377 Covid-19 cases out of the 991 samples taken in the past 24 hours. Experts have warned that the cases will continue to spiral the entire month of September and that the situation is just the “tip of the iceberg”.The single-day positivity rate of the UT stood at 38 per cent.In just eight days of this month, a total of 2,026 cases have been recorded as against 375 cases recorded in the first eight days of August.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “The testing has increased to 1,000 samples a day. However, 377 cases in a single day are startling. This shows how much the virus is prevalent in the community. Earlier, distant contacts of positive cases did not come positive. But now almost all contacts of a positive case are found infected.” UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “We were expecting such a spike in September. Isolation at home and hygiene need to be strictly observed. We will intensify testing and enhance micro-containment zones. As such, 24 more micro-containment zones have already been made in the UT.”With an incessant surge in cases, the UT may witness a shortage of Covid beds needed for moderate and severe cases in the hospitals.Gupta said, “We have around 300 beds in the PGI and 200 beds in the GMCH for sick Covid-19 patients. Around 125 beds are occupied at the GMCH and 200 beds at the PGI. The problem is that the PGI Covid block has patients from other states as well. The occupancy of beds by patients from the city is only 70. If the trend continues, there may be a problem of Covid beds in hospitals.” Rajesh Kumar, former head of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, said, “Today’s positivity rate is alarming and depicts that the infection is quite prevalent in the community. This is a clear indication that testing should be increased to bring down the positivity rate below 5 per cent as advised by the World Health Organization. If 100 persons test positive, 1,500 of their contacts need to be identified and tested.”Kumar added, “What’s more worrying is the rising number of deaths. When cases increase, deaths will automatically increase in the next four to five days. Increased testing will also help identify the cases early and decrease mortality.”He said, “People are getting more complacent about coronavirus. They should take extra precautions against the disease this month. People should stop inviting friends and relatives home. The surge is just the tip of the iceberg as there may be many undiagnosed cases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-single-day-infection-positivity-rate-of-38-138558
09-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees death of 2 diabetics, 169 cases||The district has reported 169 new Covid cases and two deaths. The tally of cases in the district now stands at 3,315, with 1,240 active cases. The district has reported 36 deaths due to the disease so far.A 69-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 19, both suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, 18 are from Kalka, 14 from Pinjore, eight from Sector 15, seven each from Bhairon Ki Shair, Sector 14 and Sector 19, six each from Banna, Sector 16, Sector 20 and Sector 21, five each from Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 25, Sector 27 and Sector 4, four each from the MDC, Sector 5, and Sector 26, three each from Barwala, Marranwala, Moginand, Ramgarh, Sector 12-A and 17, two each from Abullapur, Industrial Area, Phase 2, Karanpur, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 2, Sector 28 and Tipra and one each from Abheypur, Amravati Enclave, Bhainsa Tibba, Chandimandir, Indira Colony, Kot, Lohgarh, Maheshpur, Manakpur, Sector 12, 22, 3, 6, 7, Surajpur and Tagra Hakimpur. Panchkula has conducted 47,057 Covid tests so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-death-of-2-diabetics-169-cases-138575
09-09-2020||Mohali||Three deaths, 317 discharged in Mohali||Three Covid-19 deaths and 168 new cases were reported from Mohali district today. As many as 317 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours. A 40-year-old man from Sunny Enclave died at a Sohana hospital. He was suffering from hypertension. A 70-year-old woman from Dera Bassi died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A 58-year-old man from Mohali died at the PGI. He was suffering from a liver disease.Most of the cases reported were from Mohali urban (50), Kharar (36), Gharuan (16), Dhakoli (27), Dera Bassi (31), Boothgarh (seven) and Lalru (one). The district has so far reported 5,274 cases, of which 2,206 are active. As many as 2,952 patients have been discharged from hospitals. With three deaths today, the toll in the district has touched 116.Yesterday, six deaths and 224 new cases were reported from the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-deaths-317-discharged-in-mohali-138576
09-09-2020||Amit Sharma||Speedsters under lens, 16,215 e-challans issued in 4 months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8In just four months, the UT traffic police have issued 16,215 overspeeding e-challans through the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system, which is almost double the number of challans issued for the offence in 2019.A total of 8,813 overspeeding challans were issued by the police last year.Three ANPR systems, also called speed guns, were introduced in the city on May 5.Mounted on tripods, these are equipped with cameras and sensors to measure the speed of the approaching vehicle and click a picture of the vehicle driven over the permitted speed limit.According to the police, while 3,292 e-challans were issued in May, 7,528 were issued in June, 2,993 in July and 2,402 in August.The police have been installing the speed guns on different roads to check violations. A police official said the violators were sent an SMS and the TVIS (traffic violation information slip) challan was sent on their postal address.Since overspeeding is a non-compoundable offence, which invites suspension of the violator’s driving licence for three months, the fine for it cannot be paid online. The maximum speed on roads with four lanes is 50 km per hour for four-wheelers and 45 km per hour for two-wheelers. The speed limit on roads with six lanes is 60 km per hour for four-wheelers and 45 km per hour for two-wheelers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speedsters-under-lens-16-215-e-challans-issued-in-4-months-138578
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for theft at ex- IAS officer’s house||A 25-year-old youth has been arrested by the UT police for committing a theft at the house of a retired IAS officer at Modern Housing Complex (MHC) in Mani Majra.On September 7, G Vajralingam, former Additional Chief Secretary, Punjab, who is currently serving as Member Secretary, Punjab Finance Commission, was at his office in Sector 26 when he received a call from his neighbour about someone present in his house.Vajralingam reached home around 5.40 pm and found the locks of the main door broken and the house ransacked. The police were informed about the incident. They reached the spot and chased the suspect but he managed to escape. A case was registered at the Mani Majra police station and an investigation initiated into it.Almost 24 hours after the theft, a team of the operation cell, led by Inspector Ranjit Singh, arrested the suspect, who was identified as Vikram, alias Vicky, a resident of Mauli Jagran Complex. He was nabbed near the railway track at Mauli Jagran.During the interrogation, the suspect revealed that he had entered the house after breaking the locks with a rod. He then collected all valuable items in a suitcase. In the meantime, neighbours gathered there and he escaped from the spot with some items.“The complainant is yet to provide the list of stolen items following which the recovery will be made from the suspect,” said Inspector Ranjit Singh.The suspect would be produced in court on tomorrow, said a police official.The police said Vikram had a criminal past with a case of vehicle theft and burglary registered against him in the city. The suspect worked as a peon with a private bank before lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-theft-at-ex-ias-officers-house-138579
09-09-2020||Sandeep Rana||The big stink: MC has no way out of garbage mess||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Despite having taken over the garbage processing plant from Jaypee Group, the local MC authorities have not been able to find a proper way out to process the waste of the city.In a report, the IIT, Roorkee, had recommended that the MC needed a new processing plant, but the cash-strapped corporation has no funds. Left with no option, it will continue to process the garbage with the existing machines, which have already completed their lifespan.Civic body to prepare proposalSetting up a new processing plant involves a huge cost. For the time being, we will manage with the existing machines. We will prepare a proposal on this issue and discuss it at a meeting of the House.- KK Yadav, MC CommissionerThe city produces about 450 metric tonne waste per day, but the existing plant is only processing about 10 per cent waste, according to the IIT, Roorkee, report. The remaining waste is dumped at the Dadu Majra-based dumping ground, which causes foul smell in neighbouring areas and leachate on road.at Dadu Majra.“Setting up a new processing plant involves a huge cost. For the time being, we will manage with the existing machines. We will prepare a proposal on this issue and discuss it at a meeting of the House,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav. “The plant is lying closed and no processing is being done. Earlier, when it was working, thick smoke used to come out of the plant chimney. Dadu Majra and neighbouring area residents are facing more trouble due to the closure than they were while it was operational. We have to light up incense sticks to get some relief from the foul smell. Why did the civic body take over the plant when it is not in a position to run it,” rued Dyal Krishan, president of the Joint Action Committee of Dumping Ground, Dadu Majra. He said now the motor market waste was also directly thrown at the dumping ground. The mountain of garbage was increasing at a faster pace and making the lives of local residents hell.The recent IIT report observed that the plant was processing around 30 tonne per day source-segregated dry waste and 19 tonne per day stored waste in the vicinity of the plant. Hence, the plant was operating at only 10 per cent of the design capacity. It was designed to process 500 metric tonne of waste per day.The report mentioned that all machines were over 12 years old, which was practically the lifespan of such machines. Both primary and secondary shredders were not in a working condition. A shredder is an essential component of waste processing. Even if the non-functional machines were repaired, these would be of no use. The only way out of this stinking mess was setting up a new plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-big-stink-mc-has-no-way-out-of-garbage-mess-138580
09-09-2020||Panchkula||Seven wards of Panchkula MC reserved for women||Of the total 20 wards in the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, ward number 7 and 12 have been reserved for SC women while five others — ward number 3, 4, 10, 11 and 19 — have been reserved for general category women.This was decided today in a draw of lots conducted at the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 here under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.Ward number 6 and 16 have been reserved for SC category, only BC candidates can contest election from ward number 15 and 20.In July this year, the Haryana Cabinet had okayed the bifurcation of the Panchkula MC paving the way for Kalka and Pinjore to have a separate council. However, former councillor Satinder Singh Tony has objected to the government decision, saying it goes against a ‘resolution passed by the then MC House, which decided against the bifurcation’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-wards-of-panchkula-mc-reserved-for-women-138581
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration imposes curbs in 24 areas||The UT Administration today declared 24 areas as containment zones.According to an order issued by the Administration, 42 houses in Sector 15, two in Sector 19, eight in Sector 20, five in Sector 21, 36 in Sector 22, four in Sector 23, 36 in Sector 24, nine in Sector 27 and 18 houses in Sector 32-C are now micro-containment zones.Besides, five houses in Sector 32-D, eight in Sector 38-C, 10 in Sector 41-A, 48 in Sector 42-C, 18 in Sector 43-B, eight in Sector 44-A, 47 in Sector 45-A, eight in Sector 47, 18 in a part of EWS Colony, Dhanas, seven in Ram Darbar, Phase I, and 21 houses in Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra, were also declared containment zones.The Administration has removed the perimeter control from a block of 13 houses in Mariwala Town, Mani Majra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-imposes-curbs-in-24-areas-138582
09-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Lack of infra driving patients away from private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8A majority of the patients in the city are still visiting government hospitals for Covid treatment and not opting for private hospitals due to lack of facilities there.Under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the UT Health Department had directed all private hospitals to reserve at least 25 per cent of the beds in all specialties for Covid patients on a payment basis. However, the charges, which are approved by the UT Administration, will be borne by the patients.Many private hospitals have not been able to pull out resources for Covid due to lack of logistics and infrastructure. Dr Neeraj Kumar from Chaitanya Hospital said, “You require good isolation facility to take care of Covid patients as it’s a highly infectious disease. Big hospitals can use an entire building or a floor for treating Covid-19 patients, but the same cannot be expected from small nursing homes and private hospitals. The problem is of mixing of patients and rooms, same entry for Covid and non-Covid patients in lifts and so on.”He said, “Besides, non-Covid patients want to visit hospitals where there are no Covid patients. Private hospitals are safe bet for such patients. Also, private hospitals have only 10 per cent of the total bed strength of Chandigarh. Some nursing homes are single speciality where there are only 10-15 beds. There is no facility or expertise to treat Covid patients in many nursing homes or private hospitals.”RS Bedi, president of the Chandigarh Nursing Home and Private Hospital Association said, “The pandemic has adversely affected the health infrastructure in the city. The city is facing acute shortage of beds and the patients are being accommodated in makeshift arrangements in non-hospital buildings. Private nursing homes could have participated whole heartedly to treat Covid patients, but were restricted due to their small size. Due to the scanty spaces, there is a possibility that other patients may get infected.”The occupancy of a private hospital in the Industrial Area that has reserved 20 beds for Covid-19 patients is not yet used to its full capacity. UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said there had been no takers of Covid beds in private hospitals.Recently, the two designated private dialysis centres, Rahi Care Dialysis in Sector 22 and Dharam Hospital in Sector 15, the Administration’s order of starting dialysis could not be implemented due to infrastructural shortage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lack-of-infra-driving-patients-away-from-private-hospitals-138583
09-09-2020||---||Panjab University seeks details of  college fee defaulters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Panjab University (PU) Controller Office has asked all departments/affiliated colleges/directors of regional centres to share the details of students who have not cleared their dues or paid fee to the Deputy Registrar (examination) by tomorrow.‘Roll numbers will not be activated’The step has been taken to ensure that the roll numbers of the candidates, who havenot deposited the fee, are not activated by the university. - PU spokespersonThe PU has sought name, class, application number and roll number of such students from colleges. The data has been sought after a few colleges raised objections regarding non-submission of the fee by students. Many fear that students may not submit fee after appearing for or passing the examinations.According to the PU spokesperson, the step has been taken to ensure that the roll numbers of the candidates, who have not deposited the fee, are not activated by the university.This comes as a blow to students, who have been depending on PU political parties, expecting a full fee waiver and did not pay the fee.“As per a clause, students have to take an NOC before sitting in any examination. However, this may cause chaos at colleges and departments. So, we have asked the stakeholders to share the data so that we can deal with such cases online. The colleges have ensured giving some days to students for submitting the fee. On the PU campus, we hardly have such cases,” said Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination.The PU authorities have decided to hold exams in a blended (online/offline) mode for exit classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Colleges are raising a few concerns that are genuine. We have asked for the data. We will act as the situation demands,” said an official privy to the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-seeks-details-of-college-fee-defaulters-138584
09-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh data erroneous: Centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Centre has found the UT report on private-unaided schools under an obligation to admit EWS students and schools reimbursed “erroneous”.Following the confusion, the Centre has asked the UT Education Department to update them about the correct status of reimbursement and schools admitting EWS students.In the minutes of project approval board (PAB) meeting dated June 16, the Ministry of Education stated: “The Administration has reported that there are 54 private-unaided schools under an obligation to provide free education to EWS children on account of having received concessions from the government.”“Further, it has also been reported that only 54 private-unaided schools are admitting children under Section 12(1) (C) and these schools are also being reimbursed by the UT.”The MHRD pointed out that there seems to be some error either in reporting the number of schools under an obligation to admit EWS students or regarding the reimbursement being made. Both aspects need to be looked into and correct status needs to be intimated to the MHRD. The ministry pointed out that the 54 same schools cannot be reimbursed if they are under an obligation to provide free education on account of concession from the government.In Chandigarh, schools are bound to reserve 10 per cent seats for the weaker section under the land allotment scheme and do not get paid for it.To qualify for reimbursement for admitting EWS children in schools, the RTE Act holds that the unaided schools should reserve a minimum of 25 per cent of total class strength for children belonging to weaker sections and disadvantaged groups. Schools shall not be entitled to reimbursement to the extent of the obligation under the concessional land rule of the state, according to the Act. Hence, the city schools are paid only for the remaining 15 per cent. Many schools do not fill all 25 per cent seats and hence, do not qualify for reimbursement.There are 77 private schools in the city of which 22 schools are minority institutions that are not under an obligation to admit EWS/DG students. Over 50 schools claim reimbursement every year, but not all are found eligible for it.Only 29 schools each qualified for reimbursement in 2015-16 and 2016-17, while 30 schools qualified for the 2017-18 session. Over 49 schools in 2016-17 and 48 schools in the subsequent session submitted information regarding reimbursement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-data-erroneous-centre-138585
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Look after pupils’ belongings, ABVP asks authorities||The Panjab University ABVP unit circulated a picture of a termite-infested room at one of the hostels through the social media on Tuesday. However, the name of the hostel or exact location of the room was not revealed.Campus ABVP president Harish Gujjar said the authorities should take care of the students’ belongings kept in the rooms.“The university authorities cannot enter rooms. Such issues will obviously emerge as rooms have been locked for almost 6 months. Students are free to collect their belongings after submission of a written request. However, the hostels cannot be opened considering the rise in Covid cases. The picture circulated has no details and no such complaint was received,” said one of the officials, seeking anonymity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/look-after-pupils-belongings-abvp-asks-authorities-138586
09-09-2020||Mohali||35 teams formed for door-to-door survey||The second meeting of the board for delimitation of wards for the Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) was held today.The MC commissioner furnished information to the board members that 35 to 40 teams had been constituted for a door-to-door survey and their Covid test have been conducted to begin the survey at the earliest. The first meeting of the board was held on September 2. The board comprises the director of the Local Bodies or the Mohali Deputy Commissioner as the chairman supported by the MC Commissioner, former Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Amarjit Singh, a resident. The state had issued a notification to conduct polls for the six municipal corporations of the state in 2020. The MC elections are tentatively scheduled for October this year, but no date has been announced so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-teams-formed-for-door-to-door-survey-138587
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Education Department to function with 50% staff||The UT Education Department has ordered to function with 50 per cent staff from Wednesday onwards. As many as 21 employees of the department have tested positive for the virus so far.The official order, from UT Education Secretary SS Gill, read: “Consequent upon sanitisation of office buildings, office rooms/branches in the office of the Director School and Higher Education situated in the Additional Deluxe Building, Sector 9, the District Education Officer’s office at Sector 19 and RUSA office at Sector 42. All offices shall start functioning with 50 per cent staff from September 9.” Deputy Director Alka Mehta will also look after the work of the District Education Officer, UT, till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-department-to-function-with-50-staff-138588
09-09-2020||---||3 Chandigarh residents fall prey to online fraud||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Three city residents fell prey to online fraud. A Sector 32 resident was duped by an imposter who claimed to be an Army man.Complainant Atul Rai, a resident of the GMCH residential complex, Sector 32, reported that his mother is into the business of sanitisers and she had given an advertisement on India Mart.He stated that on June 19, a person claiming himself to be an Army man called his mother and expressed desire to purchase sanitisers and make payment through Google Pay. The complainant’s mother asked him to receive the payment from the suspect.“The fraudster sent an ID card and the canteen card of an Army man. He then sent a Google Play link on the complainant’s mobile phone,” said a cop.The complainant alleged that as soon he clicked on the link, an amount of Rs10,000 and Rs4,995 got debited from his SBI account.The police have registered a case of cheating at the Sector 34 police station and initiated investigations into the matter.In another case, complainant Sandeep, a resident of Sector 30, reported that he came across an advertisement on Facebook regarding the sale of a Nikon camera.The complainant struck a deal with an unknown seller and transferred a sum of Rs 11,050 to the seller’s bank account, only to find that he has been duped.Acting on the complaint, a case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station.Another cheating case has been registered at the Maloya police station on the complaint of Vivek, a resident of Maloya. He was duped of Rs 4,000 on the pretext of providing him a job.Vivek (27) reported that during lockdown he was searching for a job as a data entry operator on a website named Quikr. He later received a call from a company named Data Fortune Solutions. The person asked him to pay Rs 4,000 as service charge, which he paid. However, the complainant was neither provided a job nor his money was returned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-online-fraud-138589
09-09-2020||---||Zirakpur bus stop in a shambles||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 8Thousands of passengers boarding local and long-route buses from the bus stop at Singhpura here have to face inconvenience as it is in a bad shape and there is no overhead shelter.Most of the time, passengers are forced to come on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway to board a bus, putting their lives at risk. This also leads to traffic snarls. Also, there is a risk of contracting the Covid infection as people push each other while boarding a bus, thereby flouting the social distancing norm. “Where is social distancing here?” asks Meenakshi Sachdeva, a schoolteacher, who regularly commutes from Dera Bassi.Residents rued that the problem had been there for years, but the authorities had failed to find out any solution.SC Saini, a resident, said “All authorities are sleeping. A local MLA too raised his hands in helplessness. Everyone is shifting blame to others.”“Basic facilities such as drinking water, toilets and timetable are not there. People, who come to drop their relatives at the bus stop, have to park their vehicles on the roadside,” said Preeti Vadhera, a Zirakpur resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-bus-stop-in-a-shambles-138590
09-09-2020||---||3 suffer injuries in assault cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Three assault cases were reported from different parts of the city.In one of the incidents, victim Dheeraj, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, reported that some persons identified as Amit, Jaggi, Vikas and Shabnam assaulted him with a rod, a knife, beer bottles and a helmet near a community centre in Milk Colony, Dhanas, on September 6.The victim suffered injuries and was admitted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 here.The police have registered a case at the Sarangpur police station and arrested the suspects, all residents of Milk Colony, Dhanas.Another assault case has been registered against four youths at the IT Park police station.Complainant Suraj, a resident of New Indira Colony (NIC), Mani Majra, reported that Akash, Abhimanu, Abhishek and Arun, who are residents of the NIC, assaulted him with sticks, a sword and a baseball bat near Valmiki Temple, Mani Majra, on September 5.The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra. The police have arrested all suspects.In yet another case, complainant Amit, a resident of Sector 52, who works as a safai karamchari at the CTU, reported that he went for a walk after having dinner on September 6. Three persons, identified as Monu, alias Shetty, Vikas, alias Golu, and Hobo, stopped his way and started quarrelling with him. The suspects later assaulted and attacked him with a knife.The victim suffered injuries in the incident. He was admitted to the GMSH-16. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station and initiated investigations into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-suffer-injuries-in-assault-cases-138591
09-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab seeks modification or recalling of CBI inquiry orders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab Government does not want the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to hold preliminary inquiry into the alleged existence and operation of illegal and unauthorised checkpoints near some mining sites in Ropar.It has sought the modification or recalling of the orders directing the inquiry in case the High Court did not agree with its contentions to dispose of the matter. The plea for recalling the order came more than six months after the state of Punjab denied the existence of illegal checkpoints or barriers.The High Court had almost a month ago ordered the inquiry after taking on record a report on the existence and operation of illegal and unauthorised checkpoints. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Bachittar Singh through counsel Mansur Ali.In an affidavit filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Director, Mining, Department of Mines and Geology, Punjab, and IAS officer VN Zade, submitted the report by the Ropar District Legal Services Authority did not mention collection of royalty/gunda tax at the checkpoints.It was settled law that the occasion to exercise the power of instituting/transferring investigation to the CBI arose where the court found it necessary for doing justice between the parties, to instil confidence in the public mind, or where investigation by the state lacked credibility.“The requisite ingredients/circumstances, which deem it necessary for the investigation to be carried out by CBI in the present case, are not met,” the affidavit added.It further stated that official/government checkpoints and barriers had been setup at various locations and nothing survived in the petition. As such, the matter may be disposed of in such terms.“In the alternative, pending disposal (of the petition), it is also respectfully prayed that the order dated August 11 passed by this court directing a preliminary enquiry by the CBI into the contents of the report dated March 13 may also kindly be recalled/modified in the interest of justice and fairness and in view of the facts, material and developments being brought to the attention of this Court”.The application for recalling/modification of the order passed by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma was today placed before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh.“We feel that the matter needs to be heard by the same Bench. It needs to be placed before the same Bench after obtaining the orders from the Chief Justice,” the Bench asserted.Referring to the report, the Bench had earlier asserted that it established the existence and operation of the illegal and unauthorised checkpoints operated by private persons without any authority of law at various locations “with an instance where such illegal checkpoint is even nearby a police post.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-seeks-modification-or-recalling-of-cbi-inquiry-orders-138592
09-09-2020||---||Child pornography uploaded on Instagram, case registered||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The UT police have registered a case against unknown person for uploading child pornography on Instagram.According to the police, information was received from the National Cyber Crime reporting portal, a centralised platform to enable citizens to report online content pertaining to child pornography or sexually explicit content, maintained by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), about an objectionable content related to child pornography uploaded on the social media from Chandigarh.An official said the link of the content posted on Instagram and the ID from which it was uploaded had also been provided, which would be further investigated.Based on the information, a case under Section 67 (B) of the IT Act has been registered at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter by the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-pornography-uploaded-on-instagram-case-registered-138593
09-09-2020||---||e-auction of vanity numbers till Sept 14||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8E-auction of the remaining vanity/special registration numbers of previous series CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01BY, CH01BX, CH01BW, CH01BV, CH01BU, CH01BT and CH01BS began here today. It will continue till September 14. How to registerVehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link for the same is available on the UT Administration’s Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.in and obtain the unique acknowledgement number.The auction/bidding will start from September 15 (10 am) and will continue till September 17 (5 pm). Vehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link for the same is available on the UT Administration’s Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.in and obtain the unique acknowledgement number (UAN).People who have purchases vehicles at Chandigarh address will only be allowed to participate in the e-auction.Sale letter i.e. Form No. 21, UID i.e. Aadhaar card and address proof of Chandigarh are mandatory to participate in the e-auction.After getting registered on the national transport website or/through the UT Administration’s Transport Department website, the owner of the vehicle can deposit the fee for registration for participation in the e-auction in the office of the Registering & Licensing Authority, near Municipal Corporation Building, Sector 17, Chandigarh, by way of DD in favour of “Registering & Licensing Authority, UT, Chandigarh” payable at Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-auction-of-vanity-numbers-till-sept-14-138594
09-09-2020||---||Panchkula crime branch gets gangster Sukhpreet’s custody||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 8Gangster Sukhpreet Budha was produced before a court here today. The Panchkula crime branch team got his three-day custody in connection with the murder of Bhupesh Rana in Barwala on April 16, 2018.He was brought on production warrant from the Sangrur jail.Karambir Singh, in-charge, Sector 19 crime branch, said: “We have to show the recovery of the car used in the crime and other such details.”The incident took place on April 16, 2018, around 8 when Bhupesh was going to a barber shop near a Shiv temple in Barwala in his Alto car. The assailants were following him in another car. As soon as he stepped out, they fired at him.Bhupesh, who sustained bullet injuries on his back, chest and leg, died on the spot.A case was registered against Bhupinder, Gaurav Rana, Sahil Rana, Ashok and Rinku under Section 302 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act on the complaint of the victim’s brother, Parteek Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-crime-branch-gets-gangster-sukhpreets-custody-138595
09-09-2020||---||In Zirakpur, power outage is a norm||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 8Residents of Zirakpur are facing long power cuts for the past several days.Though PSPCL officials claim that they have sufficient supply, residents’ frequent complaints belie their claim. The officials said a new grid with four feeders at Ramgarh Bhudda would be functional shortly.The Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Sunny Enclave, near Big Bazaar, Zirakpur, filed a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Office, which has forwarded it to the CMD, PSPCL, for “necessary action as per the government rules and policy in the matter”.The RWA had complained about the careless public dealing of the Chief Engineer (South), SE, Mohali, and XEN, Zirakpur.One of the RWA members said, “There is no power due to which our children are suffering. They cannot attend online classes, but the officials are least bothered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-zirakpur-power-outage-is-a-norm-138597
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court extends  suspended SHO’s judicial custody||The CBI court has extended the judicial custody of suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur for 14 days.Kaur was produced before a court through video-conferencing. An application seeking the extension of her judicial custody for 14 days was moved by public prosecutor KP Singh. While extending the judicial custody, the court directed to produce her through video-conferencing on September 22.Jaswinder was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. An FIR was registered against accused Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO of the Mani Majra police station, and Bhagwan Singh, a private person, on the basis of a written complaint of Gurdeep Singh under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-extends-suspended-shos-judicial-custody-138598
09-09-2020||---||Union Minister to virtually inaugurate 9 blood donation camps across tricity tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Union Minister of Railways and Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal will virtually inaugurate blood donation camps to be held in nine places across the tricity on September 10 to the mark the 57th birthday anniversary of BJP supremo Sanjay Tandon.These camps will be organised in collaboration with various blood banks such as PGI, GMCH-32, Rotary Blood Bank, Civil Hospitals, Panchkula and Mohali, and some local NGOs. BJP’s national spokesperson for economic affairs Gopal Krishna Agarwal will talk about ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ on the occasion.The camps will be organised at Zakir Hall and Blood Bank, PGI, Blood Bank Centre, GMCH-32, Rotary Blood Bank, Sector 37, community centre, Sector 43, Shiva Manas Mandir, Industrial Area, Phase II, two locations of dispensary at Mauli Jagran, Competent Synergy, Mohali, and Stan Professionals, Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/union-minister-to-virtually-inaugurate-9-blood-donation-camps-across-tricity-tomorrow-138599
09-09-2020||Karam Prakash||Staff hiring incomplete, Mohali medical college yet to begin operations||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 8Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, a government medical college in Mohali, is once again likely to remain a non-starter. Reason: The government has failed to complete the process of faculty recruitment for the college.Dr Akashdeep, joint director, research and medical educationPromise to open college this sessionThe recruitment process will be completed soon. We can’t give an assurance, but the government is fully committed to start the college from this session. As a result, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has not granted the Letter of Permission (LOP) to the college till now. However, it has been learnt that there is still a chance to start the college as the MCI had communicated via its website that it had approached the Supreme Court to extend the last date of grant of LOP from March 31 to October 15 for the academic year 2020-21.However, in its notification pertaining to the MBBS admissions, the Punjab Government had mentioned only three government medical colleges — GMC, Patiala and Amritsar, and Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot.The government had invited applications for 30 posts from faculty working in the Central government and state medical colleges situated outside the state. However, a source said the initiative received a poor response. One of the reasons behind the delay was applicants having an issue with the eligibility criteria. Dr Manjit Kaur Mohi, director principal, BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical sciences, said, “The recruitment of staff is underway. We have not received the LOP, but we have enough time as the date has been extended till October 15.”Dr Akashdeep, joint director, Research and Medical Education, said: “Some faculty members have already been recruited and the process will be completed soon. We can’t give an assurance, but the government is fully committed to start the college from this session.”Meanwhile, DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, couldn’t be reached despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-hiring-incomplete-mohali-medical-college-yet-to-begin-operations-138320
