14-09-2020||Chandigarh||20-day-old child among five fatalities in Chandigarh; 245 new Covid cases||Five persons, including a 20-day-old child died of COVID-19 in Chandigarh, a medical bulletin said on Monday.The infection tally of the Union Territory jumped to 8,245 with 254 new coronavirus cases, the bulletin said.A 20-day-old child died of COVID-19 on Sunday at Government Medical College and Hospital here.A 69-year-old woman, a resident of Mauli Jagran, also died of the infection at the government multi-specialty hospital here, the bulletin said, adding she was also a diabetes patient.With these fatalities, the toll rose to 95 in Chandigarh.There are 2,847 active cases in the city as of now.A total of 130 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 5,300 people have been cured so far, as per bulletin.A total of 51,718 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 43,171 tested negative while reports of 143 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-day-old-child-among-five-fatalities-in-chandigarh-245-new-covid-cases-141214
14-09-2020|| ||PGI to get 20 more ventilators||Chandigarh, September 14 To cope with rush of patients, the PGIMER will soon get 20 more ventilators. During a review meeting on Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, stated that the number of ventilators have now increased to 45 in the institute. “These good quality ventilators from BEL are working fine,” he said, and added that the PGIMER was likely to receive 20 more ventilators from the Central Government. He stated that they have 269 Covid patients to Nehru Extension Ward, out of which 82 belong to Chandigarh, 80 to Punjab and 38 to Haryana. Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, stated that they were going to start antigen testing shortly. They have already received 2,000 kits for antigen testing from the Administration, he added. UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, who presided over the meeting, expressed satisfaction that the vulnerable senior citizens in Chandigarh have mostly followed the guidelines and stayed indoors. He appealed to all residents to maintain self-restraint and not to come out, unless absolutely necessary. The Administrator stated that the onus is now on the residents to keep themselves safe by strictly following Covid protocol. Badnore directed for more information, education and communication (IEC) activities for making the citizens aware of the hygienic practices and mask wearing. He also directed KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, and Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, to ensure that there was regular fogging and spray of water bodies to prevent water-borne diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-get-20-more-ventilators-141190
14-09-2020||---||Mohali police book Oyo founder on complaint of Chandigarh businessman||Mohali, September 14The founder and CEO of Oyo Hotels and Homes Pvt Ltd (OHHPL) is in the dock as the Mohali police have registered a case of “fraud and criminal conspiracy” on the complaint of a Chandigarh businessman.The FIR has been registered against founder Oyo Hotels, Ritesh Aggarwal, and Sandeep Lodha CEO of OHHPL’s brand Weddingz.in, on the complaint of Vikas Gupta.The victim in his complaint to the SSP had alleged that the company’s top management abruptly wriggled out of a business agreement illegally and with criminal intent. The SSP marked the complaint to SP (Rural), Mohali, who after conducting a thorough investigation recommended registration of FIR against the accused.Vikas Gupta said an agreement was signed between his company Vikas Mineral Foods Pvt Limited under which he also operates Banquet Hall Casavillaz at Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road, Dera Bassi, Mohali and Oravel Stays Pvt Ltd (OSPL). He said in June 2019 he came in contact with Virender Pal Bhasin, head of OHHPL in Chandigarh, who showed interest in his banquet hall. He said an agreement was signed according to which the Weddingz.in team will handle the business and in return pay them a fixed amount every month.Gupta stated that at the time of signing agreement all the required documents and NOCs asked by OHHPL to run his banquet hall were submitted and the top management, including the finance and legal teams of Oyo, were satisfied. Everything was running smoothly until the coronavirus outbreak restrictions were imposed on gathering in marriages and events, he added.He alleged, “Fearing losses, OHHPL hatched a premeditated conspiracy, and against terms of the signed agreement, sent him a notice on March 16 this year to again submit NOCs and other documents. They gave me just 15 days to comply whereas according to the agreement 30 +30 days is the notice time to be given in case any party wants to break the agreement if any breach happens and that is not resolved in the given time by them.”He alleged that another notice was sent to him that slapped over Rs 5 crore (approximately) penalty on him as part of a criminal conspiracy to make huge and easy money through pressure tactics. He claimed both the notices sent to him were mostly unsigned so these had no legal sanctity.“Interestingly, VMFL was served a forged termination notice on April 22, 2020 under conspiracy in which a mention of a letter/ or notice dated March 30 was made, but no such letter or notice was ever received which revealed their deliberate conspiracy,” Vikas alleged.He further alleged that despite terminating the agreement in a one-sided way and in a manner which smacks of “criminal intent”, his marriage palace’s name is still being used and innocent people are being cheated of money by booking functions and there is proof that weddings have been booked till December 2020 and he was being made a scapegoat.SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal confirmed that an FIR has been registered in the case, but no arrests have been made so far. She said they would soon arrest the accused in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-book-oyo-founder-on-complaint-of-chandigarh-businessman-141188
14-09-2020||---||Mohali district sees 8 more deaths due to Covid, 274 fresh cases||Chandigarh, September  14Mohali district on Monday witnessed eight more deaths due to Covid and recorded 274 fresh cases.The death toll in the district has gone up to 142.Mohali urban recorded 99 new cases, Kharar-38, Gharuan-46, Dhakoli- 50, Dera Bassi-29, Lalru-8 and Banur-4.As many as 204 patients have recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours.A 75-year-old female, also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, from Kharar died in GMCH, Patiala; 52-year-old female, also diabetic, from Ghogha village, Kharar, died in Shalby; 30-year-old female from Nayagaon died in PGI; 68-year-old-male from Derabassi died in Mehar Hospital, Zirakpur; 81-year-old male from Sunny Enclave died in Fortis, Mohali; 84-year-old female from Mohali died in Shalby; 62-year-old male from Kharar died in Amar Hospital; 31-year-old male from Dharamgarh died in GMCH 32.Total positive cases to date stand at 6,937. Of these 2,289 are active and 4,506 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-sees-8-more-deaths-due-to-covid-274-fresh-cases-141182
14-09-2020||Panchkula||Record six fatalities push Panchkula’s COVID-19 death count to 47||A total of six deaths – highest ever in a day – and 95 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Panchkula on Monday.Among the new cases, 15 were from Kalka, 10 from Pinjore, eight from Sector 12A, seven from Sector 15, five from Sector 8, four each from Sector 20 and Sector 25, three each from CRPF, MDC Sector 4, Sector 12 and Sector 10, two each from Rajiv Colony, Sector 11, Sector 14, Sector 21, Sector 4 and Tipra, one each Chandimandir, Amravati Enclave, Bhagwanpur, Haripur, Kharag Mangoli, MDC Sector 5, MDC Sector 6, Nada Sahib, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 27, Sector 6, Tagra Kaliram, Surajpur, Saketri, and Majra Mehtab.The district’s COVID-19 tally now stands at 4,205 cases, including 1,219 active cases and 2,939 recoveries.So far, 47 lives have been claimed by the infectious virus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/record-six-fatalities-push-panchkulas-covid-19-death-count-to-47-141179
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 42 resident loses two lakh in online fraud||A Sector 42 resident fell prey to online fraud and lost Rs two lakh on the pretext of paying instalment of his insurance policy in advance.Victim AD Rajput reported that he had purchased Reliance Nippon Life Insurance for Rs two lakh in December, last year, with a term of 12 years. The next premium for the insurance was supposed to be paid in December, 2020.The victim further started that last month he received an email mentioning that due to COVID-19, customers are not able to pay their premium following which he is advised to pay second instalment of Rs two lakh in advance which will be refunded to him in a week along with the interest.“I also received a call from a person named Puneet Arora who introduced himself to be an agent of insurance company. He also asked me to pay second instalment in advance following which I transferred the money in the bank account provided by him,” the complainant added.Later on August 28, victim received another email, asking him to deposit the third instalment of Rs two lakh following which he will get a refund of Rs 8.25 lakh within 72 hours.The victim got suspicious and consulted Insurance Ombudsman, who advised him to check with the insurance company.The victim went to insurance company’s office and found that he has been duped as money was not credited to his insurance policy.The insurance company also clarified that they don’t send such emails.The victim has submitted his complaint to Chandigarh Police, which is being investigated by Cyber Crime Investigation Cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-42-resident-loses-two-lakh-in-online-fraud-141176
14-09-2020||---||No let-up in surge, Chandigarh logs record 449 cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13The city recorded its highest single-day spike of 449 Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 7,991.Earlier, the highest spike was reported on September 8, when 377 cases had surfaced.The UT also witnessed a death due to coronavirus today, taking the toll to 90. A 56-year-old man from Sector 47 died at the Sector 48 hospital. He was diabetic.Cases as well as fatalities have been significantly high this month. The UT has reported a total of 3,645 fresh cases since September 1, when it first saw over 200 cases a day witnessing a 183 per cent rise in infections.The city’s fatality rate has also been higher this month, registering 34 deaths in less than a fortnight. The city saw 12 deaths in the first 13 days last month. The UT has witnessed 1,619 cases since September 8, when it saw more than 300 cases for the first time in a day. Over 34 per cent of the total cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-surge-chandigarh-logs-record-449-cases-140887
14-09-2020||---||120 fresh cases take Panchkula tally past 4,000||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 13The district today reported 120 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 4,110.The fresh cases include 16 from Pinjore, 11 from Sector 15, nine from Sector 21, seven from Sector 20, six from Surajpur, five each from the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 19 and Sector 7, four each from Raipur Rani and Sector 28, three each from Barwala, Chandimandir, Rajiv Colony, Sector 19, Sector 17, Sector 2 and Sector 25, two each from Kalka, Kot, Saketri, Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 14, Sector 16, Sector 26, Sector 6, Sector 8 and Budanpur, and one each from Amrawati, Hangola and Nanakpur.While 1,331 cases are still active, 2,738 patients have defeated the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/120-fresh-cases-take-panchkula-tally-past-4-000-140888
14-09-2020||---||6 more succumb in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 13Six Covid-19 deaths and 296 fresh cases were reported from the district today.A seven-year-old girl from Phase XI was the youngest fatality of the day. The girl, suffering from a liver disease, was admitted to the PGI.A 79-year-old man from Zirakpur died at the GMCH, Patiala. He was hypertensive.A 75-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar also died at the GMCH, Patiala. She was diabetic and hypertensive.A 60-year-old man, a cancer patient from Sector 68, died at the PGI. A 40-year-old man from Dhakoli died at the PGI and a 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur died at Max Hospital.Most of the cases reported today were from Mohali urban (107), Dhakoli (56), Gharuan (51), Kharar (33), Dera Bassi (19), Banur (15), Kurali (seven), Lalru (five) and Boothgarh (three). Meanwhile, 178 patients were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours. The district has reported a total of 6,663 cases, of which 2,227 are active. As many as 4,302 patients have been discharged from various hospitals till now.With six more deaths today, the district toll rose to 134. Mohali has witnessed the maximum number of deaths in the tricity. It is fourth in the tally of districts with maximum confirmed cases in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-succumb-in-mohali-140889
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Students in city find NEET easy, scoring||The National Testing Agency conducted National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) today. Students heaved a sigh of relief as a majority of them found the paper easy and based on NCERT. The police were deployed at all exam centres in the city to maintain social distancing.Sukhmanjit Brar, a candidate, said: “The paper was easy. The biology section was majorly based on the NCERT pattern. Some questions in the physics section were tricky, but required conceptual clarity. Some questions in inorganic chemistry were difficult, but this section was overall easy.”Jasleen, a student, said: “Overall, the paper was quite easy. The biology portion was based on NCERT textbooks, whereas more emphasis was laid on theoretical aspects in the chemistry section.”“The paper was easy and based on the NCERT. Students who had studied NCERT books thoroughly would be able to score high. The paper was scoring. The merit will be high. Inorganic chemistry was quite lengthy among all sections,” said Sanjeev Singh, medical academic head, Allen Institute. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-in-city-find-neet-easy-scoring-140890
14-09-2020||---||Man ends his life with trishul at temple on Dhanas road||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13An unidentified man reportedly committed suicide by forcing his neck in between the spikes of a trishul (trident) at the Kali Mata temple on Dhanas road near Panjab University last night.Seen touching idols in CCTV footageThe CCTV footage of cameras installed at the temple revealed that the victim, aged around 45, was roaming at the Kali Mata temple on Dhanas road near Panjab University and touching idols. He then walked up to a trishul and struck his neck in between its spikes that lead to his death.The CCTV footage of cameras installed at the temple revealed that the victim, aged around 45, was roaming in the temple and touching idols. He then walked up to a trishul and struck his neck in between its spikes that lead to his death.The police said the priest of the temple saw the body around 6 am. He informed the police, who arrived at the spot. The CCTV footage revealed that the man arrived at the temple around 10 pm.He went around the temple and touched an idol. He then walked up to a trishul and removed his clothes.The victim then struck his neck in between the spikes of the trishul at 10.20 pm after which he didn’t move. The body was shifted to the mortuary at the GMSH, Sector 16. He had injury marks on his the neck.The police said the victim’s sample would be collected for the Covid test. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 11 police station.The police said it was suspected that the victim was mentally ill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-his-life-with-trishul-at-temple-on-dhanas-road-140891
14-09-2020||---||2 from Chandigarh fall prey to online fraudsters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13The UT police have registered two cases of online fraud. In one of the incidents, a 32-year-old man was allegedly duped of Rs2.13 lakh.The complainant, a resident of Sector 20, alleged that he was searching for a job on Google in May. In the process, he came across a website through which he had an interaction with a person, who gave him the mobile number of a woman named Pooja Sharma.As per the complainant, the woman offered to develop physical relations with him.The victim asked her to come to his house, to which she agreed. However, later she asked the complainant to meet at a hotel.The woman made the complainant deposit money in a bank account of Shiv Medical Store on the pretext of purchasing a ‘sex kit’.The victim was also given another number saying that it was of a hotel employee who made him transfer more money through PayTm on the pretext of booking a hotel in Sector 17 and security charges. The victim kept paying for hotel booking after which the woman used to cancel her visit.The woman made the victim deposit money on various occasions between June and July by giving him false assurances that she would return the entire money when she meets him. The victim was made to transfer a total of Rs2.13 lakh through various modes.The woman also sent the picture of a BMW car to the complainant and told him that she could not come to meet him as her car had met with an accident. The victim later found that the woman had sent him the picture of an accident that took place in Hyderabad. The victim later realised that he had been duped by fraudsters, following which he submitted a complaint with the Cyber Cell Investigation Cell of the UT police. A case of cheating has been registered at the Sector 19 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter.In another fraud, Alka, a resident of Mani Majra, was duped of Rs8,500 on the pretext of providing her a job.The woman alleged that she got a call regarding a job at a pharmaceutical company in Chandigarh. The victim went through an online interview conducted through an agency named e-Solution Virtual.The victim alleged that the fraudsters made her transfer Rs3,500 in the Google Pay account of Amandeep Kaur and Rs5,000 in a bank account of Rekha Rani for medical examination. The fraudsters claimed that the money was refundable. The victim was assured that her training would start from August 25. However, the suspects later stopped taking her calls and blocked her phone number.The police were informed about the incident, who registered a case at the Mani Majra police station and initiated investigations into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-from-chandigarh-fall-prey-to-online-fraudsters-140892
14-09-2020||---||Dangling danger for motorists||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13Loosely hanging overhead cables and wires in different parts of the city pose a grave risk to people. The authorities concerned have failed to check the menace.Motorists and pedestrians find it risky while moving on inner roads. The wires can be seen dangling quite low on roads. At some places, after doing their work, the contractors concerned have left wires hanging loosely.“Cables used by cable network/Internet providers are dangling dangerously. These are not only likely to cause accidents but also give a shabby look to the city. Certain poles being used for these cables are also not erected properly. The MC needs to check this nuisance,” said Joginder Singh, a local resident.Another resident, Aman Sharma, said, “This is a big problem as cable operators and telecommunication companies are spreading their web across the city. This needs to be stopped urgently.”Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri said it was an old issue and the authorities had failed to address it. “We will take up the issue with the authorities once again,” he said.A senior officer said they had asked private companies to ensure that no such cables or wires were left dangling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dangling-danger-for-motorists-140893
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mauli Jagran resident sets himself on fire, dies||A 30-year-old man committed suicide by setting himself afire at his house in Mauli Jagran today. He was suffering from a mental illness.Balwinder Singh, who stays with his family, went on the roof and set himself ablaze. Some household goods lying on the roof also caught fire.His kin noticed the fire and informed the police and the Fire Department, following which a fire engine was rushed to the spot. The victim was rushed to the GMCH, Sector 32, where he succumbed to his burns. The Mauli Jagran police are looking into the matter.The victim was unmarried and was undergoing treatment for mental illness at the GMSH, Sector 16, for the past two years, said a cop. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mauli-jagran-resident-sets-himself-on-fire-dies-140894
14-09-2020||---||Minor raped, suspect held||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 13The local police have arrested a person for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl at Kundi village in Sector 20 here.The suspect has been identified as Mahesh Rawat (23), who lives in the same locality where the victim stays.According to the FIR, the victim’s mother filed a complaint with the police on September 12 against Mahesh for allegedly raping her daughter several times in the past two months.The suspect even threatened to kill the victim’s father. A case was registered against the suspect under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 506 of the IPC.A 14-year-old girl from Rally village in Sector 12-A was allegedly raped by a person living in the same locality on September 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-raped-suspect-held-140895
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre set to review Chandigarh preparedness||The Centre will hold a meeting with the UT Administration to review the Covid situation in the city on Tuesday.A highly placed source said the Union Home Secretary would meet the UT authorities to check the city’s preparedness for the pandemic.Chandigarh sees surge in cases since Sept 1The city has been witnessing an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases since September 1. At 4.6 per cent, Chandigarh has the second highest growth rate of coronavirus cases in the country. The UT has recorded over 3,000 Covid-19 cases this month so far, taking the infection tally close to 8,000. A total of 90 persons have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus from the city so far.During the last meeting, the Union Ministry had expressed displeasure over less containment zones in the jurisdiction and had asked the UT to enhance perimeter control where infection was prevalent.Consequently, the UT Administration created 25 more micro-containment zones where regular screening and monitoring of areas by the medical team would continue.The city has been witnessing an increase in the number of Covid cases since September 1. At 4.6 per cent, Chandigarh has the second highest growth rate of cases in the country. The UT has recorded over 3,000 cases this month so far, taking the tally close to 8,000. A total of 90 persons have succumbed to the virus from the city till date.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had recently sent a Central team to address the challenges in dealing with the pandemic and strengthening public health measures in the UT.The team has been asked to assist the UT in strengthening health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of patients to reduce mortality.The team also visited several dedicated Covid hospitals and care centres to take stock of the situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-set-to-review-chandigarh-preparedness-140896
14-09-2020||How to attract investment & improve ut’s rank on ease of doing biz||Industry can grow if red tape, rigid rules are shunned||Corruption should be strictly dealt withCorruption is rampant and unabated in India. It is the main reason for failure in every field whether it’s business or the Administration. Once the authorities concerned are successful in dealing with corruption, UT will improve its ranking on ease of doing business.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhIndustry needs more incentivesThe authorities should allow conversion of leasehold industrial plots into freehold by charging a nominal fee. Further, floor area ratio (FAR) should also be increased on the lines of residential plots for more development. The industry should be given regular and uninterrupted power supply on subsided rates to boost production. Lastly, get rid off red-tapism. Single window clearance can be adopted to make industrialists more successful.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNo need for business reforms in UTIt’s not surprising that Chandigarh has been ranked at the bottom among the states on ease of doing business. The UT was basically established as a city-state and an administrative headquarter and not a business hub. The city does not require any business reform plan like single window service, redressal of labour and environment issues or even FDI or local investments. Industry is nowhere to be seen in the city. Industrial hubs have turned into hotels, car retailers and malls. Hence, there is nothing that the city should be worried about as the Central Government is taking care of its financial needs through grants-in-aid. There is no need to change the age-old rules and regulations else the clean and green character of the City Beautiful will go down the drain. Let Chandigarh survive with its Anglo-French model of construction and operation.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurImplement UT’s industrial policyThe city’s rank on ease of doing business has remained unchanged from the previous year. The primary reason for the low ranking is non-implementation of the Chandigarh Industrial Policy of 2015. Chandigarh’s loss is Punjab and Haryana’s gain. This matter needs serious introspection. Changing of age-old rules and regulations will increase revenue of the industry and the UT exchequer.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMigrants’ exodus had adverse effectIt’s tough to do business in Chandigarh. Basic industrial requirement is adequate manpower. With imposition of sudden lockdown in March 2020 there was mass exodus of migrant labourers from the UT leave aside other difficulties faced by owners to run their units. Let us hope that the situation improves and normal life comes back on track.SC Luthra, ChandigarhFormulate policies to attract investmentsConsidering the UT’s lower rank on ease of doing business it becomes foremost duty of the Administration to formulate investor-friendly policies for setting up industries. Our City Beautiful has edge over other towns as it has low pollution level, is vested with good bus, rail and air connection, is managing continuous power and water supply, has excellent residential accommodation locally and in the peripheral areas. It already has an IT hub. The UT Administration should increase FAR, charge one time nominal fee to convert leasehold properties to freehold, provide power and water at competitive rates, and give concession in excise duties. The Administration can also allot plots to attract entrepreneurs.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhSincere efforts can safeguard industryYes, surely easing norms to attract investors is the need of the hour as our economy is already on the verge of collapsing. So remedial steps can not only bring respite for businessmen, but also help in improving economy. Rules should be easy to follow and there should be no red-tapism so that an investor is not under stress of just completing formalities to start his/her business. Least paper work and full cooperation by the Administration will help in increasing new business opportunities. Industry is the backbone of our economy. So, sincere efforts are needed to safeguard it.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhThink tank should formulate strategyApparently, rigid rules are key factors for non-implementation of the action plan. Besides, non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold, labour problems, non-implementation of the industrial policy, 2015 and irrational taxes hinder investments. The need of hour is to change rules to give impetus to industry. Therefore, think tank should work out a strategy for effective implementation of the industrial policy. Also, officials in the Department of Industries, should review industrial policy and bring need-based changes to encourage new investors and entrepreneurs. Needless to say, timely and corrective steps would help the City Beautiful in securing a respectable position on ease of doing business in the times to come.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliUt needs to transform for posterityBusiness reform action plan ranking is an indicator of the ease of doing business. Those at the helm in the Administration ought to acknowledge that business is no charity and onus for its promotion lies on them since this adds to the gross domestic product (GDP) that shapes the ease of living for one and all. Of the 80 parameters for ranking, carrying total of 187 points, Chandigarh secured dismal 9 points due to little action for other parameters. Action plans have to be formulated parameter wise and executed with involvement of all stakeholders. Non- implementation of Chandigarh Industrial Policy, 2015, and business unfriendly procedural wrangles in the bureaucratic atmosphere is the culprit. Chandigarh needs a shift in priorities for quantum jump in business scenario. It is time to shed rigid concepts of the fifties when Chandigarh was content being City Beautiful only bereft of business and industry infrastructure and transform the Smart UT in tune with needs and aspirations of posterity.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaRules followed strictly in UTChandigarh is a small city with high rent and property rates. Rules are strictly followed in UT as comparison to other cities of Punjab and Haryana. This is the reason why companies have shifted to Mohali, Panchkula and even the NCR. The UT Administration should use vacant properties. The Administration should lease out government properties to businessmen as it will increase tax collection, employment and business revenue in the city.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhGive loans on minimum suretyThe Chandigarh Administration should make policies, which attract businessmen and investors. Easy loans can be given to needy businessmen on minimum surety. It will help the industry grow and create employment opportunities.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhCreate environment conducive to businessUT’s poor ranking on ease of doing business is a matter of concern. Both businessmen and people are sufferers as less facilities are offered by the UT to the industry. Freehold properties would attract more businessmen to invest in the city along with creation of ample employment opportunities. Government jobs are limited. Many sectors are being privatised. The need of the hour is to create conducive business environment. Hence the Administration must give concessions to businessmen. As business grows, footfall will increase in city markets. This in turn will increase earnings of both businessmen and the UT Administration.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliNo use crying over spilt milkEveryone knows “Where there is a will, there is a way”. Will means not an ordinary, but an unflinching wish to achieve something. Confidence is key to success. It is true that Chandigarh has failed to improve its ranking due to wrong policy of the Administration. It is rigid on its old system/policy. There is no use crying over spilt milk. So, UT should change its rules such as non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold. Bank loans at low rate of interest and other facilities should be provided to industrialists. No doubt, more jobs will be created during Covid times as the industry thrives. Future of the unemployed youths will be better if industry is in good condition. It is important to change rigid rules for the promotion of trade and industry.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliFocus on Centre, UT coordinationUT must create a conductive environment for investment to create business opportunities. New sectors must be opened for investments. Focus on coordination between Central Government and the UT Administration to implement plans related to the industry.Anita Tandon, khararChandigarh cannot sacrifice its identityChandigarh was never proposed to be an industrial town though it had provision for small-scale industry on the outskirts for local needs. The floor area ratio (FAR) gives the city a uniform look of a modern city. Now, since the Union Territory has a limited area there is hardly any scope for expansion. Just for the sake of rank the City Beautiful cannot sacrifice its identity. Of course, leasehold property should be made freehold, but FAR should be maintained. We should strive for the number one status of the UT rather than national ranking on ease of doing business. Do not regret the path not taken. This ranking system is a farce to divert the mind of people from real social and economic issues of the country. Any ranking system should be based on quantitative figures and not qualitative such as feedback, which can always be manipulated on the political considerations in favour or against.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliMatter needs serious introspectionThe main reason behind low ranking of the city on ease of doing business is non-implementation of the industrial policy. Non-conversion of leasehold plots to freehold is a major setback and not the increase in FAR. Besides, rigid rules leave no space for growth. Above all is lack of vision. This is a serious matter, which needs introspection by the Administration. Flexible rules can attract investment required for the growth of the industry.Vidya Sagar Garg, ChandigarhLiberal policy can help economyOnly Administration can help industry in the present difficult times. Non-conversion of leasehold plots to freehold is a setback for the local industry. Youth should be encouraged to set up small-scale industry especially for daily use articles. It will create more jobs. It is of paramount importance that rules must be liberal for universal acceptance.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhCity has failed to attract FDIsThe city has huge potential for economic growth. But, the rigidity of rules, lack of vision and accountability on part of the authorities has affected development in the UT. Elected representatives have no say in planning or decision making. The result is major projects are either scrapped or delayed. Implementing the Centre’s policies is fine, but not at the cost of local issues concerning city residents’ that affects development of the UT and the tricity. Chandigarh being the capital city of Punjab and Haryana is the preferred destination for foreign investors over Mohali and Panchkula. But, the city has failed to attract FDIs. This is one of the major factor, which has affected economic growth of the city. The authorities must have will power and take a risk to ease rules to put the City Beautiful among the top five cities in the country.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd), ChandigarhUT’s small area is a disadvantageHaving an area of 114 sq km only is a disadvantage for the establishment of large industrial units in the City Beautiful. Only small units can be established in the UT. Laws are also rigid for conversion of leasehold property to freehold and rates of conversion are high. Rigid control over FAR although required for uniqueness of the city impinges the condition of ease of doing business. Besides, it is difficult to get clearances from different departments. Relaxation in rules is required for the growth of the industry and creation of jobs.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDiscuss issues with stakeholdersTo attract investments for the City Beautiful the authorities should implement the industrial policy, 2015, and the business reform action plan 2018-19. The policy and action plan should be reviewed periodically. The floor area ratio (FAR) should be increased. Conversion of leasehold plots to freehold should be allowed. Departments concerned should make the process of giving permissions, clearances, and renewals related to buildings, labour and environment easy. Industrial areas and parks should be upgraded. There should be regular discussion on industrial issues with stakeholders to make the ‘Make in India’ programme successful.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhConsult stakeholders to frame policyThe action plan for ease of doing business 2019 contained a list of 187 points. Chandigarh implemented only nine points. This is shameful for the authorities concerned. In this set up bureaucrats come for a fixed tenure only and nobody takes pain to compete with other states/UTs. To comply with the 187 points, the Administration needs to consult all stakeholders to frame a new industrial policy where issues like land, labour, investment, banking, taxation, marketing etc conducive to the city’s industrial environment need to be discussed and the policy finalised to compete next time.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONA cash-strapped Chandigarh MC has notified a steep hike in the water tariff, ranging from 50 per cent to 200 per cent. How justified is the hike in light of the fact that residents are already reeling under economic insecurities due to the Covid pandemic? What measures do you think should the MC take to generate funds for sustainability/survival?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industry-can-grow-if-red-tape-rigid-rules-are-shunned-140897
14-09-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula tally rising, 1K cases in just 7 days||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 13With 120 fresh Covid cases reported today, Panchkula’s tally stand at 4,110 — crossing the 4,000-mark.The latest 1,000 cases were recorded in just seven days — the fastest addition to the district tally. After reporting its first case on March 20, the district had taken 144 days to record the first 1,000 cases.Covid-19 Testing Recovery rateWith 2,738 patients cured and discharged in Panchkula, the recovery rate of the district now stands at 66.61 per cent.According to the latest Covid bulletin, Panchkula currently has 1,331 active cases. Panchkula and Rohtak districts together breached the 4,000-markin the state after Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonepat, Ambala, Rewari, Panipat, Karnal.For the past 15 days, cases have been rising at a faster pace in Panchkula. The district recorded the highest single-day spike with 180 cases on Friday.FatalitiesEven though the district has been able to contain the fatality rate, Covid deaths have more than doubled in the past 13 days. Till August 31, the number of deaths in Panchkula was 20 while the current tally stands at 41 — at least 39 had co-morbidities.The death of a 14-year-old – the youngest to have died in the district — from Kundi village on September 6 had raised alarm bells among health officials. Underlying medical condition or reason which led to his death wasn’t revealed by the Health Department.As on September 12, Panchkula had 83 critical patients, including 32 at the Civil Hospital.Contact tracingWith many people giving away wrong phone numbers and incomplete addresses at the time of testing, which eventually affected their tracing and surveillance, the health officials introduced a new plan, wherein those undergoing rapid antigen tests won’t be allowed to leave without their reports.Positivity rateThe worrying aspect of the district is that the positivity rate continues to increase — now it stands at 10.31 per cent. When the district had crossed 2,000 cases (on August 29), the positivity rate was 8.03 per cent. On August 10 (when it crossed the 1,000-mark), it was 4.3 per cent.Health infrastructureEven though the Health Department said it was well prepared to handle the surge, there is a risk of district running out of beds.The Covid beds in the Sector 6 Civil Hospital were mostly fully occupied, said Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.The home-isolation facility for asymptomatic patients has kept the burden off the health infrastructure. Till September 5 (when the district had 1,171 active cases), at least 935 patients were under home-isolation – almost 80 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-tally-rising-1k-cases-in-just-7-days-140898
14-09-2020||---||Beautification work begins under Zirakpur flyover||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 13The beautification work for the area under the Zirakpur flyover has begun near the Patiala chowk here.A JCB machine has been deployed for levelling and tilling the earth for ornamental plants. According to the proposal for the ‘Gateway of Punjab’, the area underneath the flyover will be beautified with ornamental plants on the 2.7-km stretch from the Chandigarh border till the Zirakpur Municipal Council limits. Toilets and seating area will be made near the Patiala chowk on the Zirakpur-Patiala stretch. A makeover worth Rs3.50 crore is in the offing in the coming days. Ornamental plants, benches and decorative lights will put up in the entire area.“Primarily, landscaping, greenery and walking tracks will be done. The work is expected to be completed in six-seven months,’’ said an official.“It was long overdue. Residents here want the place to be neat and clean but it is very dirty. Garbage, stray cattle, traffic and waterlogging make living an ordeal in the area. I hope something good comes out of this,” said Vinay Sachdeva, a resident.“Residents also have the responsibility of keeping the area neat and clean. Dumping of waste material and defacement of public property needs to be stopped,” said Brinda Bhargav, a homemaker and a resident.This is the second attempt to beautify the area. In 2017, the local administration had taken up the beautification project, but left it midway due to lack of funds. In 2016, some artists had volunteered to make graffiti on the pillars of the flyover, but these were defaced soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beautification-work-begins-under-zirakpur-flyover-140899
14-09-2020||---||Rs14.90-lakh compensation to accident victim’s kin||Chandigarh, September 13The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has directed ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company to pay Rs14.90 lakh as compensation to the mother and wife of an accident victim.The compensation was announced after both parties reached a compromise. Deceased Harish Chandra’s wife Seema (25) and mother Kailasha (56) had filed a claim under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, seeking a compensation of Rs75 lakh, along with interest, from the driver and owner of the vehicle and the insurance company.Harish Chandra had died after he was hit by a motorcycle allegedly driven by Kuldeep Kumar in 2019. During the hearing of the case on September 9, the claimants’ counsel and the company’s counsel moved a joint application for the disposal of the claim on the basis of amicable settlement.The counsel for the insurance company had submitted before the court that the company had agreed to pay Rs14.90 lakh as compensation.The Court, in view of the compromise between the parties, directed the company to settle full payment within 60 days, failing which it shall entail the liability of paying the interest at the rate of nine per cent from the date of the filing of the petition till its realization. Sixty per cent compensation would be paid to the wife and 40 per cent to the mother the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs14-90-lakh-compensation-to-accident-victims-kin-140900
14-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||COA awarded illegal affiliation to assn, alleges rowing body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13As the four-year term of the Chandigarh Olympics Association (COA) is coming close to completion, more controversies have emerged.The Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA) has alleged that the COA has awarded ‘illegal’ affiliation to the Rowing and Sweep Association, which is not even registered with the Rowing Federation of India. The affiliation to the association was given on August 15, 2018, and it got registered under the Societies Act in December 2018.“The COA is believed to have awarded affiliation to the association at the time when it was not even registered under the Societies Act. Interestingly, ‘rowing-sweep’ has same meaning, but the COA just want to add on to their vote bank. This body has not conducted a single tournament in two years,” said Rajiv Sharma, associate joint secretary, honorary secretary, CRA.He alleged, “The affiliation was given from the COA office, which is located in a school, on a public holiday. What was the hurry? The other association was given a provisional affiliation on the condition of conducting championships, but we have been conducting all championships till date,” said Sharma.Defending all allegations, the COA said the CRA went defunct in 2011 and had been circulating fake documents. “The CRA was defunct in 2011 as its president, general secretary and treasurer resigned due to which its affiliation was withdrawn. In the meantime, the other party applied and it was given affiliation. There’s no big deal if the letter was issued on August 15 and the Rowing and Sweep Association was already registered under the Societies Act. The documents pertaining to its registration in December are fake and circulated by the CRA. The CRA has never applied for affiliation after 2011. The national federation has given affiliation to CRA on fake documents signed by a former office-bearer of COA Ravinder Talwar, which we have already challenged. These are illegal and do not exist as per the national body constitution,” said Maha Singh, secretary, COA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coa-awarded-illegal-affiliation-to-assn-alleges-rowing-body-140901
14-09-2020||---||Cricket body may use govt school grounds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) was in constant touch with the UT Administration for training cricketers at government school grounds, said association president Sanjay Tandon during a webinar.He said it was not possible to conduct training or practice matches for men and women (all formats) at a single training platform due to the social distancing norms. So, the option to practise in government school academies was being explored, he said.He said the city had three academies in government schools in sectors 19, 26 and 32. The UTCA had successfully conducted first-season matches, such as Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Cooch Behar Trophy and Colonel CK Naidu Trophy, at the Sector 26 grounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-body-may-use-govt-school-grounds-140902
14-09-2020||---||Congress, AAP flay civic body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra today came down heavily on the BJP-led MC over the decision to increase the water tariff.Chhabra said city residents had already been bearing the brunt of huge increase in taxes and by increasing the water tariff by almost three times, the BJP-led MC had further burdened them.He said BJP leaders, who had once promised 24-hour water supply, were now doing this to residents. He said people were losing jobs, their income had been hit and even businesses had been hit badly due to the Covid-19 pandemic and instead of giving some respite to the citizens, the BJP was trying to further burden them.'Will aggravate problems'Chandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), under the leadership of state organisation secretary Vikram Singh Pundir, dug a well in Sector 52 in a protest against the Municipal Corporation (MC) for increasing the water tariff. The party is symbolically digging wells across the city to stage their protest. The protesters said people were already reeling under financial crisis due to the pandemic and the increase in water rates would aggravate their problems. Prem Garg, AAP Convenor, said the MC had neither worked on checking the leakage of water and nor recycling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-aap-flay-civic-body-140903
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panel for nodal officer to help students from far-off places||A standing committee constituted to conduct Panjab University’s blended (offline/online) mode examinations recommended that in view of anticipated technical difficulties for students in rural areas, the colleges may be requested to make necessary arrangements for offline exams on their campus after following the Covid guidelines.The committee also decided that in case of online exams being held on Sunday, the sealed envelope of the answer sheet may be dispatched via post the next day. The USOL and private candidates should send their answer sheets (hard copies) to the DR Secrecy, Panjab University, immediately, while soft copies will be sent as per the instructions through ugexams@gmail.com or pgexams@gmail.com.The university will reimburse the expenditure on conducting online examinations — Rs15 per student per paper and Rs15 per student for the evaluation of answer sheets — to the colleges/centres and departments.The online meeting was held under the chairmanship of PU DUI Prof RK Singla, along with Prof Navdeep Goyal, Prof Sukhbir Kaur, Prof Parvinder Singh, Prof Sanjay Kaushik and Dr Muneshwar Joshi.Keeping in consideration the request of students from far-off places, it was decided to appoint a nodal officer at the command centre. The officer, a senior professor or a senior official, will be appointed by the office of the Controller of Examination to felicitate or assist the smooth and uninterrupted conduct of exams.“For students from far-flung areas, it has been decided to appoint a senior official at the command centre. The officer will help students in following the process of attempting the examinations. Nodal centres at such areas may not be a feasible idea. We have limited approach and should work accordingly. The person here will guide students in stress and will also help them to understand the exam attempting and submission process,” said Parvinder Singh, PU Controller Examination.He also said to give some relief to the colleges, the committee had extended financial support for them. “It will surely help the colleges. The colleges will be paid Rs15 for downloading, scanning and other process and Rs15 for evaluation of answer sheets,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-for-nodal-officer-to-help-students-from-far-off-places-140904
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||DHE issues instructions||The Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) has issued instructions for online admissions against vacant seats in centralised courses.The inter-pool de-reservation of seats will be done at the college-level (85 per cent UT and 15 per cent outside UT quota will be de-reserved). The applicant should submit their willingness for admission through a form uploaded on college websites. Admission will be given to those who had applied on the DHE portal before August 7.The applicants should submit the willingness to participate in the college-level admissions through college websites (for all centralised courses) on September 14 (tomorrow) before 5 pm. The merit as per the vacancy in each college will be displayed on September 15 (11am) followed by option to de-allocate from the college allotted earlier on the same day from 11 am to 2 pm. The online admissions as per the merit will be also conducted on September 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhe-issues-instructions-140905
