18-09-2020||Chandigarh||15-year-old girl among 4 COVID-19 deaths in Chandigarh; 260 fresh cases||Four more people lost their lives to COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Friday as 260 fresh infections surfaced, taking the number of cases to 9,506 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.So far, coronavirus has claimed 110 lives in the union territory, according to a medical bulletin. There are 2,978 active cases in the city as of now, it said.A total of 353 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, the bulletin said, adding that 6,415 people have been cured of the disease so far.A total of 58,937 samples have been taken for testing till now and of these, 49,088 tested negative while reports of 167 are awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-year-old-girl-among-4-covid-19-deaths-in-chandigarh-260-fresh-cases-143023
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||No relief from sultry weather for Haryana, Punjab||Hot and humid weather continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Friday and the maximum temperatures hovered above normal limits.         Hisar was the hottest place in Haryana recording a maximum of 39.7 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal limits, according to the meteorological department.Narnaul and Bhiwani also experienced hot weather as the maximum temperatures there settled at 38.8 degrees Celsius and 38.2 degrees Celsius respectively.Ambala and Karnal recorded respective highs of 36.4 degrees Celsius and 35.4 degrees Celsius.Sultry weather also prevailed in Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which recorded a high of 36 degrees Celsius.          In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 37.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits.        Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above normal maximum temperatures of 36.3 degrees Celsius and 37.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.         According to the Met department forecast, monsoon activity is likely to remain "subdued" over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next 5-7 days.“Mainly dry weather is likely to prevail with occasional development of isolated rain /thundershowers during this period,”it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-relief-from-sultry-weather-for-haryana-punjab-143013
18-09-2020|| ||Chandigarh Admn lifts curbs in 3 micro-containment zones||Chandigarh, September 18 The UT Administration on Friday removed the restrictions from three micro-containment zones in the city. Restrictions have been removed from house number 2168 to 2175 in Sector 38-C, house number 2143 to 2145 in Sector 27-C and house number 3408 to 3413 in Sector 27 –D, on the basis of recommendations received from Affected Areas Assessment Committee, said UT Adviser Manoj Parida. Parida, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the affected areas by municipal authorities would be carried out and the residents would be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-lifts-curbs-in-3-micro-containment-zones-142990
18-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 3 deaths and 337 COVID-19 cases; death toll reaches 154||Mohali reports three deaths and 337 fresh cases on Friday, taking the district's death total to 154.The coronavirus tally stands at 7,989.About 277 patients have been cured of the deadly disease.Sharing details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said that two women and a man succumbed to the deadly disease in the last 24 hours. He shared that a 52-year-old woman from Dera Bassi, who died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, was suffering from cancer, another 60-year-old woman from village Motamajra, who was a diabetic patient, died at GMCH, Patiala, and a 54-year-old man from Phase 7, also died at GMCH, Patiala.COVID-19 cases:Out of 7,989 positive coronavirus cases, 5,296 have been cured of the deadly disease.The city records 2,538 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-3-deaths-and-337-covid-19-cases-death-toll-reaches-154-142988
18-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 3 deaths and 157 COVID-19 cases||The district on Friday reported 157 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the district tally to 4,765. It also saw the death of three people, aged 55, 73 and 68.The toll has now reached 57.A 55-year-old man from Ashiyana in Sector 26, a 73-year-old man from Raipur Rani and a 68-year-old woman from Sector 2, all suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the disease.The new cases include 15 from Pinjore, nine each from the Industrial Area and Sector 20, eight each from Amrawati Enclave and Sector 15, seven each from Kalka and Sector 21, six each from Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 27 and Sector 28, five each from Sector 26 and Sector 6, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 9, Sector 11 and Sector 12, three each from Sector 21, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 4 and Sector 9, two each from Chandimandir, Indira Colony, Nanakpur, Old Panchkula, the MDC, Sector 5, Raipur Rani, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 25 and Sector 8, and one each from Kharag Mangoli, Khera Sita Ram, Madanpur, Rehore, Sector 14, Sector 23 and Sector 7.While 1,222 cases are still active, 3,486 persons have been cured or discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 57,618 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-3-deaths-and-157-covid-19-cases-142971
18-09-2020|| ||Rejig in Chandigarh Police Department||Chandigarh, September 18The UT police on Friday transferred two DSPs.Dilsher Singh Chandel, presently DSP (East), has been transferred and posted as DSP (Communication).Chandel will be replaced by Gurmukh Singh as DSP (East). The latter is currently working as DSP (PCR).DSP, Training and Recruitment, Sita Devi has been given the additional charge of DSP (PCR).Meanwhile, 2018 batch IPS Shruti Arora on her arrival in Chandigarh will be posted as DSP (South). She is coming to the city on deputation.The transfer orders were issued by SP Manoj Kumar Meena.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rejig-in-chandigarh-police-department-142965
18-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No biz in Punjab, wedding planners, caterers move to Haryana and Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 17With wedding and events business badly affected in Punjab due to the limitation on gatherings, a large numbers of industry vendors, including florists, caterers, disc jockeys, sound and light system operators and other artistes, have started moving to Haryana and Chandigarh to get some work.The wedding market in the state is staring at a hard reset in the face of Covid. A number of palaces and resorts are on lease, and the owners have been badly hit as they had paid the lease amount in advance and earnings are nil since the past few months.Satish Arora, president of Punjab Hotel, Resorts and Restaurant association, said: “Marriage palaces and banquets in Haryana and Chandigarh have started organising events at half capacity. Caterers, florists and tent owners have started moving to these places to get some work.”Arora said: “Lavish resorts and banquets have been hit hard as big fat weddings have dried up in the state, upsetting the entire event industry.”He said there were around 4,500 resorts and marriage palaces in Punjab and almost all of them were lying closed with the cap on gatherings.Gurdeep Singh Walia, a hotelier and general secretary of Hotels Association, Patiala, said the pandemic had hit them badly and there was no business at all, due to which he was planning to start a catering business in Chandigarh or Haryana as they had huge committed expenses to bear.Moreover, these hotel and palace owners do not see business coming back to pre-Covid level anytime soon in the near future.The present scenario is a far cry from the “big fat” Indian wedding, replete with thousands of guests and multi-day revelry with cocktail parties, live bands, and elaborate feasts held at exciting locales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-biz-in-punjab-wedding-planners-caterers-move-to-haryana-and-chandigarh-142756
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Events held to mark PM’s 70th birthday||The BJP, Chandigarh, organised various social programmes to celebrate the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.City BJP president Arun Sood and district president Ravinder Pathania organised a blood donation camp at the Community Centre, Sector 37. Sood, along with children from nearby slums, also cut a 70-kg cake in the Sector 26 vegetable market and distributed it among the kids and workers there. He also planted saplings at a park in Sector 44. He was accompanied by various party officials.A virtual rally marked the end of the celebrations organised by Rotary International chairman RK Sabu.70 computers distributedChandigarh: BJP leader and president, Competent Foundation, Sanjay Tandon, on Thursday distributed 70 computers among 70 needy students between eight and 12 years of age to mark the Prime Minister’s birthday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/events-held-to-mark-pms-70th-birthday-142758
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||PM's birthday: NSUI protests at Sector 17 Plaza||The NSUI wing of Panjab University organised Berozgari Diwas at Sector 17 Plaza to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The protest was organised by arranging various stalls for selling ‘pakoras’, tea and polishing boots to show the plight of the youth due to the “mismanagement and mishandling” of the economy by the Modi-led government, said NSUI national secretary and Chandigarh in-charge Shaurya Veer Kadyan.NSUI national social media chairman Manoj Lubana today said the party protested in a unique manner to show the current situation of the dissatisfied youth. NSUI national social media coordinator Anuj Singh, Sukhjeet, Jashan Kamboj, Rahul Kumar, Rajkaran Baidwan, Attinderjit Singh Robby and Sarvottam Rana were present during the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pms-birthday-nsui-protests-at-sector-17-plaza-142759
18-09-2020||Mohali||Assistive devices distributed among differently abled||A total of 38 beneficiaries of the district were provided 60 assistive equipment worth Rs2.88 lakh during a special camp for assistance to disabled persons (ADIP), organised by District Red Cross Society.The camp was organised in collaboration with Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation (ALIMCO) at the District Administrative Complex, Mohali.Presiding over the camp, Aashika Jain, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), said, “It is the first of its kind camp in which assistive aids have been provided free of cost to physically challenged people. Aids and appliance distributed include 12 tricycles, six wheel chairs, one cerebal palsey (CP) chair, 10 crutches, two walking sticks, 26 hearing aids with 156 spare batteries, one smart cane and two large elbow crutch.”Aashika Jain motivated divyangs to develop a positive attitude and live life to the fullest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assistive-devices-distributed-among-differently-abled-142761
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Colony residents seek houses under PM scheme||Several residents of the Sector 25 colony have demanded the allotment of houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.In a letter to the chief executive officer, Chandigarh Housing Board, Aamda, Gulaba, Munesh, Monika, Bunty, Brijender, Prakashi, Vinod Kumar and Ankit, all residents of the colony, stated that they had applied under the scheme on March 25, 2017, and thereafter, verification was done by officials concerned in February 2018, but even after more than three and a half years, they had heard nothing in this regard.They said they were facing hardships due to delay in allotment of houses constructed under the scheme in Maloya. They said due to the ongoing monsoon season, water accumulated all around the colony causing unhygienic conditions. Due to heavy rainfall, roofs started leaking profusely and the whole family could not sleep throughout the night, they said.They said despite the fact that houses are complete and ready for possession, they failed to understand the logic behind the delay in starting the process of allotment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/colony-residents-seek-houses-under-pm-scheme-142762
18-09-2020||Panchkula||‘Probe overcharging by hospital’ in Panchkula||The commission, however, said Mehta should have filed a complaint before the consumer court, Panchkula. Mehta, in her complainant, had alleged that an exorbitant bill of Rs96, 270 was handed over to her for Covid treatment at the time of discharge from the hospital on September 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-overcharging-by-hospital-in-panchkula-142763
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Only Ola, Uber can operate in Chandigarh||Over illegal plying of private taxis in the city, the State Transport Department (STA) has clarified that only Ola and Uber companies have got the aggregator licence to operate in the city.Harjeet Singh Sandhu, Secretary, STA, stated that except Ola and Uber, no other cabs had got themselves registered with the STA and had obtained licence for plying their cabs in the UT.Sandhu further said the owners of cabs, who had attached their vehicles with such companies, were advised to detach from them, failing which the sole responsibility regarding challaning or impounding would rest upon the owner of the cab.He also advised the general public not to travel in such cabs in order to avoid any mishap or incident in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-ola-uber-can-operate-in-chandigarh-142764
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake changed my life, says Dhyan Chand awardee international rower||International rower Manjeet Singh, who was recently bestowed with the Dhyan Chand award, was in the city today.Manjeet, who hails from Isa Panj Grian in Ferozepur district, is a DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 8, pass out and has won his first medal while playing from the city.“A visit to Sukhna Lake changed my entire life. I had never thought of becoming a rower. I would come here (Sukhna Lake) daily to watch young kids rowing at a stretch,” he said.“After moving to Chandigarh, I was rather more interested in playing some field sport. But on friends’ insistence, I got myself registered with the Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA) at the age of 16. My coach Arvind Sehgal saw me practicing for nearly two months and helped me in getting elected for the Junior National at Roorkee. I ended with winning a silver medal in Junior Men (JM) 4 category.”He is one of the most decorated rowers of India, who had played in the Beijing Olympics, 2008, won two silver medals in the Asian Games, 2010 and represented India in the London Olympics, 2012. Over his Dhyan Chand award win, Manjeet said it was the greatest honour of his life.“If the CRA had not introduced me to rowing, I would not have been a recipient of this award,” he said. Rajiv Sharma, general secretary, CRA, honoured him with a memento.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-changed-my-life-says-dhyan-chand-awardee-international-rower-142765
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||3 booked for youth’s murder||Call for open online debateChandigarh: Giving the Panjab University Teachers’ Association elections (PUTA) a new turn, the Mohammed Khalid-MC Sidhu group invited their rival candidates for a web conference to discuss issues in the public domain. “We are ready for the web conference to give our vision of teachers’ leadership, enlist genuine concerns of colleagues and their solutions, and also reply to any question raised by contesting members in front of the media,” said Sidhu. “In the absence of personal and physical campaigning, it is important that the teaching fraternity decides to elect a team, that can take-up their issues,” he said. TNSWebinar dwells on cardiologyChandigarh: The Department of Cardiology, PGIMER, organised a webinar on Dr Andreas Gruentzig here today. Dr Gruentzig performed first angioplasty 43 years on September 17. The department paid tribute to legend of cardiology on the occasion. Discussion was held on various aspects of interventional cardiology and how this practice saved patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. It was decided to propagate these ideas further. Participants also discussed how the Department of Cardiology, PGIMER, managed patients of acute coronary syndrome cardiogenic shock and various co-morbidities during previous pandemics. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a mobile phone from a man on the Sector 19/27 dividing road. The victim, identified as Vijaypal, informed the police about the incident following which officials rushed to the spot and initiated a probe. TNSMining mafia attacks RTA teamAmbala: A team of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti, who is RTA Secretary, was attacked by the mining mafia on the Haryana-Punjab border, near Panjokhra, on Thursday evening. While the ADC escaped unhurt, her official vehicle was badly damaged. One of her staff members sustained injuries while another went missing. “We were checking and challaning overloaded vehicles since this afternoon. When we caught some violators, a group of 50-60 persons attacked us,” said the ADC. A police force led by Ambala Cantonment DSP Ram Kumar and the SDM rushed to the spot to track and catch culprits. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-youths-murder-142766
18-09-2020||Zirakpur||Solan bizman dies in SUV crash||A 35-year-old businessman from Solan died while his maternal uncle was critically injured when their Mahindra SUV rammed into a crane on a flyover on the Zirakpur-Kalka highway last night.The businessman, Ankur Singal, was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Panchkula, where he was declared brought dead. His uncle Arvind Sherwan was admitted to a private hospital in Rohtak. The mishap took place at 2 am. Ankur was driving the SUV. It was completely damaged.The police said the victim and his uncle were returning to Himachal Pradesh from Sriganganagar where they had gone for some business purpose. Ankur was into chocolate business.The police said the crane was coming from the wrong side with headlights and indicators off. Sources said the street lights near the spot were not working.The hook of the crane reportedly hit Ankur’s head. As a result, he was tossed out of the SUV along with the seat. The hook ripped apart the roof of the SUV. After the incident, the crane driver, identified as Pawan, sped away. The deceased is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/solan-bizman-dies-in-suv-crash-142643
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cyber fraud graph heads north in Chandigarh||Cyber crime complaints related to hacking or creating fake email accounts to dupe people have witnessed a 200 per cent rise and complaints regarding hacking or creating fake social media accounts, including Facebook and Instagram, have increased by over 100 per cent this year.Jobless youth targeted onlineThe pandemic has left many people jobless. The UT police have received 241 complaints of online cheating on the pretext of providing job or work permit/visa. The number of complaints received for the offence during 2019 was 242.According to the UT police, 198 complaints of cheating through fake email ID and 528 of hacking social media accounts have been received by the UT Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC) till September 15, while the complaints received for these offences last year were 61 and 259, respectively.AdvisoryBeware of fake job alertsNever respond to offers regarding providing loans onlineA police official said there was a steep rise in the number of complaints during the lockdown.“One should never respond to requests for money transfer received through email and social media accounts of friends. It is advisable to verify by calling them up,” said Inspector Devinder Singh, incharge, CCIC.Recently, some fraudster had created a fake Facebook account of UT DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel and demanded money as financial help from people who were in the cop’s Facebook friends’ list.The lockdown due to Covid brought financial hardships to a large number of people. Many such people fell prey to fraudsters, who lured them on the pretext of getting them loan. As per the records, 106 such complaints have been received by the police this year, while the number was 40 in 2019.Fraudsters are also targeting people through WhatsApp. This year, 119 such complaints have already been received by the police. “Fraudsters first save a person’s WhatsApp profile picture and then use it to target people by seeking financial help,” said a cop.Similarly, complaints of online cheating by using details of debit and credit cards and by sending fake links through which money is stolen have also gone up. As many as 762 complaints have already been received by the police till September 15, in comparison to 876 received during 2019.Meanwhile, the number of complaints of cheating through debit or credit card cloning or by exchanging cards has dipped this year as 592 complaints were lodged against 1,281 last year.The police said several incidents where people were duped by posing as Army personnel were also reported. Fraudsters also duped people on the pretext of purchasing or selling some pre-owned product online. This year, 366 complaints regarding cheating through OLX have been received. There has been a steep rise in cyber crime in the past few years. In 2017, 2,242 complaints were received by the police, the number rose to 3,167 in 2018 and 4,793 in 2019. This year, the cyber cell has already received 4,308 complaints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyber-fraud-graph-heads-north-in-chandigarh-142644
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||See my diary, victim had told sister||Several teams of the UT police went to Punjab to trace 43-year-old Mandeep Singh, who is accused of murdering his wife, a schoolteacher. The victim’s younger son is also missing. The police recorded the statement of the couple’s elder son, Ishmeet, under Section 164 of the CrPC.UT Cops in Punjab to trace husband, sonUT police teams went to several places near Ludhiana and Ropar in search of the suspect, Mandeep Singh. The victim’s younger son is also missing. Police officials said they were searching for the white Maruti car in which Mandeep had left the city.The body of Jyoti Rani (40) was found at her house in Sector 23 on the intervening night of September 15 and 16.Mandeep had left home with his two sons, aged 13 and 9, on September 14. After paying obeisance at a gurdwara in Ludhiana, he took both his sons to a canal near Ludhiana and stopped the car claiming it had developed a snag. Mandeep then took Ishmeet towards the canal and pushed him into it. However, the boy managed to survive.In his statement, Ishmeet claimed that he cried for help, but nobody came to his rescue.Police officials said they were searching for the white Maruti car in which Mandeep had left the city. Police teams went to several places near Ludhiana and Ropar in search of him.Police sources said Mandeep had got the fuel tank of his car refilled at two petrol pumps near the Sector 43 ISBT on September 15. He made payments through a debit card following which cops came to know about it. The sources said the Maruti car was seen in the CCTV footage of the petrol pumps, adding that the suspect escaped towards Kharar.The last location of Mandeep’s mobile phone was in Sector 40, Chandigarh, on September 15. The police said it was switched off since then.The sources said the victim had told her sister that if something happened at her house, she could check her personal diary. “We will search the diary,” the sources added.Meanwhile, the victim’s younger son Jashandeep is still missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/see-my-diary-victim-had-told-sister-142645
18-09-2020||Kharar||Five thrash tax consultant, fire gunshots||A tax consultant was seriously injured after five miscreants allegedly beat him up with cricket bats after barging into his house near Janata Chowk in the wee hours of Thursday.The miscreants also fired several rounds to terrify him. The police said two parties had an old dispute, which led to the attack. They said he did not suffer any bullet injury, but was badly beaten up and had to be admitted to Indus Hospital. The victim, Arun Sharma, is the brother of a doctor, Anil Sharma.The incident occurred around 3 am when the assailants knocked at the door of his house. They entered inside and started beating up Arun Sharma They also threatened his son. The suspects also fired at CCTV cameras and damaged the victim’s car.SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said there were five suspects and three of them had been identified. They had some old dispute regarding court cases. He was thrashed with cricket bats. No gunshot hit him.“We are checking the CCTV footage and questioning his son and others living in the nearby area. The suspects will be arrested soon,” she said.A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 450 (house trespass), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and under the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-thrash-tax-consultant-fire-gunshots-142646
18-09-2020||Mohali||3 fatalities in Mohali, toll 151||The district witnessed three Covid fatalities today, taking the toll to 151. It also saw 278 fresh cases, while 236 patients were cured of the disease.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said a 55-year-old man from Kharar died at a Sohana hospital. He was suffering from kidney and lung diseases. An 80-year-old man from Desumajra died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, while a 60-year-old woman from Badana village died at the Civil Hospital, Ambala. All patients had comorbidities, he said.Among the fresh cases, 73 were reported from Mohali (urban), 26 from Kharar, 69 from Gharuan, 71 from Dhakoli, 14 from Dera Bassi, four from Lalru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fatalities-in-mohali-toll-151-142647
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||5 deaths, 288 cases in Chandigarh||The city today reported five deaths due to Covid, raising the toll to 106. Also, 288 fresh cases surfaced, taking the tally to 9,246.An 81-year-old man from Sector 55, a case of diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease, died at the GMCH-32. A 57-year-old man from Sector 30, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus, succumbed to Covid at the GMCH-32. A 61-year-old man from Mani Majra breathed his last at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.An 18-year-old girl from Sector 42, who was brought dead at the GMSH-16, tested positive for Covid. A 48-year-old woman of Sector 28, a case of sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at the GMSH-16.A total of 379 patients reportedly recovered from Covid today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-deaths-288-cases-in-chandigarh-142648
18-09-2020||Panchkula||One death, 112 test +ve in Panchkula||The district today reported another Covid death after a 54-year-old man from Sector 12-A, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes, succumbed to the disease. The Covid death toll now stands at 54.The district also witnessed 112 new coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 4,608.The fresh cases include 13 from Kalka, 11 from Sector 21, 10 from Sector 15, six each from Sector 20 and Sector 7, five each from the MDC, Sector 6, Pinjore and Sector 6, four each from Sector 10 and Sector 24, three each from Rajjipur, Sector 12-A, Sector 19, Sector 4 and Tipra, two each from Barwala, Beer Ghaggar, Sector 11, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 28 and Sector 8, and one each from Abheypur, Amrawati Enclave, Bunga, Kot, the MDC, Sector 5, Sarakpur, Rattewali, Sector 16, Sector 17, Sector 27, Sector 9 and Shabilpur.Panchkula district has so far conducted 56,760 Covid tests for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-112-test-ve-in-panchkula-142649
18-09-2020||Panchkula||Get Covid test report online in Panchkula||After witnessing long queues for collection of Covid test reports, which raises the possibility of spread of the infectious disease, the district health authorities, in collaboration with National Informatics Centre (NIC), have launched a portal where the test reports will be uploaded. The link to check the Covid report is available on the official website of Panchkula district — https://panchkula.nic.in/‘Will minimise chances of infection’Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, the Panchkula Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said they had launched a portal where people could check their Covid test reports in minutes by entering their sampling date and mobile number. The step would reduce long queues at the Civil Hospital and thereby minimise the chances of infection.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, the Panchkula Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said they had launched a portal where people could check their Covid test reports in minutes by entering their sampling date and mobile number. The step would reduce long queues at the Civil Hospital and thereby minimise the chances of infection.According to officials, people have to log on to the portal and then they will be asked to enter the sample collection date. Thereafter, by entering the mobile number for verification, an OTP will be received, which is necessary to see the status of their report.Dr Kaur said, “We will try to upload the report of RT-PCR samples on the portal simultaneously when the testing data is uploaded on the ICMR portal before official release. On the other hand, reports of rapid antigen test samples collected in the field will be made available online after some time.”Asked whether persons getting tested in private labs can also access their reports on the portal, she said at present, only reports of samples processed at the Civil Hospital would be available on the website.However, she added that they were in talks with private labs and reports from those centres would be available on the portal soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-covid-test-report-online-in-panchkula-142650
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||75K take blended-mode examination||Around 75,000 students of undergraduate, postgraduate and other professional courses, including USOL/private, appeared for Panjab University’s first-ever blended-mode (online/offline) examination that started today.A total of 47 exams were conducted on Day 1 in three slots — 9 am to 11 am, 10 am to 12 pm and 2 pm to 4 pm.All colleges/departments downloaded the question papers as per the scheduled time from the website and through official email IDs given to them. The question papers were then distributed among students through various electronic modes.Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination (COE), and his technical staff maintained that the exams were conducted in a smooth manner. He said the queries of principals/chief coordinators/chairpersons were resolved by the COE.An emergency packet of question papers was also made available at 40 nodal centres in various PU-affiliated colleges, he informed. He said around 86,616 students would be taking various exams being conducted by the PU over a span of 17 days.Scanned copy receivedThe Controller of Examination, meanwhile, confirmed that a majority of the answers sheets were received and were downloaded for evaluation process by the respective teachers. “We received almost all scanned answer sheets from regular as well as private students. In a few cases, where the exams were held from 2 pm to 4 pm, private students have been allowed to send the answers sheet the next day as the postal service gets shut by that time,” said Parvinder Singh.Earlier, PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar visited the examination branch and stayed connected to the staff of the Controller of Examination office to ensure smooth conduct of exams. “The VC visited our high-tech online exam control room. We have been working day and night to make this thing happen. The major concern was handling the website load, which we had planned to distribute through three channels. However, Prof Kumar asked us to use more systems for the smooth flow of traffic. He was in constant touch with the technical team,” added Parvinder Singh.Paper easyMeanwhile, students said the exams were easy and uploaded on time. “The exam was easy and the new pattern — attempting 50 per cent questions — helped the students to finish the examination on time. The confirmation about receiving the answer sheet was also received on time. Appearing in the exam was a good experience,” said Aditya, a student.“The exam was easy and uploaded on time. The Internet connection in our area (Spiti) was a bit low. However, I managed to upload the answer sheet,” said Tenzin, another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75k-take-blended-mode-examination-142651
18-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees 22.5% rise in admissions to govt schools||In the wake of private schools increasing the fee, government schools in the district have witnessed 22.5 per cent increase in the number of admissions for Classes VI to XI.While the number of admissions to government schools stood at 41,406 during the previous academic session, nearly 10,000 more students have taken admission this year. The total number has risen to 50,699. The admissions to Class XI have seen the maximum increase (33.82 per cent) — 5,567 students have taken admission this year, while 1,883 were admitted in the last session. About 1,670 students have taken admission to Class XI in various schools in the Kharar-3 block.The Kharar-3 block tops in the district with more than 9,490 admissions followed by the Dera Bassi-1 and Dera Bassi-2 blocks with 7,486 and 7,065 admissions, respectively.The district has been divided into eight blocks — Banur, Dera Bassi-1 and 2, Kharar-1, 2 and 3, Kurali and Majri. Dera Bassi-2 has seen the highest increase of 25.69 per cent followed by Kharar-3 with 25.14 per cent. The Dera Bassi-1 and Kharar-1 blocks have seen an increase of 23.76 per cent and 22.73 per cent, respectively, which is higher than the average of Mohali district.Sources said as private schools had been increasing the fee every year, most parents were now preferring admitting their wards to government schools. Also, several people lost their jobs during the Covid-induced lockdown, forcing them to withdraw their wards from private schools and seeking admission to government schools. This has resulted in a steep increase in the number of admissions to government-run schools.District Education Officer (Secondary) Himmat Singh said the district had witnessed 22.5 per cent increase in the admission to Classes from VI to XII till date, which was higher than the average in Punjab that stood at 15 per cent.Himmat Singh said the online admissions introduced by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar had supported the admission process this year. He said as the admission process to various classes was still on, they hoped that more students would take admissions before the schools start.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-22-5-rise-in-admissions-to-govt-schools-142654
18-09-2020||Mohali||RBU signs pact with Canadian college||Rayat Bahra University has tied up with Eton College in Canada to start courses wherein students will spend two years at the Rayat Bahra University and two years at the university in Canada.Students can save 60 per cent money in the first two years by studying at the Eton College Indian campus at the Rayat Bahra University.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor, Rayat Bahra University, told the media today persons that it was a pathway for students to Canada. He said the curriculum and evaluation of students would be monitored by the Eton College faculty. The first batch will have only 30 seats. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-signs-pact-with-canadian-college-142655
18-09-2020||---||Reopening of schools: 25K consent forms submitted||Chandigarh, September 17The Education Department today issued the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the partial reopening of schools for students from Classes IX to XII as per the latest guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.Keen on meeting friends, Students fill forms themselves, Dept verifies A virtual discussion was organised for the implementation of the standard operating procedures under the Chairmanship of Deputy Director (1) Alka Mehta.The meeting was attended by Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) Ravinder Kaur, Samagra Shiksha Mission Coordinator Manjit Kaur and principals of all government schools.As per the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines, schools have been permitted to call 50 per cent of the teaching and non-teaching staff to the premises for online teaching, tele-counselling and other work from September 21.Students from Classes IX to XII may be permitted to visit schools on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers, subject to the written consent of parents/ guardians.City schools had sought consent from the parents of students by September 15.Parents of around 25,000 students from 90 schools — around 50 per cent of the total strength — have submitted their consent for visiting schools.During the meeting, officials elaborated on the measures to be followed keeping in view various parameters, including generic preventive measures, arrangements before the opening of schools, planning and scheduling of activities, availability and management of supplies and others.Instructions to schoolThe schools have been instructed to ensure thermal screening at the entry points in schools.The principals were directed to take all precautionary measures, including physical distancing, use of face masks, frequent hand-washing, provision for safe and clean drinking water and sanitisation of schools.The schools have further been directed to prohibit all activities and events that can lead to overcrowding. The final decision about the date and the plan for reopening will be decided by the competent authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reopening-of-schools-25k-consent-forms-submitted-142657
18-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Missing Saroops: ‘Take action against SGPC officials’||Activists of the youth wing of the Panthic Akali Lehar, led by Prof Dharmjit Singh Jalbehra, today organised a protest at Fatehgarh Sahib against SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and SAD(B) president Sukhbir Badal.They demanded criminal proceedings against SGPC officials responsible for the missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib and for attacking peacefully protesting Sikhs at Darbar Sahib. They raised slogans against the SGPC, Sukhbir Badal and blocked the traffic on the Chandigarh Road for some time and burnt an effigy of the SGPC president.Addressing the protesters, Prof Dharmjit Singh Jalvehra said after getting the probe report from the Jathedar Akal Takhat, the SGPC president had announced taking an action against those responsible, but he backtracked from it due to the political pressure of the Badal family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/missing-saroops-take-action-against-sgpc-officials-142682
18-09-2020||Panchkula||Waste disposal plant inaugurated in Panchkula||A waste disposal plant in Sector 23, built at a cost of Rs38 crore, was inaugurated by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta here today.The plant has paved the way for the renovation work of the dumping ground, which has been a menace for local residents for the past 16 years.“People choose their representatives with high expectations. It’s the responsibility of the leader to fulfil their needs,” said Gupta.Officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) said, “Fertiliser will be prepared from the bio-mining project by mining 2,000 to 3,000 tonnes of waste daily. Within a year, the entire waste of the dumping ground will be disposed of and a beautiful green park will be developed at the site.”“With this, residents of the trans-Ghaggar sectors will get relief from gases and smell emanating from the dumping ground for the past 16 years,” they added.The project, officials said, was on the priority list of Gian Chand Gupta.He had been regularly reviewing progress of the project for its timely completion, they added.Earlier on July 11 this year, Gupta visited the project site along with officials of the MC and asked the contractor to expedite the remaining work.Municipal Commissioner Mahavir Singh, Joint Commissioner Sanyam Garg, Executive Officer Jarnail Singh, Tehsildar Punyadeep Sharma and BJP district president Ajay Sharma were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-disposal-plant-inaugurated-in-panchkula-142692
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Court seeks report in Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association molestation case||A local court today sought a report from the police authority concerned in an alleged molestation case after the father of a girl filed a complaint seeking direction forthe registration of an FIR against office-bearers of the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA).The court has fixed the next hearing in the case for October 5.In the complaint, filed under Section 163 (3) of the CrPC, the girl’s father prayed for action against 16 office-bearers of the CLTA for allegedly protecting the accused in the molestation case of her daughter.The office-bearers against whom action has been sought include Meghraj, chief operating officer, Romen Singh, chief coach, Neeraj Sarna, the then SHO, Sector 3 police station, Dinkar Gupta, then CLTA treasurer, and currently Punjab DGP, and all officials of the CLTA, who dealt with this case. The complainant alleged that five male trainees misbehaved his daughter at the CLTA complex in 2019, but office-bearers failed to take any action on his complaint.He also alleged that the police also failed to act on his complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-seeks-report-in-chandigarh-lawn-tennis-association-molestation-case-142705
18-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Let’s celebrate his life, not grieve, says 95-year-old’s family friend||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17For quite a few days, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur was waiting for the news of her 95-year-old father’s discharge from the PGIMER. When it finally came, she spruced up every corner of her home to welcome back her father Raj Pal Singh Mahal.Tested positive for Covid earlier this month, all his health parameters were fine and he was doing well after complete recovery from the virus, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur was told. She was certainly relieved.Full of vigour and in excellent shape, everyone thought he would live to be at least a hundred. Indeed, he would, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur thought.The Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge was expecting him around noon. But, her enthusiasm of having him back gradually gave way to anxiety as moments went by without the announcement of his arrival. He did not come. Only came the news that he was no more. To her utter disbelief, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur was told that he had suffered a cardiac arrest.Medical experts believe a substantial number of recovered patients throng hospitals with complications such as chronic fatigue, inflammation, pneumonia, pulmonary fibrosis and cardiac issues after successfully battling Covid-19.Available information suggests there have been instances where patients after testing negative and being discharged from hospitals died within two or three days due to cardiac arrest. But, the family will, perhaps, never know the truth about his departure after travelling on the much-traversed road to recovery.Fondly called ‘Papa ji’, Raj Pal Singh Mahal belonged to old chief’s Jat Sikh Sardar family of Killa Kathgarh in Balachaur tehsil now in Nawanshahar district. People close to the family remember him as ‘zindadil’. He was well-versed with literature and would share anecdotes at any given time.Always dressed up meticulously, the family remembers how ‘Papa ji’ slipped into formal footwear before leaving for the PGIMER after testing positive for Covid. There also he remained quite active and ready to beat the virus against odds brought about by age.For Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, her father’s journey in this world ended when it was least expected. But, there is a lesson for all in the way the family is handling the situation. For her and the family, it is not the time to mourn his passing away. “Let’s celebrate his life, not grieve. He lived by his principles and his life was a success. Mourning would mean great disservice to him,” says a close family friend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lets-celebrate-his-life-not-grieve-says-95-year-olds-family-friend-142724
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pay scales of new Chandigarh recruits won’t be higher than Centre||Now, fresh recruits in the UT will not get pay scales higher than the Centre.The UT Administration has decided to adopt the instructions issued by the Punjab Government regarding new pay scales for fresh recruitment or appointment in the Chandigarh Administration.On July 17, 2020, the Punjab Government had decided that the pay scales admissible to all prospective recruitments or appointments — direct recruitments or compassionate appointment — in any cadre of any administrative department shall not be higher than the pay scale admissible to the said cadre in the Government of India as notified as per the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission.An official of the UT Administration said pay scales in several departments in Punjab were higher than the pay scales of the Central Government and earlier, no such condition was imposed on recruitment to different departments in the neighbouring state.In the directions issued to all Administrative Secretaries, Head of Departments or offices, UT, the Finance Department, UT, stated that the respective Administrative Department, where the recruitment process has already been initiated and at final stage, might issue the corrigendum regarding the admissibility of pay scale on fresh recruitment or appointment or compassionate appointment before the offer of appointments to the prospective candidates and in the case of recruitment process, which is still to be initiated, the Administrative Department might add a relevant clause of the admissibility of pay scales as defined as per the said instructions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-scales-of-new-chandigarh-recruits-wont-be-higher-than-centre-142739
18-09-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Six more fall prey to virus in Fatehgarh Sahib, 42 cases surface||Six more deaths and 42 new cases of Covid were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib on Thursday, taking the district toll to 67 and the tally to 1,580.Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh said till today, 32,304 samples have been collected, of which 30,431 tested negative and 1,580 positive. As many as 1,223patients have been cured. There are now 290 active cases in the district. He said the result of 293 is awaited. He said the Guru Nanak Pura area of Bassi Pathana town and the Amul Milk area of Khamano town have been declared micro-containment zones and all activities in these places have been banned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-fatehgarh-sahib-42-cases-surface-142752
