20-09-2020||---||Four more COVID-19 deaths, infection tally crosses 10,000 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 20Four more people died of COVID-19 in Chandigarh, taking the fatality toll to 120, a medical bulletin for Chandigarh said on Sunday.The infection tally rose to 10,082 with 286 fresh coronavirus cases detected in the Union Territory.There are 2,821 active cases in the city as of now.A total 372 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection.  A total of 7,138 people have been cured so far, as per the bulletin.A total of 62,834 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 52,389 tested negative while reports of 156 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-covid-19-deaths-infection-tally-crosses-10-000-in-chandigarh-144071
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 4 deaths and 134 COVID-19 cases||Mohali reports four deaths and 134 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district's death total to 161.The coronavirus tally stands at 8,362.In the last 24 hours, 112 patients have recovered from the deadly disease.COVID-19 deathsA 40-year-old man and a 65-year-old man from Behda and Balongi villages, respectively, and both of them had died in GMCH, Patiala.A 75-year-old man from Rampur Sania died at Amar Hospital, Mohali, and a 46-year-old woman from Dhakoli died at Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula.Sharing details, Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said that three men and a woman died due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The deceased include 40-year-old and 65-year-old men from Behda and Balongi villages, respectively, and succumbed to the deadly disease at GMCH, Patiala, and a 75-year-old man from Rampur Sania died at Amar Hospital, Mohali, and a 46-year-old woman from Dhakoli died at Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula. COVID-19 cases:The city reports 2,635 active cases. So far, 5,566 have recovered in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-4-deaths-and-134-covid-19-cases-144036
20-09-2020||Mohali||Massive traffic jams at Kharar, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi due to protest over farmers Bills||Massive traffic jams were on Sunday witnessed on national highways at Kharar, Zirkapur, Dera Bassi and Lalru as a large number of farmers protested against the three farmers Bills.Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur) began its rally from Kharar. Punjab Youth Congress led a protest rally from Mohali and AAP leader Narinder Singh Shergill led a separate protest rally from Zirakpur.The protesters are part of tractor rallies planned to be taken out to Delhi to demonstrate against the farm Bills. From morning till the filing of the report, huge jams were witnessed en route the rally. Commuters had a harrowing time as they remained stuck on the road for hours. Protesters were seen in tractors and cars heading towards the Punjab border.They raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the ruling BJP calling the Bills “anti-farmer”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/massive-traffic-jams-at-kharar-zirakpur-dera-bassi-due-to-protest-over-farmers-bills-144017
20-09-2020||Vijay Mohan||No decision on banning imported products from military canteens, says MoD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Military canteens may continue to sell imported products as the government has not issued any orders to restrict items sold through the Canteen Stores Department (CSD) to only Indian-made products.“No decision has been taken in this regard,” Minister of State for Defence, Shripad Naik, stated in a written response on Saturday to a question from Rajya Sabha member KC Ramamurthy on whether the Ministry will consider using and selling through its stores only products made in India in the light of Prime Minister’s appeal of ‘vocal for local.’Earlier reports had stated that the government is considering to ban the sale of imported items through the CSD as well as the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) canteens in order to boost local products, which had kicked up a debate and raised concern amongst a section of commercial establishments. An order issued by CAPF canteens in May restricting procurement of items from some multi-nationals was later withdrawn.With its outlets in every military station and most units across the country, including remote locations, CSD is the largest and most profitable retail chain in India, having annual sales in excess of Rs 17,000 crore over the past many years.These sell thousands of products from groceries and household items to cars, electronics and liquor. Most of the products sold through the CSD are of Indian origin barring some house hold items and certain brands of liquor. The prices are lower than market rates because some taxes are exempted.According to official data, CSD sales amounted to Rs 17,190.98 crore in 2017-18, Rs 18,917.23 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 17,588.27 crore in 2019-20. Till August 2020, the sales were Rs 3,693.10 crore, which so far is about 21 per cent of last year’s sales.CSD sales took a hit during the lockdown period due to the COVID-19 pandemic as the outlets remained closed and the supply chain remained disrupted. Even after the canteens reopened, the footfall was about half of what it was earlier. A series of safety and precautionary measures, including Aarogya Setu linked online appointments and staggering time for different categories of clients were introduced.In addition to serving members of the armed forces as well as ex-servicemen and their surviving next of kin, CSD facilities are also extended to civilian employees in Defence Ministry establishments who are paid out of the defence estimates. Recently, this benefit was also extended to retired defence civilians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-decision-on-banning-imported-products-from-military-canteens-says-mod-143967
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||6 more succumb in Chandigarh, toll 116||The city today reported six deaths and 290 fresh cases of Covid-19. The UT toll now stands at 116 and tally 9,796. As many as 2,911 cases are active.A 30-year-old man from Mani Majra suffered a cardiopulmonary arrest at the GMCH-32. A 40-year-old man from Sector 52 succumbed to the virus at the GMSH-16.A 47-year-old man from Dadu Majra died at the PGI. He was suffering from chronic kidney disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension and had tested positive for Covid.A 54-year-old man from Mauli Jagran, a Covid patient, suffered a fatal cardiac arrest at the GMSH-16. A 58-year-old man from Mauli Jagran, a diabetic, died at the GMSH-16. A 60-year-old woman from Sector 26, also a diabetic, breathed her last at the PGI. A total of 351 patients got better of the infection today and were discharged. Among them were patients who had completed 10 days of home isolation and were asymptomatic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-succumb-in-chandigarh-toll-116-143640
20-09-2020||Mohali||Two deaths, 239 cases in Mohali||The district witnessed two Covid fatalities today, taking the toll to 157. The district also witnessed 239 fresh cases and 162 recoveries. The tally now stands at 8,228.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said a 53-year-old woman from Dappar died at Gian Sagar Hospital. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 44-year-old man from Phase 7 died at Fortis, Mohali.Of the fresh cases, 84 were reported from Mohali urban, 29 from Kharar, 44 from Gharuan, 48 from Dhakoli, 19 from Dera Bassi, four each from Lalru and Boothgarh and seven from Kurali.Meanwhile, the Civil Surgeon, along with a team of health officials, today visited the houses of patients infected with Covid in Nayagaon and inquired about their condition. He asked their family members to keep the morale of the patients high, follow a good and nutritious diet and adhere to all guidelines issued by the government.Fourteen positive cases have come to light in Dasmesh Nagar and Gobind Nagar where two areas — one near the post office and the other near Century Public School —have been converted into micro-containment zones. The Civil Surgeon said the 14 patients were home-quarantined while tests of their close contacts were being conducted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-239-cases-in-mohali-143641
20-09-2020||---||In Panchkula, five with comorbidities die||Panchkula, September 19The district today reported five deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 62. Besides, 162 fresh cases raised the tally to 4,927. A 60-year-old woman from the MDC, Sector 4, a 55-year-old woman from Manakpur, a 64-year-old woman from Sector 9, a 70-year-old man from Tipra and a 56-year-old woman from Sector 4 succumbed to the virus. All of them had comorbidities.Among fresh cases, 12 were reported from Sector 11, 11 from Raipur Rani, 10 each from Pinjore and Sector 20, nine from Sector 19, seven from Sector 9, six from Sector 26, five each fromAmravati Enclave, Garhi Kotaha , Kalka, Sector 12, Sector 15 and Sector 7, four each from Indira Colony, Sector 10, Sector 21, Sector 4 and Sector 8, three each from Dandardoo, Morni, Sector 12-A, Sector 25 and Toda, two each from Haripur, Police Lines, Power Colony, Sector 16 and Sector 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-panchkula-five-with-comorbidities-die-143643
20-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh teachers guard containment zones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Schoolteachers are facing a tough time guarding persons quarantined at their homes. Around 25 junior basic teachers (JBTs) have been deployed on seven-hour Covid duty outside containment zones.These teachers have been deputed in the South subdivision which has reported the maximum cases and has more than 20 containment zones.“We haven’t been provided with any safety equipment. Our duty begins at 6 am. We are not given chairs to sit. I also have to prepare online material for my students and send it to them. Our work has almost doubled with the Covid duty,” said a government schoolteacher. Another government schoolteacher said, “We have to stand guard behind barricades around five buildings that have been sealed.”Swaran Singh Kamboj of the UT-Cadre Education Employees’ Union said, “Teachers, along with police personnel, have to go to the containment zones at night too. Besides, they have to take online classes. It is shocking that teachers are deputed on non-teaching duties. There will be many containment zones. Does this mean teachers will be deputed there on a regular basis?”SDM (South) Satish Jain said, “This is an emergency situation and huge workforce is required for such duties. There is a requirement of 200 personnel to manage the containment zones. As schools are closed, teachers are partially free and hence we have deputed some of them on Covid duty.”On Saturday, around 80 teaching and non-teaching staff, including JBTs, TGTs, PGTs and clerks, were deputed in micro-containment zones in the East subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-teachers-guard-containment-zones-143664
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cop makes obscene gestures in front of woman, booked||A UT police inspector has been booked for making obscene gestures in front of a woman neighbour in Sector 47 here. The cop, Gurnam Singh, is posted in the PCR wing of the UT police.The incident took place on the intervening night of August 30 and 31. The victim submitted her complaint to the SSP, Chandigarh, on August 31, who marked it to the Police Complaints Authority (PCA). Sources said, “The PCA probed the case and found evidences against the cop. A report was sent for the legal opinion. The Deputy District Attorney of the UT police has found it a fit case for lodging an FIR.”In her complaint to the SSP, the woman, wife of a former Army Subedar, alleged that the cop stripped in front of her and made obscene gestures under the influence of liquor. He came out in the balcony of his house and while facing towards her home, he abused and threatened her, she alleged. The woman, a mother of two daughters who were married, claimed that the incident was captured in a CCTV installed outside her house. The cop later came out and detached the wire of the CCTV, she alleged, adding that the act too was recorded in CCTV.The complainant also alleged that the cop indulged in power theft at night and objected to the CCTV facing towards his house.A case under Sections 427, 509 and 506 of the IPC has been registered against Inspector Gurnam Singh at the Sector 31 police station for committing mischief, obscene gestures and criminal intimidation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-makes-obscene-gestures-in-front-of-woman-booked-143685
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bid to break open ATM in Sector 34||Three masked men made a bid to break open an Axis Bank ATM in the Sector 34 market around 10:30 pm on Friday.The unidentified miscreants entered the ATM and stuck a tape on the CCTV camera. After failing to operate the machine, the miscreants tried to break it open but could not get access to cash.The incident came to light when bank officials opened the branch in the morning. The bank officials informed the police and the CCTV footage was checked.Preliminary investigation revealed that it was an unmanned ATM. The police have seized the CCTV footage in which the miscreants are seen entering the booth. “A case has been registered and further investigation is on. The ATM is located in a booth and there was no guard when the incident took place,” said Baldev Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-break-open-atm-in-sector-34-143687
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Taxi robbed at gunpoint, driver hit with hammer||Three unidentified men robbed a taxi at gunpoint and injured the driver with a hammer before escaping from the spot. The 35-year-old taxi driver, Manoj Kumar of Mani Majra, said the incident happened near Kishangarh Chowk around 12:15 am. He added that the three youths took the taxi from Mani Majra for the ISBT-43.On reaching near Kishangarh Chowk, one of the assailants asked him to stop the car and pointed a gun at him, the victim said. The other assailant hit him with a hammer on his head and threw him out of the car. They fled in the vehicle towards Mani Majra. On getting information about the incident, the police reached the spot and got the injured driver admitted to a hospital. His condition is stated to be stable.A case of robbery under the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered at the IT Park police station.Inspector Lakhbir Singh of the police station said, “The police are investigating the case from all angles. There has been no arrest in the case yet.”The police are verifying the victim’s statement and trying to track the taxi with the help of a GPS system installed in it. Nakas had been laid in the nearby areas, the police added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/taxi-robbed-at-gunpoint-driver-hit-with-hammer-143688
20-09-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Dog-bite cases at all-time high in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 19There is no let-up in dog-bite cases. The past eight months saw 2,690 incidents, an all-time high in this city.The contract for the sterilisation work had ended recently. The local Municipal Corporation has sent a proposal to the Local Bodies Department to extend the contract.Residents are scared to step out for a walk in parks and lanes. According to rough estimates, there has been an increase of 1,000 in the number of stray dogs in about a year. In June 2019, their number was around 9,000, which has grown to around 10,000.Most cases were reported from Phase 3B1, 3B2 4, 5, 9 and 10 and Sectors 76 to 80 where stray dogs rule the streets. On Thursday, a stray dog bit a 60-year-old woman.Sources said the contractor’s staff hesitated to sterilise strays in view of the pandemic.In a report submitted in October 2019, the then chairman of the stray dog sterilisation committee of the MC, Kuljeet Singh Bedi, had stated that sterilisation process was just on papers till date. In the past two years, it was observed that the previous company had not been operating stray dogs but doing dummy operations, the report had stated.Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Covid at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6, said dog-bite victims had to face physical torture. She said sometimes, it could cause rabies, which could be a horror for patients as they become hydrophobic to an extent that even administering glucose drip to them became difficult.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the contract for sterilisation had ended and a proposal was sent to the Local Bodies Department to extend the contract.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-bite-cases-at-all-time-high-in-mohali-143692
20-09-2020||---||Teachers want Covid test before taking classes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19As the Education Department plans to reopen schools, teachers are apprehensive about taking guidance classes and joining duties till they were not tested for Covid-19.However, the Education Department apparently has no plans for Covid testing for teachers. Unlike UT, the Haryana Government has asked teachers to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones and also undergo Covid test before the partial reopening of schools.Every teacher is hesitant to meet students without a negative Covid report. We don't want to pass on the virus to our students. If this happens, the purpose of closing down schools for the past few months will be defeated. - A Government schoolteacherA government schoolteacher said: “Every teacher is hesitant to meet students without a negative Covid report. We don’t want to pass on the virus to our students. If this happens, the purpose of closing down schools for the past few months will be defeated.”Meenal Bhandari, a parent, said: “The Education Department should arrange for Covid testing for teachers before the schools are reopened on a priority basis.”‘Consent manipulated’Meanwhile, the Government Teachers’ Union said today that the Education Department had prepared the data of parents’ consent on the basis of an online form and it might not be 100 per cent accurate as a majority of parents of government school students were uneducated and labourers.As per the data, approximately 50 per cent students in Classes IX to XII agreed to come to government schools, while less than 25 per cent parents agreed in private schools.“Many parents do not know the meaning of Google forms and these have been filled by students themselves. The Google sheet data totally differs for the students of private schools and Kendriya Vidyalayas in Chandigarh. The reason behind this is that the parents of students from these schools are educated and they have filled the form themselves,” claimed a union member, who is a teacher of a government school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-want-covid-test-before-taking-classes-143758
20-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Hold exams online, demand students of homoeopathy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Students of Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Sector 26, expressed displeasure over the management’s decision to conduct theory exams from September 22 for which the students need to be present at the centre.However, officials maintained that the decision had been taken in view of the Central Council of Homoeopathy (CCH) rules.The college is affiliated to Panjab University (PU). However, it follows CCH — like other professional medical courses. As the PU is conducting the exams in a blended mode for exit classes and has promoted those in the first or second year, homoeopathy students demanded that the college should follow the same pattern due to the pandemic.“The exams are starting from September 22 and the date sheet was released on September 15. We have been given only seven-day notice to prepare. Before examination, the students have been asked to follow instruction such as a mandatory Covid-19 antibody and IGG test. The test costs around Rs1,000. Admit cards have not been received yet,” said a student.They alleged that the PU exam admit fee is Rs1,000, but the college management had charged Rs10,000 per student. “College has already collected the second-year fee after taking internal exams online in July. They started the second-year classes in August and are asking us to take the exams on such a short notice. If the PU can conduct examinations online, why can’t a college affiliated to the same institution follow the suit,” alleged another student.He further said: “The form and the fee of Rs10,075 for the admit card was submitted on June 10. The admit card has not been issued till date.”Management’s takeCollege Principal Dr Sandeep Puri said the students had been misinformed about the facts. “We have been following the CCH guidelines. We have also received all admit cards and the students have been misinforming the media about everything,” said Puri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hold-exams-online-demand-students-of-homoeopathy-143765
20-09-2020||---||4K apply for 2,100 seats  in second counselling||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Around 4,000 forms have been received by the UT Education Department against 2,100 vacant seats for admission to Class XI in the second round of ongoing counselling.More than 380 seats are lying vacant in the science stream, 179 in the commerce stream, 981 in humanities and 583 in vocational stream.Candidates, who have already taken admission in any government school and now want to submit request for change of school/stream/option, can apply during the second round of counselling.The last date to register, create login, pay fee online and fill complete registration form is September 21 (up to 5 pm).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4k-apply-for-2-100-seats-in-second-counselling-143772
20-09-2020||---||PU asks hostel inmates to clear dues, protest ensues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Inmates of the hostel No. 3 today staged a protest outside the PU VC’s office and his house for allegedly not getting dinner last night .However, the authorities said the dinner was served, but a little late.The issue aggravated when the university authorities reportedly issued a notice to all hostel inmates to clear the dues before September 22 or face disciplinary action and discontinuation of services.Students demanded that the decision should be revoked and also demanded undisrupted facilities.“The food was served last night but it got delayed. Clearing dues is a routine activity. Everyone is affected due to Covid,” said Sanjeev Gautam, warden of the hostel.Around 18 students, with around Rs3.5 lakh pending dues, are from this hostel only and they threatened to protest. “In these tough times, the university is demanding money from us. The food was not served and we have been asked to go home. Instead of supporting of us, the authorities are making things worse for us,” said a hosteller.The notice by the authorities also directs those staying after July to pay charges @ Rs80 per day and students of exit classes have to vacate hostels within 72 hours after the final exams get over.“This is a regular process. The mess contactor cannot provide the food for free. The students are well aware about it. There’s no reason for protesting. We have to abide by rules,” said SK Tomar, DSW.Covid cases in hostelsSources revealed that a few Covid-19 cases surfaced at PU hostels on Saturday.BLENDED-MODE EXAMSOn Friday, 26,000 students appeared for 61 papers conducted by the PU. On Saturday, 23,900 students of undergraduate and 3,100 of postgraduate courses took 61 exams held in three slots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-asks-hostel-inmates-to-clear-dues-protest-ensues-143773
20-09-2020||---||Zirakpur civic body doubles garbage collection charges||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 19Residents as well as garbage collectors here have opposed the Zirakpur Municipal Council’s move of doubling door-to-door waste collection charges to Rs200 and asking residential societies to set up a compost pit.Societies told to set up compost pitsReferring to the Solid Waste Management Rules - 2016, the Municipal Council has asked residential societies to ensure that they have compost pits inside their complex to process wet waste. The MC will only collect dry waste and it will charge Rs200 per house per month for the same.It has also said Rs5,000 per day fine will be imposed on violators if no waste segregation was done.At present, amount ranging from Rs50 to Rs100 is being paid to waste collectors, who are operating under societies or independently. But, the MC wants to fully take over collection and waste lifting system.“We condemn the MC’s move. We will soon meet the authorities in this regard. How will we be able to spend around Rs2.5 lakh on setting up a compost pit? It will also lead to foul smell inside the society complex. Charing Rs200 for collecting waste from each household is also too much,” said Surinder Rana, president, Escon Arena.Shamsher Singh, president of the Door-to-Door Waste Collection Union, Zirakpur, said: “We want to collect waste as we have been doing in the past. We do not want to come under the Municipal Corporation. If the decision is not rolled back, we will take to streets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-civic-body-doubles-garbage-collection-charges-143785
20-09-2020||---||Advocate alleges mismanagement at parking lots||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Terming the paid parking as just an entry fee, a local advocate has sought introspection into the alleged mismanagement at parking lots.In a letter to Arun Gupta, Secretary, Local Bodies Department, UT, advocate Ajay Jagga stated that barring exception, rest all other parking contractors were charging entry fee under the barb of parking.“In all markets, Municipal Corporation (MC) contractors are not concerned about parking, but collecting ‘entry fee’. The parking contractors are saving money by not employing the requisite number of persons. Once a person pays the parking fee, job of the parking contractor is over. So, his job is only to extent of collecting entry fee and nothing else,” he said.In Sector 22-D and Sector 19, market associations had their own parking attendants and managing it nicely, he said.On the issue of timings, he said in Sector 35-B, the ticket vendor issues a slip for Rs10 at 8.15 pm and by 8.30 pm he leaves the parking area, saying their duty was to issue parking tickets till 8.30 pm and they were not concerned after that. After collecting the entry fee, they just quit, leaving the vehicles unguarded and unattended. This too was painful.He also stated that the contractor was issuing parking slips sans GST number at the Sector 17 Sahib Singh parking lot. A thorough and detailed inquiry was needed into the system. As per the parking system, the contractor had to pay GST. If he is unregistered, then the MC is to pay to the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocate-alleges-mismanagement-at-parking-lots-143787
20-09-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration seeks funds for cash-starved corporation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19The UT Administration has sought funds for the cash-starved Municipal Corporation (MC) for maintenance and development works in the city.In a recent letter, the Administration had urged the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to release grant for the MC on the basis of the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission. Delhi Finance Commission recommendationsIn a recent letter, the Administration had urged the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to release grant for the MC on the basis of the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission. If the recommendations are approved by the MHA, the Municipal Corporation would get nearly Rs1,024 crore in the annual Budget.If the recommendations are approved by the MHA, the Municipal Corporation would get nearly Rs1,024 crore in the annual Budget.The Finance Commission, in its report submitted in 2014, had recommended an increase in the MC’s share in the UT revenue from the current 17.5 per cent to 30 per cent.The civic body has been facing financial hardships as the MHA has failed to allocate funds as per the recommendations of the Delhi Finance Commission.The MC had proposed Rs1,348-crore Budget for the 2020-21 fiscal - Rs436 crore under the capital head and Rs912 crore under the revenue head. However, the MC was allocated just Rs425 crore — Rs50 crore more than the Rs375 crore grant in 2019-20.The MC keeps a major chunk of the funds for roads. In the absence of funds, road re-carpeting work has been pending since long.A substantial part of the funds also goes in paying salaries and other committed liabilities. As the MC failed to get the proposed grants, the city’s development and maintenance works got affected. Often contractors struggle to get their payment released for the works done in the city. Due to lack of funds, re-carpeting of roads, maintenance of parks, toilets, cleaning of road gullies, sanitation work, construction and renovation of community centres are stuck.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Administration had further reduced the quarterly budget allocation to the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-seeks-funds-for-cash-starved-corporation-143789
20-09-2020||---||96 evacuees from Dubai land at city airport||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 19An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 96 passengers from Dubai landed at the Chandigarh International Airport on Saturday.The Air India flight carrying 96 stranded passengers from Dubai arrived at the airport at 4.13 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all authorities/agencies that were involved in processing of passengers.A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing.He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough and cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus. Health Department teams deployed at the airport asked the passengers to take precautions such as covering their face with a mask, using hand sanitisers, washing hands and observing social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/96-evacuees-from-dubai-land-at-city-airport-143790
20-09-2020||---||Widening of Dhanas road, cycle tracks proposed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19The UT Administration has proposed to widen the Dhanas road from Sector 25 to the UT boundary at the Mullanpur Chowk and construct cycle tracks there.In a letter to the Land Acquisition Officer, the Sub-Divisional Engineer requested for the removal of encroachment and demarcation for the same.The letter states that they have received drawing from the Chief Architect, Department of Urban Planning, UT, for the proposed 60.96-m wide road from Junction No. 30 to the UT boundary and proposal of two options of cycle track are also marked to check the feasibility.Therefore, the Land Acquisition Officer was requested to assign staff for demarcation of the road as per the revenue record so that work on the widening of the proposed road and cycle track on both side of the road could be constructed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/widening-of-dhanas-road-cycle-tracks-proposed-143791
20-09-2020||---||Four booked for assault on enforcement wing officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19The police have booked four persons for obstructing MC Enforcement Wing officials from confiscating goods from the encroached area outside shops in Mani Majra here.Unruly scenes were witnessed when a group of shopkeepers attacked Enforcement Wing officials who were lifting machines from a tyre shop in Mani Majra. The aerated businessmen abused and attacked MC officials during the drive.The police were called in order to bring the situation under control. However, no official was injured in the incident, said a senior MC official. The drive will continue in future also, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-booked-for-assault-on-enforcement-wing-officials-143792
20-09-2020||---||Panchkula man loses Rs62,000, to online fraudsters, 2 booked||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 19A 40-year-old man from Sector 16 here was duped of Rs62,000 in an online fraud on OLX.The victim, Raman Gupta, had shown interest in purchasing a five-seater sofa set and a double bed with mattresses for Rs12,000 from a seller, who identified himself as an Army man posted in Mohali.The police said since Gupta was interested in purchasing the items, the suspect, Amit Kumar, asked him to pay Rs3,150 as transportation charges in advance. After receiving the amount, Kumar offered to sell more items such as a refrigerator and an LED TV for which he sought Rs13,000.Kumar told the victim to pay an additional amount of Rs3,000 saying that these items belong to some other person. He then issued a fake gate pass-cum-invoice for all these items to be delivered at Gupta’s flat in Rail Vihar, MDC, Sector 4, here.A delivery person, Somnath, sought Rs9,150 from the victim as a security amount. Gupta paid this amount too.Later, Somnath again sought Rs19,000 from the victim. The suspects made him pay money again and again for one reason or the other.A case was registered against Amit Kumar and Somnath under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 14 police station.Man cheated of Rs20,000A 33-year-old man, Vinaysheel Sharma from Sector 17, was cheated of Rs20,000 on a fake job portal. He was searching for a job on the portal. A case has been registered at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-man-loses-rs62-000-to-online-fraudsters-2-booked-143793
20-09-2020||Zirakpur||Dera Bassi MLA alleges misuse of MC funds||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mla-alleges-misuse-of-mc-funds-143809
