21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 240 new coronavirus cases, three deaths||Chandigarh reported 240 new coronavirus cases and three deaths, an administration-issued medical bulletin in the evening said.Chandigarh’s COVID count stands at 10,298.A 36-year-old man from Palsora suffering from acute kidney injury and latent autoimmune diabetes died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Monday. The other two fatalities were both over 65--- a 68-year-old man from Sector 24 with hypertension and Type 2 Diabetes who died at PGI and a 70-year-old man from Sector 15 who died at Mohali’s Fortis Hospital.The development takes Chandigarh’s death toll to 123.The union territory has reported a significant rise in coronavirus throughout September. Chandigarh has reported 5,952 new COVID cases and 67 fatalities since the beginning of the month---a 251 per cent rise in infections and 219 per cent rise in deaths since the end of last month.For comparison, the city had reported 1,580 new COVID cases from August 1 to August 21.Twenty-six per cent of the UT’s cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-240-new-coronavirus-cases-three-deaths-144552
21-09-2020||---||Covid recoveries match new cases for second day in Mohali: DC||Mohali, September 21A senior Congress leader from Dera Bassi and four members of his family were among the 150 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday taking the total count in the district to 8,512.The Congress leader and his family members have been advised home quarantine.Meanwhile, unlike the rapid surge in COVID 19 cases in past about 10 days, the district witnessed somewhat respite with pace of acceleration in new cases slowing down coupled with improvement in the corresponding recovery rate.On Covid-19 situation, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 150 positive cases and 141 recoveries were witnessed today, while 134 positive cases and 112 recoveries were reported on Sunday.The break-up of positive cases is: Mohali urban-41 new cases, Kharar-11, Gharuan-26, Dhakoli- 50, Dera Bassi- 11, Banur-1, Boothgarh-3 and Kurali-7.There were two deaths, including 82-year-old female from Phase 10 who died in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, and was suffering from diabetes and Hypertension. The second deceased person was 46-year-old male from Dera Bassi who died in Indus Hospital and was sufferinhg from diabetes.As of now there are 8,512 Covid positive cases while 5,708 patients have been cured of the virus and discharged from various hospitals. There are 2,642 active cases with 163 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-recoveries-match-new-cases-for-second-day-in-mohali-dc-144544
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Reopening of UT schools: Low turnout as parents withdraw consent||Schools finally reopened on Monday after months of closure due to the coronavirus pandemic, putting to the test the UT’s ability to control outbreaks in schools. Several parents, however, did not send their wards despite giving consent previously.Even though 50 per cent of students in government schools had consented to come in to seek guidance, few students turned up on the first day. The majority of private schools continued to remain shut as no students came to attend classes for guidance.Rajesh Kumar, Principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Manimajra Housing Board Complex said, “We were expecting many students according to the consent forms we had received. However, it seems parents have changed their mind and are not willing to send their wards to school. In the first shift, only 17 students came to attend classes.”Reema Dewan, Principal of Delhi Public School, Sector 40 said, “Only one student turned up in class 12, as opposed to 10 students who had given consent to join the school. Despite our assurances, parents changed their consent last night and called up to convey that they weren’t willing to send their children to school.”In many government schools, students are being called in two shifts, one for the class X and another for class XII. A gap of one hour is kept in between to sanitise the floors and classrooms before the next shift comes.Aman Sharma, a Non-Medical student of GMSSS 45 said, “I had come to clear doubts in physics. It is a difficult subject and needed some assistance. The arrangements were properly placed and only 10 students were seated in one class.”Some parents even came to drop their children to school themselves. Rajkumar, a parent said, “Studies are more important than anything else. The fear of coronavirus has evaded over time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reopening-of-ut-schools-low-turnout-as-parents-withdraw-consent-144482
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Car stolen from Sector 42||Open auction of nursery sitesChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation is set for an open auction of nursery sites in Mauli Jagran. Five nursery sites will be auctioned on a monthly rental basis for a period of three years through an open auction on September 29 at 11 am. Interested bidders can deposit their money in the form of a demand draft in favour of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, payable at any scheduled bank. Earnest money deposit (EMD) of the unsuccessful bidders will be returned on the spot. The five nurseries range from 0.50 acres to 1.23 acres. More information can be gathered from the notice board of the Municipal Corporation or its website. TNS2 youths duped of Rs5,000 eachKharar: Two youths lodged a complaint with the police that the director of a private company duped them of Rs5,000 each on the pretext of providing a job. Sanjiv Kumar, a resident of Khanpur Kharar, in his complaint to the SSP, alleged that the director of the company and one other staff member took money from him and his colleague. He alleged that they were asked to pay Rs5,000 for three months’ training, following which they will get a job. However, they were not given the job. The complainant alleged that they sought their money back, but to no avail. The police said they had started an inquiry into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-stolen-from-sector-42-144390
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||34K kids administered drops in Chandigarh on Day 1||A total of 34,288 children were immunised on Day 1 of the Sub-National Immunisation Day (SNID) round. As many as 85 supervisors monitored the activity for which 586 teams of vaccinators are deployed for house-to-house visits.The monitoring is done under the supervision of Dr G Dewan, Director, Health & Family Welfare-cum-Mission Director, NHM, and other health officials. It was also ensured that all health workers are being provided with appropriate safety/protective gears with strict adherence to Government of India protocols.Pulse polio teams visited high risk/vulnerable areas such as Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Sarangpur, Resettlement Colony, Dhanas, Kaimbwala, Maloya, Dadu Majra, Madrasi Colony, Indira Colony, Bapu Dham Colony, Mauli village, Vikas Nagar, Mani Majra, Colony No. 4, Faidan, Hallo Majra, Ram Darbar, Attawa, Palsora, Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Kajheri, Kishangarh, Dariya, Tin Colony, Janta Colony, Bhagwanpura, Citco, Shastri Nagar and all construction sites to immunise the children.The Health Department has appealed to all residents of the city to get all children in the age group of 0-5 years immunised during this campaign. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34k-kids-administered-drops-in-chandigarh-on-day-1-144374
21-09-2020||---||Punjab minister launches polio immunisation drive||Mohali, September 20The state Health Department will immunise around 7 lakh children in high-risk areas across the state during the three-day polio vaccination drive.Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this today while launching the three-day sub-national immunisation day drive by administering oral polio vaccine drops to children aged below five at nearby Jujhar Nagar village.The state-level programme was organised by the Health and Family Welfare Department, Punjab.Addressing the gathering, Balbir Singh Sidhu said the drive would cover only high-risk areas, migratory population, brick-kilns, construction sites and urban slum areas. Health workers had been directed to ensure compliance of all necessary guidelines such as covering their faces with a mask and washing their hands frequently during the drive.Sharing the details about various teams engaged in the drive, Sidhu said: “The target is to administer polio drops to around 6,80,800 children across the state, for which 8,436 places have been identified. A total of 5,530 door-to-door teams have been pressed into service while there are 656 mobile teams. The total number of vaccinators, ANMs and ASHA workers is 14,749, 3,097 and 11,965, respectively, whereas 1,031 supervisors will carry out sudden checks to monitor the immunisation programme and ensure that all children are immunised.”The Health Minister appealed to people to get their children vaccinated to save them from various diseases. He said the country was already free from polio. However, vaccination is must to sustain polio eradication from the country. He applauded the efforts of thousands of volunteers, frontline workers and health officials for conducting the drive in these unprecedented times.Director Health Services (Family Welfare) Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal asked panchayat members to extend full support to the Health Department in this campaign. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-minister-launches-polio-immunisation-drive-144371
21-09-2020||Hike in water tariff uncalled for; ensure timely bill||Work for the welfare of residents, don’t burden them||This MC is causing trouble for residents ever since it came into being. First, it wreaked havoc with the garbage collection and disposal scheme that flopped miserably. Now, it is water. People are harried, but the local MP does little to help the city. The MC should seek funds from the Centre and not from the residents.RK KAPOOR, CHANDIGARHPostpone hike in water tariffSteep hike in water tariff should be deferred till the country is dealing with the pandemic. Using available funds more judiciously is no less important than generating additional funds. The mounting cost of governance should be curtailed and the MC should stop feeding ‘white elephants’. In the coming festival season, shopkeepers should be allowed to display their products in front of their shops only after they pay fee to the MC.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaFocus on tax collectionFor generating funds, the MC should focus on better tax collection and ensure that taxes are paid by all. Tax collection norms should be made stricter. The MC should also focus on checking corrupt practices.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhPlug leakage of waterThe steep hike in the water charges by the MC cannot be justified. This is not the appropriate time to increase the water tariff. The hike should be justified and not as steep as decided by the MC. The MC must first prevent the wastage of water. Limit the water usage where it is wasted more. Leakages from tanks, line breakages and other wastages must be looked after.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliUnacceptable moveIt is discouraging that the MC has notified undesirable rather unjustified hike in the water tariff at the time when the health authorities are advising people to repeatedly wash their hands and keep their belongings clean. In fact, this is the time to ensure free supply of water.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliCut down facilities to councillorsMC’s move to increase the water tariff amid pandemic is unjustified as it is trying to overcome fiscal crunch by putting burden on common man. The MC needs to cut down extravagant expenditure on events, tea parties and study tours. Homes and offices of councillors and the Mayor need not be renovated repeatedly at short intervals at such a high cost. Why costly phones and laptops are being provided to the councillors when MC is unable to provide basic amenities (like recarpeting of roads, filling of potholes, cleaning of manholes) to the city residents. There was also no need to provide the MC employees costly GPS watches if MC was facing shortage of funds. MC need to cut down facilities given to the Mayor and councillors to overcome fiscal crunch.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliQUESTIONWith more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh’s nearly one per cent population (2011 census) has been infected with the virus so far. However, the UT Administration has not increased Covid testing centres in proportion to the rising number of cases, unlike Mohali and Panckula. Even with less number of total and active cases, both Mohali and Panchkula have more testing centres than the UT. Panchkula has 23 centres and Mohali 19, while Chandigarh has only nine. Do you think it is time for the UT to increase the number of Covid testing centres?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@ tribunemail.comUtilise existing propertiesThe MC should rent out the properties that are vacant and collect pending dues from various defaulters. It can impose entry fee to public places, which may also discourage people from going out during Covid -19.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhReduce perks to officialsTo deal with financial crunch, the MC should reduce its unnecessary expenses. There should be a cut in perks, securities, pension and home staff for officials concerned.Charu Malhotra, MohaliLease out spaces for advertisementTo generate revenue, the MC should lease out its spaces for advertisements. If the water tariff hike is inevitable, it should be only in the range of 10 to 50 per cent. Pending dues from various defaulters should be realised.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhEradicate corruptionThe MC should cut down wasteful expenditures and eradicate corruption. It should use the resources available for generating revenue and use it efficiently, such as improving the management of the fruit and vegetable market, accounting for the arrival of produce and collecting tax.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhUse funds from govt treasuryThe government has immense wealth in its treasury. All this money is being wasted on organising big events or on lavish lifestyle of MLAs, MPs and senior officers. This money should be used for maintaining water supply and other expenses related to it rather than increasing taxes.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhHike should have come before pandemicThe financial woes of the Municipal Corporation (MC) may justify the increase in the water tariff. However, the hike should have come before the pandemic. At present, Covid has adversely impacted earnings of city residents. The MC could also have increased water tariff every year at a constant rate as it would not have caused much trouble to residents. It’s time the MC found more ways to increase its earnings.Sikander Singh, ChandigarhThe move is unjustifiedDecision of the Municipal Corporation (MC) to raise water tariff by 200 per cent is unjustified and condemnable in view of the fact that residents are already suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Rather, the UT Administration should give funds to the MC to meet expenses for supplying water at subsidised rates. It is high time that the MC helped common people by not raising the water tariff. This will be a good gesture on the part of the civic body during the ongoing pandemic.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNot more than 10% hike requiredThe hike in tariff in Chandigarh means an increase from the present Rs12 a kilolitre to Rs20 per kilolitre of water. This will be a huge burden on the middle-class residents of the city keeping in mind 30 per cent sewerage cess, which has already been imposed. The tariff hike should not be more than 10 per cent at a time.Rajeev Prakash, ChandigarhWithdraw the hikeThe hike in water tariff should be withdrawn immediately. First, the Municipal Corporation should ensure supply of clean water in the UT. The civic body is only interested in collecting revenue without caring for anything else. Increase is taxes is not the answer to inefficiency and callousness of the authorities concerned towards MC’s financial condition, which is in doldrums.Amit Jain, ChandigarhToo much increase for middle classThe hike is way too high for a middle-class person, who runs his house, looks after needs of his/her family and pays for the education of children. The authorities concerned should look into the matter as it will be difficult in the times to bear such steep a hike in the water tariff. Already, everyone is facing financial issues during the Covid-19 pandemic.A resident, ChandigarhTreated water for parksIt is horrendous on part of the Municipal Corporation to hike water charges steeply. We are pensioners and to pay the water tariff from our meager income is criminal. Water is our basic need, which should be fulfilled by the civic body. Water tariff can be increased, but in a sensible way. Chandigarh is a green city and has many gardens that need water. Treated water can be supplied for use in parks in all sectors.Arvinder Singh, ChandigarhTariff hike could have been deferredWith UT receiving an additional 29 MGD (million gallons per day) water from Phases V and VI of the Kajauli waterworks last year, the House approved 200 to 300 per cent hike in June 2019. In face of opposition, the hike was slashed. While the House recommended 10 per cent increase in tariff every three years, the MC kept it at three per cent annually. The hike is needed as water tariff has not been revised for nearly a decade. Annual losses from water supply have crossed Rs135 crore per annum. The tariff increase will also discourage wasteful use of water. However, the hike would burden residents, who are reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. Why is so much urgency in revising tariff? It could have been revised next year.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAdopt austerity measuresInstead of resorting to imposing/increasing taxes and sundry charges, the MC should control its wasteful expenditure, curtail cost of governance by 30 per cent and minimise the wastage of water to make up for the revenue shortage. The MC should focus on implementing these measures and not choose the easiest route of hiking water charges to further burden city residents during the ongoing pandemic.KC Rana, ChandigarhDon’t make water a businessThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has notified 200 per cent hike in water tariff. Residents cannot bear this increase in water tariff. It’s duty of the MC to provide water to the public on no profit, no loss basis. The civic body should cut its unnecessary expenditure. Councillors should avoid fruitless tours. Extraordinary TA and DA bills should not be passed. The MC has many sources of income. It should reconsider notification for the hike in water tariff. Remember life depends on water.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliWhy should city residents suffer?It is an easy formula for any civic body to pass liabilities arising from its deficiencies to consumers. Similar is the situation with the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. The authorities have failed to curb their losses arising due to the wastage of water from leaked pipes/administrative lapses and rampant corruption. Instead of finding reasons and solutions, the authorities have sought simple solution by hiking water rates without realising the pathetic condition of consumers during testing times.Gobind Ahuja, ChandigarhCity MP should helpSuch a steep hike in water tariff by the MC is not justified, particularly when people have lost their jobs and economy is melting due to Covid-19. The MC should find alternative means of sustaining itself. First, the city MP should help the MC from her kitty. Second, the MC should think of innovative means like using unemployed workforce for making daily-use utility items such as paper/cloth and carry bags and sell these at a central place. Third, it can organise cultural programmes, entertainment shows and plays, which people can watch after paying while observing social distance. Fourth, it can seek donations from people. There are numerous ways by which the MC can raise funds without burdening residents. Water is the right of every human being and it should be provided at minimum cost.Colonel RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttCivic body should seek funds from CentreThe MC has all of a sudden announced enhanced water tariff. The City Beautiful has a large junk of highly educated population, who may remain choose to remain quite and pay their water bills. But, the MC must come out with genuine reasons and explanations for increasing the tariff. It is strange that without any rhyme or reason, the MC chooses to enhance the water tariff overnight. Our MP, who is from the ruling party, has chosen to remain silent. The Governor has also preferred to remain mum. The Mayor has also raised no voice. Sad to say that they are all from the ruling party and have failed to bring adequate funds from the Centre to the city. They have preferred an easier way to tax poor and innocent city residents. It will be better if they bring more funds and push back unwarranted water tariff hike.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhCollect power, water bills on timeIt is bitter truth that the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation is going through financial crisis, but the same is true about residents too in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. So, a steep hike in water tariff at this time cannot be justified. Nominal increase is fine. The MC should find other ways and means to increase its funds. Putting burden on residents is injustice. The MC may take loan from the government. It must make sure that consumers pay their water/power bills on time. In many cases, consumers have lackadaisical approach towards bill payment and MC’s lethargic attitude adds to it, resulting in financial losses. Proper functioning of the MC and cooperation by consumers can bring the civic body out of financial crunch.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhMove Will impact household budgetUndoubtedly, steep hike in water tariff amid Covid-19 crisis is a big blow to residents of Chandigarh. Understandably, business activities in the city have slowed down rendering many unemployed. Therefore, economy of the city has suffered a setback. In the current scenario of uncertainty, additional financial burden on residents would adversely impact their household budget. As such, the revised water tariff should have been deferred till the situation turned normal. Alternatively, the MC should find other sources of income rather than burning a hole in residents’ pocket.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliSeek funds from UT AdministrationThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation lavishly spent its funds on counsellors’ tours to various cities without any fruitful outcome. Now, when the Covid pandemic is spreading its tentacles for the past six months and business in the city have come to a halt, the MC is ignoring the hardships of residents. City residents are already burdened with heavy taxes. The MC can seek extra funds from the UT Administration to run its business smoothly.MR Bhateja, NayagaonHousehold income reduced due to covidThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation must raise its pitch for entitled share of grant-in-aid, which has to be commensurate with taxes paid by city residents. Unfortunately, the MC chooses the line of least resistance to fill its coffers and keep moving. But, residents and political parties have vehemently opposed its move to hike water tariff abnormally. It must realise that during pandemic incomeof every household has reduced drastically. Hike in tariff will hit residents hard. Instead, theMC can think of auctioning unused properties and earn some revenue to defer hike in water tariff.SC Luthra, ChandigarhDecision should be revokedThe MC has been increasing taxes constantly. The least it can do is give relaxation in property tax and water bills. Several families may not be able to pay the bills regularly. Where is the city MP when residents need her help? The decision should be revoked.VIJAY MALIA, CHANDIGARHCheck wastage of waterThe MC should focus on checking the leakage of water at different spots and heavy penalty should be imposed on those wasting it. Officials concerned must pay surprise visits to localities and punish the defaulters.TARLOK SINGH CHANDIGARHFirst solve water crisisNo administrator or elected representative has given a thought to the hike in the water tariff. The civic body has a duty and it cannot function as a profit-making company for supplying water. If the MC needs additional funds, it can enhance tariff only for high-end users (over 25 kilolitre per month) as per the Delhi formula. Moreover, a French company has already offered Rs400 crore credit at two per cent per annum to the MC, but the latter is silent and insisting on an increasing the water tariff. The MC has spent negligible sum on upgradation and overhaul of water supply infrastructure like pipelines, overhead tanks and metering systems. Hence, the Municipal Corporation has no justification for increasing the water tariff by such high percentage.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-for-the-welfare-of-residents-dont-burden-them-144364
21-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University students must clear dues, says DSW||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20After questions were raised on allowing students to stay at hostels and have food on credit, which led to a pending payment of Rs3.5 lakh at the hostel No. 3 of Panjab University (PU), the authorities maintained it was a gesture to help students during the pandemic.Around 18 students protested outside Panjab University Vice-Chancellor’s house last night after the authorities issued a notice to clear dues or face disciplinary action.“There has been no rule on allowing such credits. The practice to let students live without clearing the dues existed at the hostel even before I took the charge as the Dean Student Welfare (DSW). On humanitarian grounds, it was allowed by the officials concerned. Students were facing financial problems and there was a brief halt in getting scholarship amounts. However, now everything is back on track. So, they must clear the mess dues,” said SK Tomar, university Dean Student Welfare. He said the students had been given time to clear the dues.The inmates of the boys’ hotels have been asked to clear the dues before September 22 and those staying even after July have to pay charges at the rate of Rs80 per day. Students of exit classes have to vacate hostels within 72 hours after the exams get over.Meanwhile, students maintained that the authorities should not pressurise them. “There has been no change in the financial condition of our families. The authorities should not force this on us during the pandemic,” said a student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-must-clear-dues-says-dsw-144358
21-09-2020||---||PUTA poll: Democracy, vacant posts on the mind of contesting groups||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Teachers’ bodies contesting for the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections have come up with their own set of announcements. While the Khalid-Sidhu group, led by Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu, challenged their rivals for an open debate, the Mritunjay-Naura team, led by Dr Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura, asked the voters to use their right for safeguarding democracy.“We had earlier requested our rival group to hold an open debate that can be telecasted live for our voters. Today, we invited their candidates for discussion at the Panjab University Herbal Garden. However, no one turned out. We are ready for an open debate at the time and venue as per their availability,” said Sidhu. He added: “About 30 per cent of the teaching positions in the university are lying vacant. Many departments are working with bare minimum teachers and guest faculties are extending their hand to share the workload. The counting of past service remained only an agenda item during the PUTA elections in 2018 and 2019. Only the teachers concerned know how much they were harassed,” alleged Sidhu.The Mritunjay-Naura team alleged that their rivals were playing a game of hurling accusations. “Their tactics failed to work and they are inventing new pretexts to get the PUTA elections cancelled. The returning officer has made elaborate plans to hold them and now they are trying every possible method to scuttle these. The kind of letters and social media posts that are daily issued by them and their well-wishers clearly reveal that they are now trying every strategy for the cancellation of the PUTA elections,” said a press commune.“As members of PUTA, we need to be extra vigilant about the intentions of the authorities. We believe that elections are the only way forward to lend necessary weight to the demands of the teachers. Without an elected PUTA, the voice of the teachers will be suppressed and their legitimate demands will go unheard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-democracy-vacant-posts-on-the-mind-of-contesting-groups-144357
21-09-2020||Mohali||Balongi youth held for molesting 10-year-old||The police today arrested a person for allegedly molesting a 10-year-old girl at his shop in Balongi village here.The suspect has been identified as Sagar Gupta (20), a resident of Adarsh Colony in Balongi. Sagar was running a small stationery shop in the area.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s father stated that his daughter went to Sagar’s shop for buying a notebook. The suspect took her to the basement of the shop on the pretext of giving her a notebook where he tried to sexually harass her. The victim managed to escape by running from there.Later, she narrated the incident to his father following which he approached the police. A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 354-D, 376 and 511 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act at the Balongi police station.“We arrested the suspect and produced him in a local court, which has sent him to two-day police remand. Further investigation in the case is on,” said ASI Dilbagh Singh, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balongi-youth-held-for-molesting-10-year-old-144356
21-09-2020||Panchkula||Farmers block NH-73 in Barwala for 3 hrs||Farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana, blocked the National Highway (NH) 73 in Barwala here in protest against the Centre’s farm Bills.The three-hour protest, which started around 12 noon, was lifted at 3 pm. Heavy police force was deployed to prevent any untoward incident.Narender Nayagaanv, district president of the BKU, Haryana, said: “We thank all farmers for their support in making the protest peaceful. We will visit villages to enlighten farmers on ‘unjust’ policies of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government and urge them to also support the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer organisations on September 25.”Former Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana and Congress leader Chander Mohan extended support to the protesters and demanded a rollback of farm sector Bills.“The Minimum Price Support (MSP) system should not be tinkered with. Farmers injured during lathicharge in Pipli should be given compensation and FIRs against protesting farmers should be withdrawn. It should be ensured that farmers get benefits of various schemes such as PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana,” the Congress leader said.He termed the bills as “anti-farmer” and “anti-national.” “This day will go down in history as black day. The BJP will have to pay heavy price for its ‘anti-farmer, anti-trader and anti-labourer’ policies,” he said.The local unit of the Congress has decided to stage a protest near the DC office in Sector 1 here tomorrow on the same issue. Party leaders will also submit a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind through Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-block-nh-73-in-barwala-for-3-hrs-144355
21-09-2020||---||Tractor set on fire, cops resort to mild lathicharge, water cannons||Mohali, September 20Youth Congress workers made an attempt to break police barricades to enter Haryana at Jharmari village on the Punjab border.The police had to resort to mild lathicharge, use tear gas shells and water cannons after the farmers set a tractor on fire. Some of the farmers sustained minor injuries while trying to escape tear gas shells and water cannons. However, no one was hospitalised. Traffic hitDue to the blockade, vehicular movement on the Delhi highway was affected for three to four hours and long queues of vehicles could be seen on both side of the Punjab and Haryana border. The commuters travelling from Delhi to Chandigarh and vice versa were a harried lot as they had to wait for the blockade to be lifted in hot weather conditions.About 2,500 farmers with more than 550 tractors, 150 to 200 other vehicles and two trucks were led and supported by several Congress leaders.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar was seen driving a tractor while leading the protesters. He was supported by other leaders such as Shriniwas VV, Captain Sandip Sandhu and Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Singh Dhillon.Earlier in the morning, farmers and Youth Congress supporters started gathering at Mauli Baidwan village in Mohali under the leadership of Kanwarbir Singh Sidhu, district president of the Youth Congress, Mohali. They later joined the rally in Zirakpur.The tractor rally, which started from Mohali, with Congress flags fluttering on each vehicle reached Zirakpur around noon. Later, Mohali Youth Congress members joined other protesters waiting to march towards Haryana.When the farmers’ rally reached the Punjab-Haryana border, they were stopped by the Haryana Police where farmers and Congress leaders and supporters blocked the highway.Sunil Jakhar, while addressing the farmers and Congress workers, said they termed this day as black day in the history of the country. It would make farmers debtors of MNCs, which would ultimately invade their land.The Punjab Youth Congress president said a massive “Kisan Rosh Tractor Rally” started from Dera Bassi. It was supposed to move towards Delhi. However, the Haryana Police forcefully stopped the agitators at the border. They would continue to oppose the Bill to support the farmers. AAP leader Narinder Singh Shergill also led a separate protest rally from Zirakpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tractor-set-on-fire-cops-resort-to-mild-lathicharge-water-cannons-144354
21-09-2020||---||Chandigarh schools reopen today, partially||Chandigarh, September 20City schools are all geared up to reopen from tomorrow onwards for students coming for guidance on a voluntary basis.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, School Education, said: “All work areas intended for teaching or demonstrations, including laboratories, other common utility areas have been sanitised.”Precautionary measuresThe precautionary measures include teachers, employees and students ensuring physical distancing of at least six feet, use of face mask, frequent hand washing, following respiratory etiquette and self-monitoring of health.“We are hopeful of smoothly moving towards normal classroom teaching in due course of time in accordance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) and instructions of the Government of India. However, we are in no hurry. Safety and health of teachers and students are of paramount importance for the department. We will consult all stakeholders.”As many as seven officers of the Education Department have been allotted schools falling under clusters to carry out inspections. The officials will visit schools daily from September 21 to September 25 and will submit the report to the Director, School Education, every day.All schools have been asked to prepare a class-wise schedule as per the number of students visiting the institution. In the first phase of partial reopening, students of Classes X and XII would be called for clearing doubts.Students are being called in two sessions of two hours each, with a gap of one-and-a-half-hour between two sessions. The teachers will ensure that only 15 students are seated in a single classroom and this number must be restricted to 10 in case the size of classroom is small.The students will be required to carry a written consent from their parents or guardians. Students and teachers residing in micro-containment zones will not be allowed to visit schools. Students, teachers and employees are also advised not to visit areas falling within micro-containment zones.There would be a provision for thermal screening at the entry points in schools. The precautionary measures include teachers, employees and students ensuring physical distancing of at least six feet, use of face mask, frequent hand washing, following respiratory etiquette and self-monitoring of health.There should be a provision for sanitisers at the entry point to the school as well as in each classroom. Principals would ensure the provision for liquid soap and running water in all toilets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-reopen-today-partially-144353
21-09-2020||---||Mohali sees four deaths, 134 cases, 112 recoveries||Mohali, September 20The district witnessed four Covid fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 161. It also saw 134 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 8,362, while 112 patients were cured or discharged today.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said three men and a woman died of the virus. A 40-year-old man and a 65-year-old man from Behda and Balongi villages, respectively, died at the GMCH, Patiala, while a 75-year-old man from Rampur Sania died at Amar Hospital, Mohali. A 46-year-old woman from Dhakoli died at Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula.Among the fresh cases, 49 were from Mohali (urban), 24 from Kharar, 20 from Gharuan, 23 from Dhakoli, five each from Dera Bassi and Lalru, two from Boothgarh and five from Kurali. The district has so far seen 8,362 cases. While 5,566 patients have been cured or discharged, there are 2,635 active cases. As many as 161 persons have fallen prey to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-four-deaths-134-cases-112-recoveries-144340
21-09-2020||Panchkula||2 deaths in Panchkula; case tally over 5K||With detection of 133 new coronavirus cases, the district today crossed the 5,000 mark.The tally now stands at 5,060, with 1,399 active cases. The district also witnessed two Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 64. A 91-year-old woman from Sector 9 and a 65-year-old woman from Rally village in Sector 12-A, who was suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the disease. Almost 56 per cent of the total cases in the district have been reported in the month of September. Till August 31, the district had 2,230 cases. Since then, 2,830 persons have tested positive in the district.Also, the toll has tripled over the past 20 days. Till August 31, the count of Covid deaths stood at 20, which has increased to 64 now.The fresh cases reported today include 19 from Pinjore, 14 from Sector 20, 11 from Sector 21, 10 from Sector 6, seven from Kalka, six from Sector 17 and Sector 19, five each from Barwala, Sector 10 and Sector 25, four each from Old Panchkula, Sector 12-A, Sector 2 and Sector 7, three each from Kalka, Raipur Rani, Sector 11, Sector 15 and Sector 9, two each from Sector 14, Sector 16, Sector 26 and Sector 8 and one each from Abheypur, Buddanpur, Sector 1, Rajiv Colony, Sector 12 and Sector 23. According to the Covid bulletin, at least 53 more patients have reportedly been recovered from the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-in-panchkula-case-tally-over-5k-144338
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Power cuts irk residents of Shastri Nagar||Residents of Shastri Nagar are irked by frequent power cuts, low voltage and tardy speed of complaint redressal by the Electricity Department.Residents said due to power cuts, children were the worst sufferers as online studies were disrupted regularly.The low voltage problem in houses this summer had rendered their electrical appliances such as AC, refrigerator and TV useless.They alleged that the contractor did not attend to their complaints over the phone. The UT Electricity Department had not laid new cables after 1997. Amit Rana, a resident, said, “We have complained to the SDO many times that there is an urgent need for an additional transformer here, but nothing has been done.”Another resident Harbans Singh said, “The population of the colony has increased and the load too has increased with ACs replacing fans and coolers.”SDO Keerat Lal said there was no problem of load here.Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon said residents were forced to shuttle between the UT Administration and the MC as no one was ready to resolve the problem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-cuts-irk-residents-of-shastri-nagar-144336
21-09-2020||---||Man ends his life, tenants booked||Panchkula, September 20A 63-year-old man, who retired from Bharat Electronics Limited, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Sector 19 here this afternoon.The victim has been identified as Rajinder Kumar. No suicide note was recovered from the spot.On a complaint of the victim’s son, the police have registered a case of abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the IPC against his tenant Mandeep and his wife.  Victim’s son Lalit Kumar told the police that his father had been living with them in Baltana, but he also had another house in Sector 19, the ground floor of which was occupied by tenants. “My father had been asking the tenants living on the ground floor to vacate the house for a long time, but they used to humiliate him. Their behaviour forced my father to take the extreme step,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-his-life-tenants-booked-144335
21-09-2020|| ||5 years on, killers roaming free, laments mother||Chandigarh, September 20The family members of slain national-level shooter and advocate Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu, alias Sippy Sidhu, lit candles at a park in Sector 27 on his fifth death anniversary today.Sippy was shot dead on September 20, 2015. A .12-bore gun was used in the crime and four bullets were fired from it. The UT police had registered a case of murder at the Sector 26 police station. In January 2016, the case was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), after which the investigating agency registered a murder case and began a probe. However, Sippy’s killers are yet to be arrested. His mother Deepinder Kaur (63) said, “The killers of my son are roaming free even five years after the incident. The police had done a shoddy investigation and the CBI too has not done anything to bring the killers to book. Everyone knows that the investigation agencies have been pressured to halt the probe.” The family members reiterated their demand to arrest the killers. “This is the last time I have come here. Next year, I will go to the court. We will not remain silent,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-years-on-killers-roaming-free-laments-mother-144334
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Grain market traders up in arms||Members of the Grain Market Association, Sector 26, have decided to observe a strike on September 22 against the proposed hike in parking fee.Parking feeRam Karan Gupta, president of the association, said business in the grain market had already been hit due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the proposal of the market committee to levy five times higher rates of parking this year in the parking tender on vehicles would be unfair and an additional burden on customers and others concerned. In protest against these “dictatorial diktats” of the market committee , the Grain Market Association has decided to observe a complete strike on Tuesday.If the “arbitrary parking tender” is not withdrawn, the association would go in for an indefinite strike and rope in more traders from various markets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/grain-market-traders-up-in-arms-144333
21-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Nearly 1% people in Chandigarh hit by Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Covid-19 has affected nearly one per cent of the UT’s population (as per the 2011 Census) as the case count today surpassed the 10,000 mark today.For every 10 lakh people, the national average is 4,000 cases and 71 deaths while it is 9,552 cases and 113 deaths in Chandigarh. Experts have called for revised measures to reduce the Covid mortality rate. In September alone, 64 deaths have been recorded in the city.Dr KK Talwar, former Director, PGI, and Health Adviser to Punjab Govt‘Mask only vaccine available’Available evidence suggests that wearing a mask is very effective in slowing the spread of the disease. At present, mask is the only vaccine available to us. It can help develop gradual immunity against the virus and lead to mild disease. People should not underestimate the importance of wearing a mask.Dr KK Talwar, former Director, PGI, and health adviser to Punjab Government, said, “We should take society’s help in keeping the mortality rate low. We should urge people to report to a hospital or clinic as soon as they develop symptoms, even if they test negative later. Elderly persons should be extra cautious as the mortality rate is higher in patients with comorbidities and above 60 years of age.”There is apparently no on-demand testing in Chandigarh. In a fresh advisory released by the Indian Council of Medical Research, it is recommended that any individual who wants to get tested should be allowed to do so. Dr Talwar said, “People should be allowed a walk-in test at any government facility free of cost. We have allowed on-demand testing in government facilities of Punjab. A lot of people are poor and cannot afford tests at private laboratories.”According to recent reports, the universal mask wearing may decrease the chances of infection spread. Even if infected, the mask will help decrease the amount of virus particles the person gets exposed to, thus causing only asymptomatic infection or mild Covid-19.What UT needs to focus onA Central team in the city for 10 days has made the following suggestions on the basis of its assessment of the Covid situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nearly-1-people-in-chandigarh-hit-by-covid-144332
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh breaches 10,000 mark||The city today recorded 286 Covid cases and four deaths, taking the case tally to 10,082 and death toll to 120.A 45-year-old man from Sector 25, who was also suffering from SARI, hypertension and seizure disorder, died at the GMSH, Sector 16.A 48-year-old man from Raipur Khurd, who was also suffering from ARDS, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A 72-year-old man from Ram Darbar, also a case of SARI, asthma and diabetes, died at the GMSH. A 66-year-old man from Sector 56, also a case of diabetic ketoacidosis, died at the GMCH. A total of 372 more patients were cured, taking the tally of recovered patients to 7,138.Chandigarh tests more than PanchkulaWith over 10,000 cases, Chandigarh has the highest number of confirmed cases in the tricity, ahead of Panchkula district (5,060) and Mohali district (8,362).Even though Panchkula has 23 Covid sample collection centres as against nine in UT, the testing figures in Chandigarh (62,834) have exceeded that of Panchkula (59,226). Mohali has 19 collection centres and has conducted 65,018 tests. Chandigarh has the highest positivity rate of 16 per cent, whereas Panchkula has 11 per cent and Mohali 12 per cent.Curbs lifted from Sec 39The UT Administration on Sunday removed restrictions from a micro-containment zone in Sector 39. The restrictions were imposed on August 28. Satish Kumar Jain, SDM (South), ordered the removal of restrictions from 66 flats falling in the containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-breaches-10-000-mark-144331
21-09-2020||---||Joyride turns fatal for girl on 22nd birthday||Panchkula, September 20A girl, who went out on a joyride with her friend after celebrating her 22nd birthday, died last night around 10 pm after falling off a bike near the ITBP gate in Sector 26 here.On a complaint of the victim’s mother, the police have registered a case of rash riding against the victim’s friend, Usman, who resides in Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh.Her friend didn’t slow down on speed humpThe Panchkula police have registered a case. According to the police, the victim, Anu, who hailed from Kheri village in Dera Bassi, was working at a salon in Sector 15. Usman was reportedly riding the bike, bearing registration number CH 01BZ 0512, rashly and did not slow down on a speed hump. The victim, who was riding pillion, fell off the bike.According to the police, she was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where she was declared brought dead by doctors. Her mother Urmila Devi told the police that they wrapped up her birthday celebrations around 8 pm. Thereafter, Usman, who was also invited to the party, took her daughter out on a bike ride around 9.30 pm.Around 10.15 pm, Urmila Devi was informed by her daughter’s friend Aarti that she had met with an accident and she had been admitted to the Civil Hospital. When the victim’s sister, Priyanka, reached the hospital, she was dead.After a postmortem, the victim’s body was handed over to the family. Head Constable Satish Kumar, the investigating officer, said Usman was yet to questioned.He has been booked under Sections 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/joyride-turns-fatal-for-girl-on-22nd-birthday-144329
