25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor Raj Bala Malik admitted to PGI||Mayor Raj Bala Malik was admitted to the PGI on Thursday. She tested positive on September 16 and was in home isolation since then. Sources said she was shifted to the PGI after her saturation levels dropped while she was in home isolation.“Her vitals are stable and she is on a venturi mask for giving high flow of oxygen supply,” sources said.The venturi mask delivers known oxygen concentration to a patient on controlled oxygen therapy.With both the Mayor and Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma battling COVID-19, the chances of Municipal Corporation holding a House meeting this month appear bleak.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “Nothing has been decided as yet but the meeting can be held in October also. Due to the COVID-19 situation, meetings have been held online in the past.”On September 15, Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-raj-bala-malik-admitted-to-pgi-146475
25-09-2020||---||Multani murder case: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini moves SC for quashing of FIR||New Delhi, September 25Former Director-General of Punjab Police Sumedh Singh Saini has moved the Supreme Court challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing of the FIR in the 1991 Multani murder case. A Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan on Friday posted his petition for hearing on October 1 as the impugned order of the high court was not on record. The Supreme Court had on September 15 granted him interim protection from arrest and posted his plea for anticipatory bail for hearing after four weeks. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on September 7 dismissed his anticipatory bail plea.“This case is of 1991. After 30 years what is the hurry to arrest him... We will grant you time to file a reply,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan had said, adding he would not be arrested till further orders.However, the top court had asked Saini to co-operate with the Punjab Police in the investigation of the case.Multani—a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation—was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi had contended before the top court that Punjab government was after Saini because he had filed two chargesheets in which current Chief Minister Capt Amarinder was an accused. “This is why they are after me,” he had submitted.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction and disappearance of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh in 1994.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/multani-murder-case-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-moves-sc-for-quashing-of-fir-146447
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh crosses 11,000 mark with 244 fresh COVID-19 cases; 1 death||Chandigarh crossed the 11,000 mark with 244 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. The total number of cases stands at 11,212 now. The city reported one death today that of a 55-year-old woman from Sector 56, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. For the third day in a row, Chandigarh saw more recoveries than number of positive cases, as 335 persons were discharged today. As many as 8,677 persons have beaten the virus.Mani Majra continues to remain a hot spot as maximum of 24 cases were reported today from there. There are active 2,390 cases in the city at present.With today’s death, the toll has risen to 145.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-crosses-11-000-mark-with-244-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-146438
25-09-2020||---||Panchkula reports one Covid death, 121 fresh cases||Panchkula, September 25The district on Friday reported one Covid death and 121 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the toll to 77 and the tally to 5,550.A 49-year-old man from Bir Ghaggar, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the virus.The Covid-19 death toll in the district has risen to 77, while new infections took the caseload to 5,550.The new cases include 14 from Sector 20, 13 from Sector 15, nine from Pinjore, eight from the MDC, Sector 5, six each from Sector 21 and Sector 4, five each from Sector 16, Sector 17 and Sector 8, four each from Kalka, Sector 10, Sector 19, Sector 25 and Sector 7, three each from the MDC, Sector 4, and Sector 9, two each from Kharak Mangoli, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 26, Sector 28 and Sector 6, and one each from Bir Ghaggar, Karanpur, Kot, Marranwala, the MDC, Sector 6, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 18, Sector 2, Sector 24 and Sector 27.While 1,196 cases are still active, 4,277 persons have been cured.Panchkula has so far conducted 62,723 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-one-covid-death-121-fresh-cases-146437
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali again reports more recoveries than cases; 197 recover, 177 fresh cases||Mohali again saw more recoveries than Covid-19 cases.Mohali reports four deaths and 177 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the district's death total to 177.The coronavirus tally stands at 9,285. In the last 24 hours, 197 have recovered from the deadly disease.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, that four people succumbed to the virus. COVID-19 cases:As the there has been a spurt of recoveries in September in the district, the total number of people who have beaten the virus now stands at 7,148.Mohali records 2,353 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-again-reports-more-recoveries-than-cases-197-recover-177-fresh-cases-146436
25-09-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal ||Gurpreet Sandhu, Sanju Yadav win AIFF’s best footballer of the year award||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 25Indian national team goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu has won the 2019-20 AIFF Men's Footballer of the Year Award, while Sanju Yadav has got the AIFF Women’s Footballer of the Year Award.Sandhu, 28, hails from Chandigarh while Sanju Yadav, 22, is a native of Alakhpura, Haryana.This is the first time Sandhu has received the prestigious award. He also became the second goalkeeper after Subrata Paul in 2009 to be named the AIFF Player of the Year.The Blue Tigers custodian was elected as the winner on the basis of votes from Indian Super League and I-League club coaches.Sanju plays as a forward for the Indian team and Gokulam Kerala in the Indian Women's league.Sanju Yadav says the men’s team skipper Sunil Chhetri is an inspiration for her and a generation of players who took up the sport in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurpreet-sandhu-sanju-yadav-win-aiffs-best-footballer-of-the-year-award-146430
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Punjab DGP Saini appears before Mohali court, seeks withdrawal of arrest warrant||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Friday appeared before a Mohali court, seeking withdrawal of an arrest warrant against him and said he is ready to join investigation in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case.The court issued a notice to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, seeking its reply, and fixed September 30 as the next date of hearing.The former DGP, along with his counsel, appeared in the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Ravinder Kaur, said Special Public Prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula.Saini said in his application that the Supreme Court has granted him an interim protection from arrest in the case and the non-bailable warrant issued against him be withdrawn.Saini also said he was “ready and willing” to appear before the investigating agency and cooperate as and when required.The former state chief filed the application two days after he failed to appear before the SIT for investigation at the Mataur police station in Mohali.The arrest warrant against him was issued by the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Ravtesh Inderjit Singh on September 12.The court had then directed police to produce Saini by September 25.The former DGP was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation.Police had last month added the murder charge under Section 302 of the IPC in the case after former Chandigarh Police Inspector Jagir Singh and ex-ASI Kuldeep Singh, who are also co-accused, turned approvers.Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, was the youngest DGP in the country when he was appointed the state police chief in 2012.He was removed from the post in 2015 after protests erupted following desecration of religious texts.Saini retired in 2018.Multani, a resident of Mohali, was picked by police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was the then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh.Later, it was claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police in Gurdaspur.Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother Palwinder Singh Multani, a resident of Jalandhar.Initially, the case was registered against them under Sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt), 344 (wrongful confinement) and 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) of the IPC. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-punjab-dgp-saini-appears-before-mohali-court-seeks-withdrawal-of-arrest-warrant-146399
25-09-2020||New Delhi||Govt sanctions 670 electric buses, 241 charging stations under FAME scheme; Chandigarh gets 80||The government on Friday said it had sanctioned 670 electric buses for Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat and Chandigarh and 241 charging stations in Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat and Port Blair under Phase-II of the FAME India Scheme.Union Heavy Industries Minister Prakash Javadekar said the decision reflected the Centre’s commitment to reduce dependence on fossil fuel and address the issues of vehicular emissions and is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for eco-friendly public transportation.“This is a good start, these e-buses, e-rickshaws and e-scooties, as well as e-cars for city use, are the best way forward for environment-friendly transport,” Javadekar said.In a series of tweets, the Minister informed that 25 charging stations had been sanctioned in Kollam, 27 in Thiruvananthapuram and 28 in Malappuram (all in Kerala). Besides, 10 charging stations have been sanctioned in Port Blair and 25 in Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu.Maharashtra has been sanctioned 240 Ebuses, of which 100 Ebuses each for MSRTC’s Intercity and Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport & 40 Ebuses for BEST-Mumbai.@PMOIndia @BJP4India @BJP4Maharashtra @Dev_Fadnavis @PIBMaharashtra #FAME #GreenIndia pic.twitter.com/uz5ZHDnRNY  Javadekar said the setting up of charging stations was a key infrastructure necessity to promote electric vehicles.“Already 450 buses are plying in various cities. Now 670 e-buses are sanctioned. Maharashtra has got 240, Gujarat has got 250, Goa has got 100 and Chandigarh has got 80. Kerala and other states have also got e-charging stations because all those corporations who are completing the formalities, we are sanctioning e-buses for them,” said the minister.We, the people of #Chandigarh & @ChandigarhAdmin express our gratitude to Hon'ble PM & @PrakashJavdekar for sanctioning fleet of 80 E- buses for our city which will indeed give a new dimension to the eco-friendly transportation system for #Chandigarh. https://t.co/DM358c4NpH pic.twitter.com/04012S4p34  The Department of Heavy Industries, under the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, is administering the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme since April 2015 to promote adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles (xEVs) in India.At present, Phase-II of FAME India Scheme is being implemented for a period of three years with effect from April 1, 2019, with total budgetary support of Rs 10,000 crore.This phase focuses on supporting electrification of public and shared transportation and aims to support, through subsidies, approximately 7,000 e-buses, 5 lakh e-3 wheelers, 55,000 e-4 wheeler passenger cars and 10 lakh e-2 wheelers.In the first phase of the scheme up to March 31, 2019, about 2,80,987 hybrid and electric vehicles were supported by way of demand incentive, amounting to about Rs 359 crore.Further, the department has sanctioned 425 electric and hybrid buses to various cities in the country at a total cost of about Rs 280 crore. It had also sanctioned 520 charging stations for about Rs 43 crore in cities like Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Jaipur and NCR of Delhi under Phase-I of FAME-India Scheme. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-sanctions-670-electric-buses-241-charging-stations-under-fame-scheme-chandigarh-gets-80-146363
25-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports four deaths, 101 cases||Four persons died of Covid-19 in Panchkula today.A 60-year-old man from Tipra, a 64-year-old man from Kalka, a 45-year-old woman from Sector 20 and a 65-year-old man from Kalka succumbed to the disease. All of them reportedly had comorbid conditions. The district also witnessed 101 fresh cases. The new cases include 12 from Kalka, eight each from Sector 20 and Sector 21, seven from Sector 15, six from Pinjore, five each from Raipur Rani, Sector 10 and Sector 7, four each from the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 12 and Sector 16, three from Sector 11, two each from Garhi Kotaha, Rampur Seuri, Sector 8, Sector 4 and Sector 8, and one each from Amravati Enclave, Bhagwanpur, Chandimandir, the CRPF, Hangoli, Haripur, Johluwal, Khatouli, Kot, Masumpur, the MDC, Sector 6, Railly, Rajiv Colony, Ramgarh, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 27, Sector 6, Sector 9 and Tagra Hansua. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-four-deaths-101-cases-146116
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||26-yr-old dentist dies as car hits scooter at Aroma light point||A 26-year-old dentist riding an Activa died after his scooter was hit by a speeding Maruti Brezza at the Aroma light point in Sector 22 this morning.According to the police, the victim has been identified as Vishal Kapila, a native of Una, Himachal Pradesh. He was staying in Phase 3B2, Mohali.The victim’s scooter was hit by a Breeza, being driven by a woman, identified as Kompal Budhiraja, a resident of Sector 21. Vishal was heading towards the Sector 34 roundabout from the Sector 17 side, while the woman was heading towards Sector 22 from Sector 21.The police said the woman escaped from the spot after the accident, leaving the vehicle behind. The police were informed and the victim was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where he succumbed to his injuries.The police have registered a case against the woman at the Sector 17 police station. Later, the woman was arrested and released on bail. The Brezza has been impounded by the police. — TNSWoman was behind wheel, held, released on bailVictim was from UnaAccording to the police, the victim has been identified as Vishal Kapila, a native of Una, Himachal Pradesh. He was staying in Phase 3B2, Mohali.Woman fled spotThe victim’s scooter was hit by a Brezza, being driven by a woman, identified as Kompal Budhiraja, a resident of Sector 21. The police said the woman escaped from the spot after the accident, leaving the vehicle behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-yr-old-dentist-dies-as-car-hits-scooter-at-aroma-light-point-146117
25-09-2020||---||Chandigarh reports four deaths, 253 cases||Chandigarh, September 24The city today reported four Covid deaths and 253 fresh cases, taking the toll to 144 and the tally to 10,968.The UT Administration also added three fatalities that were previously not counted in the death toll due to other reasons. A 42-year-old woman from Kishangarh died of the virus at the GMCH, Sector 32. She was a diabetic. A 72-year-old man from Sector 32 succumbed to the disease at Mukat Hospital. He was also a diabetic.A 76-year-old man from Sector 25, who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, breathed his last at the GMSH, Sector 16.A 41-year-old man from Burail died at the GMCH. He had pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome and a kidney disease complication,The city reported 293 recoveries in the past 24 hours. There are now 2,482 active cases in the city as 8,342 patients have defeated the virus so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-four-deaths-253-cases-146118
25-09-2020||---||PUTA elections postponed||Chandigarh, September 24A day before voting, the elections for choosing new general body of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) have been postponed till further orders. The elections were slated to be held on September 25 and 26. The returning officer, Prof Vijay Nagpal, said, “PUTA elections have been postponed till further orders.”“The process of PUTA elections was initiated on the request of the executive committee. A communication was received from one of the members, which was forwarded to official concerned for information and necessary action. In order to avoid any undesirable eventuality, I decided to approach the Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner for his sanction to hold the elections. However, his response to my above request is still awaited,” said Nagpal.“In the meantime, a letter from the registrar was received wherein it was informed that the PU Administration had no role in the conduct of PUTA elections and permission was needed from the prescribed authority (the DC Office). In view of the same, the elections have been postponed. New dates will be announced after the necessary permission is received from the DC,” added Nagpal. Sources said the decision has been taken in consideration of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, imposed in Chandigarh.Apprehensions prove correct“Our apprehensions about behind the scene efforts to derail the process of democracy have come true. The whole country has opened under the Unlock-4. Even schools have been asked to call young students. Gatherings of up to 100 persons are allowed. Our own colleagues have worked day and night to ensure that no elections are held for our professional body. This is the time the whole community wakes up to the call to join together to save democracy and resist all forces targeting the autonomy and independent existence of teaching community,” said a statement issued by Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura.Shocked by the decisionMeanwhile, Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu group stated that they were shocked to learn about the development. “We are shocked at this last time development of postponing the elections. We had undertaken a systematic campaign and thoroughly exposed the inaction of PUTA leadership for the last three years. The PUTA secretary was the only person interacting with the returning officer. He might be conversant with internal situation and about letters from faculty members, communication between the Registrar, Vice-Chancellor, Deputy Commissioner and others,” said the Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu group.“However, the announcement to postpone PUTA elections came as a bolt from the blue. We demand that the PUTA secretary should make all communications right from the appointment of returning officer till the date of PUTA elections public failing which we will choose further course of action,” said Khalid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-elections-postponed-146119
25-09-2020||Amit Bathla||570 attend schools in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 24“There has been a gradual improvement in number of students attending government schools,” claimed the Panchkula Education Department on Thursday.At least 570 students attended schools on Thursday as compared to 289 on Tuesday, registering an increase of 281, the data provided by officials stated. While schools remained closed on Wednesday on account of ‘Haryana Veer Evam Shaheedi Diwas’, officials of the Education Department didn’t share data of Monday, the first day of reopening of schools.More teachers get tested for CovidTill September 22, as many as 161 teachers got tested for Covid. The number of teachers undergoing virus test rose to 297 on September 24.Shockingly, no teacher in the Morni block underwent Covid test for the first two days since reopening of schools on Monday. It is contrary to orders issued by the state government to stop infection from further spreading. Before re-opening of schools, the Haryana Government made it compulsory for teachers to undergo Covid test.According to officials, they had made all required preparations keeping in view the SOPs issued by the Government of India.Students’ viewRohit and Harsh, students of Class X, Saarthak Government Integrated Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, attended their school for the first time on Thursday since it reopened on Monday. Both said in-person learning was better than online study.“I don’t have a personal smartphone. I wait for my parents to come back home in the evening so that I can use their mobile phone to study online. This affected my studies,” said Rohit, who hails from Dhakoli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/570-attend-schools-in-panchkula-146120
25-09-2020||---||Not associated with persons booked in cheating case: Pharma firm||Chandigarh, September 24  A cheating case registered by the Chandigarh Police against two persons identified as Balajee John and Vinod Sharma earlier this month for duping Eli Lilly and Company Pvt Ltd, a pharmaceutical firm, to the tune of Rs 5.05 lakh. Now, the pharmaceutical firm clarified that it was not associated with Balajee John and never had any business relationship with him.  It was further stated that the company had not interacted about the alleged deal with the complainant nor it received or accepted any payment from him directly or indirectly.  The company added that some unscrupulous person had created an identity and/or email using its name so as to deceive people in believing that they were dealing with the firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-associated-with-persons-booked-in-cheating-case-pharma-firm-146122
25-09-2020||---||Court rejects anticipatory bail of accused in fraud case||Chandigarh, September 24A local court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of an accused Sachin Sharma facing the charge of cheating a Panchkula resident of Rs 7 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad on a work visa. Stating that such offences were increasing day by day, Sanjiv Joshi, Additional Sessions Judge said, "Custodial interrogation of the accused is required in order to unearth the entire episode. The benefit of anticipatory bail cannot be granted in routine or casual manner as it may ultimately affect the process of investigation."Sachin Sharma, a resident of Zirakpur in Mohali district, filed an application under Section 438, CrPC, for the grant of anticipatory bail after the Chandigarh Police registered an FIR against him under Sections 420, 120B and 24, Immigration Act, at the Sector 34 police station on July 18, 2020 .The case was registered on the complaint of Davinder Singh, a resident of Panchkula. He stated that Sharma, who was running an immigration business, cheated him. Davinder alleged that Sharma promised him to arrange a work visa as he had a share in a hotel in Singapore.The accused lured him by telling that he could earn eight to nine dollars per hour in Singapore, said Davinder.He met Sharma, one of his partners Kiran Geotra and his wife Aarti Sharma at Sector 34, Davinder added. During the meeting, a deal was settled at Rs 7 lakh, out of which, he handed over Rs 1 lakh as advance, said Davinder.After some time he handed over Rs 6 lakh along with his original passport to the accused in the presence of Sanjeev Garg, Davinder added. They promised that his visa would be arranged in three to four months, but he was neither sent abroad nor his money was returned, said Davinder.On the other hand counsel for the petitioner submitted that the accused was implicated in a false case by the complainant in connivance with police officials.Contesting the arguments, public prosecutor submitted that the accused dishonestly induced the complainant to deliver Rs7 lakh to him to send to Singapore by arranging a work visa in connivance with the co-accused.He neither sent the complainant to Singapore nor returned the said amount to him, the public prosecutor added. After hearing rival’s contention the court stated that the accused was not entitled to the discretionary benefit of anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-of-accused-in-fraud-case-146124
25-09-2020||---||National Student Medical Union wants classes, exams postponed||Chandigarh, September 24The National Student Medical Union (NSMU) Chandigarh has demanded postponement of offline/physical classes and examinations considering the Covid-19 pandemic.A memorandum in this regard was submitted to Dr BS Chavan, Director/Principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Students demanded that the final exams should be postponed.“The administration should start online classes. Taking precautions is not a waste of time in this pandemic, but the need of the hour. We are ready to appear in online examinations and also attend online classes,” said a student.“It’s our duty to stay safe and help in preventing the spread of virus,” he added.“It would be unsafe for students to attend classes or sit in exams physically. Online methods should be explored for exams,” said another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-student-medical-union-wants-classes-exams-postponed-146125
25-09-2020||---||Teachers urge Chandigarh Administration to review decision of calling students to school||Chandigarh, September 24Teachers of government schools want the UT Administration to review its decision on calling students to schools amid a low turnout and asymmetrical number of working hours. Sources claimed the footfall of students in government schools has seen a dip in comparison to September 21 figures, when schools reopened after the lockdown.“There has been a dip in the attendance. Over 16,000 have given a written consent for coming to schools. However, for the past two days, not many students are coming to schools. Perhaps, the decision should be reviewed. It will put both teachers and students at ease,” said schoolteachers.Some expressed that many also feel that the working hours should be fixed at all schools. “There are many teachers who are working for limited two of three hours, but some are working for five hours given the work load. Teachers should be given equal work,” said another teacher.Sources also claimed that the department may take one week’s time to assess the footfall of students and problems faced by teachers and the none-teaching staff to take some decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-urge-chandigarh-administration-to-review-decision-of-calling-students-to-school-146126
25-09-2020||---||24 new micro-containment zones in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 24To break the chain of Covid transmission, the UT Administration today declared 24 more micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue of the Covid-19 outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared micro-containment zones. The affected areas are parts of Sector 7, 15, 19, 20, 24, 27, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 44, 46, Mauli Complex, Ram Darbar, Phase 2, New Indira Colony, Indira Colony and Pipliwala town.On September 16, 27 affected areas were declared micro-containment zones.Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation would be conducted. He said residents were advised to strictly observe social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.Action against those giving wrong details||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-new-micro-containment-zones-in-chandigarh-146127
25-09-2020||---||Will act as the situation demands: Panchkula DCP||Panchkula, September 24On preparedness for farmers’ protest tomorrow, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa said today that they would act according to the ensuing situation.“We will ensure regular monitoring throughout the district to maintain law and order. The force will be mobilised wherever an emergent requirement arises on the basis of inputs,” he said.On September 19, the Haryana Government told the Deputy Commissioners and SPs to deal with the protesters with “tact and patience”.The proposed blockade of the National Highway 73 that connects Panchkula with Yamunanagar will be a major challenge for the district administration.The district officers have been told to divert traffic immediately in case any road or highway is blocked so that people don’t face inconvenience.On September 20, farmers, under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana, had blocked the NH-73 in Barwala against the farm Bills passed by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-act-as-the-situation-demands-panchkula-dcp-146128
25-09-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Administration bans carrying of arms, ammunition||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 24In view of the call for a two-day protest by farmers against the farm Bills passed by the Centre, the district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the smooth flow of traffic and the law and order machinery is all geared up to prevent any untoward incident.The district administration has also banned carrying of arms and ammunition till September 27 within the limits of the district. The district administration has been talking to farmers’ leaders to ensure a peaceful protest.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDM) and executive magistrates to keep a close eye on the situation. He said the district police had also been directed to post traffic cops at important light points, along with entry and exit points, of the district for a smooth flow of traffic.He said the police had been directed to create alternative routes if the farmers blocked the main roads passing through district.Dayalan has issued prohibition orders against carrying any kind of firearms, ammunition, explosives, flammable items and sharp weapons under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. However, the order will not apply to the Army personnel, paramilitary forces and police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-administration-bans-carrying-of-arms-ammunition-146129
25-09-2020||---||Small farmers may be exploited: Cong||Chandigarh, September 24Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra and senior leaders of the party condemned the BJP-led Central Government for “snatching farmers’ right by passing the anti-farmer Bills”.Chhabra said if the Bills were actually in favour of the farmers, why a ballot vote was not allowed in the Parliament.“The BJP knows that the three Bills are against the interests of the farmers and put the small and medium farmers at the risk of being exploited by the big corporate,” said Chhabra.He added: “Farmers are up in arms against the government. The Congress will always stand by them and make their voice heard in the Parliament and on streets. We will keep pressing for equal opportunity, better prices and fight for provision of redressal measures to the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/small-farmers-may-be-exploited-cong-146130
25-09-2020||---||Need for saving farmers: AAP||Mohali, September 24Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) protested against “black farmer laws” at the Phase 7 light point here today.The protest was led by local leaders Raj Lali Gill and Gurtej Pannu. Addressing the gathering, they said the law would not only affect the farmers but also impact businesses and stakeholders associated with farming. They said: “To save our farmers, our business and our state, all of us need to come together and fight for revoking the law.”They said the first step towards revoking the law was to support the ‘Punjab Bandh’ on September 25.Attacking the SAD leaders and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, AAP leaders said on the one hand, Manpreet Badal supported the Bill when it was tabled in the high-powered committee while the SAD leaders kept promoting the Bill as long as people started stopping their cadre from entering into the villages.The AAP leaders said Harsimrat’s resignation was nothing but a drama and that they were trying to sabotage the farmers’ protests.Meanwhile, the police had made elaborate arrangements for a smooth flow of traffic.Police teams formedDera Bassi: Five police teams have been formed to look after the law and order situation during the farmers’ agitation in the Dera Bassi area. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Kuldeep Bawa said the police force would be present in a large number for maintaining the law and order and tackling road traffic. Medical, fire and emergency teams will also be deployed. Officials said they were already on alert. They said they would try that commuters did not face much problem due to the agitation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-for-saving-farmers-aap-146132
25-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court bail rider for violence ‘instigator’ — plant, look after trees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24An alleged instigator of violence will end up planting saplings in a police station.When Dharminder allegedly instigated a crowd to attack the police on the Covid lockdown duty resulting in injuries, little did he know that the pre-arrest bail for him would come with a rider. He has been asked by the High Court to plant 10 saplings and look after these for two years.In case of failure to maintain the trees during the period, the station house officer of the police station concerned would be at a liberty to move an “appropriate application” before the High Court for further action, Justice Hari Pal Verma asserted.In his petition filed through Vishal Garg Narwana, Dharminder pleaded for an anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on May 18 for voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty and other offences under Sections 332, 353 and 34 of the IPC at the Sarangpur police station.The FIR was registered against the petitioner on the statement of a head constable. As per the FIR, he, along with a fellow police constable, noticed a gathering of several persons when they were on the lockdown duty. The said the accused were instigating people to pelt stones as the police were not allowing them to go outside because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Appearing before the Bench, UT Additional Public Prosecutor Manish Jain argued that the petitioner instigated the crowd to attack the police and they sustained injuries in the process. The police were performing duty in such a hard time. Jain, at the time, did not dispute the fact that the petitioner had joined the investigation and his custodial interrogation was not required at the current stage.Petitioner’s counsel, on the other hand, submitted the petitioner was a poor person earning livelihood by labour work. He had neither instigated the crowd nor caused hindrance to the police work. In fact, the petitioner was preparing a video of the incident, which the police did not like. For this reason, he was falsely implicated in the present case.“Considering the nature of allegations against the petitioner, it is directed that the petitioner shall approach the station house officer, Sarangpur police station, within a week from today with an undertaking that he will offer his services to plant 10 saplings and further to maintain/look after these trees for two years,” Justice Verma added. Before parting with the case, Justice Verma directed the SHO to provide the plants and place to the petitioner within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-bail-rider-for-violence-instigator-%E2%80%94-plant-look-after-trees-146133
25-09-2020||---||Another member of swindlers’ gang held||Chandigarh, September 24The Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC) of the UT police arrested another member of the swindlers’ gang allegedly involved in duping people on the pretext of insurance policies.He is the seventh suspect — identified as Angrej Singh (32), a resident of Malout, Muktsar district, Punjab — to have been arrested in the case.He used to withdraw money transferred by victims through ATMs. The police said two ATM cards used by him had been seized.The investigation revealed that the suspect used two bank accounts in Rajasthan for receiving the money transferred from the victims.The police said they were verifying if the bank accounts were opened on fake IDs or if they were operated by some accomplices of the suspect.Six members of the gang were arrested by the police earlier this week after a case of cheating was registered at the Sector 34 police station on the complaint of Nirmal Singh, a resident of Sector 44. He told the police that an unknown person called him in June and discussed about his old insurance policy. The fraudster claimed that complainant’s insurance policy worth Rs25 lakh had matured and if he wanted to claim the same, he would have to deposit fee and some documents. The complainant was lured by the scheme and deposited around Rs16.54 lakh in different bank accounts.Similarly, a Sector 42 resident was also duped of Rs 2 lakh on the pretext of paying the instalment of insurance policy in advance.During the investigation, Rs4 lakh, around 30 mobile phones, along with SIM cards of different service providers, and 10 diaries containing information regarding victims have been recovered from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-member-of-swindlers-gang-held-146134
25-09-2020||---||3 assault cases reported from Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 24Three incidents of assault were reported from the city.In the first incident, victim Sonu Singh, a resident of the Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) Phase II, Sector 26, reported that he was going towards Shastri Nagar through the forest area on the rear side of the Police Lines when around six miscreants stopped him and asked for his phone to make a call. When the victim refused, the suspects stabbed him in the chest and fled the spot.The victim was rushed to the Mani Majra Civil Hospital by an auto driver from where he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. The police have registered a case at the Sector 26 police station and initiated an investigation.In another incident, complainant Deepak Kumar, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, alleged that his neighbour, Amir Khan, came to the roof of his house and assaulted him on September 22. The suspect then allegedly pushed the victim down from the roof, leaving him injured. The police was informed about the incident and a case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. The suspect has been arrested.Third incident of assault was reported at Ram Darbar, Phase II, on Wednesday night.Sources said the victim, identified as Monty, was going on a motorcycle, along with his friend Honey, when a few miscreants stopped them and assaulted Monty.He was injured and admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32. The police was informed about the incident following which an investigation was initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-assault-cases-reported-from-chandigarh-146135
25-09-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir---||CAG finds fault with MC tertiary water supply||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 24 The Municipal Corporation (MC) has been able to supply only 6-9 MGD of tertiary-treated water instead of 20 MGD as planned in the city, finds the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its latest report tabled in Parliament yesterday.  The city had a gross demand for drinking water of about110 MGD (million gallons per day), which is met 50 MGD from the Bhakhra Canal, 16 MGD from the Bhakhra mainline and 24 MGD from underground water sources leaving a shortage of 20 MGD. The report states that the MC had decided to implement a project to design and build a tertiary treatment plant and associated facilities with a capacity of 10 MGD, in addition to an existing tertiary treatment plant (TTP) of 10 MGD, to treat the discharge from its sewerage treatment plants (STPs), in order to supply treated water for irrigation purposes replacing potable water otherwise being used. The design wrongly assumed sufficient availability of sewage water, one of the underground reservoirs was shifted to the older network with lower than required discharge capacity of pumps installed at both plants and the old STP was not technically upgraded. Moreover, the MC did not ensure the required biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) level i.e. below 5mg/l in the output of TTP likely leading to non-acceptance of treated water among the consumers. Moreover, the MC could not recover the 43 per cent of the cost of operation and maintenance of the project as planned. Treated water was supplied free to the green spaces being maintained by the MC’s horticulture wing. The MC also did not bill the tertiary water connections. The audit report found that the intended results could not be achieved even after 6 to 7 years after the completion of the project and the audit could not assure itself of the viability of the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cag-finds-fault-with-mc-tertiary-water-supply-146136
25-09-2020||house tax||Mohali MC office to stay open on weekend for depositing house tax||Mohali, September 24To enable city residents to pay the house tax, the Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) has decided to keep its offices open on September 26 and 27 (government holidays).Announcing this, MC Commissioner Dr Kamal Kumar Garg said as the last date (September 30) for depositing the house tax with 10 per cent concession was nearing, more and more people were visiting the MC office to deposit the same.He said six counters had been set up in the MC for depositing the tax in view of the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-office-to-stay-open-on-weekend-for-depositing-house-tax-146137
25-09-2020||---||4 dead in Dera Bassi building collapse||Dera Bassi, September 24Four persons died after a double-storeyed under-construction commercial building collapsed at Meera Milli Mohalla near Ramlila Ground here this morning.The deceased have been identified as Gopi Chand (60), Raju (46), Ramesh Sardara (45) and Hardev Singh (72).The bodies of Gopi, Raju and Ramesh, who were working at the site at the time of the incident, were retrieved from the debris, whereas the building owner, Hardev, who sustained multiple injuries, was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where he died during treatment.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident. Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa has been directed to submit a report within 10 days.The incident occurred around 9.30 am when seven workers, along with the building owner, were at the construction site. Luckily, four workers, who were working around the building, escaped unhurt when the roof of the first floor of the building caved in.The work on construction of 10 shops by demolishing old houses was underway when the mishap occurred.“The cause of the collapse is yet to be ascertained, but prima facie faulty sanitary work may be the reason, said the Deputy Commissioner.Officials said bad sanitary fittings were the cause of the incident. Suitable action would be taken after the inquiry report.Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), civil, police, medical and fire departments carried out a four-hour rescue operation.Sniffer dogs were also used to find out if more people were trapped under the debris.Faulty sanitary work to blame?The work on construction of 10 shops by demolishing old houses was underway when the mishap occurred.“The cause of the collapse is yet to be ascertained, but prima facie faulty sanitary work may be the reason,” said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.No lessons learntIn February this year, one person was killed and two others sustained injuries when a three-storeyed building collapsed on the Kharar-Landran road in Dera Bassi. It had come to light that builder Parveen Kumar had not taken permission to install the second mobile tower atop the building. The police had booked the builder and the contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-dead-in-dera-bassi-building-collapse-146142
25-09-2020||---||Badnore for centralised allotment of Covid beds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Aimed at improving the healthcare delivery system, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), to devise a method so that a committee of doctors can screen all Covid cases and decide the allotment of beds in a centralised way in all three government medical institutions -- the PGI, the GMCH, Sector 32, and the GMSH, Sector 16.“This will help patients running from one hospital to another in search of beds,” said Badnore during a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic here today.During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said two dedicated dialysis machines had been kept apart for Covid patients.Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, said they had conducted 686 tests, of which 423 samples were of RT-PCR and 263 samples of Antigen. The average positivity rate was around 21 per cent, he added.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, said there was an improvement in the city as only 9 per cent positivity was found in the samples tested by them.The doctors informed the Administrator that 2,000 persons were in home quarantine in Chandigarh and were being regularly monitored through a control room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-for-centralised-allotment-of-covid-beds-146145
25-09-2020||Mohali||Two more fall prey to virus in Mohali||The district witnessed two Covid fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 173. It also witnessed 169 fresh cases, taking the tally to 9,108, while 349 patients were cured today.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said two comorbid patients died due to the virus during the past 24 hours.He said a 77-year-old man from Mohali, who was suffering from heart disease, and a 45-year-old woman from Mullanpur Garibdas, who was suffering from hypertension and was a diabetic, died at the PGI.Of the 169 cases, 96 were from Mohali (urban), 27 from Kharar, six from Gharuan, 18 from Dhakoli, 16 from Dera Bassi, five from Lalru and one from Boothgarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-mohali-146147
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Car hits Golf Club wall, man booked||10,000 appear for PU examsChandigarh: For a record number, around 10,000 students appeared for blended (online/offline) examinations of 166 subjects, being conducted by Panjab University. Apart from exams conducted in three slots, one from 7.30 pm to 9.30 pm, was rescheduled due to the UGC NET today. Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination, informed that despite all odds due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the team of examination branch was working 24×7 for whole-hearted support in the larger interest of students. TNSWebinar dwells on education policyChandigarh: The University Institute of Applied Management Sciences (UIAMS) organised a webinar on National Education Policy-2020. The chief guest on the occasion was Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Governor of Maharashtra. Prof Upasna Joshi Sethi, Director, UIAMS, introduced the chief guest. Koshyari appreciated Panjab University for being one of the oldest universities in the country and producing best alumni across all fields. ‘This education policy is true representative of Bharat. The goal of achieving the status of Vishav Guru is viable under this policy,” Koshyari added. TNSInternational online conferenceChandigarh: The PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, formally inaugurated a two-day international online conference on “Sustainable research technology and development” (IOCSRT-2020) here on Thursday. The conference is being organised by Dr SSBUICET in collaboration with DUIET, Assam, under the aegis of TEQIP-III, a World Bank project offered by MHRD, GOI. The inaugural session included briefing about the conference, TEQIP-III project, Dr SSBUICET and DUIET. In his address, the BHU Varanasi Vice-Chancellor, Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar, congratulated on the theme of the conference. In a message sent from the BHU, he emphasised on the need of sustainable technologies in the present scenario. The keynote address was delivered by Prof GD Yadav, Emeritus Professor of Eminence and Excellence and former Vice-Chancellor, ICT, Mumbai. TNSVirtual discussion on NEP-2020Chandigarh: Taking the thread of deliberations and dialogues on NEP-2020 ahead the University School of Open Learning organised a virtual panel discussion titled “NEP-2020-Stake holders speak up”. Panellists included Prof Viney Kapoor Mehra, VC, Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University, Sonipat, Prof RC Sharma, Dr BR Ambedkar University, Delhi, Prof Latika Sharma, Department of Education, Panjab University and Prof Kuldip Puri, USOL, Panjab University. TNSWebinar on Covid pandemicChandigarh: The Department of Information Technology, University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) organised a TEQIP-III sponsored online webinar on “Corona pandemic: Scientific and technological Handling” here on Thursday. The webinar was organised under the guidance of Prof Savita Gupta, Director, UIET, and Prof Krishan Kumar, coordinator, Department of Information Technology. The expert speaker on the occasion was Dr Vimal Bhanot, a retired Professor of Electrical Engineering from Birla institute of Technology and Science BITS, Pilani. TNSYouth arrested with pistolChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police with a country-made pistol. The suspect, identified as Sanjay, a resident of New Indra Colony, Mani Majra, was arrested from near a temple in Mani Majra on Wednesday. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. TNSPurse snatched in Sector 34Chandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a purse from a woman near her house in Sector 34. According to the police, complainant Vidoola (46) reported that she was going to a market when a person riding a motorcycle snatched her purse containing a mobile and Rs500. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised to identify the suspect. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSPoshan maah by UT departmentChandigarh: The Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, UT, is celebrating Poshan Maah with enthusiasm under the Poshan Abhiyaan. A series of activities are being undertaken at anganwadi centres to sensitise citizens, enhance their participation and associate them with eliminating malnutrition, anemia and ensuring 100 per cent home deliveries, ensuring early initiation of breast feeding and complete immunisation. TNSResidents stage protest in PanchkulaPanchkula: Residents of Sectors 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, under the banner of Haryana State HUDA Sector Confederation, staged a dharna at the community centre in Sector 26 on the issue of imposing enhancement on plot holders/residents of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sectors. They have also written a letter to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, demanding the matter to be solved within 15 days. The protesters threatened to intensify their agitation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-hits-golf-club-wall-man-booked-146148
