26-09-2020||---||PGI doctor gets Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar award||Chandigarh, September 26Dr Ritesh Agarwal, Professor in Department of Pulmonary Medicine, PGIMER, has been awarded the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology for the year 2020 in the medical sciences category, for his significant contributions in the field of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA).The award is named after the founder Director of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) India, the late Dr Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar. The prize is given each year for outstanding contributions in science and technology.Dr Agarwal is the first faculty from the PGI, Chandigarh, to be honoured with this award.Commending Prof Agarwal's distinct accomplishment, Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, said, “It is a matter of great pride not only for the institute but also for the region. This rare honour won by Prof Agarwal is hugely motivational and exemplary for others to follow his footsteps."Prof Agarwal has been systematically exploring this perplexing disease over the last 10 years and has more than 90 publications describing the epidemiology, diagnosis, management, and several first-time descriptions.In the last five years, he has validated several existing diagnostic and classification criteria and has proposed new criteria for the diagnosis and classification of ABPA, which are used to diagnose ABPA world over.The most significant work of Dr Agarwal is in the treatment of ABPA. Before his research, there was no dosing protocol for oral glucocorticoids. His research has shown that lower doses of oral steroids are sufficient in the treatment of ABPA. Moreover, two of his studies demonstrating the efficacy of antifungal drugs are practice-changing, as patients can now be spared of the serious adverse effects of glucocorticoids.Dr Agarwal has more than 500 publications in peer-reviewed National and International Journals. He has also received the ICMR Kamal Satbir Award for the year 2009, and the NASI-Scopus young scientist award for the year 2011, and the ICMR Shakuntala Amir Chand Award for the year 2012, for his dedicated work in the field of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-doctor-gets-shanti-swaroop-bhatnagar-award-147015
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||With 359 persons cured in a day, recoveries outnumber positive cases in Mohali||For the second consecutive day recoveries outnumbered positive cases in Mohali as the district saw 359 recoveries whereas 152 positive cases surfaced on Saturday, taking the total count to 9,830.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said district also witnessed one more fatality during the past 24 years due to coronavirus. He said the deceased is 64-year-old female from Peermuchalla near Zirakpur, who died in GMCH Patiala and added that the patient was suffering from diabetes, hypertension.  The Civil Surgeon said that 64 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), 28 from Kharar, 28 from Gharuan, 17 from Dhakoli, three each from Dera Bassi, Banur and Boothgarh, five from Kurali and one from Lalru.As of now there are 9830 corona positive cases and out of these 7,537 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 2113 active cases with 180 deaths in the district.COVID-19 cases:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-359-persons-cured-in-a-day-recoveries-outnumber-positive-cases-in-mohali-147000
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees more recoveries than COVID-19 cases; infection tally 11,380||Chandigarh reports three deaths and 207 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district's death total to 145.The coronavirus tally stands at 11,380. Chandigarh witnessed more recoveries than coronavirus infections.Recoveries recorded 260.Patients have been discharged—including people from home isolation, who have completed 10 days, and are asymptomatic, as per MoHFW guidelines,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-more-recoveries-than-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-11-380-146982
26-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths and 113 fresh COVID-19 cases||Panchkula reports two deaths and 113 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district's death total to 79.The coronavirus tally stands at 5,663.COVID-19 deaths:An 84-year-old man from village Chownki, who was suffering from hypertension, and a 62-year-old woman from Sector 19, who was suffering from coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension, succumbed to the deadly disease.COVID-19 cases:The fresh cases include 12 from Sector 16, 11 from Sector 19, 10 from Kalka, 9 from Sector 21, 8 from Sector 20, 7 from Pinjore, 6 from Sector 11, 5 from Sector 15, 4 each from Sector 10, Sector 17, Sector 4, Sector 7 and Sector 8, 3 each from Amrawati Enclave and Sector 12, 2 each from Majri Chowk, Sector 25, Sector 6 and Sector 9, one each from Barona Khurd, Bator, CRPF, Khatoli, MDC Sector 4, Marranwala, Saketri, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 27 and Sector 5.While 1,086 cases are still active, 4,498 persons have been discharged.So far, Panchkula has conducted 63,593 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-2-deaths-and-113-fresh-covid-19-cases-146974
26-09-2020||Kolkata||ATK Mohun Bagan sign Indian defender Sandesh Jhingan||Defending Indian Super League champions ATK Mohun Bagan on Saturday announced the signing of high-profile defender Sandesh Jhingan.The 27-year-old Arjuna awardee is said to be the highest-valued footballer in India but the club did not reveal the signing amount."I am delighted to have joined ATKMB. I had a detailed chat with the coach and the owners and I admire their vision and I am very happy that they felt that I could be a part of the family," Mohali lad Jhingan said in a press release, issued by the club.The former Kerala Blasters defender was keen to ply his trade in Europe, preferably Portugal, but because of the pandemic he changed his plans and joined the club. He will compete in the AFC Cup 2021.Jhingan will form a troika with his India teammate Pritam Kotal and Spanish recruit Tiri and will have a chance to prove his mettle at International level.There is also promising Indian youngster Sumith Rathi in chief coach Antonio Habas’ arsenal."I have a lot of friends already there in the team and I am looking forward to join them and start working together," said Jhingan.Jhingan missed the entire 2019-20 season due to an injury and it remains to be seen how he lives up to the expectations of the frantic Mariners fans, especially after their merger with ATK this season."And also, I want to say to all the loyal fans of ATKMB that together we will become not only the greatest team in India but in Asia as well. For Glory 'Joy ATK Mohun Bagan'," he added.Jhingan will join the squad in Goa where they are currently quarantining after arriving this morning ahead of the ISL, slated to begin in November third week.Head coach Habas was excited to get Jhingan in the side."Sandesh brings a new energy into the team. He is an adept player and adds immense value to our overall strategy," said Habas.The former Kerala Blasters player won the AIFF Emerging Player of the Year award in 2014 and debuted for the national team in 2015. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atk-mohun-bagan-sign-indian-defender-sandesh-jhingan-146939
26-09-2020||---||Mohali sees 6 more Covid deaths; toll reaches 179||Mohali, September 26Mohali district witnessed six deaths till Friday night taking the toll to 179.The district also witnessed 237 fresh cases of coronavirus taking the tally to 9,368.As many as 326 patients were cured and discharged.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said among the deceased is a 70-year-old woman from Lalru. She was admitted to GMCH, Patiala. The second death was reported from Banur as a 50-year-old man, who was also suffering from heart disease, died at the PGI, Chandigarh. The third death was reported from Isapur village as a 65-year-old woman died at Indus Hospital. The fourth death was reported from Mubarakpur as a 57-year-old man died at the PGI. A 61-year-old woman from Kharar also died at the PGI. The sixth death was reported from Nayagaon as a 59-year-old man died at the PGI.The Civil Surgeon said 77 cases were reported from Mohali (Urban), 46 from Kharar, 40 from Gharuan, 37 from Dhakoli, 19 from Dera Bassi, four from Banur, three from Bhootgarh, six from Kurali and five from Lalru.Meanwhile, 326 patients had been cured and were discharged from various hospitals in the district.As of now, there have been a total 9,368 corona positive cases in the district, of which 6,586 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 2,603 active cases with 179 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-6-more-covid-deaths-toll-reaches-179-146900
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Unemployed youth ends his life||24-yr-old resident held with ganjaChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 24-year-old youth while possessing ganja. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Amit, alias Mota, a resident of Phase 1, Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), was nabbed from near the Transport Area light point while possessing 350 grams of ganja. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 26 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unemployed-youth-ends-his-life-146786
26-09-2020||---||Former city academy lads win AIFF awards||Chandigarh, September 25In a proud moment for Chandigarh, Indian National Team goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, who is a resident of Mohali, won the 2019-20 All-India Football Federation (AIFF) Men’s Footballer of the Year Award and Anirudh Thapa was adjudged the AIFF Men’s Emerging Footballer of the Year today.Sandu and Thapa are former trainees of St Stephen’s Football Academy in the city.This is the first time Sandhu received the prestigious award. With this, he became the second goalkeeper after Subrata Paul in 2009 to be named the AIFF Player of the Year. The Blue Tigers custodian was elected as the winner on the basis of votes from Hero Indian Super League and Hero I-League club coaches.“I always desired the award. Chhetri-bhai (Sunil Chhetri) has won it so many times and I always thought when I would be worthy of the honour,” said Gurpreet Sandhu.“I thank the AIFF and everyone who has supported and helped me,” he added. The 28-year-old had also received the Arjuna Award last year.Meanwhile, Thapa, who won the Emerging Footballer of the Year Award, was also selected as the winner on the basis of votes from Hero Indian Super League and Hero I-League club coaches. “This news is a breath of fresh air for me and my family. I would like to thank the AIFF, all my teammates and the coaching staff in helping me achieve the feat,” said Thapa.Their coach Surinder Singh from St Stephen’s Academy congratulated both players. “They have made us all proud. Both our trainees have proved that hard work is the key to success. I hope to see them achieve more in life,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-city-academy-lads-win-aiff-awards-146785
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Second accused yet to be nabbed||The second accused involved in the rape of a minor girl is yet to be arrested.The 15-year-old victim was found pregnant on Wednesday, following which the UT police had registered a case at the Sarangpur police station.The investigation had revealed that the victim’s 19-year-old brother had raped her in December, 2019, and his friend had raped the victim in January this year.The victim was shifted to a shelter home. Her brother was arrested and sent to judicial custody.The police said efforts were being made to identify the second suspect and arrest him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-accused-yet-to-be-nabbed-146784
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs removed from Sector 47-D||The UT Administration today removed restrictions from a micro-containment zone in part of Sector 47-D here.SDM (East) Sudhanshu Gautam stated that restrictions had been removed from house number 3,105 to 3,108/1, Sector 47-D, as per the protocol.He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of areas by the municipal authorities would be conducted and residents would be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-removed-from-sector-47-d-146783
26-09-2020||Mohali||Dera Bassi Building collapse: ‘Old material was being used for construction’||No lessons seem to have been learnt from the past incidents of building collapses in the district.In the preliminary inquiry into a building collapse incident, which claimed four lives yesterday, the authorities have found that old material was being used to construct the commercial building and that too without concrete pillars. Brick pillars were being constructed by the owner to save money. The owner had got the building plan sanctioned from the authorities.SDM Kuldeep Singh Bawa said the owner had got the building plan sanctioned for the ground as well as the first floor. Further investigations were on and the report would be submitted after completing the enquiry.Earlier, magisterial probes have been ordered and FIRs had been registered against builders and promoters in two building collapse incidents in Mohali district, but no action has been taken against them yet.Builders managed to get all requisite clearances and permissions pertaining to the construction of buildings were attained from the MC.On February 8 this year, a triple-story building with a basement at Sante Majra village on the Kharar-Landran road had collapsed. A JCB operator, who was digging the basement, died after the building came crashing on him.The enquiry report of the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Kharar, had indicted the builder and the contractor equally responsible for the mishap. The inquiry report found that the basement had been dug up beyond the permissible limit and the sanctioned depth, which had exposed the foundation of the adjacent three-storeyed building leading to collapse. The report had further said that the builder also did not inform the Municipal Council before digging-up the basement.In another incident of building collapse on April 12, 2018, a three-storey housing society building, Imperial Garden, nearing completion had collapsed in the Peer Muchalla area of Zirakpur. No casually was reported in the incident. In both incidents, enquiry reports had indicted the builder and the contractor and cases were registered against them. However no action has been taken in both cases as these were now sub judice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-building-collapse-old-material-was-being-used-for-construction-146782
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||EWS flats at another site likely||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is thinking of constructing the EWS flats under the general housing scheme to come up at the IT Park at some other place.The CHB plans to float the scheme late this year or early next year. The board plans to construct 788 flats on 17 acres. It will construct two and three-bedroom flats.Initially, the CHB had included EWS flats, but now the Board wanted to shift these to some other location.A CHB official said the number of flats in other categories would increase if the EWS flats were shifted to some other place. The official said the Urban Planning Department had been asked to prepare a proposal in this regard.As per the government policy, a part of land or flats has to be reserved for EWS category in every housing project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ews-flats-at-another-site-likely-146781
26-09-2020||---||Chandigarh gets 80 electric buses||Chandigarh, September 25The Central Government today sanctioned a fleet of 80 electric buses for the city under the Phase II of the FAME India scheme.This will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Administration to replace its entire fleet of buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses.The CTU has 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes.In a tweet, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister Prakash Javadekar for sanctioning a fleet of 80 electric buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-80-electric-buses-146780
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Faculty protest  at PUTA poll site||A day after the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections were postponed, the Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu group today organised a protest at the poll site to show resentment against the decision.“The elections became a tragedy of errors as the Secretary acted in an arbitrary manner and trampled our democratic rights,” said members of the Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu group.In a statement issued by PUTA Secretary JK Goswamy, he stated: “PUTA executive is very much in place. Have patience and wait for the date of elections. We are sure that we will get the required permission soon.”PUTA elections scheduled on September 25 and 26 were postponed a day before voting on Thursday. The decision came after six teachers of the university wrote to Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar and registrar, seeking intervention in the postponement of the polls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/faculty-protest-at-puta-poll-site-146779
26-09-2020|| Chandigarh||SD College organises TEDx||SD College organised the sixth edition of TEDx on the campus here on Friday. In view of the Covid pandemic, the interactive session on “Constructive Chaos” was conducted online.The speakers on the occasion were photographer Aman Chotani, and actors Abhimanyu Singh, Taher Shabbir, Mahesh Thakur and Rohit Roy.In a message for the youth, Thakur said, “Your goals should not be far-fetched. Set goals that you can achieve while you are young.”Roy highlighted the theme of the event. He said, “One has to dig deep into one’s chaos and make that chaos the defining moment of your life.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sd-college-organises-tedx-146778
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Take pupils home, PU asks parents||In view of the surge in Covid cases in the city, PU hostel wardens are making phone calls to parents — as directed by the PU Dean Student Welfare (DSW) — and asking them to have their children vacate the hostels until the situation improves.The PU has warned the parents that the university authorities will not be responsible in the event of any mishap. An official order issued by Prof SK Tomar, DSW, read: “The number of Covid-19 cases is increasing by the day on the PU campus, including hostels. The situation is alarming and difficult.”“All hostel wardens are advised to inform the parents of the situation and ask them to call their children back home, except for international students. There is also a problem of their safety and arranging food for them. In case of any mishap, the university authorities will not be responsible,” orders further reads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-pupils-home-pu-asks-parents-146777
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh fixes work timings for schoolteachers||The Chandigarh Education Department has now fixed six-hour uniform work timings for government schoolteachers.The Education Department stated that it was observed that schools were following a staggered schedule. To maintain uniformity and to streamline the process, a schedule has been devised for government schools.The department has instructed that 50 per cent staff will be called to the school from 8.30 am to 2.30 pm and it should be ensured that the time table is prepared in such a manner that the teachers attend the school on alternate days. The school heads will attend the school daily.The schools will have two sessions – the first session from 9 am to 11.30 am and the second one from 12 noon to 2.30 pm. The first session is for Classes X and XII and the second session has been reserved for Classes IX and XI.As per the latest instructions, the teachers of middle and primary schools will also attend the school and the 50 per cent staff norm will be followed in these schools also.The department directed that if a teacher is unwell and has taken leave for three consecutive days, he or she have has to produce a medical certificate from a government hospital. The department has decided to call students of Classes IX and XI from Monday on a voluntarily basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fixes-work-timings-for-schoolteachers-146776
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh, Punjab told to protect Zirakpur resident, her kin||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Chandigarh, its DGP and other respondents to ensure protection of life and personal liberty of a Zirakpur resident and her family at the hands of police officials, including SP Balwinder Singh — stated to be posted as the Commandant, IRB Battalion, Mohali.The direction came after the petitioner alleged that the respondent, for the purpose of usurping her husband’s property by misutilisation of his official position, used the services of other respondents, including the Station House Officer of the Sector 17 police station. As a result, the petitioner and her family were being harassed.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Fateh Deep Singh, her counsel KS Dadwal requested for directions to the respondents to protect the life and personal liberty of the petitioner as she apprehended danger at the hands of the respondent SP and other police officials.Justice Fateh Deep Singh disposed of the petition with directions to the UT and Punjab DGPs and other respondents to ensure due protection of life and personal liberty of the petitioners at the hands of the respondent police officers and others. Directions were also issued to act on her representations/ complaints fully in accordance with law expeditiously preferably within four months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-punjab-told-to-protect-zirakpur-resident-her-kin-146774
26-09-2020||---||Trees pruned in Chandigarh, MC wing clueless||Chandigarh, September 25Hundreds of trees alongside the main roads in the city have been pruned down, but the Municipal Corporation’s horticulture wing has no clue to it.“The way trees have been pruned comes in the category of ‘hard cutting’,” said an official of the horticulture wing of the civic body.On Friday, chopped branches of trees lay strewn on Sector 32-33, Sector 19-27, Sector 20-21, Sector 17-18 and Sector 14-25 roads.Krishan Pal Singh, SE (Horticulture circle), said: “We have not carried out pruning in any sector. We came to know about it when people started calling us to clear the areas near houses. We are inquiring about it.”Sources said the engineering wing of the UT Administration had carried out the drive to prevent the overhead high tension wires from mingling, but no one from the department confirmed it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trees-pruned-in-chandigarh-mc-wing-clueless-146772
26-09-2020||Moving mentally challenged to Cheshire Home||Wheelchair cricketers to Chandigarh Administration — Don’t snatch our home||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Wheelchair Cricketers Punjab president has written an open letter to the UT Administration against the Social Welfare Department for “forcing them out” of the Cheshire Home in Sector 21,“We read that the Cheshire Home for the physically challenged is now being given to mentally challenged inmates. The Delhi Cheshire Home had withdrawn support from Gurdeep Dheer, the previous manager, in 2014 because of his malpractices and the Social Welfare Department neither helped us nor not appointed an NGO. Our NGO, Punjab Wheelchair Cricket Association, is a registered organisation and we have been staying at the Sector 21 home since it was instituted,” said Sharmita Bhinder, founder, NGOEmPOWER.She alleged: “Since 2016, we have had no financial support help in maintenance of the house premises. We decided to make our own NGO so we could collect funds and collaborated with NGOEmPOWER for special children. For the past three years, the NGO has been helping us repair the whole building.”“The Social Welfare Department is trying to take our home away. We appeal to the Centre to help us,” said Veer Singh, captain, Wheelchair Cricketers Punjab.“An institute for the mentally challenged is just another false promise and we refuse to accept it with the utmost respect so if the government cannot help us, it is a request that they should not come in our way either,” said Singh.Handicapped should be treated equally“By announcing a change of status for the Cheshire Home, the Administration has caused more harm than good. This is not the way to help the mentally challenged or physically challenged in the city. The authorities should first provide arrangements to the physically challenged already living at the house before putting the mentally challenged people in the facility. Both should be equally treated. More thought should be put into it. We need to have more old-age homes too,” said Unita Vasishta, a city resident.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he had already directed the officials concerned to find suitable employment opportunities for the handicapped persons so that they could arrange their own accommodation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wheelchair-cricketers-to-chandigarh-administration-%E2%80%94-dont-snatch-our-home-146771
26-09-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Sans pact, CITCO operates canteen at UT Secretariat, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25In the absence of any agreement with the UT Administration, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) had incurred net expenditure of Rs9.79 crore for running a canteen at the UT Secretariat, Chandigarh, and a guest house in Delhi till March 2018, revealed the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) tabled in Parliament on Wednesday.“CITCO operated a canteen in the UT Secretariat in Chandigarh and a guest house in New Delhi without any agreement or operational arrangement and incurred a deficit of Rs8.27 crore and Rs1.52 crore, respectively,” finds the report.The report states that the Board of Directors (BoD) of CITCO had approved the arrangement for operations of canteen considering it a package deal from the UT Administration, which also involved transfer of hotels and cafeteria. The operations and management of the guest house in New Delhi were approved by the BoD on the request of the UT Administration, considering the lack of accommodation facilities in New Delhi for visiting officers.However, CITCO did not enter into any agreement or even reach an understanding regarding terms and conditions for performing such functions at both establishments.A draft agreement for the UT Guest House in Delhi was sent by CITCO to the Administration for execution only in May 2016, which is yet to be formalised (July 2019). CITCO did not seek any agreement in respect of the UT Secretariat canteen in Chandigarh.CITCO operated a similar guest house in Chandigarh on behalf of the UT Administration, where an agreement for defraying the expenses was available.CITCO had incurred net expenditure of Rs8.27 crore from 2004-05 to 2017-18 for running the UT Secretariat canteen and Rs1.52 crore for the UT Guest House in Delhi from 2009-10 to 2017-18.In view of the financial constraints and declining profitability, CITCO took up the matter with the UT Administration for reimbursement of the expenditure only in February 2014, but to no avail.The management replied in August 2018 that these activities were taken up as ‘a social function on a non-commercial basis’. It further stated that the issue of reimbursement of expenses with the UT Administration has also been followed up periodically.“The management’s contention that activities were taken up as a social function on a non-commercial basis is not acceptable as CITCO was set up as a commercial undertaking and supplying food items at subsidised rates to the UT Administration employees or running the UT Guest House in Delhi without reimbursement of expenses incurred is not covered under its object clause in the Memorandum of Association,” states the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-pact-citco-operates-canteen-at-ut-secretariat-chandigarh-146769
26-09-2020||---||Veteran scribe attacked, hurt||Mohali, September 25A veteran sports journalist was injured as the driver of a CRPF official attacked him at Mata Gujri Enclave in Kharar on Thursday.Police shielding driver: complainantComplainant Raman Singh said his father was not carrying any stick and had only abused the driver during the brawl. He alleged that the police were trying to shield the driver.The victim, Kuldeep Singh Lal (80), sustained injuries on his left arm and hand. The suspect has been identified as Sahab Singh, who is also stated to be a relative of the CRPF official.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s son, Raman Singh, stated that the suspect, who was washing the vehicle, allegedly attacked his father with a sharp weapon following an altercation. The victim sustained injuries while trying to save himself.The SHO of the Kharar (City) police station said the victim had used a stick to attack the driver following which the latter became violent and attacked Kuldeep with some blunt weapon. He said as per the medico legal report, no sharp weapon was used in the incident as there were no deep cuts on the arm of the victim. He said they were waiting for two other reports from the hospital and would register the case against the driver if anything serious was found in them.Raman Singh said his father was not carrying any stick and had only abused the driver during the brawl. He said his father was still an athlete and physically fit, so he did not need any stick general used by elderly persons. He alleged that the police were trying to shield the driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veteran-scribe-attacked-hurt-146768
26-09-2020||Mohali||Four more die in Mohali, toll 177||The district saw four fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 177. It also saw 177 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 9,678, while 197 patients were cured.Of the 177 fresh cases, 145 were reported from Mohali (urban), seven from Kharar, four from Dera Bassi, three from Banur, seven from Boothgarh, four from Kurali, three from Nayagaon, two from Zirakpur and nine from Lalru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-die-in-mohali-toll-177-146766
26-09-2020||Panchkula||One more death, 121 cases in Panchkula||The district reported 121 fresh coronavirus cases and another death today.A 49-year-old man from Bir Ghaggar, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the virus.The Covid-19 death toll in the district has risen to 77, while new infections took the caseload to 5,550.The new cases include 14 from Sector 20, 13 from Sector 15, nine from Pinjore, eight from the MDC, Sector 5, six each from Sector 21 and Sector 4, five each from Sector 16, Sector 17 and Sector 8, four each from Kalka, Sector 10, Sector 19, Sector 25 and Sector 7, three each from the MDC, Sector 4, and Sector 9, two each from Kharak Mangoli, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 26, Sector 28 and Sector 6, and one each from Bir Ghaggar, Karanpur, Kot, Marranwala, the MDC, Sector 6, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 18, Sector 2, Sector 24 and Sector 27.While 1,196 cases are active, 4,277 persons have been cured. Panchkula has so far conducted 62,723 Covid tests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-death-121-cases-in-panchkula-146765
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Interim bail for AAP leader||In a property purchase dispute between a political leader and a former bureaucrat, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted interim bail to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Yogeshwar Sharma, who unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections from the Panchkula seat in 2019. Appearing before Justice Sudhir Mittal’s Bench on Sharma’s behalf, senior advocate Bipan Ghai and Paras Talwar submitted that the dispute was regarding the sale of 50 per cent share in a Sector 46 shop-cum-office.The complainant, former IAS officer Harjeet Singh, had agreed to purchase 50 per cent share in the SCO vide an agreement to sell dated February 14, 2016, for Rs3.68 crore. Ghai argued that the registration of an FIR was an abuse of the criminal court process. The petitioner was ready and willing to get the sale deed executed and there was no criminal intent involved when the agreement was executed.Ghai submitted that he was willing to get a certificate from the Estate Office within six weeks regarding the absence of encumbrance upon the property and that it had no objection to the execution of 50 per cent share.Complainant’s counsel Jasjit Singh Bedi and Sunil Sihag said they had no objection to the grant of bail to the petitioner in case such a certificate could be produced within six weeks. Bedi added that the petitioner was bound to pay 18 per cent interest in accordance with the pact.Fixing the case for November 5, Justice Mittal asserted: “The petitioner be released on interim bail up to November 6, subject to the satisfaction of the trial court/duty magistrate. The court shall also impose a condition for deposit of the passport.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interim-bail-for-aap-leader-146764
26-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Is charging of penal rent during lockdown injustice? HC to decide||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court will decide whether action of the UT and other respondents in imposing penal rent, especially for the lockdown period, was contrary to the orders, rules and notifications issued by the Administration and whether it has caused “grave and manifest injustice” to a retired employee.The issue was raised before the Bench of Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal by Shankar Pandit, who filed a petition against the UT and other respondents through counsel Pradeep Virk and Kamal Deep Sehra against the charging of penal rent.The Bench was told that the petitioner retired from the Punjab and Haryana High Court on October 31 last year, but was allowed to retain government accommodation till February 29. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing following the Covid outbreak, Sehra contended that the petitioner, however, could not vacate the premises on time within the extended period. Soon thereafter, the lockdown was imposed.The Bench, during the course of the hearing, was also told that the authorities concerned, vide orders dated May 22 and June 4, had decided that the period between March 1 and May 31 was to be treated as “dies non” for all intent and purposes.Elaborating, Sehra specifically referred to the order dated May 22, vide which direction was issued against charging penal rent during the “dies non” period. The term denotes a day or period on which no legal business can be done, or which does not count for legal purposes.Sehra also told the Bench that the petitioner was a retired Class IV employee and imposition of the penal rent, especially for the lockdown period, would be unwarranted. He also submitted that the impugned orders were passed without application of mind and were, as such, liable to be set aside.Issuing a notice to the respondents for November 26, Justice Grewal directed that the recovery of penal rent would remain stayed till the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/is-charging-of-penal-rent-during-lockdown-injustice-hc-to-decide-146761
26-09-2020||---||Molestation victim’s father ‘beaten up’ at Panchkula police station||Panchkula, September 25FIR filed over 50 days after the incidentFour suspects, identified as Rinku, Jehrila, Anoop and an unidentified person, have been booked under Sections 323 and 34 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act on the charges of molestation and assault.The father of a minor girl, who went to the Sector 14 police station to file a complaint against four men who allegedly molested his daughter, was allegedly beaten up by police officials there.An FIR has been registered in this connection at the women police station in Sector 5. According to the victim’s mother, her daughter was molested by four drunken men, including a cook at the Sector 14 police station, on August 3 when she was walking past Allahabad Bank in Sector 14. She added that when her husband rushed to her rescue, the suspects thrashed him.“The victim was hit on the head by the men, leaving her seriously injured. She was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where she was admitted for a week,” claimed the victim’s mother.“When the girl’s family approached the Sector 14 police station, cops present there at first refused to file an FIR and later beat up the victim’s father severely, who now cannot walk straight,” the FIR read, quoting the complainant.After the intervention of the Panchkula DCP, who recommended the registration of an FIR into the incident, the case was registered at the women police station on September 24, more than 50 days after the incident.The FIR was filed at the women police station on September 24. Four suspects, identified as Rinku, Jehrila, Anoop and an unidentified person, have been booked under Sections 323 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of the POCSO Act on the charges of molestation and assault.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune over the phone, the victim’s mother alleged that Inspector Naveen Saharan, SHO of the Sector 14 police station, told them that their complaint won’t be filed anywhere. She alleged that that one of the suspects, Rinku, who works at the Sector 14 police station, had also filed a false FIR against her and family members to harass them.Inspector Naveen Saharan couldn’t be contacted for his comments on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/molestation-victims-father-beaten-up-at-panchkula-police-station-146760
26-09-2020||---||Panchkula sees peaceful protests||Panchkula, September 25Farmers today took out a tractor march in Kalka, Pinjore and Barwala here in response to the Bharat Bandh call given in protest against the farm Bills. The farmers also held peaceful dharnas at several places in the district. No roadblock was reported from any part of the district. The flow of traffic was smooth on the NH-73 that connects Panchkula and Yamunanagar.Congress leaders, including Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary and state spokesperson Ranjeeta Mehta, extended their support to the farmers’ protest. The party leaders were also seen addressing protesters at Pinjore.Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni visited Pinjore where the farmers were holding a protest. Addressing the gathering, Chaduni said, “The farm Bills will adversely affect the farmers and the entire agro business will go into the hands of few capitalists. We are demanding a new law that can assure farmers of the minimum support price for their crops.”To address farmers’ apprehensions on the farm Bills, state BJP president OP Dhankar, who was in Panchkula, said the MSP and mandi arrangements would remain as usual. All these things won’t be withdrawn rather these Bills would benefit farmers, he added. “This government is expanding the network of mandis in the country,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-peaceful-protests-146759
26-09-2020||---||Irate farmers hold up traffic||Mohali, September 25Agitating farmers today blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala highway here using a harvester combine and tractors against the farm Bills, causing problems to commuters. However, the protest was peaceful as no untoward incident was reported from the district.Several shops remain openThe bandh call given by the SAD in support of the protesting farmers evoked a mixed response. Many shops were open in various markets even as the Mohali Beopar Mandal had announced that only essential commodities shops would remain open and all other shops would observe a bandh till 4 pm. Many shops dealing in non-essentials were seen open in Mohali city.Over 200 farmers of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, led by Karam Singh Baroli, blocked the traffic on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway near Bhankarpur in Dera Bassi.Reports of farmers protesting at Handesra were also received where around 80 farmers blocked the highway. They were led by Major Singh Handesra. Farmers also protested outside the Dera Bassi bus stand. Reports of protests were also received from Kurali, Kharar and Gharuan where farmers blocked the highway, disrupting traffic.An AAP leader from Kharar, Narinder Singh Shergill, led the farmers’ protest at Kahnaur on the Kharar-Jurali road and blocked the highway.Similarly, a large number of workers of the Youth of Punjab, under the leadership of Paramjit Singh Baidwan, along with farmers, blocked Airport Road in front of Singh Shaheedan Gurudwara in Mohali. They raised slogans against the Centre and burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The bandh call given by the SAD in support of the protesting farmers evoked a mixed response as many shops remained open in various markets even though the Mohali Beopar Mandal had announced that only essential commodities shops would remain open and all other shops would observe a bandh till 4 pm. Several shops dealing in non-essential commodities were seen open in Mohali city.A random survey of various markets, including Phase XI, 3B2, revealed that shops dealing in readymade garments and shoes, which fall under the category of non-essential commodities, remained open. However, in Phase VII, all shops were closed except those dealing in essential items. Vineet Verma, president of the Mohali Beopar Mandal, said they were approached by farmers’ unions for support and they had given their consent and decided to close all shops except those dealing in essentials till 4 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/irate-farmers-hold-up-traffic-146758
26-09-2020||---||Home quarantine for visitors done away with in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 25Now, no visitor coming to the city will be home-quarantined for 14 days.The UT Administration has withdrawn the earlier instructions mandating self-home quarantine for all visitors from outside the tricity for 14 days and mandatory registration as per the order dated June 23.UT Adviser Manoj Parida issued the orders on Friday in view the orders issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on August 29 and adopted by the UT Administration on August 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-quarantine-for-visitors-done-away-with-in-chandigarh-146724
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor admitted to PGI||Mayor Raj Bala Malik was admitted to the PGI yesterday. She tested positive on September 16 and was in home isolation since then. Sources said she was shifted to the PGI after her oxygen saturation levels dropped while she was in home isolation.“Her vitals are stable and she is on a venturi mask for giving high flow of oxygen supply,” the sources said. The venturi mask delivers known oxygen concentration to a patient on controlled oxygen therapy.With both the Mayor and Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma battling Covid-19, the chances of the Municipal Corporation holding a House meeting this month appear bleak. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “Nothing has been decided as yet, but the meeting can be held in October also. Due to the Covid-19 situation, meetings have been held online in the past.”On September 15, Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had tested positive for the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-admitted-to-pgi-146723
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh breaches 11,000 mark||The city crossed the 11,000 mark with 244 fresh Covid cases today. The case tally now stands at 11,212.The city also reported one death today. A 55-year-old woman from Sector 56, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the disease.For the third day in a row, Chandigarh saw more recoveries than cases as 335 persons were cured. Mani Majra continues to remain a hotspot as 24 cases were reported from there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-breaches-11-000-mark-146721
26-09-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI gives first dose of Oxford Covid vaccine to 3||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The PGI today administered the first dose of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, to three candidates.A 57-year-old woman, a 33-year-old man and a 26-year-old woman are the three volunteers. Once the vaccine was administered, the trial participants were monitored for half an hour and then sent home. There will be a regular follow-up for the next six months.A source privy to the development confirmed that the candidates would be monitored for 28 days after a 0.5 ml dose of the vaccine. After that, the second dose will be given followed by monitoring for another 28 days. Thereafter, their blood samples will be taken and they will be observed for six months.The candidates have been asked to note any development of symptoms like fever in their personal dairy. The institute has screened a total of 18 candidates till now.PGI Director Jagat Ram said, “The institute administered the first dose of vaccine to three candidates, who fulfilled the eligibility conditions. The contact numbers of a physician has been provided to them, in case they encounter any problem. The institute will do a regular follow-up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-gives-first-dose-of-oxford-covid-vaccine-to-3-146719
