29-09-2020||Chandigarh||5 more Covid fatalities in Chandigarh, toll rises to 158||Five more fatalities caused by COVID-19 in Chandigarh took the death toll due to the disease to 158 while 138 new cases pushed the infection count to 11,816 in the city on Tuesday, as per the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department.A 92-year-old coronavirus positive man was among the five persons who died of COVID-19, the bulletin said.There are 2,060 active cases in the city as of now.A total of 273 more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of people who have been cured of coronavirus so far to 9,598, it said.A total of 76,721 samples have been taken for testing so far, and of them, 64,456 tested negative while reports of 176 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-covid-fatalities-in-chandigarh-toll-rises-to-158-148458
29-09-2020||---||3 more fatalities in Mohali district take Covid toll to 189||Mohali, September 29Mohali district witnessed three fatalities during the past 24 hours taking the Covid toll to 189. Fresh 132 cases of coronavirus surfaced in Mohali taking the total number of cases to 10,252.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said three fatalities included 79-year-old female from Sector 70, Mohali, who died at IVY hospital, 30-year-old male from Kadi Majra who died at Cheema Medical Complex. He was suffering from cirrhosis of liver, ALD; and 35-year-old female from Modern Enclave, Baltana, died at Alchemist hospital, Panchkula.The Civil Surgeon said 115 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), six from Kharar, five from Derabassi, one from Lalru and five from Gharuan. He said 336 persons had been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the district.As of now there are 10,253 positive cases and out of these 8,229 had been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 1,835 active cases with 189 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-fatalities-in-mohali-district-take-covid-toll-to-189-148437
29-09-2020|| ||Multani case: SIT summons Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini again on Wednesday||Mohali, September 29 The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has issued summons to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to appear before it at Mataur police station at 11 am on Wednesday in connection with alleged kidnapping and murder case Balwant Singh Multani.The SIT had sent the notice through a messenger at the Saini’s house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, the copies of which have also been sent to his counsels.Pertinently, former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had appeared before the SIT on Monday to join the investigation in the 29-year-old abduction and murder of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, in Mohali.  According to police sources the SIT had asked around 200 to 250 question from Saini which included “where he lived after his bail application was rejected besides revealing the names of places and persons he lived with”. He was also questioned about as to how and where the body of the junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani was disposed of. The team had also told him to say about the two former UT cops who had become approvers in the case.It is pertinent to mention here that earlier former Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldep Singh also co-accused with Saini became approvers and were granted pardon in the case. Then, another person who was in the lockup along with Multani also became approver.Saini was facing arrest in the case after the SIT added Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against him when two co-accused turned approvers and deposed against Saini of being eyewitness to the inhumane torture given to Multani at Sector 17 police station. Saini and six other police officers were booked in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani. Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, convict in a Delhi bomb blast case, and two others, was booked but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian, Gurdaspur, police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/multani-case-sit-summons-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-again-on-wednesday-148420
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||HAL rolls out 300th ALH Dhruv||In a major landmark in indigenous weapon production programme, the 300th Advanced Light Helicopterb (AHL), christened Dhruv, rolled out from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) hangar in Bengaluru on Tuesday.At present, the three services operate 226 Shrubs if different variants. These include 162 by the Army, 56 by the Air Force and 8 by the Navy according to information placed in Parliament by the defence ministry this month. In addition to other government agencies, including the Coast Guard, some other countries have also inducted this helicopter.While the Dhruv is a transport helicopter capable of ferrrying up to 14 passengers, it also has an armed variant called the Rudra.Speaking on the occasion, R Madhavan, Chairman-cum-Managing Director, HAL, said that the ALH never looked back from the day when the prototype took its maiden flight on August 30, 1992, and has since evolved into a world class helicopter with its unparalleled performance. “The evolution from ALH Mark-I to Mark-IV has been phenomenal and is a boost to the indigenous design and development of helicopters”, he stated.The roll-out certificate of the 300th helicopter was handed over to GVS Bhaskar, Chief Executive Officer, Helicopter Complex by YK Sharma, Additional Director General (South Zone), Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality Assurance (DGAQA).“Rolling out of the 300th ALH is a testimony to the capabilities HAL has built over the years with concerted efforts of employees and customer support,” Bhaskar said “With more ALH getting inducted into the services our focus on customer support is ever increasing. With over 2,80,000 flying hours ALH has proven to be a multirole helicopter for Any Mission, Any Place, Any Time”, he added.Currently, HAL is producing 73 ALHs contracted by the services. This includes 41 for the Army, 16 for the Indian Navy and 16 for the Indian Coast Guard. Out of this, 38 ALHs have already been produced and the remaining will be rolled out by 2022.On this occasion, the ‘Ground Run’ of the first Limited Series Production (LSP) of Light Combat Helicopter, was also carried out. This project has been taken up by HAL proactively while the order from the Services on HAL is in process.  The LCH was piloted by Gp Capt Hari Krishnan Nair S (Retd), Chief Test Pilot and Gp Capt CG Narasimha Prasad (Retd), Senior Flight Test Engineer of Flight Operations in the Rotary Wing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hal-rolls-out-300th-alh-dhruv-148407
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Priest, ‘groom’ liable to prosecution: Punjab and Haryana High Court||When Pandit Sonu Sharma performed an underage girl’s marriage, little did he realise that he was tying knot with trouble. Taking up a protection matter filed by a runaway couple, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the priest and the ‘groom’ were liable to prosecution under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.“Since the alleged marriage of the petitioners was performed within the jurisdiction of the SHO, Mansa Devi Complex police station, Sector 4, Panchkula, the registry is directed to communicate this order to the SHO concerned, at the earliest, for taking appropriate action against the accused under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ruled.The direction by Justice Sangwan came after the Ludhiana Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) submitted a report to the High Court after recording the statement of Pandit Sonu Sharma and others concerned. The report stated that the girl, born on July 5, 2003, was less than 18 at the time of marriage and Pandit Sonu Sharma performed the marriage without taking valid documentary proof of her age merely on the basis of duly sworn affidavits of the girl.The case has its genesis in a petition filed by the couple against the State of Punjab and other respondents. Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench through videoconferencing, the counsel for the petitioners sought directions to the officials respondents to protect their life and liberty on the ground that the marriage was performed against the wishes of the bride’s parents and family. The counsel submitted that the petitioners were apprehending threat to their life and liberty at their instance.Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan on the previous date of hearing directed the petitioners and three other respondents to appear before the Ludhiana CJM/Duty Magistrate for recording the statement of the parties. The CJM/DM was also asked to submit a report on the girl’s age.Justice Sangwan observed it was the girl’s own declaration in the petition that her date of birth was July 5, 2003, in the matriculation certificate and as such her age came out to be 17 years, two months and three days.The CJM was also directed to record the statement of Pandit Sonu Sharma of Panchkula on the date fixed “as to how he has performed the marriage without taking any proof regarding age of petitioner-girl to be above 18”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/priest-groom-liable-to-prosecution-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-148012
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Healthcare worker among 7 succumb to Covid in Chandigarh||The city witnessed the first death of a healthcare worker at the Civil Hospital in Sector 48 here today. Six more persons succumbed to the virus in the UT today, raising the toll to 154, while 171 new cases pushed the infection count to 11,678.A 45-year-old woman was working as a radiographer at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. According to the hospital authorities, she contracted the infection 10 days ago and was shifted to the Civil Hospital, Sector 48, after her oxygen level dipped.A senior doctor said: “She was fine till Saturday. Her health deteriorated yesterday. She again collapsed this morning and suffered a cardiac arrest. She had shown improvement during her stay at the hospital. However, she lost the battle to the virus.”Over 150 health care workers have contracted the infection in the city so far.A 58-year-old man from Sector 27, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, breathed his last at the PGI. A 57-year-old woman from Sector 20, a case of diabetes mellitus, died at the GMSH-16.A 51-year-old woman from Raipur Khurd, who was suffering from ARDS, too succumbed at the Sector 16 hospital. A 50-year-old man from Sector 56, who was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at the GMCH-32. An 80-year-old woman from Sector 8 breathed her last at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.A 71-year-old man from Sector 25, a case of coronary artery disease, died at the PGI. There are 2,199 active cases in the city. As many as 222 patients were discharged today after they recovered from the infection. A total of 9,325 city residents have been cured of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/healthcare-worker-among-7-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-148013
29-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali tally breaches 10K mark, 3 more die||With 129 fresh Covid-19 cases reported today, the infection count has crossed the 10,000 mark in Mohali. The district also witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 186.Civil Surgeon Manjeet Singh said a 50-year-old woman from Jujhar Nagar died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. She had renal disease and diabetes. A 92-year-old woman from Zirakpur died at Ace Heart Hospital in Mohali. She was suffering from bronchial asthma and blood sugar. A 32-year-old man from Mohali died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He said 88 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), 15 from Kharar, eight each from Dhakoli and Kurali, six from Dera Bassi and two each from Banur and Lalru. The district also saw 273 recoveries today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-tally-breaches-10k-mark-3-more-die-148014
29-09-2020||Panchkula||Five lose life in Panchkula, toll 85||The district today reported five Covid-induced deaths, pushing the toll to 85.An 84-year-old woman from Sector 10, a 67-year-old man from Sector 27, a 40-year-old woman from Kalka, an 80-year-old woman from Sector 16 and a 73-year-old woman from the MDC, Sector 4, succumbed to the disease.The district also witnessed 60 new Covid cases.The fresh cases include six from Indira Colony, five from Sector 9, four each from Sector 10 and Sector 15, three each from Sector 26 and Sector 7, two each from Abheypur, the MDC, Sector 4, Pinjore, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 12-A, Sector 20, Sector 21 and Sector 25, one each from Amravati Enclave, Barwala, Buddanpur, Hangola, Kalka, the MDC, Sector 5, Naggal, the Police Lines, Rehor, Sector 11, Sector 12 and Sector 14. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-lose-life-in-panchkula-toll-85-148015
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kuldeep Singh Chahal is new Chandigarh SSP||Punjab-cadre IPS officer Kuldeep Singh Chahal will be the new Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of the UT. Chahal, a 2009-batch IPS officer, is presently serving as the SSP in the neighbouring district of Mohali.The appointments committee of the Cabinet, Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, today approved the proposal of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for an inter-cadre deputation of IPS officer Kuldeep Singh Chahal from the Punjab cadre to the AGMUT cadre for a period of three years.The Punjab Government had sent the names of Chahal (2009 batch), the Mohali SSP, Patil Ketan Baliram (2010 batch), AIG, Counter Intelligence, Amritsar, and Vivek Sheel Soni (2011 batch), SSP, Ludhiana Rural, for the post of the UT SSP. Chahal is senior to the other two officers. Before joining the IPS, Chahal was an Assistant Sub-Inspector of the UT police.The term of Nilambari Jagadale (2008 batch) as the SSP ended last month with the completion of her three-year deputation in the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kuldeep-singh-chahal-is-new-chandigarh-ssp-148016
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s decision to scrap entrance tests challenged||Panjab University’s decision to scrap entrance tests of professional courses, including undergraduate law entrance test, has come under the judicial scanner with the filing of a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In his petition against Panjab University and other respondents, petitioner Chiraag Malli through counsel Abhinav Gupta has sought the quashing of proceedings of a meeting dated September 9, whereby the university upheld its previous decision of August 11 to scrap all entrance tests.As the case came up for preliminary hearing, university counsel prayed for an adjournment to seek instructions. On his request, the hearing was adjourned to September 29. Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, Gupta contended that the university also decided to carryout admissions on the basis of the marks obtained in 10+2. This, he contended, was illegal, arbitrary and against the settled position of law.Gupta also sought directions to the official respondents to conduct the entrance test as originally envisaged at the time of issuing the prospectus dated April 1. He also called for directions to the university to maintain uniformity in the admission process followed by all national law schools, universities and colleges across the country for carrying out admissions to BA/BCom LLB.He also prayed for the initiation of suo motu proceedings for wilful disobedience of orders passed by the High Court on September 1. Elaborating, Gupta contended that the High Court vide its order dated September 1 had issued specific direction to the respondent university to reconsider its decision to scrap the UG-Law entrance examination for five-year course. A committee constituted to reconsider the decision decided that the university would not be able to conduct the entrance examination in any under-graduate or post-graduate course.“The proceedings dated September 9 are merely an eyewash and the whole issue has been dealt with mechanically without even taking into consideration the law laid down by the Apex Court with regard to entrance examinations, wherein it has been specifically held that career of students could not be put to peril and Covid-19 could not become a ground to delay examinations by universities,” Gupta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-universitys-decision-to-scrap-entrance-tests-challenged-148017
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Parking firm accused of collecting fee sans nod||The Bajwara Showroom Market Association, Sector 22-D, today alleged illegal collection of parking fee by a firm.In a complaint to the UT SSP and the MC Commissioner, the association alleged that Pashchatya Entertainment Private Limited had been illegally charging money from visitors and shopkeepers for the past two months without any authorisation from the civic body.“The contractor had been collecting parking fee from shopkeepers and visitors to the Sector 22-D market by issuing slips of the Sector 22-C parking lot. The firm even made monthly passes for two-wheelers and four-wheelers,” said Vikas Bansal, president, Bajwara Showroom Market Association.Despite repeated phone calls, no official of the parking firm could be contacted for their version.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said, “I have come to know about the incident in the evening. We will enquire about the matter tomorrow.” Residents claimed that the firm vacated the lot when a complaint was lodged on September 23.There have been complaints against the firm in the past too when it had illegally charged fee at a parking lot near the sabzi mandi in the Bajwara market for about two months.“They had vacated the area only when residents held a protest,”Bansal added.On Saturday, a group of shopkeepers submitted their complaint to the SHO, Sector 17 police station. The shopkeepers alleged that they had approached the police earlier too but no action was taken on their complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-firm-accused-of-collecting-fee-sans-nod-148018
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Jammers at Burail jail outdated||Model Jail, Chandigarh, also known as the Burail jail, has outdated 2G network jammers, which are ineffective in jamming the signals of 4G phones.The plan to install upgraded 4G phone jammers in the jail is hanging fire for the past several years.Three inmates caught with phones bookedThree phones were recovered from jail inmates Ravinder Singh, alias Kali, an associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, Rajan Bhatti, alias Rajbir, and Pardeep, alias Naggad.A case has been registered against the trio under Section 52A-(I) D of the Prisons Act.Three mobile phones, including a smartphone, were recovered from the jail inmates, identified as Ravinder Singh, alias Kali, an associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, Rajan Bhatti, alias Rajbir, and Pardeep, alias Naggad, during a checking of barrack number 10 on Saturday night.While the incident raises a question as to how the inmates managed to get the phones, it once again pointed towards the need to have 4G jammers in the prison.At present, the jail has a 2G network jammer only. Mobile phones these days are 4G compatible and the jammers installed in the jail do not hamper the functioning of such devices.Jail officials admit that the old 2G network jammers were hardly of any use.Sources said there was a proposal to install the jammers of Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and a trial was also conducted, but due to various reasons, including the cost of jammers, the proposal was yet to materialise.Meanwhile, on the complainant of Amandeep Singh, Deputy Superintendent, Model Jail, Chandigarh, a case against Kali, Rajan and Pardeep has been registered under Section 52A-(I) D of the Prisons Act at the Sector 49 police station. This is for the first time that an inmate has been booked for keeping a phone.In June 2018 too, jail officials had recovered a mobile phone from Rajan. Then, three mobile phones, including a smartphone, were recovered from his barrack.The Burail jail has a capacity to accommodate 1,120 prisoners — 1,000 male and 120 female. As many as 984 inmates were lodged in the jail on December 31, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jammers-at-burail-jail-outdated-148019
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress general secy joins AAP||Former Congress councillor Chander Mukhi Sharma has joined the Aam Aadmi Party.Sharma today met AAP national organisation building team in-charge and PAC member Durgesh Pathak in Delhi and joined the party.City AAP convener Prem Garg said the party would contest all seats in the next MC poll and Sharma would be coordinator for the elections. Sharma is the former president of the NSUI, general secretary of city Congress, and two-time councillor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-general-secy-joins-aap-148020
29-09-2020||Mohali||Covid casts a shadow on Mohali MC earnings||The Mohali Municipal Corporation is likely to witness a dip in property tax collection this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to information, the MC had generated Rs28 crore in the fiscal 2019-20, which is likely to go down this financial year. GMADA, the Deputy Commissioner’s office and the police department are the major defaulters, owing Rs90 lakh, Rs12 lakh and Rs1 crore, respectively, to the civic body.In figuresThe Municipal Corporation records show that Mohali has 52,678 properties. Of these, 41,082 are residential, 4,929 commercial and 1,683 industrial. There are 4,984 vacant plots.MC records show that Mohali has 52,678 properties. Of these, 41,082 are residential, 4,929 commercial and 1,683 industrial. There are 4,984 vacant plots.In March this year, the MC had issued ‘Demi Official’ (DO) letters to the Police Headquarters, the DC office and the Greater Mohali Area Developmental Authority (GMADA) for default in property tax payment.Major defaultersGMADA-owned sports complexes owe Rs50 lakh property tax to the MC. There are three sports complexes in Mohali, which are under GMADA. The MC has to collect a total of Rs6.5-crore property tax from 7,826 defaulters.MC officials said the Police Department was refusing to cough up the dues claiming that the owner of the Old Police Complex was responsible for clearing the outstanding. The department had now moved to the new building in Sector 7.The Punjab Government, keeping in mind the hardships being faced by residents due to the pandemic, had extended the deadline to pay house tax or property tax without any penalty. People can pay these taxes with 10 per cent rebate till September 30.Mohali MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said persons, who failed to deposit house tax or property tax by September 30, might deposit the principal amount, along with penalty at the rate of 10 per cent thereafter. He said on failure to do so, the defaulter would have to pay 20 per cent penalty. They had been sending notices to the defaulters from time to time to pay the property tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-casts-a-shadow-on-mohali-mc-earnings-148025
29-09-2020||Panchkula||Baltana resident arrested for murder||The police today arrested a Baltana resident for allegedly ramming his car into a two-wheeler being driven by a man with whom he had a property dispute, leading to his death on Sunday.The suspect has been identified as Sanjeev Kumar.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s son, Sachin, alleged that the suspect had deliberately rammed his car bearing registration number PB-65-AN-7007 into the rear side of his father’s two-wheeler near the HMT factory on the Panchkula-Shimla highway with an intention to kill him.Sachin alleged that Sanjeev had a dispute with him and his father over a residential property in Saini Colony, Baltana. He had purchased the property from Pinky, a resident of Baltana, Sachin claimed, adding that the property was registered in his and his friend Sunny’s names. They subsequently took over the possession of the house, he stated.“After some days, Sanjeev claimed that he had already given a token money to Pinky to purchase the house and received a token money from another person to sell the property. He then threatened them to transfer the registry of the property in that person’s name or face consequences,” the FIR read quoting the complainant.A case was registered under Sections 302 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baltana-resident-arrested-for-murder-148062
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Hope for Chandigarh booth owners||The Prime Minister’s office has intimated the Estate Officer, Chandigarh, to look after the long pending demand of booth owners in the city for storage space on the roof of their shops.Former Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Kailash Jain said: “I received an update on September 23 with the complaint status as ‘under process’. I am hopeful something good will come out of it soon.” Recently, Jain had written a letter to the Prime Minister and urged him to give permission to construct storage space on roofs as traders were facing severe space constraints in the existing structures. “The Chandigarh unit of the BJP had batted for the booth owners in the last Lok Sabha elections, but there has been no decision on it by the UT Administration so far. So, booth owners are suffering,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hope-for-chandigarh-booth-owners-148063
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Submit tentative dates for poll: DC to Panjab University Teachers' Association||In a new twist to the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections, the Deputy Commissioner (DC) has asked the body to submit the tentative dates for organising the poll.PUTA had been alleging that the elections were postponed because no communication was received from the office of the Deputy Commissioner.The Deputy Commissioner submitted a letter to PUTA stating: “In reference to the email received on September 20, it is pointed out that before this office could present its view on PUTA elections on September 25 and 26 after taking report from the departments concerned, the office was informed on the morning of September 24 that the elections had been postponed.”“In subsequent emails dated September 25 and 27, permission has been sought for conducting elections. But the date of elections has not been mentioned. You are requested to supply the office with the information. Fresh date and time for elections may be decided by giving sufficient time to the office for taking necessary reports from the police and relevant departments in this regard,” read the letter.PUTA elections were postponed a day before voting and the contesting groups have been blaming each other for the delay. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-tentative-dates-for-poll-dc-to-panjab-university-teachers-association-148065
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||150 govt buildings in Chandigarh among property tax defaulters||As many as 150 government buildings in the city have been included in the list of defaulters for not paying property tax to the Municipal Corporation for the period ranging from 2004 to 2020.The Executive Engineer of the Engineering Department, UT Administration, has been served a notice in this regard. The Electricity Department of the engineering wing of the Administration owes Rs35.5 lakh to the civic body.However, no new property tax notices were issued by the Municipal Corporation today. ''No new property tax-related notices were issued today,'' said a tax department official of the MC.The civic body has been able to collect Rs99.24 crore from its own resources in this financial year against the expected income of Rs123.66 crore till August 31. The Audit Department has prepared a report which states that the Engineering Department and Public Health Department have suffered losses this year. The Bookings Department, Road Wing, Property Tax Department, vendors’ cell, Enforcement Wing, Fire Department and the Horticulture Department have collected less than expected revenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/150-govt-buildings-in-chandigarh-among-property-tax-defaulters-148068
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Objection raised over Chandigarh decision||After the UT decided to convert Cheshire Home into a group home for mentally challenged, Aditya Vikram Rametra, Managing Trustee, Pushpanjali Trust, has raised objection over having a group home for mentally challenged.“I record objection at the way the Administration has decided to convert Cheshire Home into the home for the mentally challenged’. As a disability rights’ activist, I am angry at the treatment meted out to the current inmates,” said Rametra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/objection-raised-over-chandigarh-decision-148070
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||193rd Gunners Day celebrated||The Regiment of Artillery celebrated 193rd Gunners Day at Chandimandir Military Station here on Monday.The day commemorates the raising of “Bombay Battery”, the first artillery unit, on September 28, 1827.To mark the occasion, Maj Gen Harinder Singh, officiating head of the Artillery Branch at Headquarters Western Command, laid wreath at the Veer Smriti War Memorial to pay homage to those who laid down their lives in the line of duty.Equipped with a variety of latest weapon systems and long-range guns, the Regiment of Artillery continues its quest for excellence and lives up to its motto "Sarvatra Izzat-O-Iqbal" meaning omnipresence with honour and glory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/193rd-gunners-day-celebrated-148079
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||1,600 attend classes in Chandigarh govt schools||As many as 1,600 students attended schools in the city today. Students of Classes IX and XI were called to schools today after six months.Last Monday, only students of Classes X and XII were called to schools.According to the data collected by the UT Education Department, the government schools recorded an attendance of 1,600 today, whereas the last week’s average attendance was 900 students. The department stated that the attendance was expected to improve in the coming days.However, no student visited private schools for guidance despite the fact that 25 per cent students had submitted consent forms. Atul Khanna, Director, Strawberry Fields High School, said: “No student has shown up to the school, not even those who submitted consent forms when the school carried out a survey. We are carrying on with online classes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-600-attend-classes-in-chandigarh-govt-schools-148097
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||DLSA awards  Rs4-lakh aid  to minor rape victim||The District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) today awarded Rs4-lakh medical aid and interim monetary compensation to a minor rape victim, who was found eight-month pregnant.The award has been announced by Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, UT.After recording the statement of the investigating officer in the case and the other party, Chief Judicial Magistrate Ashok Kumar Mann heard the arguments and announced the award.The police have arrested the victim’s elder brother, his friend and a 51-year-old-man on the charges of raping the minor after registering an FIR.The victim is a school-going student and her mother is visually impaired and her father had abandoned the family sometime ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dlsa-awards-rs4-lakh-aid-to-minor-rape-victim-148106
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, digital screens at bus queue shelters in Chandigarh||Commuters will soon be able to get real time information on arrival and departure of buses at bus queue shelters in the city.The Transport Department, UT, will soon install digital display boards, called passenger information system (PIS), at 68 bus queue shelters spread across the city.System to be installed at 68 bus sheltersUma Shankar Gupta, Director, Transport Department, said the PIS had already been installed at nearly 15 bus queue shelters and the remaining shelters would be covered within a fortnight. It would help the passengers in getting real time information about the location of the public transport, he added.The PIS screens have been installed at the ISBTs in Sector 17 and 43, the railway station and 12 other bus queue shelters at various locations in the city.The department has also invited e-tenders for supply and installation of electricity meters for operation of these display boards.Last month, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had launched the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) for 100 buses covering 14 routes in the tricity. Under the system, commuters will be able to track the movement of the CTU buses on their mobile phones.The CTU was planning to cover the entire fleet of 350 buses on 64 routes by the end of this year. The project has been sponsored by the World Bank with an aim to modernise the transport system.There will be four cameras inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. The fleet will be monitored in the control room of the CTU through the global positioning system.An emergency button will be available, both for the driver and the passengers to seek help from the police and ambulance, if needed. The digital system will enable the CTU authorities to monitor the exact location of buses, collection of revenue and the load of passengers on each route.The CTU authorities will soon set up a control room for the ITS at the ISBT, Sector 43.Meanwhile, the UT Engineering Department has also started the repair work of nearly 80 bus queue shelters in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-digital-screens-at-bus-queue-shelters-in-chandigarh-148107
29-09-2020||Panchkula||e-token for darshan at Mansa Devi temple||Ahead of the Navratri festival, the district administration has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for those who wish to offer prayers at Mata Mansa Devi temple.This year, Ashvin Navratra fair is commencing on October 17 and will continue till October 25.SOPsNo cultural eventsOutsourcing of sanitation and housekeeping servicesDeployment of additional sweepersAppointment of nodal officersOnce again, devotees will have to obtain an e-token from the website of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, mansadevi.org.in, for paying obeisance at the temple.According to the shrine board, all regular bhandaras/langars will remain closed. Even the setting up of temporary market will not be allowed.To provide prompt and hassle-free darshan to senior citizens, handicapped and women, free CNG auto rickshaws will ply from Kalka bus stand to the main temple between 8 am and 8 pm daily during the Navratri festival.The district health department will run round-the-clock health services under the supervision of an SMO along with other medical officers, staff nurses, pharmacists and para-medical staff to ensure health services to devotees.Two ambulances fully equipped with medical aid will be deployed during the Navratri festival– one at Mata Mansa Devi temple and another at Kali Mata Temple in Kalka.The shrine board has also advised the public in general to avoid congregation, gatherings in and around the temple complex to contain the spread of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-token-for-darshan-at-mansa-devi-temple-148111
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mishap victim’s kin awarded Rs80L compensation||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has ordered the release of Rs80,29,491 compensation to the family members of Uma Sharma (51), who died in an accident in 2016.On November 27, 2016, Uma was coming on a scooter from Ambala when a car suddenly applied brakes near Dera Bassi. Her scooter banged into the car and she sustained serious injuries. She was taken to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital and was further referred to the GMCH-32, where she succumbed to her injuries.Claiming that the car was driven rashly and negligently, her daughter Veni Sharma, son Aditya Sharma and husband Sandeep Sharma filed a petition before the MACT on November 19, 2019, and sought Rs1.50-crore compensation . The car owner and the insurance company had contested the claims. After hearing the arguments, MACT directed the car driver, insurance firm and the owner of the offending vehicle to pay Rs67,23,170 compensation to the deceased family in the order passed last year along with an interest rate of 7.5% per annum from the date of the filing of the claim petition till its realisation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mishap-victims-kin-awarded-rs80l-compensation-148120
29-09-2020||Panchkula||Old equipment installed at new power house||Old and discarded equipment were found installed at a newly built 66-kV power station in Tapariya village. This was revealed by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta during a surprise visit to the power station.Gupta said burnt transformers, old panels and wires were installed by “corrupt” officials. Many devices were found covered with thick layers of dust.Gupta has directed the Additional Chief Secretary of the Electricity Department to investigate the matter.He said officials involved in the matter would be summoned before the subject committee on Public Health, Irrigation, Power and Public Works of the state Legislative Assembly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/old-equipment-installed-at-new-power-house-148131
29-09-2020||Mohali||Minor’s rape: 2 sent to juvenile home in Punjab||The two minor boys, who were arrested by the police for allegedly raping a seven-year-old girl for several months, were sent to a juvenile home in Hoshiarpur by the local court today.According to the police, the accused were living in the neighborhood of the victim and they had allegedly raped her multiple times in the absence of her mother. When the vicitm narrated the incident to her mother, she submitted the complainant to the police following which a case was registered against them under Sections 376-D and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO (Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences) Act.Sub-Inspector Amanpreet Kaur said, “The accused were allegedly raping the victim for the past few months in the absence of her parents. They were also threatening the girl of dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. We have sent the duo to a juvenile home in Hoshiarpur on the orders of the court. The statement of the victim has been recorded before the magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC. The DNA reports are yet to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minors-rape-2-sent-to-juvenile-home-in-punjab-148146
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Accused denied bail in fake currency case||Additional Sessions Judge Sanjiv Joshi has rejected the anticipatory bail application of an accused facing the allegations of supplying fake currency notes.Neeraj, a resident of Saharanpur, had filed a bail application after another accused in the case had allegedly named him for supplying fake currency. Parshant Gautam was arrested in September this year and six fake currency notes of Rs100 were recovered from him. During interrogation, Gautam, alias Kaka, allegedly disclosed that fake currency was supplied to him by Neeraj and his friend. He claimed that he gave Rs9,000 original currency notes to get fake currency of Rs18,000. A case was registered against the accused after which he was arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-denied-bail-in-fake-currency-case-148147
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress holds tractor rally in Chandigarh against farm laws||The city Congress, led by president Pardeep Chhabra, organised a foot march and tractor rally here in which hundreds of workers participated.The protesters marched towards the Punjab Raj Bhawan to submit a memorandum against the new farm laws, said Chhabra. “The BJP has passed draconian laws against the interests of government employees, youth and now it has targeted farmers, who are the backbone of India. We have registered strong protests all over the country in solidarity with the farmers. The government is favouring big corporate companies and are against the interests of small/medium farmers at large,” said Chhabra.He further said, “The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre knows that the new laws are hugely unpopular and that is why they avoided a vote by ballot in Parliament and passed the Bills in an undemocratic manner. The government is trying to end the MSP and mandi system,” Chhabra said.“If the government is honest in its statements that the MSP and the mandi system will not be abolished, then why are they hesitant to mention this in writing in the current laws that have been passed undemocratically?” questioned one of the protestors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-holds-tractor-rally-in-chandigarh-against-farm-laws-148148
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Book a slot for maintenance dialysis in Chandigarh hospitals||People with kidney failure can now book a slot for maintenance dialysis in various UT hospitals.During a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said the system of dialysis for outdoor Covid patients had been streamlined. Chandigarh residents could call at 70870-07434 and book a slot for maintenance dialysis, he said and added that the patients could be picked and dropped in ambulances. The Administrator expressed his satisfaction about the declining number of positive cases. He said the PGI had been selected for the trial of Covid vaccine and wished the doctors all success in their efforts. He said since thePGI was seeking volunteers for the trial of the vaccine, eligible residents might register their names on the institute’s website.He directed DGP Sanjay Beniwal to ensure that there was no spread of Covid due to large gatherings at political demonstrations being held against the new farm laws. DC Mandip Singh Brar said over 18,000 challans had been issued for various violations such as non-wearing of mask and social distancing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-a-slot-for-maintenance-dialysis-in-chandigarh-hospitals-148149
29-09-2020||Mohali||Commission agents found selling paddy of other states to face music||The Mohali administration has decided to register FIRs against commission agents (arhtiyas) found selling paddy from other states in various grain markets of the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan directed officials to take legal action against the arthiyas violating the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act by selling paddy purchased from other states in local grain markets.Reviewing the paddy procurement scenario, it was brought into the notice of the Deputy Commissioner that grain markets adjoining the Haryana border tend to face glut and procurement process is hampered due to the unprecedented arrival of paddy from other states via local commission agents.It was informed that the local civil administration made arrangements for estimated arrival of produce from villages under its jurisdiction, but arrangements tend to fall short due to the illegal sale of paddy from neighbouring states in those grain markets.Police asked to establish interstate border checkpoints.Taking a strict note of the transgression, Dayalan directed police officials to establish special interstate border checkpoints so that ‘other state paddy’ might not come in the district. Besides, he issued directions to register FIRs and suspend licences of errant arhtiyas. The Sub-divisional Magistrates have been directed to maintain constant vigil to ensure compliance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-agents-found-selling-paddy-of-other-states-to-face-music-148161
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||52-yr-old man ends his life||Roads closedChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation is going to start re-carpeting of a V3 road, which separates Sector 18 and 19, the V5 road in Sector 36 and the parking areas in front of SCOs in Sector 22-C and Sector 22-D. The re-carpeting work will be carried out from September 29 to October 15, during which the roads will remain closed. TNSRoad safety education examChandigarh: Panjab University will conduct an online exam for Environment and Road Safety Education and Violence against Women /Children for final semester students on September 30 from 2 pm to 3.30 pm. As per the statement, the paper can be attempted online through a Google form. The link for attempting the question paper will be made available on the PU websites, ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in. The link will also be sent through an email to the colleges and departments. The candidate will be required to choose and click the right option and submit the form. The Google form can be assessed by signing in to a Gmail account. The students not having a Gmail account can download the form and answer the question. It is mandatory for private/ regular / reappear / college / department students to upload the answer sheet directly at the upload link available on ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in. TNSUT Adviser visits Pre-Fab SheltersChandigarh: UT Adviser and Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) Chairman Manoj Parida on Monday visited Pre-Fab Shelters in Sector 52 and Sector 56. The Adviser was accompanied by Yash Pal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, and other officers of the CHB. The Adviser listened to the grievances of residents and assured them of speedy redressal. People living in both areas requested the Adviser to shift them to vacant CHB flats in Maloya. TNSWorld Heart day observedMohali: To mark World Heart Day on Monday, the cardiovascular division, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, launched the comprehensive heart failure management, advanced heart failure device implantation and heart transplant service. This will help a large number of heart failure patients to get advanced treatment. TNSSector 37 resident assaultedChandigarh: Unknown persons have been booked for attacking a Sector 37 resident. According to the police, the complainant, Manoj Kumar, stated that unknown persons were fighting with each other at the Sector 37 market on September 26. The complainant tried to pacify them. In the meantime, one of the suspects attacked the complainant with a sharp weapon. He sustained injuries and was admitted to Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16. The police were informed about the incident following which a case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. An investigation has been initiated into it. TNSGold chain snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a man at Sector 38 here on Monday. The victim has been identified as Manish. Cops rushed to the spot on getting information about the incident and initiated an investigation. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area were being scrutinised to identify the snatchers, said a police official. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/52-yr-old-man-ends-his-life-148168
29-09-2020||Anukool Bhatnagar has taken over as Chief General Manager||Anukool Bhatnagar takes over as CGM, SBI, Chandigarh Circle||Now, pre-book Apple’s latest launches at Reliance DigitalReliance Digital has started pre-booking of the new Apple Watch Series 6, Apple Watch SE and iPad 8th Gen at all Reliance Digital Stores, My Jio Stores and www.reliancedigital.in. It offers exclusive unlimited 5% cashback on leading banks’ cards at till September 30. Retail sales for the Apple Watch Series 6 & Watch SE will begin on October 1.Orient Electric unveils new range of water heatersOrient Electric Ltd has launched a new range of water heaters with alluring designs in line with evolving market trends and changing consumer preferences. The range includes storage and instant water heaters and is priced at Rs 5,990 onwards.Mehr Chand Polytechnic inks pact with Australian UniversityMehr Chand Polytechnic, Jalandhar, has signed an MoU with Edith Cowan University, Australia, for exchange of technical education for three years. The MoU was signed by Prof Daryoush Habibi, executive dean, School of Engineering of the Edith Cowan University, and Dr Jagroop Singh, principal, Mehr Chand Polytechnic College, Jalandhar.CFI demands reopening of coaching centresCoaching Foundation of India (CFI) president Mrityunjay R Narayanan and Delhi state secretary Shaikh Abdul Salam recently met Minister of State for Home Affairs Kishan Reddy and sought reopening of coaching classes across the country with restrictions of not allowing over 100 students at a time and following social distancing norms to facilitate the students of 9 to 12th grade.CEAT signs Aamir Khan as brand ambassadorCEAT Tyres has signed Bollywood superstar Aamir Khan as its brand ambassador for two years. Khan will feature in two commercials during the course of the IPL 2020 to promote the company’s SecureDrive range of premium car tyres.Nature Conservancy India launches ‘SiteRight’ toolThe Nature Conservancy India has launched a tool for helping decision-makers, investors and financiers to make better choices in selecting land for solar and wind projects. A free and publicly accessible geospatial decision-support tool - SiteRight - can support siting of new renewable energy projects in places with viable resource potential but away from land areas rich in biodiversity and on which local communities depend.Hartek Solar donates solar street lightsHartek Solar has donated solar street lights to Shri Chamkaur Saheb as part of its CSR initiative. It is expected to benefit around 2,000 people. The project aims to improve the quality of people’s life by fulfilling basic power amenities.MG Motor India rolls out premium SUV GlosterMG Motor India has introduced India's first Autonomous (Level 1) premium SUV, MG Gloster. The pre-booking is now live on the MG Motor India website as well as its 200+ centres across the country. Customers can book the SUV for a booking price of Rs 1 lakh.Jio marches ahead as No. 1 service provider in PunjabRiding on its biggest, fastest and largest 4G network in Punjab, Reliance Jio added over 6 lakh subscribers in the first six months of 2020, as per the latest data released by TRAI. Jio is the only private telecom service provider in Punjab which has gained users.Directorate of Tourism, Jammu, celebrates World Tourism DayThe Directorate of Tourism, Jammu, celebrated World Tourism Day on September 27. The Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, and Director Tourism, Jammu, flagged off “Garud seva open roof tourist luxury bus” with a slogan “Chalo Suchetgarh Border”. The bus will run daily from Jammu to Suchetgarh Border for sightseeing.Dr Aman Puri unveils coffee table book on JoyalukkasDr Aman Puri, Consul General of India in Dubai, recently launched ‘A Glittering Success Story’ — a coffee table book chronicling the history of Joyalukkas Group. The book pays homage to Alukka Joseph Varghese, father of Joy Alukkas who started business in 1956.LG Electronics rolls out 8 new OLED TV modelsLG has unveiled eight new OLED TV models led by two new series — GX Gallery series available in 77 and 65-inch class and the Real 8K 88-inch ZX series. Its unique self-LIT pixel technology makes it indispensable in the premium TV category. The price starts from Rs 14,990 and goes up to Rs 29,99,990.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anukool-bhatnagar-takes-over-as-cgm-sbi-chandigarh-circle-148229
