30-09-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Multani case: Sumedh Saini fails to join investigation, cites health issues||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 30Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini skipped appearance on the third summon issued by the Special Investigating Team (SIT) and kept the investigating team waiting on Wednesday.According to information, the SIT had issued summons to Saini on Tuesday asking him to appear on Wednesday at 11 am at Mataur police station for further questioning in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance and murder case of 1991.  However, an application was received through Ramanpreet Sandhu, claiming to be his counsel, along with a medical prescription which showed “pain radiating to his thigh and giddiness” due to long travelling in the past few days.According to information, Saini had travelled to Chandigarh from Delhi only on September 25, his only appearance before SIT, and there was no reason for him to travel to Delhi after joining investigation on that day, said sources in SIT.Special Investigating Team (SIT), which was not satisfied with questioning of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini two days ago, had issued summons for the third time.  Sources in Punjab Police said SIT did not get satisfactory answers to the earlier questions put to Saini during September 28 when he was grilled for about six hours.Sources said that they will connect the sequences of Saini picking up Balwant Singh Multani till he was tortured and eliminated. SIT has not been able to establish the missing links in the murder episode.Police sources added that Saini will also be questioned for the elimination of other persons, the names of whom had cropped up during the statements recorded by the eyewitnesses.The former DGP is facing charges of murder in case of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, son of a former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani when Saini was serving as SSP of Chandigarh. Saini was booked by Mohali police at Mataur police station under Section 302 of the IPC and before that he managed blanket orders of anticipatory bail before murder charges were added to the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/multani-case-sumedh-saini-fails-to-join-investigation-cites-health-issues-149001
30-09-2020||---||134 new Covid cases in Mohali, tally jumps to 10,387||Mohali, September 30Coronavirus tally in Mohali surged to 10,387 with 134 new cases, even as 240 people recovered from the infection across the district in the past 24 hours.   Also, five people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll in Mohali to 194, said the Health Department officials.    Mohali urban recorded the highest 101 new cases on Wednesday, followed by Dhkoli (12), Dera Bassi (8), Kharar (5), Boothgarh (4) and Gharuan (2), they added.Banur and Lalru registered one case each.The dead included a 52-year-old woman from Dappar with no known co-morbidity. She died at Rajindra Hospital.A 70-year-old woman from Phase 3, Mohali, died at IVY hospital. She was suffering from chronic kidney disease and was on dialysis, said the officials.Also a 75-year-old woman with comorbid conditions died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. She was a resident of Dasmesh Nagar, Kharar.Two men – 61-year-old from Cholta village and 66-year-old from Sector 78, Mohali – also lost their battle to novel coronavirus. Both the patients had underline health conditions, they added.Out of a total 10,387 cases registered in the district so far,8,469 have recovered while 194 patients have died. And there are 1,724 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/134-new-covid-cases-in-mohali-tally-jumps-to-10-387-148964
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four more die of Covid in Chandigarh; toll 162||Four more people died from coronavirus in Chandigarh on Wednesday as 129 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the infection tally to 11,938 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.According to a medical bulletin, 162 have died due to the infection in the union territory till now.There are 1,963 active cases in the city as of now. A total of 215 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 9,813 people have been cured so far, as per the bulletin.So far, 77,489 samples have been taken for testing, of which 65,093 tested negative while reports of 189 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-die-of-covid-in-chandigarh-toll-162-148960
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Body found in Chandigarh's Sector 54; police suspect murder||The body of an unidentified man was found under mysterious circumstances in the forest area of Chandigarh's Sector 54 on Wednesday.Based on the injuries, police suspect the man was murdered.The body was noticed by a passerby who informed the police following which various teams rushed to the spot.Sources said that the victim had an injury on his head.The body was shifted to the mortuary at Government multi-speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.Meanwhile, an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-in-chandigarhs-sector-54-police-suspect-murder-148868
30-09-2020||---||PU to review move to scrap entrance tests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Less than a month after Panjab University (PU) upheld its decision of August 11 to scrap all entrance tests, the university today decided to reconsider its recommendations. Information to this effect was furnished before the Punjab and Haryana High Court this morning.The PU counsel told the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli that the decision would be taken within three days on the strength of the grounds in the petition and previous order in the matter.As the case came up for hearing, a letter on the issue was placed before the Bench. Among other things, the communication read it was decided to reconsider recommendations dated September 9 in the light of the observations made by the High Court during the course of hearing and after consultation with the chairperson of a committee constituted for the purpose. It would be done keeping in view the order passed by the High Court in case of “Saurav Rao versus PU” and “Navya Raj versus PU”.In his petition against the PU and other respondents, Chiraag Malli, through counsel Abhinav Gupta, had earlier sought the quashing of proceedings of a meeting dated September 9, whereby the university upheld its previous decision of August 11 to scrap all entrance tests.Gupta contended that the PU also decided to carry out admissions on the basis of the marks obtained in Class XII. This, he contended, was illegal, arbitrary and against the settled position of law.Gupta also sought directions to the official respondents to conduct the entrance test as originally envisaged at the time of issuing the prospectus dated April 1. He also called for directions to the university to maintain uniformity in the admission process followed by national law schools, universities and colleges across the country for carrying out admissions to BA, BCom and LLB.He also prayed for initiation of suo motu proceedings for wilful disobedience of orders passed by the High Court on September 1. Elaborating, Gupta contended that the High Court had vide its order issued a specific direction to the respondent university to reconsider its decision to scrap the UG-Law entrance examination for five-year course. A committee constituted to reconsider the decision decided that the university would not be able to conduct the entrance examination in any undergraduate or post-graduate course.“The proceedings dated September 9 are merely an eyewash and the whole issue has been dealt with mechanically without even taking into consideration the law laid down by the apex court with regard to entrance examination, wherein it has been specifically held that the career of students could not be put to peril and Covid-19 could not become a ground to delay the examinations by the universities,” Gupta added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-to-review-move-to-scrap-entrance-tests-148740
30-09-2020||---||Class IX, XI compartment exams in Chandigarh from Oct 5||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The UT Education Department has decided to hold compartment exams for Class IX and XI from October 5 onwards.“We have informed the school heads to compile results by October 10 so that the CBSE registration can be completed in time. The mode of examination will be written. Students will be called to schools according to the schedule devised by the respective institutions,” said District Education Officer Alka Mehta.The exam schedule will be intimated by the school heads to the students. Over 4,000 students in Class IX and 550 students in Class XI have received compartment.“The CBSE held the compartment exams for Class X and XII from September 22 to 29. On the same lines, the compartment examination for students of Classes IX and XI of government schools in the UT will be conducted from October 5 onwards. To cater to the different streams, subjects and number of compartment candidates, the exam will be conducted at the school level itself in strict compliance of the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in the wake of Covid-19,” read a statement issued by the UT Education Department today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-ix-xi-compartment-exams-in-chandigarh-from-oct-5-148741
30-09-2020||---||5 more lose life in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The city today reported five deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 158. As many as 138 more persons contacted the infection today, taking the tally to 11,816.A 92-year-old man from Sector 18 died at the PGI. He was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, old cerebrovascular accident and encephalopathy.An 80-year-old woman from Sector 40 died at the GMCH 32. She was a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic ketoacidosis.A 43-year-old man from Kajheri died at the PGI. He had type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic kidney disease.A 75-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, died at the GMCH-32. He had type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension.A 45-year-old man from Ram Darbar died at the Sector 48 hospital. He was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus. A total of 273 patients recovered from the virus today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-lose-life-in-chandigarh-148742
30-09-2020||---||Another death, 89 new cases in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 29The district witnessed one more fatality due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 86. Meanwhile, 89 more persons tested positive for the virus today, taking the infection tally to 5,879.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 73-year-old man from Sector 10, who breathed his last today, had comorbidities.The fresh cases include one each from Budanpur, Morni and Chandimandir, two from Kalka, eight from Kharak Mangoli, two from Lohgarh, five from MDC, nine from Pinjore, two each from Power Colony and Sector 12, three from Sector 10, two each from Sector 11 and 12, one from Sector 12-A, seven from Sector 15, three from Sector 16, two each from Sector 17 and 19, one from Sector 2, 10 from Sector 20, four from Sector 21, two from Sector 25, three each from Sector 4 and 6, five from Sector 7 and three each from Sector 8 and 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-death-89-new-cases-in-panchkula-148743
30-09-2020||---||3 more fall prey to virus in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 29Mohali district witnessed three fatalities due to Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the death count to 189. Besides, 132 new cases of coronavirus surfaced in the district, taking the tally to 10,253.Civil Surgeon Manjeet Singh said a 79-year-old woman from Sector 70 died at Ivy Hospital, a 30-year-old man from Kadi Majra, who was suffering from cirrhosis of liver and ALD, succumbed at Cheema Medical Complex and a 35-year-old woman from Modern Enclave, Baltana, breathed her last at Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula.The Civil Surgeon said 115 new cases were reported from Mohali (urban), six from Kharar, five each from Dera Bassi and Gharuan and one from Lalru. He said 336 more persons had been cured in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-mohali-148744
30-09-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Wheels of change move slow in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The wheels of change are moving a bit slowly towards making Chandigarh a smart city when it comes to the use of bicycle as an alternative mode of commuting.The Chandigarh Cycles4Change Challenge, an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission, has drawn just 400 responses to a survey being conducted to gauge the public opinion about cycling in the city.Smart City planAs many as 5,000 bicycles will be made available on hourly rent basis at 617 docking points in the city under the Smart Cities Mission.Although the last date for the survey is December 14, it will be a tough task to get 10,000 responses, approximately one per cent of the population of the city, to get a desirable set of responses for actionable input.Plans are afoot to present the survey in Hindi or Punjabi to the respondents besides in English.NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, Chandigarh Smart Cities Limited (CSCL), said, “People may have different reasons for not taking part in the survey. The actual response to the campaign will be seen in a pilot project where 100 cycles will be put up at 10 docking stations on rental basis.”Sharma confirmed that by the end of October, the CSCL would launch the project in the city in which residents could rent a cycle from one of the 10 docking stations.Officials also hope to give an impetus to the campaign in October when a two-day event, including a cycle rally and a workshop on cycle maintenance, will be held from October 10.Chandigarh is one of the 95 cities in the country taking part in the challenge designed to make city dwellers cycling friendly and to increase the zero carbon mobility.Residents using cycle as a form of exercise may be a common sight in the city, pedaling to work is not.Radheysham Shukla, a caterer in a Zirakpur hotel, said, “Those going to or coming from duty on a bicycle late at night have to brave anti-social elements, non-functional street lights and road rage.”Cycling enthusiasts, who are part of multiple cycling groups and have been using this mode of transportation while going to work, said there were not even 200 persons in the city who commute on bicycle. “If you leave out the underprivileged sections, there are not many,” added Vinod Kumar, a Sector 37 resident.It will be interesting to see how the authorities convert a fad fuelled by a pandemic into a mass movement.Anvi Mahajan (19), who is preparing for medical entrance exams, said, “Most of the cycle tracks in the inner city are in good condition but there is definitely a scope for improvement in the outer areas.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wheels-of-change-move-slow-in-chandigarh-148766
30-09-2020||---||Two IAS officers shifted out of Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29In a minor reshuffle, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today ordered the transfer of three IAS officers and one IPS officer of the AGMUT cadre.Sanjay Kumar Jha (2008 batch), Secretary, Departments of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Public Relations, Personnel, Printing and Stationery, Cooperation, Establishment and Agriculture, Chandigarh, has been transferred to Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Sachin Rana (2014 batch), Special Secretary, Departments of Technical Education and House Allotment Committee, also holding the charge of the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Additional Registrar Cooperative Societies, and Secretary, Red Cross Society, UT, has been transferred to Arunachal Pradesh. The MHA also ordered the transfer of Nitika Pawar (2012 batch) from Andaman and Nicobar Islands to Chandigarh.A day after the approval of the name of Punjab-cadre IPS officer Kuldeep Singh Chahal (2009 batch) for the post of the UT Senior Superintendent of Police, the MHA today ordered the transfer of Ketan Bansal, an IPS officer of the 2016 batch, from Mizoram to Chandigarh with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-ias-officers-shifted-out-of-chandigarh-148767
30-09-2020||---||Gambusia fish released in water bodies to fight dengue, malaria||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department, UT, today released seedlings of Gambusia fish (mosquito-killer fish) in various water bodies of the city to prevent malaria and dengue and maintain ecological balance. Three water bodiesThe step was initiated in coordination with the Forest Department to fight against mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue, which are common in the ongoing season when mosquitoes breed rapidly causing the spread of these diseases.The department released seedlings at Butterfly Park, Sector 26; Botanical Garden, Dhanas; and Rose Garden, Sector 16. The Gambusia fish would be released in other water points soon.Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator Forest, and Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, were present on the occasion.“Dr Qayum appreciated the efforts of the Animal Husbandry Department for playing an active role in conservation of the ecology of the Sukhna wetland. The problem of mosquitoes breeding in clear water, especially aedes aegypti mosquitoes that carry dengue virus, can be controlled in an ecological manner through Gambusia fish,” he said.Saini said the Gambusia fish released in the water bodies was being produced at Fish Seed Farm at the regulator end of Sukhna Lake functioning under the Fisheries Department.The department breeds this fish in March and then releases it up to December as per the requirement. He said in the Northern region, Government Fish Seed Farm, Chandigarh, at the regulatory end, Sukhna Lake, was the only farm that breeds the rare fish and supplies to several agencies free of cost for stocking in stagnant water bodies to prevent mosquito breeding.Dr Kanwarjit Singh, Joint Director of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, apprised that Gambusia has a voracious appetite. An adult fish can eat up to 150 mosquito larvae in an eight-hour period. This makes them an excellent biological tool for mosquito control because the fish consume the larvae before they have a chance to develop into adult mosquitoes.He appealed to public to approach the Fish Seed Farm for collecting fish for releasing in stagnant water points, artificial fountains and ponds inside houses to check and control mosquito breeding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gambusia-fish-released-in-water-bodies-to-fight-dengue-malaria-148768
30-09-2020||---||Bring agenda on issue before MC House: Panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The water supply and sewerage disposal committee of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has opined that an agenda on reviewing the water tariff hike should be placed in the next General House meeting.During a meeting held today, members of the committee observed that the increase in water tariff put an extra burden on the city residents. The members also asked the MC officials to start the allotted development works at the earliest.Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon said, “The issue of the water tariff hike has never been discussed in the MC House properly. Many councilors are still not clear about it. We suggest an open house or an urgent meeting be convened and the opinion of everybody taken on the issue. Following this, we can see whether the hike needs to be reviewed or certain amendments can be made in it. As of now, it is difficult to convince people in the newly added villages as no facility has been provided there but they are being made to bear an additional burden.”The committee recommended exempting the condition to submit an affidavit during the conversion of water connection from commercial to domestic. The panel members also asked the officials concerned to prepare the estimates for changing the sewer line near the Police Lines in Sector 26. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Anil Kumar Dubey and attended by other members of the committee, namely Jagtar Singh Jagga, Hardeep Singh, Rajesh Gupta and Dalip Sharma, and MC officials.House meet unlikely this monthThe monthly House meeting and the Finance &Contract Committee meeting of the Municipal Corporation are unlikely to be conducted in September. As the Mayor is battling Covid-19, there has been no communication in this regard. Acting Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon said, “The file has not been put up to me to know the opinion of councillors in this regard. So, nothing can be said about the meeting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bring-agenda-on-issue-before-mc-house-panel-148769
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Day after protest against farm laws, Congress men booked in Chandigarh||Two cases were registered against members of the Congress for violating the District Magistrate’s order in the city.The police said around 50 Congress workers had assembled at Sector 9 on September 28 for a protest march against farm laws. It was in violation of the DM order in the wake of Covid-19. A case under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against them at the Sector 3 police station.Another case was registered at the Sector 19 police station against members of the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee, who had assembled in Sector 18 for a protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-protest-against-farm-laws-congress-men-booked-in-chandigarh-148770
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for stalking woman||The Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police has arrested a Haryana resident for allegedly stalking a woman on the social media.Sources said the suspect, identified as Davinder of Kurukshetra, used to stalk the woman on the social media and call her on WhatsApp from different numbers. He also used to call at the complainant’s office to enquire about her.The woman submitted a complaint following which a case was registered against the suspect under Section 354-D of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station on August 5.The suspect was arrested on September 28 and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-stalking-woman-148771
30-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Job aspirants await typing test||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Those who have cleared the UT Administration’s exam for the post of clerks and steno-typists are waiting for the UT’s response regarding conducting their typing test.The duty to conduct the typing test was outsourced to Panjab University (PU). However, the process was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Sources said the PU was ready to conduct the tests at any given day and had been awaiting Administration’s approval for the same. The written examination was conducted last year on December 22 and the results were announced in February this year.Since then, the candidates, who cleared the first phase, have been waiting for computer typing/stenography test.Meanwhile, candidates expressed their fear. “We are afraid that the Administration may cancel recruitment to the posts. They should have given us some update. It’s been over six months that we are waiting to hear anything on the typing test,” said a candidate.Many of them took to the social media, threatening a protest against the UT Administration and PU. “We trust the Administration. However, the status of the examination should be made public. We can understand the delay due to Covid-19. However, we need assurances,” said another candidate.Earlier, the typing test was schedule for March 21, 22 and 23. It was put on hold due the pandemic. The online applications were to fill over 400 posts of clerks and steno-typists in the UT Administration Group ‘C’ Recruitment Rules, 2015, on a regular basis.Earlier on September 3, UT Adviser Manoj Parida issued a clarification through Twitter. He confirmed that the UT had entrusted the UT with the typing test and only the university could decide the dates. “We will give appointment letters after receiving the test results.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/job-aspirants-await-typing-test-148772
30-09-2020||---||Health Dept starts Covid sampling at mandis in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 29As procurement of paddy kicks off in the district, the Patiala Health department has started special screening in grain markets to curb the spread of Covid.Covid samples of farmers, laborers and commission agents were collected at the Seel grain market here today.However, of 60 samples collected from grain market, none tested positive for Covid. The Health Department said they had chalked out a plan for sampling at grain markets even before the paddy season started.Punjab Food, Civil Supplies, and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had flagged off the paddy procurement at the Rajpura grain market on Sunday and claimed that masks, soaps and sanitisers were provided to farmers at the grain markets.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said they would hold screening camps at various grain markets in the district to stem the spread. He said: “We have already started the screening process at grain markets. All those involved in the paddy procurement process will be tested for Covid. Early detection of cases will help to curb the spread.”Meanwhile, Patiala today reported only 71 Covid cases — 42 from Patiala city, nine from Rajpura, one from Dudhan Sadhan, two from Samana, two Harpalpur and one from Dudhan Sadhan. Besides, four cases each were reported from Bhadson and Kauli Block. Dr Mahotra said the district count of positives was 11,469 while 9,839 patients had already recovered from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-dept-starts-covid-sampling-at-mandis-in-patiala-148773
30-09-2020||---||Samples collected from houses, shops||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, Sept 29To detect patients at an early stage and curb the spread of Covid, the district administration has launched a campaign, ‘Corona-free Fatehgarh Sahib’.Door-to-door sampling and testing had been intensified for an early diagnosis of the disease, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Fatehgarh Sahib SDM, while inaugurating the campaign in Sirhind town.A team of doctors and officials collected samples from houses and shops. Covid-free posters were pasted outside the shops where employer and employees tested negative.He said under the campaign, samples from Sewa Kendras, Patwar Khana, Vasika Navis, employees and other institutions were being collected and steps were being taken to create awareness regarding Covid testing. He appealed to people to follow all instructions by the government regarding Covid.Meanwhile, the Civil Surgeon said there were 184 active cases in the district and 81 deaths had been reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samples-collected-from-houses-shops-148774
30-09-2020||---||ASHA workers demand hike in salary, protest for hours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 29Demanding hike in their salaries, hundreds of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) held a protest march in the city today.Reportedly, a minor scuffle also broke out between ASHA workers and the police when the activists tried to march towards the Chief Minister’s residence. Some activists claimed that they received minor injuries.The protesters were stopped by the police force near the Polo Ground, a few meters away from the Chief Minister’s residence. Then they staged a dharna for hours. The workers raised slogans against the government for not fulfilling their long-pending demands.Sources said the protesters gathered near the Patiala bus stand before they marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence.Santosh, the president of Patiala ASHA Workers’ Union, said ASHA workers had been getting low salaries despite working for long hours. She said: “We are working 24x7 on Covid-related duty. However, we get only a small fixed salary. It becomes difficult for us to make both ends meet.”Meanwhile, ASHA workers called off the stir after receiving a written assurance regarding a meeting with the Health Minister on October 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asha-workers-demand-hike-in-salary-protest-for-hours-148775
30-09-2020||---||Civic body  staff want arrears paid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Around 85 workers employed at the garbage processing plant in Dadu Majra protested against the “non-payment” of salaries by the Municipal Corporation for the past three months.The workers were employed by Jaypee Associates for running the garbage processing plant but after the civic body took over the operations mid-June, they were put on the MC payroll.The workers alleged that the company paid them the salary for 15 days of June but after that the MC has not paid them despite several assurances by officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-staff-want-arrears-paid-148776
30-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Masters want more practice hrs at complexes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Various national and international masters’ sports medallists (who also play in open category and ranking championships) once again raised their voice for getting extra playing hours, like age-group sportspersons, at various stadiums/complexes in Chandigarh.These sportspersons demand to get same benefits in terms of using the sports complexes to carry their practice. Major players are from disciplines including, athletics, tennis, badminton and table-tennis.“We are ready to pay the charges, but need to get more time to practice. We don’t take sport as a leisure activity. We play to win medals for Chandigarh. The administration should allow us to practice atleast for two hours daily,” said Gurjiwan Singh Sidhu, a six-time national hammer throw champion. The department allot membership in three categories including—student, non-student and recreational players. While student and non-student pay annual membership, those using the facility under recreational activity pay monthly membership charges. “The department should extend opening hours of these complexes, so that we can play till late evening, if not during morning or during practice hours meant for age-group layers. We don’t need coaches to practice but need a place. After age-group players, we are the ones who represent the city. We should be treated well, if not equally well,” said national level shuttler Ashish Sharma, who plays badminton in open category.Another international masters’ shuttler Haroon Rashid said the department should thinks of the lines of promoting those sportspersons who will winning medals. “Chandigarh has vast infrastructure for promoting sports. But it should be used accordingly. The department will get nothing on keeping such beautiful complexes close for players. If a person is willing to pay membership for using the facility twice a day, what is the harm? The department is getting revenue, the players are getting a place to play and moreover we have been carrying Chandigarh’s name to various places,” said Rashid. “The authorities must think on these lines and should give a status to veteran/open category players. We conduct championships and those coming from other states praise the facilities here. The authorities should be promoting sports in various manners,” said a veteran tennis player Pawan .Veterans over 65 years, who are not allowed to play as per Covid-19 restrictions, also submitted a representation to the department demanding approval of playing in centres under special permission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/masters-want-more-practice-hrs-at-complexes-148777
30-09-2020||---||Dates for PUTA poll proposed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29A day after the UT Deputy Commissioner asked PUTA to submit tentative dates for conducting elections, the Returning Officer has proposed October 8 and 9 for the poll.“A letter was received from the Deputy Commissioner’s office regarding declaring fresh dates of elections with SOPs and programme. October 8 and 9 have been proposed as the new dates under the same programme,” said the official.‘Returning officer can’t decide dates’Meanwhile, the Khalid- Sidhu group, which is one of the groups contesting Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections, alleged that the PUTA constitution does not allow the Returning Officer (RO) to decide the date of elections.In a letter addressed to the PUTA general secretary, Mohammed Khalid alleged: “I request the PUTA Secretary to share with the colleagues as to why he is shying away from fulfilling his duty. The Returning Officer’s task is limited to conducting the elections and declaring the results. The RO should be stopped from using the powers conferred on the Secretary by the PUTA constitution,” said Khalid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dates-for-puta-poll-proposed-148778
30-09-2020||---||Panchkula MLA unhappy with slow pace of development projects||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 29Showing his displeasure over delay in development works, Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today asked the Municipal Commissioner to blacklist those contractors, who are not completing their work within the prescribed time limit.‘Complete task with discretionary grant’While holding a review meeting with municipal officials to know the progress of the ongoing development works in sectors and villages, Gupta gave strict instructions to MC Commissioner Mahavir Yadav and Superintendent Vijay Goel to get the development works done soon by streamlining the functioning ofthe corporation.He said the contractors, who were not completing the works within the prescribed time limit, should be blacklisted.Gupta also expressed displeasure at the non-commissioning of the vending zone in Sector 19 and said government funds were being ignored as the vending zone was constructed by spending a huge amount of money.He said to start this vending zone, street pods would have to be removed from other unauthorised locations.Gupta said a road from Manav Colony to Saketri temple should be built at the earliest. He instructed municipal officials to complete the task with the discretionary grant. When Gupta questioned municipal officials about the delay in the construction of a proposed veterinary hospital in Ramgarh, they said the building plan for the hospital had been ordered from the Animal Husbandry Department and the work would begin as soon as the plan was received.The Haryana Assembly Speaker said they had received information about illegal mining going on at Sukhdarshanpur near Raipur Rani and Sector 27 and 28 and directed the officials concerned to take action against the erring.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mla-unhappy-with-slow-pace-of-development-projects-148780
30-09-2020||---||BJP Kisan Morcha holds rally in favour of farm laws||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The BJP Kisan Morcha of Chandigarh organised a tractor rally in Sector 34 in support of the new farm laws.Hundreds of farmers from the city and surrounding rural areas attended the rally organised under the leadership of Kisan Morcha national president Rajkumar Chahar.The movement of the rally to different sectors of the city was cancelled as permission was not given. So, the farmers gathered at the Sector 34 ground. State BJP chief Arun Sood, general secretary Ramveer Bhatti and Kisan Morcha president Didar Singh were present on the occasion.Addressing a press conference at the state BJP office, Kamalam here, Chahar said the bill was in the interest of the farmers and would help in increasing their income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-kisan-morcha-holds-rally-in-favour-of-farm-laws-148781
30-09-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh to soon have Instagram account||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29After Facebook and Twitter, the UT Administration is all set to have an account on Instagram to make itself more accessible to people.Rajiv Tewari, Director, Public Relations, UT, today confirmed that the department would soon have an account on Instagram. “We want to reach out to people, especially during the pandemic. So, our department is planning to come up with an Instagram account,” he said.Till now, the Department of Cultural Affairs, UT, is the only one to have an account on Instagram as ‘Chandigarh Administration DCA’ with 68 followers and 24 posts.The Administration’s page, ‘Chandigarh Administration’, had 669 followers and 634 likes till 6 pm on Tuesday. In fact, the UT’s Facebook account has not been updated since March 2018. Its Twitter handle @ChandigarhAdmin has only one tweet dated March 24, 2018, where it has a total of 2,532 followers.The UT’s Department of Public Relations took to social media platforms nearly a month and a half ago, but it has still not been able to strike a connection with the city’s netizens. The department has 172 followers on Facebook, while it has 12 followers on Twitter.FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “All government orders and guidelines should be posted on the social media and department websites, especially at the time of the pandemic, but the UT isn’t doing that. Even some of the websites of its departments’ aren’t updated.”He said the UT’s website listed landline numbers and not mobile numbers of officials. “No one picks up landline numbers when you call and there’s no option to message people either,” he said.UT Adviser Manoj Parida’s personal Twitter handle had become the city netizens one-stop redressal point, but he too went offline following controversy over his tweets. When asked to comment on the UT’s presence on the social media, he said, “Office circulars can’t be as interesting as messages in simple English. I attend personal queries and office orders are universal declarations and take time to give effect.” He said, “I can take instant decisions as Adviser, so my social media presence could be more than the official one. Plus, it’s thrilling to criticise one man than abusing the whole government or faceless administration.”Despite repeated attempts, Nazuk Kumar, Director of the IT Department, UT, did not comment on the city’s social media presence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-soon-have-instagram-account-148782
30-09-2020||---||Mohali to act tough against farmers burning stubble||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 29Officials of the District Pollution Control Board would keep an eye on stubble burning activities, said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.He said despite repeated warnings, some of the farmers continued to burn paddy straw, causing air pollution in the area. He said punitive action would be taken against those violating the directions of the state government. He said the district administration was working hard to prevent stubble burning by creating awareness among the farming community.Dayalan said village level nodal officers as well as officials of the District Pollution Control Board would keep an eye on stubble burning activities. He said punitive action against those violating stubble burning prohibition orders entailed a fine of Rs2,500 to Rs15,000.Dayalan said no combine harvester could be deployed to harvest paddy without installing super straw management system (SMS). He said violation of these directives/orders would result in criminal proceedings against the violator under the provisions of the Air (Pollution and Prevention) Act, 1981.He said that the penalty could be Rs50,000 for first time violation, Rs75,000 for second time violation and Rs 1 lakh for third violation or each subsequent violation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-act-tough-against-farmers-burning-stubble-148784
30-09-2020||---||Clear pending dairy cases, govt schemes, banks told||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 29The district administration today asked all banks in the district to clear the pendency of dairy cases and government-sponsored schemes for the beneficiaries.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Rajiv Kumar conveyed this to the bankers while presiding over the district consultative committee meeting convened by Punjab National Bank (PNB) through video-conferencing.Reviewing the progress of banks for the quarter ending June 2020 under Annual Credit Plan 2020-21, Gupta advised the bankers to clear the pendency of dairy cases and government-sponsored schemes such as the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme, the Khadi and Village Industries Board and the National Urban Livelihoods Mission atthe earliest.Upkar Singh of PNB said the district had surpassed the priority sector target with achievement of 50.89 per cent against the national goal of 40 per cent. He said the credit deposit ratio was 60.33 per cent against the national goal of 60 per cent. He said under the Prime Minister Mudra Yojana, 20,363 beneficiaries had been sanctioned loan up to June 30 and under the Prime Minister Surakhya Bima Yojana, 1,29,830 and under the Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, 44,293 beneficiaries had been covered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-pending-dairy-cases-govt-schemes-banks-told-148785
30-09-2020||Panchkula||Residents’ body wants Panchkula MC elections postponed||A local residents’ body has urged the Haryana State Election Commission to announce the election dates for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation at appropriate time keeping in view the Covid-19 situation in the district.The Citizens’ Welfare Association, an apex body of citizens of Panchkula, said, “The residents of Panchkula are of the firm opinion that the Election Commission, the Haryana Chief Secretary, should monitor the Covid situation in the district closely before announcing the election dates.”SK Nayar, president of the residents’ body’s, said, “Since the pandemic is in full swing and the situation is expected to get worse, we have urged the authorities concerned to take necessary action to postpone the forthcoming elections of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation till the vaccine for Covid is out.”RP Malhotra, president of the Federation of Residents’ Association, said, “We demand that the local body elections should be postponed in view of the current situation. If the elections are held under such circumstances, turnout will be low, thereby complicating free and fair elections.”The civic body elections are expected to be held late this year or early next year. The city has been divided into 20 wards. In July this year, the Haryana Cabinet had okayed the bifurcation of the Panchkula MC, paving the way for Kalka and Pinjore to have a separate council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-body-wants-panchkula-mc-elections-postponed-148787
30-09-2020||---||Consumer panel puts CHB on notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has issued a notice to the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) after two allottees sought a compensation of Rs35 lakh for a delay in handing over flats under the Sector 51 housing scheme.The complainants, Vinay Kumar Srivastava and Arun Kumar, alleged that the quality of construction was poor and the flats were without requisite amenities, causing mental agony to them. The allottees also sought directions to the CHB to make the flats transferable, while terming the clause 10 of the allotment letter illegal and arbitrary.The Commission has asked the CHB to file its reply on December 22, on the complaint.The complainants stated that they had applied under the CHB Self-financing Housing Scheme-2016, Sector 51-A, for the category of flats costing Rs71 lakh each following which they received an acceptance-cum-demand letter (ACDL) dated June 10, 2016. As per the terms and conditions of the scheme, the CHB was to hand over the possession within 36 months from the date of the issuance of ACDL. However, the possession was not made by the given date, they claimed.The complainants stated that the CHB issued allotment letters on December 17, 2019, and demanded Rs1,12,953 as the final payment. The amount was deposited on December 24, 2019, they claimed.The CHB directed the complainants to take the possession of the units within 60 days. On taking the possession of the flats on January 23, 2020, they found a number of flaws in the flats. The board had also delivered the flats without completion certificate. Also, the allotment was on leasehold basis for 99 years and transfer of the flat for the next 10 years was restricted. The complainants claimed that the CHB officials had promised that the flats would be transferable and made freehold soon.The scheme is one ofthe costliest schemes launched by the housing board so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-panel-puts-chb-on-notice-148788
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Theft at shop in Dadu Majra||Two booked for raping womanMohali: Two persons have been booked on the charge of raping a 34-year-old woman on the pretext of offering her a role in a movie. The suspects, identified as Sunil and Dinesh, are residents of Mumbai. They are yet to be arrested. TNSPower supply to be hit todayChandigarh: Due to an urgent maintenance work, the electricity supply to following areas will remain suspended on September 30. In parts of Sector 29-C and D, 41, Ram Darbar, Phase 1, Mauli Jagran Complex-II (EWS houses) and Daria Village, there will be no power supply from 10 am to 3 pm. The maintenance work will also affect the supply in parts of Sector 25 and 38 from 10 am to 4 pm. TNSdrawing contestChandigarh: The Dietetics Department, GMSH-16, in association with the Indian Dietetic Association, Netprofan, and Nutrition Society of India, Chandigarh chapter, celebrated Poshan Maah by organising an online drawing competition for junior classes at St John’s High School. Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services-cum-Mission Director (NHM), addressed the children and asked them to be brand ambassadors of health and nutrition. TNSInt’l webinarChandigarh: The Department of Library and Information Science, PU, organised an international webinar on ‘Disaster management: an integrated approach’. Heather Brown, Assistant Director, Artlab Australia, was the resource person. Heather laid emphasis on risk management and prevention so that institutions can prepare to respond with a proper plan of action when needed. TNSWorld Heart DayPatiala: Those who underwent bypass surgery at Patiala Heart Institute observed World Heart Day by cutting a cake on Tuesday. Dr SPS Bagga, senior cardiac surgeon, and Dr Biswajit Maharana, senior cardiac intensivist, were present on occasion. TNSSyndicate meetPatiala: Punjabi University will hold a meeting of the Syndicate on Wednesday. The university will discuss changing the name of laboratory assistants on campus to junior technician (grade-4). TNSMohali student shines in olympiadMohali: Vamika Saini, a resident Sector 70, Mohali, and a student of Paragon Senior Secondary School secured the all-India third rank in an English Olympiad organised by Orange Education Pvt Ltd. She has been rewarded with Rs30,000 and a merit certificate. Vamika gives the credit for her success to her parents and her English mentor, Dr Rajeev Chanana. Her mother Sapna Saini and father Subhash Chand were proud of their daughter for getting the third rank. TNSGet turmeric milk in cityChandigarh: Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar on Tuesday launched Verka’s ‘haldi’ milk. General Manager, Verka Chandigarh Dairy, Uttam Kumar Sinha, said the therapeutic drink could prove to be the best health drink, especially during the pandemic, for boosting immunity and strength of the body. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-shop-in-dadu-majra-148796
