03 November 2020||New Delhi,||SC stays EC order revoking ‘star campaigner’ status of Nath||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the October 30 order of the Election Commission (EC) revoking the ‘star campaigner’ status of former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, said the Commission had no power to determine who should be the ‘star campaigner’ of a political party. “Who gives you the power to determine who is the leader of the party... We are staying this order. You have no power,” Chief Justice Bobde told the EC, represented by senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi. ‘Petition infructuous’ Mr. Dwivedi said Mr. Nath’s petition against the October 30 order was already infructuous as the campaigning for the bypolls to 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh was already over, and polling is on November 2. “Never mind, we will examine this case closely... You have no power,” Chief Justice Bobde said. On October 30, the EC found Mr. Nath guilty of violating the model code of conduct in place for the byelections. The EC revoked his name on the basis of a complaint from the BJP that Mr. Nath derogatorily referred to its candidate, Imarti Devi, as an “item” during a campaign rally at Dabra in Gwalior district. ‘Prerogative of party’ Mr. Nath, represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocates Varun K. Chopra and Gurtejpal Singh, said it was the prerogative of his party and not the EC to remove his name as a ‘star campaigner’. “Section 77(1) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 read with Guidelines for Star Campaigners issued by the Election Commission, from time to time, makes selection/revocation of ‘star campaigners’ the sole prerogative of the political party,” the petition said. Mr. Nath said the “honour, dignity and safety of women have been one of the paramount pillars of his work as a Chief Minister, Union Minister and Member of Parliament since 1980 onwards.” There was not a single allegation of misconduct or ill-tempered remark against women attributed to him, he stated. ‘Frame guidelines’ He urged the court to frame “appropriate guidelines for speeches during campaigning by star campaigners/ campaigners, keeping in mind the right to freedom of speech and expression and concept of democratic elections”. The revocation of his name from the ‘star campaigner’ list impeded “the principle of free and fair and level playing field in elections,” he said. The petition explained how the EC first issued notice on October 21 to Mr. Nath on a complaint by the BJP submitted on October 18. Mr. Nath replied on October 22 that the remarks were “completely misunderstood without context and highlighted that there was no malice or intent to disrespect on his part”. He said he regretted the remark and issued a clarification the very next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-stays-ec-order-revoking-star-campaigner-status-of-nath/article33007556.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,||600 quintals of PDS rice kept ready for re-sale seized in Udupi district||The Udupi district administration on Monday seized more than 600 quintals of rice loaded in three lorries at a rice mill at Kalmargi in Shiriyara village in Brahmavar taluk and kept ready for transportation for re-sale after purchasing them from ration card holders. The government had distributed the rice to ration card holders under the public distribution system. Deputy Director, Department of Food and Civil Supplies, Udupi, Gajendra V. said that nine vehicles, including five lorries, were seized in this connection. No arrests were made till late evening as those involved in the racket escaped when the officials led by Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha raided the rice mill. He said that as some more rice bags have been stocked in the mill, the officials are yet to weigh them and calculate the total quantity of such rice purchased and kept read for re-sale. The rice purchased from the ration card holders had been polished for re-sale in the open market, he said and added that investigation is still on. Mr. Jagadeesha said in a communique that the officials had seized about 600 quintals of such rice purchased from ration card holders and meant for re-sale in Kundapur last month. If people come to know about ration card holders selling rice distributed by the government and persons purchasing such rice, they should inform the officials about such activities, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that the district administration will continue to take strict action against those involved in the rice racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/600-quintals-of-pds-rice-kept-ready-for-re-sale-seized-in-udupi-district/article33008277.ece
03 November 2020||DUBBAK (SIDDIPET DT),||Stage set for Dubbak bypoll today||The stage is set for polling in Dubbak Assembly by-election on Tuesday. As many as 23 candidates including S. Sujatha of TRS, Ch Srinivas Reddy from Congress and M Raghunandan Rao of the BJP are contesting the elections. There are a total of 1,98,807 voters out of which 1,00,778 are women, 97,978 men and 51 service voters. Polling is scheduled to take place in Dubbak from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m at 315 polling stations and the district administration has made arrangements in compliance with COVID-19 norms. Tight security measures have been taken as 89 are sensitive polling stations. Arrangements have been made for either webcasting or CC cameras or video recording at all polling stations . As the Election Commission received several complaints about the district administration, the poll panel made three important changes. Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy was transferred from Siddipet to Sangareddy and Bharathi Hollikeri was appointed in his place. Saroj Kumar Thakur, an IPS officer from Tamil Nadu, was appointed police observer for the constituency and Naredh Bundel was appointed second expenditure observer. The campaign witnessed war of words between TRS and BJP over allegations of money seized from the relatives of the BJP candidate. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, who campaigned tirelessly for the past two months did not mince words in criticising his opposition parties. While explaining the welfare schemes being implemented by the TRS government, he exposed the failures of both the BJP and the Congress. He asked voters to choose between those locally available and those who are seen only during elections. At several meetings he asked whether the BJP and Congress leaders know the borders of the constituency and whether they will be available locally after elections. He also alleged that BJP was trying to buy votes and the money seized from the house Raghunandan Rao’s relatives at Siddipet was an indication of it. BJP president and Lok Sabha member Bandi Sanjay and another Member of Parliament D. Aravind hit out at TRS by questioning its unfulfilled promises like employment for one person from each house, unemployment allowance to youth. They also said that a change in Dubbak constituency will bring about changes in the State and BJP will become the alternative to TRS. TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy and other leaders of the party repeatedly alleged that the funds sanctioned for Dubbak were diverted to Siddipet and Gajwel by the ruling TRS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stage-set-for-byelection-to-dubbak-assembly-seat-today/article33008225.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||A-G declines consent for contempt case against Jagan||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal on Monday declined his consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Prinicipal Adviser Ajeya Kallam. Mr. Venugopal, however, said the “timing itself” of the Chief Minister’s letter to the Chief Justice of India, containing allegations against Supreme Court judge N.V. Ramana and the subsequent public release of the document could “certainly said to be suspect”. The Attorney-General was responding to a petition filed by Supreme Court advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for his prior consent under the Contempt of Court Act to initiate proceedings against Mr. Reddy and Mr. Kallam. Mr. Venugopal said Mr. Reddy’s letter on October 6 and its release by Mr. Kallam at a press conference held on October 10 was “suspect” because they came “in the background of the order passed by Justice Ramana dated September 16, directing pending prosecutions of elected representatives to be taken up and disposed of expeditiously”. In this context, the Attorney-General referred to Mr. Upadhyay’s statement that Mr. Reddy had 31 criminal cases against him. “In this background, prima facie, the conduct of the said persons is contumacious,” Mr. Venugopal said. He said he found the letter to contain “objectionable statements”. “I have carefully gone through the contents of your petition. I find that the objectionable statements have been made in a letter dated October 6 written by the Chief Minister to the Chief Justice of India” Mr. Venugopal noted. ‘CJI aware of matter’ The top law officer said Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde was already “seized of the matter”. Mr. Venugopal said the letter was sent to the CJI directly and, therefore, the latter was “well aware of the nature of the allegations contained in the letter”. “Hence, it would not be appropriate for me to deal with the matter,” he wrote. It was Mr. Upadhyay's PILs against the criminalisation of politics and the long-pending trials against legislators that had led the top court to order the setting up of special courts to try MPs and MLAs expeditiously. The Bench led by Justice Ramana is presently monitoring the process. In his letter for consent to the Attorney-General, Mr. Upadhyay said Mr. Reddy's letter was a “dishonest and mischievous attempt to pressurise the judiciary”. “The letter was consciously released in public domain not only to derail above stated PILs but also to intimidate judicial proceedings. Mr. Reddy is not only indulging in bench-hunting but also wants the court to stop hearing these PILs. This is not a silly mischievous deceitful act but deliberate fraudulent calculated attempts to not only undermine apex court but also to terrorise the judiciary,” Mr. Upadhyay wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-g-declines-consent-for-contempt-case-against-jagan/article33007546.ece
03 November 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Minister keeps Trinamool guessing||“I have not been dropped from a parachute nor have taken a lift to climb up. I have made the hard way up, climbing the stairs.” These recent statements by Trinamool Congress minister Suvendu Adhikari have triggered lot of speculation and debate in the political circles of West Bengal. Not many leaders of the Trinamool Congress, which has been ruling the State for nine years, can make such claims. One of most common phrases used by both party leaders and political observers about the Trinamool Congress power hierarchy is “There is only one post and rest are lamp posts” implying that only party chairperson Mamata Banerjee matters in the scheme of things. But even the sharpest critics of Mr. Adhikari will admit that there is some substance to his claims. Only a few days back, addressing another public gathering, Mr. Adhikari said he did not need a post to serve the people. It is not only his statements that have created discomfort for Trinamool Congress but the very nature of his public meetings which has drawn everyone’s attention. There are no flags of ruling Trinamool Congress at these events or photographs or cut outs of Ms. Banerjee. These rallies have the Trinamool strongman supporters wearing t- shirts with a message Amra Dadar Anugaami (We are supporters of Dada). Posters with the same message have come up in Purba Medinipur area over the past few weeks extending greetings to the people after Durga Puja. These developments come after months of his absence from administrative and political meetings of the Trinamool Congress. The message which Mr. Adhikari is trying to give is clearly that even without the banner of Trinamool Congress he has a support base of his own and can make or break elections for any combination. The Trinamool leader, however, is keeping his cards close to his chest. He has not made any remarks targeting the party leadership or said anything referring to Ms. Banerjee. He is also completely silent on the prospects of warming up to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or floating an outfit of his own. Mr. Adhikari, has been with Ms. Banerjee from the very start of the Trinamool Congress. He played a crucial and deciding role in the Nandigram movement when the struggle against forcible land acquisition by farmers in Purba Medinipur district rattled the Left Front government in 2007-08. He has been elected to Lok Sabha and now holds the portfolio of State’s Transport Department. His father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari are Lok Sabha MPs from the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-minister-keeps-trinamool-guessing/article33007778.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||No need of wearing a mask if driving car alone with windows rolled up: BBMP||In what comes as a respite for many, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, on Monday, issued an order clarifying that a person driving a four-wheeler alone with windows closed need not wear a mask. However, a person riding a two-wheeler, without a pillion rider, has to wear a mask, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said in the order. The decision was taken at a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) meeting on November 1 and communicated to the BBMP. The order comes days after the BBMP had reiterated the TAC’s guidelines, issued in August, that had mandated a person driving a four-wheeler alone with windows closed should compulsorily wear a mask. Following public outcry, Mr. Manjunath Prasad had written to the Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) seeking a clarification on the issue. The Health Department then referred the matter to the State’s COVID-19 TAC. The clarification comes at a time when citizens were being fined Rs. 250 for not wearing a mask even while driving a four-wheeler alone. Commuters have welcomed the move. “There was lot of confusion not only among the public but also among officials. It used to lead to unnecessary arguments on the road,” a regular commuter said. Two-wheeler riders have also demanded an exemption from wearing the mask while wearing the full-face helmet. Meera C.K., a regular commuter, said it was suffocating. “Half the time, my attention is on fixing the mask under the helmet rather than on the road. Also, what is the logic in exempting a person driving a car alone from wearing a mask while insisting that a person riding a two-wheeler alone, that too with a full-face helmet, has to wear one,” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-of-wearing-a-mask-if-driving-car-alone-with-windows-rolled-up-bbmp/article33008075.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||APSRTC services to Telangana resume||Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) services to Telangana State resumed on Monday after APSRTC and its counterpart in Telangana (TSRTC) finally entered a Memorandum of Understanding on inter-State bus operations following the final discussions held in Hyderabad. This has come as a sigh of relief to the public looking for public transportation between the two States ahead of Deepavali festival. After over seven months, the first bus from Andhra Pradesh left for Hyderabad from Pandit Nehru Bus Station in the city at 4.30 p.m. Later, about 30 buses were put into service to Hyderabad, Bhadrachalam and other destinations in Telangana from Krishna region. As per the inter-State operations agreement made between the two corporations, APSRTC would run a maximum of 638 services covering 1,60,999 km in Telangana and TSRTC would run a maximum of 820 services covering 1,61,258 km in Andhra Pradesh. In the Vijayawada-Hyderabad route, APSRTC would run 192 services covering 52,524 km and TSRTC 273 buses covering 52,944 km. The APSRTC resumed its inter-State operations between other States in June after inter-State travel restrictions were lifted by the Centre. However, as the provision of inter-State travel between APSRTC and TSRTC as per the AP Reorganisation Act lapsed, both States held discussions on several occasions to finalise inter-State agreement delaying the resumption of services. Services to be increased Principal Secretary (Transport and R&B) M.T. Krishna Babu told reporters that APSRTC services would be increased gradually considering the requirement of the public. He said it would take about three months to extend services to entire 1.60 lakh km. He said the APSRTC has incurred a loss of Rs. 2,400 crore due to lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apsrtc-services-to-telangana-resume/article33007550.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Poet Munawwar Rana booked for remarks on France attacks||The Uttar Pradesh police have booked Urdu poet Munawwar Rana for allegedly justifying the recent killings in France over caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad. In an interview to a Hindi channel last week, Mr. Rana condemned the person who drew the caricatures of the Prophet. In the same breath, he also condemned the killings, saying that the accused had committed even more deplorable acts. Mr. Rana said if someone had drawn a cartoon of his parents or even of Hindu gods and goddesses, he would have done the same. “If someone makes such an obscene cartoon of my father or mother, I will kill that person,” he said. When asked during the interview, if he endorsed the killings, Mr. Rana repeated, “I will kill [that person].”  A case was lodged against Mr. Rana at the Hazratganj police station on the complaint of a sub-inspector. The FIR accuses Mr. Rana of justifying the murders and spreading communal discord, which could threaten social harmony and law and order. He was booked under various charges, including promoting enmity between groups and outraging religious feelings with deliberate intent. ‘Stand by statement’ Talking to a news agency on Monday, Mr. Rana said he stood by his statement. “I stand by my statement. Na dal badlu hoon, na byan badlu hoon [Neither do I change sides, nor do I change my statements],” he said. He said his remarks were taken out of context and that he only meant to provide the perspective for acts committed in the name of religious fanaticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poet-munawwar-rana-booked-for-remarks-on-france-attacks/article33007560.ece
03 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s wellness rate surges past 90%||Maharashtra recorded a high number of recoveries on Monday, with as many as 10,225 patients being discharged as opposed to 4,009 new COVID-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 15,14,079 with the recovery rate surging past the 90% mark to settle at 90.31%. The total case tally now is 16,87,784. The number of active cases has dipped below 1.20 lakh, standing at 1,18,777. With 104 deaths, the fatalities have touched 44,128. However, the low case surge must be viewed in the context of just 41,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours, as opposed to a daily average of 70,000. “Of a total 90,65,168 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,87,784 (18.62%) have returned positive with 41,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality rate was 2.61%. Pune district reported just 375 cases to take its total tally to 3,35,094 while 31 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,734. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate is currently 93.91% with its active cases now being at 11,929. Mumbai reported 706 cases to take its total tally to 2,59,111 of whom 17,982 are active. As many as 30 fatalities saw the city's death toll rise to 10,348. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported only 164 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,02,576 of whom 4,507 are active. No deaths were reported. The district’s death toll is 2,739. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported three deaths taking its toll to 1,414. As many as 231 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 48,004 of whom 4,420 are active. Sangli reported 103 cases and nine deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 47,068 of whom 2,592 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,552. Kolhapur recorded one of its lowest surges of just 32 cases as its total tally touched 47,332 of whom just 659 are currently active. No fatalities were reported on Monday. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 450 cases as its total tally reached 95,421 of whom 6,058 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-wellness-rate-surges-past-90/article33008301.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||As cases soar, ventilator beds go scarce in Delhi||Delhi, which currently has the second highest number of new COVID-19 cases in the country and the third highest number of virus-related deaths according to the data released by the Union Health Ministry on Monday, is now seeing an increased pressure on its healthcare infrastructure. Several private hospitals have indicated that they have near 100% occupancy of ICU beds with ventilators and only a few government hospitals are showing availability of beds with ventilator support for COVID-19 patients. The Delhi government’s mobile app — Delhi Corona — providing COVID-related information shows that of the 1,244 ICU beds with ventilators, 845 are occupied currently (Monday evening). According to Delhi government’s data, 604 of the 1,927 COVID ICU beds without ventilators are vacant and 9,076 of the 15,795 COVID beds are currently available. Private hospitals, including Max Healthcare, Fortis, Apollo and Batra, indicated a fast growing occupancy of ICU beds with ventilators in their facilities on Monday morning, while the government hospitals are facing an onslaught of patients with COVID as well as seasonal ailments. ‘Increase in bed strength’ Speaking to The Hindu about the situation, a Delhi government spokesperson said: “The Delhi government is closely monitoring the situation and will increase the total bed strength to above 20,000 in about two weeks time. The increase will be in both government and private hospitals. But the government is not planning to impose any lockdown measures.” Over the past week, Delhi has been recording over 5,000 COVID cases daily. The Delhi government had previously attributed the spike in COVID cases to “aggressive contact tracing”. Delhi’s health infrastructure caters not just to people of the city but also those from the neighbouring States of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, among others. Delhi had been cautioned at the beginning of the festival season by a high-level expert committee led by NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul about the need to be prepared to cushion the impact of a possible spike in respiratory illnesses with winter setting in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-cases-soar-ventilator-beds-go-scarce-in-delhi/article33007917.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,||Seema Banu’s relatives oppose burial in Ireland||Relatives of Seema Banu, who was found dead along with her two children at her home in Dublin, are opposed to their last rites being held in Ireland. “The family is extremely hurt emotionally. It has been six days since Seema and her children were found dead, but her parents have not been able to see their faces even once. The least they expected was to carry out the last rites here,” Seema’s cousin Sufi Masood Hussain told The Hindu.  Seema’s father Abdul Gaffar, mother Qurshidunnisa, and brother Rizwan are residents of Halaganahalli in Periyapatna taluk of Mysuru district. “They are literally begging with the authorities in Ireland to help them see the faces of Seema and the children at least once,” he said. After making efforts to establish contact over phone with Seema’s husband Syed Sameer, who is a suspect in the case, the family members claimed that Sameer wants to bury them in Ireland. “But the family is strongly opposed [to it]. They are even planning to fight it out in the court in Ireland,” Mr. Hussain said. Though Sameer spoke to Seema’s family in Mysuru “after a lot of struggle”, Mr. Hussain said he (Sameer) “just spoke two or three words and was on mute” during the entire call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seema-banus-relatives-oppose-burial-in-ireland/article33007865.ece
03 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||32 protesters held for Ballabgarh violence||Thirty-two people were arrested by the Faridabad police in connection with the violence on Sunday during a Sarv Biradari Sangathan gathering at Ballabgarh to seek justice for Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead by a stalker and his friend last week. The arrested persons were produced before a court on Monday and sent to jail. A case has been registered under various Sections of the IPC at the Ballabgarh police station. The police said the 32 persons belonged to Delhi, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal. The police said as three of those arrested had tested positive for COVID-19, they advised all those present in the panchayat to get tested for the coronavirus. The police added that the organisers of the panchayat would be quarantined. Security for family Police Commissioner O.P. Singh said security had been provided to the parents and brother of Nikita. The deceased’s brother had also been given an arms licence for self-defence, he added. More than 200 demonstrators had gathered in Ballabgarh and thrown stones at shops and the police on Sunday afternoon. They also tried to block the National Highway-44 (New Delhi-Agra). Ten police personnel sustained injuries during the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/32-protesters-held-for-ballabgarh-violence/article33007558.ece
03 November 2020||OPA-LOCKA,||Trump, Biden search for last-minute support||U.S. President Donald Trump hunted for support in four battleground States on Monday, while Democratic rival Joe Biden focused on Pennsylvania and Ohio during the final day of campaigning in their race for the White House. The Republican Mr. Trump trails Mr. Biden in national opinion polls ahead of Tuesday’s Election Day. But the race in the swing States is seen as close enough that Mr. Trump could still piece together the 270 votes needed to prevail in the State-by-State Electoral College that determines the winner. Mr. Trump, aiming to avoid becoming the first incumbent President to lose re-election since fellow Republican George H.W. Bush in 1992, will hold five rallies on Monday in North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan. He won these States in 2016, but polls show Mr. Biden is threatening to recapture all four for the Democrats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trump-biden-search-for-last-minute-support/article33007562.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Breathing poison||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/breathing-poison/article33007548.ece
03 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan passes Bills to stall farm laws||The Rajasthan Assembly on Monday passed three Bills to stop the applicability of the Centre’s new farm laws in the State through amendments that make the Central Acts ineffective in certain respects. The Bills were passed by voice vote after a nine-hour debate, in which the treasury and opposition benches exchanged barbs. Rajasthan has become the second Congress-ruled State after Punjab to formally reject the farm Acts. The Opposition BJP staged a walkout before the Bills were put to vote, saying the State government did not have the powers under the Constitution to bring in such legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-passes-bills-to-stall-farm-laws/article33007557.ece
03 November 2020||Kolkata,||Local trains to resume partially||West Bengal government and Indian Railways on Monday agreed to resume local train services on the Eastern Railways and South Eastern Railways. To begin with, only 10 to 15% trains will operate with 50 % seating capacity. The frequency could be increased to 25% after Deepavali. “We will meet again on November 5 to finalise the calendar and route,” Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. In another development, a State government notification on Monday said teaching, learning and physical assemblies in schools (including anganwadi centres) colleges and universities will continue to be disallowed with the Education Minister Partha Chatterjee hinting that colleges would open in December. Meanwhile, the State added 3,957 new COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 3,81,608. With 57 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the fatalities have touched 6,957. The State recorded more recoveries than the number of infections taking the active cases to 36,576. The discharge rate increased to 88.59%. The percentage of positive cases tested increased to 8.22%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-trains-to-resume-partially/article33007780.ece
03 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjar protesters back on rail tracks in Rajasthan||Rail service and road traffic were disrupted after Gujjars demanding reservation in jobs and education as a most backward class intensified their agitation on Monday and occupied the railway tracks at Peelupura in Bharatpur district of Rajas-than. As many as 29 trains on the Delhi-Mumbai route were diverted and three cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujjar-protesters-back-on-rail-tracks-in-rajasthan/article33007919.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Manipal Hospitals to acquire Columbia Asia||Manipal Hospitals, a multi-speciality healthcare provider, on Monday entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 100% stake in Columbia Asia Hospitals Private Limited (Columbia Asia). The deal is valued at Rs. 2,100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipal-hospitals-to-acquire-columbia-asia/article33008076.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Only hi-tech, service units in industrial areas’||In an attempt to control pollution and promote ‘green Delhi’, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that the Centre had cleared a proposal permitting only hi-tech and service industries to operate in new industrial areas. Manufacturing units oper-ating in old industrial areas will be encouraged to switch to the service sector, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-hi-tech-service-units-in-industrial-areas/article33008155.ece
03 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjar protesters back on rail tracks in Rajasthan||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said on Monday that she would rather take sanyas (retire) from politics than ally with the BJP or contest elections with it. “The BSP will never ally or contest any election at any cost with parochial and communal forces like the BJP,” Ms. Mayawati said, adding that the ideologies of the BSP and the BJP were polar opposites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsp-chief-mayawati-does-u-turn-on-support-to-bjp/article33007920.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,||8,000 houses converting wet waste into compost||With the handling of solid waste emerging as a challenge both in urban and rural areas, at least 8,000 houses, covering 84 apartments and other individual houses, are converting at least six tonnes of wet waste into compost daily in the city now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8000-houses-converting-wet-waste-into-compost/article33008280.ece
03 November 2020||Pune,||Free online classes begin for Class XI students||The Maharashtra Education Department on Monday started free online classes for Class XI students to prevent loss of the academic session due to the COVID-19 outbreak, an official said. The classes have begun on YouTube and over 60,000 first-year junior college (FYJC or Class XI) students have so far enrolled for these classes, State Council of Educational Research and Training director Dinkar Patil said. The decision to start online classes free of charge for FYJC arts, science and commerce students was taken to avoid the academic loss till colleges start functioning normally, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-online-classes-begin-for-class-xi-students/article33008302.ece
03 November 2020||Pune,||Shivendraraje appeals to leaders to fight together||Expressing concern over the simmering resentment among the Maratha youth after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Maratha quota law in Maharashtra, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Shivendraraje Bhosale on Monday urged community leaders to set aside their differences and stand together. Speaking at a round table conference of Maratha outfits in Satara, Mr. Bhosale — a direct descendant of the warrior King Chhatrapati Shivaji — warned that lack of unity among the community’s leaders could result in “a social Panipat”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shivendraraje-appeals-to-leaders-to-fight-together/article33008303.ece
03 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘Avoid felling trees while executing projects’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has asked officials, contractors and other authorities concerned to avoid cutting trees while laying concrete roads and follow what had been done in Bengaluru to save trees while widening roads. The Minister, who is also in-charge of Dharwad district, visited several localities in Hubballi on Monday, where various works are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/avoid-felling-trees-while-executing-projects/article33007712.ece
03 November 2020||Hubballi,||Pvt.hospitals told to give data of health staff||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has asked all private healthcare providers in the district to provide data on all frontline health staff by Wednesday to facilitate compilation of data on COVID warriors. Chairing an awareness programme on guidelines for data collection of health staff for the administrative officers of private hospitals in Dharwad on Monday, Mr. Patil said that all global agencies, including World Health Organisation, were in the process of data collection on COVID warriors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pvthospitals-told-to-give-data-of-health-staff/article33007714.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,||Kodagu homestays’ wait for licence gets longer||Nearly 200 homestays that had registered with the Tourism Department along with about 750 other homestays in Kodagu may have to wait for getting the licence to run business legally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kodagu-homestays-wait-for-licence-gets-longer/article33007867.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Infection growth rate highest in Kolar||Nearly 39% of the State’s COVID-19 burden is from districts other than Bengaluru Urban and Ballari. What is more worrying is the fact that the growth rate of the infection is higher than the State average in at least 10 districts including Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/infection-growth-rate-highest-in-kolar/article33007868.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Result of prestige battle to be sealed today||After two weeks of no-holds-barred campaigning, all eyes are now on the byelection on Tuesday to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies. It is a potential launch pad for four candidates of three major parties making their electoral debut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/result-of-prestige-battle-to-be-sealed-today/article33007869.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,||2.1 lakh PSU employees to get Deepavali bonus||The Rangarajan committee, constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the State’s economy, has identified medical devices manufacturing and pharmaceuticals, along with biotechnology, as the emerging sectors. 1.67% ex gratia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/21-lakh-employees-of-state-psus-to-get-bonus/article33007600.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,||AIADMK govt. is puppet of BJP, says Congress||Terming the AIADMK dispensation a puppet of the BJP-led government at the Centre, Sanjay Dutt, national secretary of the Congress and in-charge of the State unit, said on Monday that the ruling party would be unseated from power for its misdeeds and anti-people policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-govt-is-puppet-of-bjp-says-congress/article33007601.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Active cases fall below 20,000 mark in T.N.||After more than five months, the number of active COVID-19 cases fell below the 20,000 mark in Tamil Nadu on Monday. With 2,481 more persons testing positive in 24 hours, the State’s overall tally rose to 7,29,507.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-fall-below-20000-mark-in-tn/article33007599.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Focus on medical devices, pharma sectors||The Rangarajan committee, constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the State’s economy, has identified medical devices manufacturing and pharmaceuticals, along with biotechnology, as the emerging sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-on-medical-devices-pharma-sectors/article33008433.ece
03 November 2020||PATNA,||Leaders set furious pace for final phase||Leaders of the National Democratic Alliance, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Lok Janshakti Party addressed a series of public meetings on Monday to seek votes for their candidates in the last and third phase of elections in Bihar scheduled for November 7. Both the Janata Dal(U)-led NDA and the UPA, led by the RJD, are locked in tough contests this time in most of the Assembly seats. The second phase of polling will be held on Tuesday. “As I have promised, I will provide 10 lakh government jobs with my first signature at the first Cabinet meeting if voted to power,” RJD leader and party’s chief ministerial face, Tejashwi Yadav, said at a public meeting at Darbhanga town. “Besides, I will focus on the core issues plaguing the State like padhai, dawai, kamai, sinchai aur mahangai [education, medicine, employment, irrigation and price rise]... I’m a young man with new thoughts,” he told the cheering crowd. The 31-year-old leader has been drawing huge crowds at over a dozen public meetings every day. The RJD, a party with a largely Muslim-Yadav vote bank, has this time fielded a number of upper caste candidates in the Mithilanchal area. Mr. Yadav is the lone star campaigner of the UPA. “Only a few days are left and I have to cover all 78 seats in the third phase,” he told the crowd. On Monday, he addressed over 20 public meetings in Araria, Saharsha, Darbhanga, Supaul and Samastipur districts, where elections are scheduled to take place on November 7. On Saturday, he had addressed 19 public meetings before campaigning ended for the second phase. Nitish’s claim JD(U) president and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been addressing four or five public meetings every day, where he tells the crowd about the development works his government has done in the past 15 years. “We constructed roads and brought electricity, 50% reservation for women in panchayats and a number of welfare measures for students… if given a chance I’ll do more, as service to the people is my religion… development with justice has been my government’s mantra,” he told a public meeting at Supaul on Monday. “But for some people, development only means development of their family: sons, daughters, wife and others…for me, Bihar is my family.” At Pipra High School ground in Parihar constituency of Sitamarhi district, BJP president J.P. Nadda talked about the development work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country and by the NDA government in Bihar. He slammed Opposition RJD for its misrule and misgovernance during the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi from 1990 to 2005. “ Jo kaam karne wale hain unko kaam dijiye, aur jo beimaani karne wale hain unko aaram dijiye [Those who do work, give them work to do and those who are dishonest with you, give them rest],” Mr Nada said at his public meeting in Sitamarhi. Chirag’s appeal Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan has been taking jibes at Mr. Kumar on issues such as prohibition and corruption in welfare projects. The LJP has fielded candidates against the JD(U). “The next government in Bihar will be of the BJP-LJP combine,” he declared. He appealed to the people to bless his party candidate Abdul Razzaque at Mahishi in Saharsha district. “The BJP-LJP government will implement the ‘Bihar 1st, Bihari 1st’ vision document,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leaders-set-furious-pace-for-final-phase/article33007507.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four States lead COVID-19 tally||Eighty per cent of the new COVID-19 cases are concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories, with Kerala (7,025), Delhi (5,664), Maharashtra (5,369) and West Bengal (3,987) reporting the highest numbers in the past 24 hours, according to data released by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha also continue to register a high number of cases, it said. The country has reported 45,321 confirmed cases in the last 24 hours along with 496 deaths during this time period, with 10 States and UTs accounting for 82% of the fatalities in the past 24 hours, the Ministry said. “22% of deaths reported yesterday [Sunday] are from Maharashtra with 113 deaths followed by West Bengal with 59 deaths, Delhi (51), Chhattisgarh (49), Tamil Nadu (30), Kerala (28), Uttar Pradesh (26), Karnataka (24), Andhra Pradesh (16) and Odisha (11),” it said. Recoveries cross 75 lakh India continued to occupy the top global position as the country with the highest number of recoveries, it noted. The total recoveries crossed 75 lakh on Monday (75,44,798). “53,285 recoveries have been registered in the last 24 hours in the country. The total active cases in India stand at 5,61,908.” The active cases comprised 6.83% of the total positive cases. “In a span of just two months, the percentage of active cases has reduced more than three times. On 3rd September, the percentage of active cases was 21.16%,” the release said. The higher number of recoveries was also reflected in the continuous increase in the national recovery rate, which at present was 91.68%. “78 per cent of the new recovered cases in the past 24 hours are from 10 States/UTs. Kerala and Karnataka have contributed the highest number to these, with more than 8,000 cases. Delhi and West Bengal follow, with more than 4,000 cases,” the Ministry said. India had demonstrated an increase in the number of COVID-19 cumulative tests since January 2020. This had led to early identification and treatment. It crossed the landmark of 11 crore (11,07,43,103) total tests on Monday. “The country’s testing capacities have multiplied manifold, with 2,037 labs country and with collaborative efforts of the Centre and State/UT governments,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-states-lead-covid-19-tally/article33007515.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sivasankar named as accused in graft case||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Monday indicted M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for accepting a sizeable sum as bribe from a builder for nudging a government construction contract in his direction. In a court filing, the VACB stated that Mr. Sivasankar had persuaded officials of the LIFE Mission to award the contract to construct 144 apartments for the homeless at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur to the business person. Contract entered In 2019, the UAE Red Crescent had entered into a contract with the LIFE Mission to fund the construction of 199 flats on the understanding that Red Crescent would build the dwellings at a cost of Rs. 20 crore and hand over the apartments to the mission. According to the VACB, the LIFE Mission excluded another builder to secure the contract for the businessperson recommended by Mr. Sivasankar. Builder’s admission Investigators said the UAE Red Crescent deposited Rs. 14 crore in the account of the builder. By his admission in the High Court, the builder paid Rs. 4 crore as bribe to bag the contract. As a set-off against the bribe, the LIFE Mission whittled down the number of dwellings from 199 to 144, thereby causing loss to the government and undue pecuniary advantage to the builder, the VACB stated. The agency named UAE Consulate-linked gold smuggling case suspects Sandeep Nair, Swapna Suresh, and P. Sarith as accused in the case. At the time of the award of the contract, Sarith and Swapna held influential posts in the UAE Consulate. Transfer to account The VACB said Sandeep had introduced the builder to Swapna, who allegedly referred him to Mr. Sivasankar. The builder wired Sandeep Rs. 60 lakh from his account as a bribe. The rest he gave him as cash purportedly to pay off UAE consulate officials. Later, Swapna told the court that the Rs. 36 lakh the Customs had found in her bank locker was the brokerage she received from the builder and not proceeds from gold smuggling as suspected. Swapna held the locker jointly with a chartered accountant. The auditor told the Customs that he had opened the safe locker along with Swapna on Mr. Sivasankar’s directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-named-as-accused-in-graft-case/article33007483.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala cases see another ‘weekend’ dip||New cases of COVID-19 in Kerala dropped by nearly half on Monday at 4,138, when testing also dipped to 33,345 samples. This followed the trend with testing going down on Sundays. The test positivity rate at 12.4 % remained stabilised over the past week. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State’s weekly increase in cases dipped by 5% and cumulative case doubling period rose to 40 days. At the current growth rate, the case graph hit a plateau and it would take weeks for the active cases to cross one lakh. The recovery rate had also been high, helping the State’s hospitals from getting swamped. The current cases per million population ratio, at 12,329 was more than double the national average of 5,963. However, the case fatality rate was 0.34%, much lower than the national average of 1.49%. The addition of 21 new COVID deaths took the State’s total toll to 1,533. Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam reported four deaths each, Alapuzha and Ernakulam three each, Thrissur two and one case reach by Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kottayam. Among districts, Kozhikode reported 576 cases, Ernakulam 518, Alapuzha 498, Malappuram 467, Thrissur 433, Thiruvananthapuram 361, Kollam 350, Palakkad 286, Kottayam 246, Kannur 195, Idukki 60, Kasaragod 58, Wayanad 46 and Pathanamthitta 44 cases. Mr. Vijayan said that the government was in touch with Reddy’s Laboratories and Serum Institute of India Ltd. on its willingness to conduct vaccine trials in the State. However, the former was yet to launch any clinical trials in the State. The latter had been provided details of Government Medical Colleges at Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kottayam. The State would move forward on the trials, he added. In Telangana Telangana reported less than a thousand cases on Sunday. Usually, around 40,000 samples were tested, but on Sunday, the number fell to 25,643, leading to detection of 922 positive cases. The new cases included 256 from Greater Hyderabad, 56 from Rangareddy and 44 from Sangareddy. With the death of seven more patients, the toll touched 1,348.  1,916 cases in A.P. Andhra Pradesh recorded 1,916 new cases and 13 deaths on Monday. The daily positivity rate of 64,581 samples was the lowest in four months at 2.97%. The overall positivity rate was 10.13% for 81.75 lakh samples. The death rate remained at 0.81% and the recovery rate at 96.47%. The tests per million ratio increased to 1.53 lakh. Of the 13 new deaths, three each were reported from Anantapur and Krishna districts and one each from West Godavari, East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam, Kadapa, Chittoor, and Srikakulam districts. Other districts reported no new deaths. While five districts reported less than 100 new cases, West Godavari reported the highest at 426, East Godavari (354), Guntur (179), Prakasam (178), Kadapa (141), Chittoor (121), Anantapur (106), Visakhapatnam (105), Nellore (93), Krishna (68), Srikakulam (68), Vizianagaram (55), and Kurnool (22). The district-wise tallies were: East Godavari (1,16,389), West Godavari (86,449), Chittoor (78,886), Guntur (67,786), Anantapur (64,835), Prakasam (59,834), Nellore (59,685), Kurnool (59,530), Visakhapatnam (56,003), Kadapa (52,346), Srikakulam (44,095), Krishna (39,720) and Vizianagaram (39,429). T.N. cases below 20,000 After over five months COVID-19 infections fell below 20,000 on Monday. The number of active cases, including those undergoing treatment in hospitals or quarantined at home was 19,504. The number of cases rose to 20,000 on May 30. With 2,481 more persons testing positive, the State’s tally was 7,29,507. At the same time the total number of people who had been discharged stood at 6,98,820 with 3,940 more people being discharged in a day. The State recorded 31 more deaths due to the infection since Sunday. So far 11,183 persons died of the infection.  (With inputs from    Hyderabad, Vijayawada,    and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-cases-see-another-weekend-dip/article33007496.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Strategic Partnership will aid smooth work in the event of regional crisis’||Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell took charge a month before the COVID-19 pandemic struck in India, yet his time here has seen a steady uptick in the momentum of bilateral cooperation including a Prime Ministerial summit in June and, more recently, Australia’s inclusion in the Malabar naval exercises. He speaks about a range of cooperative initiatives on the anvil.  Regarding the announcement of Australia joining the Malabar naval exercises, could you explain how this takes forward the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership (CSP) that Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison agreed to in June 2020, in terms of maritime security and broader stability across the region? It will demonstrate the ability of our Navy to work through exercises, warfare serials and the like with the Navies of India, Australia, the U.S. and Japan. That is important because, were there to be a regional crisis, like a natural or humanitarian disaster, the ability to work smoothly with partners is critical. It builds particularly on the maritime agreement that was one of the agreements underneath the CSP, but also to the mutual logistic support arrangement, which is designed to improve the collaboration between our armed forces. What do you see as the biggest challenges in moving forward quickly on cyber and cyber-enabled critical technologies?  Certainly, the COVID-19 pandemic has damaged economies. It has accelerated geostrategic competition, and it has obviously disrupted our way of life. It has highlighted the importance, to countries like India and Australia, of ensuring a safe, secure and prosperous future for our citizens. That’s why, as part of the CSP, there were agreements in relation to critical technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, quantum computing, and 5G because we recognise the opportunities they present to people, to businesses, to the broader economy, and the fact that they should be guarded by international standards to ensure they do not present risks, to security or prosperity. The Australia-India framework Arrangements on Cyber and Cyber Enabled Critical Technology cooperation will enhance bilateral cooperation. It provides a programme of Rs. 66 crore over four years for an Australia-India cyber and critical technology partnership to support research by institutions in both Australia and between institutions in Australia and India. Could you talk a little bit more about special minerals and rare earth products? What exactly are specifics on where Australia can help move things forward? If you want to build batteries or electric vehicles, lithium, amongst other items, is required. We know that your northern neighbour is your most significant supplier of these critical minerals. We know that India is seeking to become more self-reliant. We know that imports from China are reducing. Australia potentially sees an opportunity for us to provide elements into India’s efforts to improve its manufacturing, defence and electric vehicle and energy mission projects. Given the investments made by India under its national quantum mission and the aspiration here to build more infrastructure and experimental facilities, how could Australia help India move forward? Australia is already contributing to India’s national quantum mission by facilitating partnerships with universities, research institutions and businesses. That includes one of the best relationships we have with India, which is the Australian India Strategic Research Fund, which has been going for over 20 years. Since 2013, one of our Australians of the Year, Professor Michelle Simmons, has led a team of researchers at New South Wales University’s (UNSW) Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology, seeking to build the first quantum computer in silicon. Looking at space technologies, India has made critical advances over several decades now. What synergies and opportunities exist between India’s long-standing programme and Australia’s relatively new space ambitions? Australia and India have been cooperating together as countries since 1987, when we inked our first MoU, and there is a strong engagement between ISRO and Australian agencies. We have undertaken data collaboration on Indian remote satellites. Since 2013, we have been doing laser ranging for Indian regional navigational satellite systems. We are exploring how we can place temporary ground station tracking facilities in Australia to support that Gaganyaan Mission. Are Australian universities following the online model? How do you see them recovering? When will things open up and what options will Indian students have? We recognise that it is face-to-face learning, like face-to-face working is still what most people want. A number of Australian States are starting pilot programmes to demonstrate that students can be picked up and returned to Australia into campuses safely given the COVID spread. My Education Minister, Dan Tehan, made the point two weeks ago that the Australian government is keen for that to happen as soon as possible. The latest part to be announced was one from South Australia that will fly students out of Singapore into Australia. There was an early one announced by the Northern Territory. On the back of those, there is a hope that we will be able to return students to Australia for Day One, Term One, next year. But it will depend on those State trials. If the trials are successful, I remain confident about next year.  We know that India is seeking to become more self-reliant... Australia potentially sees an opportunity to provide elements into India’s efforts...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strategic-partnership-will-aid-smooth-work-in-the-event-of-regional-crisis/article33007519.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||Badlo Bihar! Cong. sets up a clickbait for young voters||With campaigning for phase two of the Bihar Assembly election ending on Sunday evening, setting the stage for polling on Tuesday, the Congress upped its social media game — the party has launched a video game to engage with young and first-time voters. Titled Badlo Bihar, it’s a basic game. The players earn points each time they manage to pop out the issues that the mahagatbandhan (grand alliance) has been highlighting such as migration, farmers’ issues, corruption and so on, by pressing on the Congress’s election symbol. The highlight of the game is the voice-over at the end that says “ Bole Bihar, mahagatbandhan sarkar ”. The voice-over mimics Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s voice. The Congress, through its social media campaign, is focusing on micro-targeting the voters, making individual campaigns for the party’s 70 candidates and attempting to hold a dialogue with voters on local issues. Party’s social media in-charge Rohan Gupta said it had the first-mover advantage, since they had been working in the State for four months now. Their headquarters in Patna had close to 35 volunteers working and this week onwards they have operationalised another one in Purnia, in the Seemanchal belt, for the final lap. Digital membership “The pandemic forced us to get innovative since the physical electioneering took a back seat,” Mr. Gupta said. To begin with, the party had started a digital membership drive, and Mr. Gupta said they had managed to enrol nearly six lakh people. The digital campaign started with Bihar Ki Baat to get feedback from voters to be incorporated in the party’s manifesto. Based on this feedback, the social media team started a campaign of Ka Kiye Ho , seeking accountability from the Nitish Kumar government. With unemployment being the central theme of the grand alliance’s poll campaign, the Congress has been working on targeting the migrant workers. Targeted messages “There are constituencies where farmer’s issues are more important, other constituencies with higher concentration of migrant workers the issues could be vastly different. Accordingly, our messaging was targeted for each of the 70 constituencies that we are working on,” Mr Gupta said. The party was reaching out to four crore people daily. “Our emphasis is to go local, so we are making local creatives, which are specific to each candidate and his constituency. We ask each of them to provide us videos and photographers from their campaigning. And interestingly, this turned into a way of receiving feedback too on who is active and who isn’t,” Mr. Gupta added. Apart from targeting voters on Facebook, the social media team has tapped into 10,000 WhatsApp groups. Each group can have up to 200 participants. In the past four days, the frequency of messages from the Congress has increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/badlo-bihar-cong-sets-up-a-clickbait-for-young-voters/article33007500.ece
03 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K govt. defends new land laws||In the face of growing anxiety and protests in regions of Jammu and Kashmir, the J&K administration on Monday said the recently introduced land laws “will afford protection to over 90% of the land in the Union Territory (UT)”, and the previous laws were “anti-people”. “The new land laws will not only afford protection to over 90% of the land in J&K from being alienated to outsiders but will also help revamp the agriculture sector, foster rapid industrialisation, aid economic growth and create jobs in J&K,” government spokesman and Principal Secretary, Information, Rohit Kansal, said in Jammu. On the move to repeal 11 land laws of the erstwhile State, Mr. Kansal described them as “old, regressive and intrinsically contradictory”. ‘Contradictions existed’ “A number of laws had contradictions leading to scope for discretionary interpretation and rent seeking. For example, ‘family’ was defined differently in different laws, provision of alienation and conversion of land were different in different laws and the ceiling of 182 kanals fixed in Big Landed Estates Abolition Act was superseded by 100 standard kanals in the Agrarian Reforms act, 1976; yet both provisions continued to coexist creating contradiction and confusion,” he said. The new land laws were modern and progressive “while affording adequate protection against alienation of land to outsiders”, he said. “A number of protections have been built into the new land laws on similar lines as has been enacted in other States such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. No agricultural land can be transferred to any person from outside the UT of J&K”, he noted. Without naming any political party, he said that a variety of reactions from political parties and others that J&K was on sale was because of a lot of misinformation or lack of clarity.  A protest organised by the Civil Society Forum (CSF), headed by Qayoom Wani, was prevented by the police on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-laws-protect-over-90-of-land-jk-govt/article33007511.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Decide cases against foreign Tablighi members, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the district courts to expeditiously decide cases against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members who have been discharged of charges under the Foreigners Act and desire to leave the country. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar was hearing a batch of petitions filed by foreign Tablighi members against FIRs filed against them for visa violations, which include participating in a congregation held in the National Capital during the pandemic lockdown. The petitions had contended that the en masse blacklisting of foreigners from 35 nations, without affording them an opportunity to prima facie defend themselves, was an egregious and blatant violation of Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, for the petitioners, said the cases registered against her clients had become a pretext for “protracted litigation”. She submitted that eight of the petitioners had been discharged of all the allegations against them but their applications for liberty to leave the country were still pending. Senior advocate C.U. Singh, also for the petitioners, informed the Bench that 36 petitioners had been cleared of serious charges under Section 14B (using forged passport to enter the country) of the Foreigners Act of 1946. But the police have filed applications for revision of their discharge and the hearings are on November 7 and 10. “This is a punitive sort of process,” Mr. Singh submitted. The court agreed to hear the case further on November 20. Pregnant woman’s plea Four petitions, including one by a Thai national who is seven months pregnant, had challenged the Centre’s decision of April 2 to blacklist foreign nationals from travelling to India for the next 10 years. The decision by its very unilateral nature, infringed the principle of natural justice, particularly audi alteram partem (hear the other side).., her plea said.  36 petitioners have been cleared of serious charges but the police have filed revision applications C.U. Singh Counsel for petitioners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decide-cases-against-foreign-tablighi-members-says-sc/article33007525.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||HC panel questions setting up of special courts to try MPs||A three-judge committee of the Madras High Court has questioned the constitutional validity of setting up special courts to exclusively try MPs and MLAs for various crimes. It said the special courts should be “offence-centric” and not “offender-centric.” “An MP/MLA, who commits an offence under the POCSO Act [or other Special Acts like Prevention of Corruption Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act] can only be tried by a Special Court created under the POCSO Act [PC Act, NDPS Act] and there cannot be another Special Court exclusively for trial of an MP/MLA, who commits POCSO offence,” the Madras High Court Committee report reasoned. Status report This report is part of a status report filed by amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita in the Supreme Court on Monday. The HC committee report, dated October 13, comes in the face of a 2017 Supreme Court order authorising the Centre to set up 12 special courts to exclusively try criminal politicians across the country. It also comes at a time when a three-judge Bench of the apex court led by Justice N.V. Ramana is looking at ways to expedite these trials pending for years, in some cases, for decades. Over 4,400 criminal trials are pending against legislators. Of this, over 2,500 trials involve sitting legislators. But the Madras High Court’s Criminal Rules Committee on Special Courts for Trial of Criminal Cases against MPs/MLAs, composed of Justices P.N. Prakash, G. Jayachandran and N. Sathish Kumar, said special courts could not be set up on the basis of judicial or executive orders. “Special courts can only be constituted by a statute and not by executive or judicial fiats,” Mr. Hansaria summarised the observations of the committee. Robust structure The committee raised strong reservations against setting up special courts in Tamil Nadu. “The existing court structure in Tamil Nadu, which is robust, is more than enough to deal with the cases involving MPs and MLAs,” the committee said. It urged the Madras High Court Chief Justice to bring this “fact” to the notice of the Supreme Court to get an “exemption from establishing special courts for trial of cases involving MPs and MLAs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-panel-questions-setting-up-of-special-courts-to-try-mps/article33007493.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||States’ suggestions sought to amend IPC||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said on Monday that States had been asked for their suggestions to amend the British-era Indian Penal Code (IPC). At a function in Delhi, Mr. Reddy said the Centre was prepared to make laws and create infrastructure to make women safe. “India has a rich culture and heritage. We have a culture of respecting women. We celebrate the power of women as Shakthi, the all-powerful. In no other culture, we have such veneration of women’s power,” he said. He said the government had amended criminal laws from time to time and enacted the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018, to prescribe more stringent penal provisions for convicts. “The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018 provides among many other provisions, the death penalty for rape or gang rape of a girl aged less than 12 years, no anticipatory bail for such crime, completion of investigation in two months, and trials to be completed in two months,” he said. He said the Ministry was supporting the States and Union Territories in setting up and strengthening woman help desks in police stations and strengthening anti-human trafficking units in all districts. “The National Database on Sexual Offenders is used by police officers to identify repeat offenders, and receive alerts on sex offenders, as also in the investigation. Police can also use this data for verification requests from various employers for their employees working in vulnerable areas, like educational institutions, hotels, public transportation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-suggestions-sought-to-amend-ipc/article33007521.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. gets 6 weeks to file status report on Mallya’s extradition||The Supreme Court on Monday refused a plea made by the lawyer of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to discharge him from the case and gave the Union government six weeks to file a status report on the progress made in extraditing him from the United Kingdom. A Special Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit rejected a plea by advocate E.C. Agrawala to withdraw from the case. On October 5, the court asked Mr. Mallya’s side to come clean about the nature of a “confidential” proceedings going on after the rejection of his appeal against extradition in the U.K. Supreme Court. The government had informed that the extradition case in the U.K. was over but some “secret” proceedings were on. Adjourned to January The court had wanted to know about the nature of these confidential proceedings and ordered Mr. Mallya’s side to clarify by November 2 the nature of this confidential proceedings, when it will end and by when the businessman will appear before it to accept his sentence for contempt. The court has adjourned the case to next January. On August 30 last, the court dismissed Mr. Mallya’s review petition against a May 9, 2017, verdict of contempt. It found no merit in his three-year-old review plea. In May 2017, the court found him guilty of contempt for wilful disobedience of its order to come clean about his assets and not disclosing a sum of $40 million (Rs. 600 crore) he received from British liquor major Diageo Plc following his resignation as Chairman of United Spirits Limited in February 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-gets-6-weeks-to-file-status-report-on-mallya-extradition/article33007517.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Top court looks at M.P. HC’s rakhi order||The Supreme Court on Monday asked Attorney General K.K. Venugopal to suggest ways for courts to improve gender sensitivity towards victims while laying down bail conditions for sex crime offenders. The order came in a case where the Madhya Pradesh High Court ordered a molester to visit his victim and ‘allow’ her to tie a ‘rakhi’ on him. A three-judge Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar wanted Mr. Venugopal; senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for two retired High Court judges; and a few women lawyers who had filed the petition represented by senior advocate Sanjay Parikh to help it lay down guidelines for courts on what sort of bail conditions were permissible while providing bail to the accused in sex offence cases. “The Attorney General can highlight the issues and make recommendations to include in the bail conditions,” Justice Khanwilkar orally observed. Mr. Venugopal submitted, “This will be an opportunity by the court to initiate gender sensitisation”. The Bench scheduled the next hearing for November 27. It had expressed concern over the conditions imposed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court. ‘Trauma trivialised’ The nine lawyers, led by advocate Aparna Bhat, said the High Court order was a “trivialisation of her [victim’s] trauma”. Mr. Parikh said there were many such instances of court orders that objectified women already traumatised by the crimes committed against them. The law prescribed that the victim be kept far away from the accused. Instead, here, the Madhya Pradesh HC had ordered the accused to visit the home of the woman — the very place where the crime was alleged to have occurred. The petition said the court had further ordered the accused to gift the woman Rs. 11,000 “as a customary ritual usually offered by brothers to sisters on such occasion and shall also seek her blessings”. It had also ordered the accused to offer Rs. 5,000 to the woman’s son to “purchase clothes and sweets”. Mr. Parikh said such orders only succeeded in victimising the woman and retarding the years of work done to sensitise the courts.  The Attorney General can make recommendations to include in bail conditions Supreme Court bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-court-looks-at-mp-hcs-rakhi-order/article33007524.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,||Over 80 vaccinated as part of BCG booster trial against COVID-19||More than 80 volunteers had been vaccinated as part of a trial under way at JSS Hospital in Mysuru to give a booster dose of BCG to the elderly to prevent COVID-19-related morbidity and mortality. As part of the trial initiated at the behest of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in view of the ongoing pandemic, a total of 150 participants had already been screened at the hospital since September 23. More than 80 had been vaccinated so far to study if the booster dose would provide immunity against not only COVID-19, but also other respiratory infections. The rationale behind “BCG has been part of our infant immunisation schedule with a proven safety profile over many decades. Apart from preventing tuberculosis in the young, this vaccine’s off-target effect in preventing many respiratory complications in children is the idea behind ICMR giving a booster dose of the same vaccine to the elderly since they are more susceptible to the COVID-19 infection, complications and mortality,” said B. Suresh, Pro Chancellor, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER), Mysuru. Healthy people in the age group of 60 to 80, who are regularly treating their diabetes, blood pressure and cardiac ailments, if any, are eligible for the booster of the anti-tuberculosis vaccine BCG. However, those who cannot be part of the trial include COVID-19 patients or those who have recovered from it, tuberculosis patients or those who have recovered from it, and people suffering from HIV, cancer or kidney-related ailments. Immunogenicity study Though the trial programme has been going in different parts of India for the last six months, Dr. Suresh said JSS Hospital, which is a unit of JSSAHER, is the only institution in the second phase chose for the immunogenicity study too. The volunteers chosen for the immunogenicity test will be monitored for the presence of antibodies in their blood and how they will cope in the context of COVID-19. Though BCG vaccine is given to infants mandatorily in India, the immunity is believed to reduce with time, particularly after 60 years, according to experts. Thus, the vaccine administered as part of the trial will be a ‘booster dose’ to ensure additional cover not only for tuberculosis, but also for COVID-19. The Principal Investigator of the trial is Prathiba Periera, Professor and Head of the Department of Medicine, JSS Hospital, Mysuru. Dr .Suresh said the BCG booster dose trial is the fourth vaccine trial being carried out by JSS Hospital, which is a WHO-approved vaccine trial centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-80-vaccinated-as-part-of-bcg-booster-trial-against-covid-19/article33007729.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘32% of candidates have criminal cases’||In Bihar, 89% Assembly constituencies have three or more candidates who have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits for the ongoing elections, an analysis by the Association for Democratic Reforms found on Monday. The ADR analysis of election affidavits of 3,722 of the 3,733 candidates found that 32% of them had declared criminal cases. The affidavits of the remaining 11 were not available at the time of compiling the report. Releasing the report, ADR founder Jagdeep S. Chhokar said the Bihar elections were the first general elections to be held after the Supreme Court directions to parties on February 13 to publish the reasons for choosing a candidate with a criminal background. He said the number of “red alert constituencies”, which have three or more contestants with criminal cases pending, is usually around 50%, but it had increased to 89% in the Bihar polls. He said parties had largely not followed the court’s directions. “The directions of the Supreme Court have had no effect on the political parties in selection of candidates as they have again followed their old practice of giving tickets to around 32% candidates with criminal cases,” the ADR report said. The court had directed the parties to give reasons why a candidate without criminal antecedents could not be chosen. “As per these mandatory guidelines, the reasons for such selection has to be with reference to qualifications, achievements and merit of the candidate concerned. Therefore, such unfounded and baseless reasons given by political parties like popularity of the person, does good social work, cases are politically motivated etc are not sound and cogent reasons for fielding candidates with tainted backgrounds,” the report said. The report found that the assets declared by the 201 re-contesting MLAs had increased by Rs. 2.02 crore or 71% on average from the 2015 Assembly polls. Assets declared by the incumbents of the Janata Dal (United), Rashtriya Janata Dal, the BJP, the Congress and the Lok Janshakti Party had increased by 81.68%, 83.48%, 68.07%, 43.17% and 75.62% respectively, it found.  The directions of the Supreme Court have had no effect on the political parties ADR report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32-of-candidates-have-criminal-cases/article33007498.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Terrorism knows no boundaries: Shringla||Referring to the recent violent attacks in France, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla took a tough line on “radicalism in Europe” during his official meetings in Germany on Monday. He also stressed India’s concerns over the coronavirus pandemic, the military stand-off at the Line of Actual Control with China, and cross-border attacks from Pakistan. “As you know, India has faced multiple challenges in the recent months due to the pandemic, tensions on our northern border [China] and the ever-present menace of terrorism on our western border [with Pakistan],” Mr. Shringla is understood to have said, without naming either country, at the start of talks in Berlin with the German Foreign office and Chancery officials. Sources said the Foreign Secretary told his German interlocutors that Europe is witnessing a “manifestation of radicalism and extremism”, saying that knife and shooting attacks in France linked to Islamist radicals in the past week vindicates India’s stand that “terror knows no boundaries”. “Unfortunately, the terrorists are united in purpose and action while we, the victims, are yet to be so. Ironically some countries who are the fountainhead of terror are practising dissimulation and claiming to be victims of terror to gain international sympathy,” he told German officials, in an apparent reference to Pakistan’s criticism of French President Emmanuel Macron’s response to the attacks as a form of “Islamophobia”. Mr. Shringla also said like-minded countries must work to together to disrupt terror networks that are both “underground and on the Internet”. Mr. Shringla, who is on a week-long 3-nation tour of Europe, visited Paris prior to travelling to Berlin, and will travel next to London. In Paris, Mr. Shringla had carried a similar message on the radicalism that fuelled “lone-wolf” attacks in France. Mr. Shringla also referred to India’s “multiple challenges” from China, Pakistan and the pandemic, in remarks to think-tanks he met in Berlin, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terror-knows-no-boundaries/article33007502.ece
03 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjar protesters back on railway tracks||Rail and road traffic was disrupted after Gujjars demanding reservation in jobs and education as a most backward class (MBC) intensified their agitation on Monday and occupied the railway track at Peelupura in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan. As many as 29 trains on the Delhi-Mumbai route were diverted and three cancelled. The government authorised the Collectors of eight districts to make preventive detentions under the National Security Act to deal with the agitation. While Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla joined the protesters at the railway track, others blocked the Bayana-Hindaun road. Nearly 220 buses from five major Rajasthan Roadways depots of Dausa, Hindaun, Karauli, Bharatpur and Bayana were stopped and the bus service on the Jaipur-Agra route was halted, causing inconvenience to a large number of passengers. Gujjars also held demonstrations elsewhere in the State, including in Ajmer and Kota, while Internet services were suspended in Gujjar-dominated areas of several districts. Consensus on 14 points The agitation started amid indications of division in the Gujjar leadership, as a section of the community leaders held talks with the government in Jaipur on Saturday and reached a consensus on 14 points. The faction, led by Himmat Singh, held a meeting near Bayana on Monday and called for an end to the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujjar-protesters-back-on-railway-tracks/article33007509.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana, A.P. reach accord on bus services||The stand off between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on inter-State services operated by the road transport corporations of the two States ended on Monday afternoon following an amicable agreement between them. The services which were suspended between the two States in the wake of imposition of lockdown on March 23 were straight away restored at 5p.m with the first bus taking off to Kurnool from Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station in Hyderabad and a bus departing for Hyderabad from Vijayawada around sametime. As per the agreement signed by the vice-chairmen and managing directors of the two corporations -- Sunil Sharma (Telangana) and M.T. Krishna Babu (Andhra Pradesh) -- Telangana outfit will run 1,61,258 kms daily in Andhra Pradesh with 820 services and AP will run 259 kms less with 638 services. But, the roll out will be gradual and demand driven. The agreement in the presence of Transport Minister of Telangana P. Ajay Kumar sealed the number of services to be run by either States on specified routes. It was the first agreement post-bifurcation. Though the Centre had relaxed lockdown norms to permit inter-State movement of buses months ago, they could not be run between Telangana and AP as the former State insisted on parity in services. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was firm that both States should operate equal kilometres and services. The parameter of kms was achieved on Monday but Telangana demanded more services for an equal length which was conceded. AP ran 1,009 services in Telangana prior to lockdown but it will now operate only 638 services which was 371 less. Telangana operated 750 services earlier but demanded 850 now. Ministers to meet Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Krishna Babu said the bus services between the two States till bifurcation were as per arrangement in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. Now, an agreement on services was reached at the corporation level but Transport Ministers of two States will meet again to settle road tax payment issues. He expressed apprehensions that operating one lakh kms on a daily basis for any road transport corporation might be a tall order in present COVID conditions. The arrangement might have to be reworked if the target was not achieved. Mr. Ajay Kumar said the agreement was necessitated because the services between Telangana and AP were higher than with other neighbouring States. He added that TSRTC suffered a loss of over Rs. 2,000 crore in lockdown. The TSRTC used to get a daily revenue of Rs. 13 crore before the lockdown, but currently the Corporation is earning Rs. 7 crore per day. Mr. Babu said the loss to APSRTC was over Rs. 2,400 crore during lockdown and currently the corporation is running only 60 % bus services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-ap-reach-accord-on-bus-services/article33007487.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Transactions of agri lands on Dharani take off||Registration and mutation of agricultural lands through Dharani, the integrated land record management system, started on Monday amid complaints that technical glitches delayed the registration process from some districts. The online registration/mutation process of agricultural lands was kick-started in 570 mandals across the State, barring mandals located in the jurisdiction of Hyderabad district. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced during the launch of Dharani on October 29 that details of 1.48 crore acres 59.46 lakh accounts had already been hosted online and the government has intensified steps to launch the services for non-agricultural lands within a fortnight incorporating a new software that was required. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar formally launched the transactions on the portal at the Tahsildar office in Shamshabad and handed over the first registered copies to individual who made a gift deed on his wife’s name. In all, 946 persons paid money towards registration services on day one and 888 members booked slot for registrations across the State through Dharani as well as Mee Seva centres. The Chief Secretary said launch of the portal envisaged simple, transparent and corruption free registration process and it gave no scope for discretion at any level. Registration could be done by Aadhaar authentication of the buyer/seller/witnesses with bio-metric attendance. Dharani would facilitate four types of registration — sale deed, gift deed, succession and partition — and smart phones could be utilized for booking slot under Dharani. Technical issues He said registrations started simultaneously in all districts and steps have been taken to resolve technical issues, if any, encountered during the registration process, in a couple of days. The Chief Minister is expected to announce the date on which registrations/mutations of non-agricultural properties would be launched and he had already announced the government’s resolve to set up special tribunals for pending applications relating to mutations and registrations. As expected, the day one of the launch witnessed complaints over technical glitches that delayed the proceedings. The portal could not be opened at some places due to network connectivity problems while the servers did not function in some other instances forcing farmers to stand in long queues waiting for their turn. Few complaints Technical problems relating to reverse endorsement cropped up in the offices in Khammam while issues arising out of configuration and printer settings delayed the process in some offices in Nalgonda district. The process commenced in a sedate note in districts like Khammam and Adilabad which had Fifth Schedule areas governed by the Land Transfer Regulation (LTR) Act (Act 1 of 70) protecting the rights of tribes in predominance. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem, only four persons from non-scheduled areas booked slots for online registration and there were initial hiccups in the processes due to technical issues.Few transactions remained incomplete in Peddavoora and other mandals in the erstwhile Nalgonda district due to technical problems and complaints were also received from parts of Warangal and Karimnagar districts. The Chief Minister while launching the portal indicated the scope for such teething problems which could result in some delay in the completion of the transactions, but such irritants would be cleared within no time for ensuring transparent services to buyers/sellers. Accordingly, people opting for online registration/mutation maintained restraint and waited with patience till the technical issues were resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-transactions-of-agricultural-lands-on-dharani-portal-take-off/article33008214.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tension in Siddipet hours before poll||Hours before commencement of polling in Dubbak by-election, tension prevailed at a lodge in Siddipet town with activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) clashing with one another after an altercation. Conflicting versions emerged as to what triggered the clash. Siddipet Police Commissioner Joel Davis said D. Srikanth Reddy of BJP, accompanied by his associates, went to the lodge late in the evening seeking a room for accommodation. “On being told that the occupancy at the lodge was full, Srikanth Reddy tried to check if any other room was vacant and found the door of a room ajar,” the Commissioner said. Srikanth peeped inside and saw Andhole MLA Kranthi and others inside. “An argument ensued when TRS leaders questioned him why he had come to their room. A clash followed,” the Commissioner said. BJP state president and MP Bandi Sanjay, refuting the version of the police and TRS workers, alleged that his party workers had gone there after receiving reports that the TRS leaders were distributing money to influence voters. “When our workers questioned their actions, MLA Kranthi and his associates attacked them and started accusing us of creating trouble,” Mr. Sanjay said. The Siddipet Police Commissioner said he has not yet received any complaint when reports last came in. He said cases would be registered on receipt of complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tension-in-siddipet-hours-before-poll/article33008217.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala PSC to implement 10% quota for poor in general category||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has decided that 10% reservation in government jobs for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in the general category will be applicable for all job notifications which were active on October 23, the date on which the Cabinet gave the nod for the quota. Amendments will be made in the online application and profile for the quota to be made applicable for eligible aspirants for job notifications, for which the last date for application had not ended on October 23. The last date for applications to be submitted on November 4 has now been extended till midnight of November 14 for eligible aspirants to make applications. The date extension is not applicable to departmental posts in which the EWS quota is not applicable. Rules amended The Kerala State and Subordinate Service Rules was amended as per a notification issued on October 26 for implementation of the 10% reservation in government jobs for the EWS in the general category without affecting the existing reservation, following the Cabinet decision three days earlier. The Centre had earlier decided to provide the 10% reservation based on the 103rd amendment of the Constitution, without affecting the 50% reservation being provided to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. The Cabinet proposal had led to stormy debates with political as well as religious organisations up in arms against it.  The Indian Union Muslim League, the Welfare Party of India and the Social Democratic Party of India and the SNDP Yogam had come out against the move, which they have portrayed as aimed at the upcoming elections to local bodies and to the Assembly. The Congress and the NSS have pointed out flaws in the way it is being implemented, while not outrightly rejecting the whole proposal. Significantly, the Syro-Malabar Church and the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church have supported the government’s move. Candidates from families that have an annual income of less than Rs. 4 lakh will be eligible for this reservation. Job aspirants belonging to families that possess more than 2 acres of land in grama panchayats or more than 75 cents in municipalities or more than 50 cents in Corporation limits will not be eligible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-psc-to-implement-10-quota-for-poor-in-general-category/article33007485.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC throws out Saritha Nair’s plea against Rahul||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by Saritha S. Nair, an accused in the Kerala solar scam case, challenging the election of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi from the Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency in 2019. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde rejected the plea of Ms. Nair, who was convicted in two cheating cases relating to the scam. The case was called the first time during the virtual hearing on Monday, but was passed over as the court could not connect with Ms. Nair’s lawyer. The Bench came back to the case after finishing with the other cases for the day. However, it could not connect with the lawyer again. “Even on second call, no one was connected through videoconferencing. The special leave petition is dismissed for non-prosecution,” the Bench recorded in its short order. Ms. Nair sought the election to the constituency to be set aside, followed by fresh polls. In October 2019, the Kerala High Court dismissed her case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-throws-out-saritha-nairs-plea-against-rahul/article33007490.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan passes Bills to stall Centre’s farm laws||The Rajasthan Assembly on Monday passed three Bills to stop the applicability of the Centre’s new farm laws in the State through amendments that make the Central Acts ineffective in certain respects. The Bills were passed by voice vote after a nine-hour debate, in which the treasury and opposition benches exchanged barbs. Rajasthan has become the second Congress-ruled State after Punjab to formally reject the farm Acts. The Opposition BJP staged a walkout before the Bills were put to vote, saying the State government did not have the powers under the Constitution to bring in such legislation. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Bills, which went against the federal structure, had challenged the Centre’s legislative domain. The House earlier rejected a proposal to send the Bills for seeking public opinion. Speaker C.P. Joshi said no changes had been suggested in the provisions of the Bills introduced with the stated objective of ensuring the livelihood security of farmers and protecting minimum support prices (MSP) for agricultural produce. The three Bills, pertaining to State amendments to the Central statutes, were Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020. Replying to the debate on the Bills, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal said the BJP-led government at the Centre had tried to finish the farmers and hand over agriculture sector to big corporates through the farm laws. “We will not allow this to happen in Rajasthan. Over 95% of farmers do not get remunerative prices for their produce... Our amendments will protect them.” Mr. Dhariwal said the Central laws, if enforced without any change, would also adversely affect public distribution system, as commodities like rice and wheat would not be available for procurement. “The Central Acts do not even mention MSP. Do they want the corporates to set up their shops in front of mandis and deceive the farmers?” he asked. Energy Minister B.D. Kalla, who replied to the debate on the Bill for amending Essential Commodities Act, said the State amendments would stop monopolistic practices and provide relief to consumers buying agricultural produce. He said the Bill would cover potato, onion, grains, pulses, oilseeds and edible oils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-passes-bills-to-stall-centres-farm-laws/article33007491.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central nod for several key appointments in ED||The Centre has cleared several key appointments in the Enforcement Directorate, which is mandated to investigate money laundering, terror funding and foreign exchange-related offences. The tenure of some officials has also been extended. Among the new appointees is Sonia Narang, a Karnataka cadre Indian Police Service officer of the 2002 batch, who has been on Central deputation with the National Investigation Agency since April 2016. According to a Department of Revenue order on Monday, President Ram Nath Kovind approved her appointment at the Additional Director level for a tenure up to July 3, 2021. At the same level, Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officials — Santosh Mankoskar of the 2004 batch and Sunil Kumar Yadav of the 2005 batch — have been appointed for four years from the date of joining. Yogesh Sharma, also an IRS official of 2006 batch, has been appointed till April 22, 2022. The on-deputation appointment of IRS official Kapil Raj has been approved till December 12, and that of IRS official Sudesh Kumar Sheoran till January 2, 2021, and IRS official Manish Godara’s appointment approved till December 29. The President has also approved extension of tenure of IRS official Madhab C. Mishra to September 1, 2021, while that of IPS officer Raman Gupta has been extended to November 15 next year and that of IRS official Rahul Rajput to August 26 next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-nod-for-several-key-appointments-in-ed/article33007527.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||NIA arrests madrasa teacher from Bengal||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a 32-year-old madrasa teacher from West Bengal for his alleged involvement in a “series of conspiratorial meetings convened by the members of the Al-Qaeda module”. The accused, Abdul Momin Mondal, also tried to recruit new members, the NIA said. So far, 11 accused have been arrested from West Bengal and Kerala in the case registered on September 11 pertaining to “anti-national activities by a group of jihadi terrorists,” it said. Mondal was produced before the district court and a transit remand to move him to Delhi for interrogation has been granted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-madrasa-teacher-from-bengal/article33007528.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A-G declines consent for contempt case against Jagan||Mr. Venugopal said the letter was sent to the CJI directly and, therefore, the latter was “well aware of the nature of the allegations contained in the letter”. “Hence, it would not be appropriate for me to deal with the matter,” he wrote. It was Mr. Upadhyay’s PILs against the criminalisation of politics and long-pending trials against legislators that had led the top court to order the setting up of special courts to try MPs and MLAs expeditiously. The Bench led by Justice Ramana is presently monitoring the process. In his letter for consent to the A-G, he said Mr. Reddy’s letter was a “dishonest and mischievous attempt to pressurise the judiciary”. “Mr. Reddy is not only indulging in bench-hunting but also wants the court to stop hearing these PILs. This is a silly mischievous deceitful act and deliberate fraudulent calculated attempts to not only undermine apex court but also to terrorise judiciary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-declines-consent-for-contempt-case-against-jagan/article33008170.ece
03 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Case involving Kummanam dropped||A cheating case allegedly involving BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekharan has been settled with the complainant deciding not to proceed with the case. C.R. Harikrishnan of Aranmula, the complainant, told mediapersons on Monday that he was withdrawing the complaint following an out-of-court settlement. However, the Aranmula police are yet to get any formal intimation on it. “We have already lodged an FIR and submitted it in the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court in Pathanamthitta. The accused will now have to approach the High Court and file an affidavit to get it quashed,” said G. Santosh Kumar, SHO, Aranmula. The Aranmula police had earlier booked a case against nine persons, including Mr. Rajasekharan, for cheating and criminal breach of trust. Praveen V. Pillai, former private secretary of the former BJP State president, was the prime accused while Mr. Rajasekharan was arraigned as the fourth accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-involving-kummanam-dropped/article33007486.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-in-arms/article33007489.ece
03 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||BSP chief does a u-turn on support to BJP||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said on Monday that she would rather take sanyas (retire) from politics than ally with the BJP or contest elections with it. The BSP will never ally or contest any election at any cost with “parochial and communal forces like the BJP,” Ms. Mayawati said in a statement that seemed to negate her recent positions on BJP ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-chief-does-a-u-turn-on-support-to-bjp/article33007497.ece
03 November 2020||Srinagar,||Man held for ‘plot’ to kill politicians||The police on Monday said they arrested a hospital security guard in Central Kashmir’s Ganderbal who was tasked by militants with preparing “a kill list of local political workers”. The police said the conspiracy was unravelled during the investigation into the attack on BJP district vice-president Ghulam Qadir in the Nunner area on October 6, in which one constable lost his life. During the investigation, Qaiser Ahmad Sheikh from Ganderbal’s Serch area, who works as a security guard, was held. “Technical details revealed some startling facts. He admitted to be an active member of Hizbul Mujahideen during sustained questioning on October 30,” the police said. According to the police, Sheikh “was instrumental in the attack”. “One pistol, one magazine and Pakistani flags have been recovered on his disclosure,” the police said. The police said two of his accomplices, Hilal Ahmad Mir and Asif Ahmad Mir, were also arrested. The trio, according to the police, were in touch with terror operatives in south Kashmir and were “tasked with preparing a kill list of local political workers and attack them”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-held-for-plot-to-kill-politicians/article33007510.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||More trains are likely on busy routes||The Railways, which has taken a 90% hit in revenues from the passenger segment due to COVID-19, said on Monday that about 327 or 44% of the 736 special passenger trains currently running have waiting lists. “We are monitoring these 327 trains daily. Once we determine the nature of the wait list — for how many days and how long — we will run clone trains on those routes,” Railway Board Chairman and CEO V.K. Yadav said. Replying to a query, he said the Railways had earned about Rs. 3,322 crore from the passenger segment so far in the current financial year, which was 90% less than it did last year due to COVID-19. However, freight operations had seen a growth in revenues. Loading had grown for all commodities, Mr. Yadav said. In October this year, freight revenue was Rs. 869 crore more than it was last year and the month also saw the highest ever automobile loading. Mr. Yadav said the average occupancy was about 92% in the currently running trains. About 19 trains had occupancy below 30%, 44 had between 30% and 50%, 83 had between 50% and 75% and 327 trains have wait lists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-trains-are-likely-on-busy-routes/article33007512.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to extend security of Babri judge||The Supreme Court on Monday refused a plea made by former CBI judge S.K. Yadav, the author of the Babri Masjid demolition case verdict, to allow him to continue with his personal security. He had acquitted top BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders such as L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and others in the case on his last day in office. He had made the appeal to the Supreme Court on September 30 considering the sensitivity of the case. “We do not consider it necessary to continue the security,” a Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman concluded. The acquitted leaders were accused of criminal conspiracy which led to the demolition of the Babri Masjid by kar sevaks in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-extend-security-of-babri-judge/article33007785.ece
03 November 2020||Guwahati,||Sonowal writes to Amit Shah on border issue||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the tension with Mizoram as a person from Cachar district died in custody in the neighbouring State. Mr. Sonowal expressed condolences over the death of Intazul Laskar, who was “abducted by the miscreants” from the Lailapur Border Outpost area in Cachar, an official statement said. He also announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to his family, it said. “... following the sequel of boundary rows along Assam-Mizoram border, CM Sonowal sent the details of the incidents to Union Home Minister Amit Shah today,” it added. The statement did not mention the contents of the letter to Mr. Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonowal-writes-to-amit-shah-on-border-issue/article33007786.ece
03 November 2020||Bhopal,||Now, M.P. mulls law against ‘love jihad’||The Madhya Pradesh government will make legal arrangements to curb the alleged practice of ‘love jihad’ in the State, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday. With this, M.P. has become the third BJP-ruled State after Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to announce its intention to make legal provisions against ‘love jihad’. “There will be no jihad in the name of love,” Mr. Chouhan told reporters.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-mp-mulls-law-against-love-jihad/article33008158.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Vocational course at LBS centre||The LBS Centre for Science and Technology has invited applications GST/DCFA with Tally course to be conducted at the Thiruvananthapuram centre. Admissions will commence from the first week of November. For details, visitwww.lbscentre.kerala.gov.inor dial 0471-2560330, 8547141406.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vocational-course-at-lbs-centre/article33007827.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sriram removed from fact-checking unit||The State government on Monday removed Sriram Venkitaraman as head of the unit to detect dissemination of fake information about the COVID-19 pandemic. By one account, Mr. Venkitaraman opted out of the post for personal reasons. An official said Mr. Venkitaraman’s transfer was not a punishment as portrayed by some sections of the media. Additional Secretary (Health) B.S. Biju Bhaskar would head the unit. Unit’s intention The Information and Public Relations Department had set up the unit to counter false propaganda relating to the outbreak, including the peddling of magic cures and bids to stigmatise patients and caregivers. Mr. Venkitraman had come under a cloud after the police implicated him in a car accident that resulted in the death of journalist K.M. Basheer in 2018. The police case was that Mr. Venkitraman was driving the car in an alcohol-impaired state and above the legal speed limit. They booked him for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. However, Mr. Venkitaraman has denied the accusation in court. Meanwhile, a magistrate court here directed the police to present a summary of the evidence in the case to Mr. Venkitaraman to enable him to mount a legal defence against the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sriram-removed-from-fact-checking-unit/article33007480.ece
03 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Flurry of charges over suspension of goods trains to Punjab||With the continued suspension of goods trains to Punjab following protests over the new farm laws, political parties are engaged in a verbal spat over the issue. All Ministers of the Congress government on Monday hit out at the BJP, accusing the its leadership of misleading farmers. Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma had accused Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of “instigating farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flurry-of-charges-over-suspension-of-goods-trains-to-punjab/article33007520.ece
03 November 2020||Belagavi,||Unidentified men open fire at cars, injure five and kill one||Unidentified men opened fire at three cars in Vijayapura district on Monday, injuring a repeat offender and his four associates and killing his manager. Mahadev Sahukar Bhairagonda (55), whose name figures on the rowdy-sheet of the district police, received three bullet injuries. His manager and relative Baburama Maruti Kanchanal (64) and Lakshman Khogaon (25), driver, Jagbir Singh (36), Husseini Basavaraj Bhajantri (28) and Ramesh Kumar (25), all his personal security staff, were injured. They were all admitted to a private hospital in Vijayapura. However, Baburama Kanchanal was declared brought dead. The police said that three cars carrying the Bhairagonda party were on their way from Vijayapura city to Chadachan via Bhutanal. At Kannal Cross, a tipper hit one of the cars in which Bhairagonda was sitting. In a few moments, around eight-10 unidentified men gathered around the cars and began throwing stones at them. They also opened fire at the cars at close range. The windowpanes of the cars were damaged and Bhairagonda, Baburama Kanchanal and others were injured. The accused left the tipper at the spot and fled in other different vehicles. Meanwhile, family members of Bhairagonda have expressed the suspicion that their long time rivals, the Chadachan family, were behind the attack. Bhairagonda is facing charges of killing Gangadhar Chadachan, a leader of his rival gang, in 2017. Senior police officers visited the spot. Superintendent of Police Anupam Agrawal has constituted a team of officers from different police stations and branches of the district police to investigate the case. He said that it was a planned attack as per initial information. A case has been registered at the Vijayapura Rural Police Station. Investigators say that long-standing rivalry between the two families could have led to the attack. Three years ago, the Chadachan brothers, Gangadhar (28) and Dharmaraj (32), were killed on October 30. It was alleged by the Chadachan family members that the police had eliminated Dharmaraj in a fake encounter and then, handed over Gangadhar to the Bhairagonda gang members who murdered him. Vimala Bai, mother of the Chadachan brothers, approached the Kalaburagi Bench of the High Court of Karnataka saying that the police had killed her son Dharmaraj in a fake encounter, after receiving illegal consideration from the Bairagonda gang. The woman’s complaint said that the police handed over Dharmaraj’s brother Gangadhar to the rival gang which then killed him in cold blood. A detailed inquiry was conducted by the district police that led to the arrest of four policemen and two members of the Bairagonda gang. The policemen were charged with kidnapping Gangadhar and handing him over to the Bhairagonda gang to enable it to kill him, and then assist the gang to dispose of the victim’s body in the Bhima river. According to a complaint by the Chadachan family, police officers picked up the Chadachan brothers from their house on October 30. In a few hours, Dharmaraj was killed in an encounter with a team of officers led by Sub-Inspector of Police Gopal Hallur. Mr. Gopal Hullur and constables Chandrashekhar Jadhav, Geddeppa Naikodi and Siddaruda Rugi of the Chadchan Police Station were arrested. The State government asked the Criminal Investigation Department take up the case of abduction and murder of Gangadhar. The inquiry into the incident is still on. A magisterial inquiry was ordered into the fake encounter in which Dharmaraj was killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unidentified-men-open-fire-at-cars-injure-five-and-kill-one/article33007711.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bineesh’s custody extended by five days||A special court designated for Enforcement Directorate (ED) cases here on Monday extended by five days custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri who was arrested by ED officials on the basis of a money trail in a drug case busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in August. While in custody, Bineesh had complained of ill health and taken to the Bowring Hospital where the doctor after examination said that he was doing fine. However, Bineesh continued to cite ill health at the court and sought respite. However, the ED officials, through their counsel Prasanna Kumar, contended that Bineesh did not cooperate with the questioning citing ill health and the officials need more time to question him. Mr. Prasanna Kumar argued that Bineesh wasted two and half days of the custody citing health reasons. The officials had to take him to the hospital and get all the tests done including the scanning. The probe so far has revealed that Bineesh had floated two shell companies and transferred Rs. 3.5 crore to his associate Mohammed Anoop through the hawala route. Besides this, Bineesh has around 10 cases pending against him including one in Dubai. The ED officials had earlier taken custody of Anoop and questioned him about the money transactions between them. Anoop was among the three, including D Anikha and R Ravindran, arrested by NCB officials in August 28 with a huge amount of drugs LSD and MDMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bineeshs-custody-extended-by-five-days/article33007472.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,||HC defers trial in actor rape case for a week||The Kerala High Court on Monday deferred the trial in the actor rape case for a week. The Additional Special Sessions Judge, Ernakulam, had earlier scheduled to resume the trial on November 3. Actor Dileep is the 8th accused in the case and has been charged with conspiracy. It was while considering a plea of the survivor and the State for a change of trial court that the High Court issued the order. The court also directed the prosecution to produce before it the application it submitted before the trial court seeking time to move the High Court for a change of court. S. Sreekumar, counsel for the survivor, submitted that questions tarnishing her character and conduct were asked during the cross-examination. Though the prosecutor raised his objections, they were overruled and such questions were permitted. He submitted that a change of court would not affect the time limit fixed by the Supreme Court for completing the trial. If the prosecutor gave up his engagement, it could also delay the trial, he submitted. The court asked the counsel whether the cumulative effect of his arguments should lead the court to the only conclusion that the judge was biased. “There could have been flaws in the manner in which orders were passed or the delay in passing the orders. But does it reflect that there is bias on the mind of the judicial officer,” the court asked. Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the opinion of the trial court judge on whether she was still interested in continuing with the trial might be sought. Usually, when such allegations were made, the judges would recuse themselves from hearing the case, he said. He submitted that the survivor was once cross-examined from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m and several unwarranted questions were put to her. She had to provide the details in the presence of a battery of lawyers and the accused present in the court, Mr. Chakravarthy pointed out. Manju’s statement In a statement filed before the court earlier, the State submitted that the trial court judge refused to record the statement of actor Manju Warrier, witness and former wife of Dileep, that her daughter had requested her not to depose anything against Dileep. The judge refused to record it stating that such a statement was inadmissible in re-examination. The request of the special public prosecutor to record the statement was rejected by the court, the State submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-defers-trial-in-actor-rape-case-for-a-week/article33007474.ece
03 November 2020||Lucknow,||After quitting Cong., former Unnao MP Annu Tandon joins SP||Days after resigning from the Congress, former Unnao MP Annu Tandon on Monday joined the Samajwadi Party in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav. She said she wanted to see Mr. Yadav as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2022. It was necessary to unite if “we have to push back communal forces”, she said, adding the State needed a “progressive, young and educated leader”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-quitting-cong-former-unnao-mp-annu-tandon-joins-sp/article33007513.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court refuses to extend security of former judge who pronounced Babri verdict||The Supreme Court on Monday refused a plea made by former CBI judge S.K. Yadav, the author of the Babri Masjid demolition case verdict, to allow him to continue with his personal security. He had acquitted top BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders such as L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and others in the case. He had made the appeal citing the the sensitivity of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-refuses-to-extend-security-of-former-judge-who-pronounced-babri-verdict/article33007523.ece
03 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi hospitalised again||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi was on Monday admitted to the intensive care unit of the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). He was discharged from the hospital on October 25 after undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications. A Congress spokesperson said the 85-year-old leader was rushed to the GMCH owing to breathing problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-hospitalised-again/article33007526.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||“Horse trading”: Congress demands probe by a sitting judge||Ahead of the byelections to eight Assembly seats in Gujarat on November 3, the Congress on Monday sought a court-monitored probe into allegations that its former MLA was paid huge sums by the ruling BJP to switch sides. The Congress also played a sting video showing former Gujarat MLA Soma Patel purportedly confessing that Rs. 10 crore was paid by the BJP to defect from the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/horse-trading-congress-demands-probe-by-a-sitting-judge/article33008071.ece
03 November 2020||ANDIPATTI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA offers help||The Andipatti DMK MLA Maharajan visited the houses of two women, who had died in a lightning accident recently, here on Monday and consoled the family members. About a fortnight ago, when 12 women were working in a farm, lightning claimed the lives of Pothumani, wife of Nagaraj of Vadakku Theru, Kandamanur, and Valliammal, wife of Peria Murugan. They died on the spot. On hearing about the loss, the MLA visited the families and consoled them. He also offered cash assistance to the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-offers-help/article33008434.ece
03 November 2020||ANDIPATTI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA offers help||The Andipatti DMK MLA Maharajan visited the houses of two women, who had died in a lightning accident recently, here on Monday and consoled the family members. About a fortnight ago, when 12 women were working in a farm, lightning claimed the lives of Pothumani, wife of Nagaraj of Vadakku Theru, Kandamanur, and Valliammal, wife of Peria Murugan. They died on the spot. On hearing about the loss, the MLA visited the families and consoled them. He also offered cash assistance to the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-offers-help/article33007663.ece
03 November 2020||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Two held with PDS rice||Police arrested two persons, including a rice mill owner, under charges of hoarding rice meant for sale through PDS outlets here on Monday. Following specific information, DSP (Bodi sub-division) Parthiban and team conducted a search on the premises of Peer Oli (50) at Vadakku Theru here. They found that the suspect had loaded five tonnes of ration rice in the lorry and was about to leave the premises. Based on the confession, the team also unravelled another 10 tonnes of ration rice hoarded in a separate room. A case was registered and lorry driver Pothiraj (48) of Chinnamanur was also held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-pds-rice/article33007655.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatres, multiplexes gearing up to reopen||Theatres and multiplexes in Tamil Nadu have indicated that they will resume operations from November 10 following the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the State and Central governments. Owners of a few standalone halls said they will wait for another week and take a decision on the basis of the films that are ready for release. If there are no new releases from the Tamil industry, theatre-owners are planning to re-release a few films or screen other language films. On Saturday, the State government said it would allow cinemas and multiplexes to reopen from November 10 with 50% of seating capacity. To create awareness among the audience, theatres have been asked to screen messages on the COVID-19 precautionary measures during the shows. “Unless there is some big film for Deepavali, we will not reopen the theatre. We would rather wait than incur losses. On normal days, our occupancy rate is 70%; now, with the 50% limit, it does not make sense for us to reopen immediately,” said the proprietor of a popular theatre in the city. Udeep B., managing director of Mayajaal, said his screens would open on November 10. “Complete COVID-19 new normal SOP has been set in the multiplex last month itself,” he said. “There are some films in the pipeline, which we expect to be released. Or we will open with other language films playing in other States. There will be some new release for Deepavali or there are some Hindi films releasing. We will play them,” he said. ‘Patrons will come back’ Archana Kalpathi, CEO, AGS Cinemas, said, “We will be starting on November 10 to test the protocol. Looking at the way restaurants and other places have bounced back, theatres will also see patrons come back if we give them comfort and safety. If there is no new content, we will release movies that were running before COVID-19 broke out.” Most theatre-owners pointed out that producers were hesitating to release films, wondering whether audiences would risk visiting a theatre. They want to wait and watch. “We have already incurred heavy losses and we don’t want to release films and get stuck again. Families will take more time to visit theatres until the number of COVID-19 cases come down. And patrons aged below 25 will not come unless it is a big star film. I will wait until Pongal,” a producer said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The 1,213 screens with over 6.36 lakh seats in the State downed curtains in March. According to estimates, a one-day closure of all theatres will lead to an average loss of Rs. 8 crore. Amusement parks Theme park operators are in a dilemma as they rely heavily on schools and children. While a handful of them said they would resume work on November 10, others said they would wait until 2021. “We have a lot of water-rides. So we don’t want to take chances. We will open in March 2021,” said a theme park operator from the southern part of the State. In Chennai, VGP and a few more amusement park operators said they would reopen this month as soon as their contract workers and employees return. “We will resume operations on November 10. We will start training our staff in queue management and handling various rides in compliance with the norms prescribed by the government,” said V.G.P. Ravidas, managing director of VGP Universal Kingdom. Vincent Adaikalraj, director of Black Thunder, said, “We have a park at Udhagamandalam that we will open [after getting approval from the Collector]. With regard to Black Thunder, we will open it at November-end or in summer. We are still evaluating the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatres-multiplexes-gearing-up-to-reopen/article33008370.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall below 20,000 in T.N.||After over five months, the number of active cases of COVID-19 fell below the 20,000-mark in Tamil Nadu on Monday. The number of active cases, including those undergoing treatment at hospitals or quarantined at home, stands at 19,504. It rose to 20,000 on May 30. With 2,481 more persons testing positive for the infection in the last 24 hours, the State’s case tally rose to 7,29,507. At the same time, the total number of persons discharged stood at 6,98,820, with 3,940 persons having been discharged on Monday. The State recorded 31 deaths since Sunday. As many as 11,183 persons have died of the infection so far. The number of those discharged on Monday from various health facilities in Chennai, Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Namakkal and Salem was almost double the number of fresh infections identified in these districts. Except for six districts, the number of persons testing positive was well below 100 in the other districts. Chennai reported 671 new infections, and 1,238 persons were discharged, according to the daily bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health. Till date, 2,01,195 infections have been recorded, while 1,91,104 persons have been discharged, and 6,422 persons are under treatment. So far, the district has recorded 3,669 deaths. In the neighbouring district of Chengalpattu, 136 more people tested positive and in Tiruvallur, 115 more positive cases were identified. The western districts continued to see more cases. Coimbatore recorded 243 fresh infections and on the same day, 652 persons were discharged. In Tiruppur, 75 people were discharged, but 149 more people were diagnosed with the disease. In Salem, 125 fresh infections were recorded and 238 persons were discharged. Namakkal reported 54 new infections, while 124 persons were discharged. Kanniyakumari recorded 40 new infections and 102 persons were discharged. Three of those whose deaths were recorded on Monday had no co-morbid conditions. Chennai continued to lead the tally with nine deaths, followed by six in Chengalpattu and five in Coimbatore. Kancheepuram recorded three deaths in the last 24 hours. Among those whose deaths were recorded was that of a 36-year-old man from Chengalpattu who tested positive on October 22 and was admitted the next day to a private medical college and hospital in Kancheepuram with complaints of fever, throat pain for three days and cough for a day. He died on Sunday evening owing to COVID-19 pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-fall-below-20000-in-tn/article33007641.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale fruit market reopens||After nearly six months, the wholesale fruit market reopened in Koyambedu on Monday. Traders said the response was poor on the first day. The fruit market was shifted to the Madhavaram temporary market as the Koyambedu market turned into a COVID-19 hot spot in May. The State government allowed the grains and wholesale vegetable market to be reopened in phases since mid-September. Following this, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that the wholesale fruit market would be reopened on Monday. Fruits and vegetable retail shops would be reopened in three phases from November 16. On Monday, nearly 140 wholesale fruit shops did not open. The market received a smaller number of visitors. Traders said they were able to make only 20% to 30% of the normal sales at Koyambedu. The sales were expected to pick up pace in the next few days. The temporary market at Madhavaram continued to function with semi-wholesalers. While about 30 vehicles brought produce to Koyambedu on Monday, nearly 80-90 vehicles were diverted to Madhavaram, traders said. S. Srinivasan, president, Chennai Fruits Commission Agents Association, said, “We are happy to shift to our own shops and the process of shifting is still on. Wholesale traders would be able to function better when the semi-wholesale business also shifts to Koyambedu after Deepavali.” The Koyambedu market mostly received truckloads of bananas, apples and pomegranates and a few trucks of sweet lime on Monday. The price of most fruits was reasonable as there were not many takers as the trade was still continuing in Madhavaram as well, he said. While sweet lime was sold for Rs. 42 to Rs. 48 a kg and oranges for Rs. 28 to Rs. 32 a kg at the wholesale market, apples were sold for a minimum of Rs. 80 a kg according to quality. There were about 650 semi-wholesalers and retail fruit merchants functioning at the Koyambedu market before the market was closed in May, the merchants added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-fruit-market-reopens/article33008116.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Padi road caves in as sewage pipe is damaged||Traffic was affected on Mahatma Gandhi Road, Padi, on Monday as a portion of the vital link road remains caved in for two days now. The road at Kumaran Nagar is an important link to the Chennai-Tiruvallur High Road for many residential localities. V. Anand, a resident of Jeevan Bima Nagar, said: “I noticed that a portion of the road had caved in on Saturday. It is a busy road with commercial establishments and shops on either side. It is used by many residents to reach other areas of Padi and CTH Road from areas such as Devar Nagar, Elango Nagar and TVS Colony.” Residents wanted steps to be taken immediately to repair the road. They recalled a similar instance when a portion of the road collapsed at Devar Nagar three years ago due to problems in a sewer line. Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board (CMWSSB) said a portion of the 800 mm diameter deep sewer pipeline had been damaged due to overload during the heavy downpour last week. The caved in portion has been cordoned off. However, there were no major issues as the partially collapsed pipeline continued to carry sewage. The pipeline running 7 m to 8 m beneath the road surface carried sewage to the Elango Nagar pumping station, said an official. “We will begin the rectification work on Tuesday, and plan to complete it in 10 days. We are making arrangements to strengthen the pipeline to prevent such issues,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/padi-road-caves-in-as-sewage-pipe-is-damaged/article33008118.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pharma, medical devices emerging sectors: panel||The Rangarajan committee, constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the State’s economy, has identified medical devices manufacturing and pharmaceuticals, along with biotechnology, as the emerging sectors. The committee, which submitted its report to the government in September, has also suggested that the State work with the Union government to set up a bulk drug pharma park expeditiously in a coastal area near Chennai. A senior official says the government has already submitted its application for assistance under a Central government scheme. The committee, which has suggested that a pharma policy be formulated, has advised the government to create an “angel fund” for promoting medical devices manufacturing and indicated that the scope of the biotechnology fund should be expanded. Another official says that though the government has got the biotechnology fund registered, it is planning to bring fields such as electric vehicles and aerospace under the fund with a corpus of Rs. 500 crore. A member of the committee says the recommendation on the pharma policy has been made with a view to restoring the State’s position as a major pharma manufacturing hub. The committee, while calling for better incentives than a general package for medical devices production, has urged the government to establish a medipark near Chengalpattu at the earliest with a focus on diagnostic imaging and IV Diagnostics. Its member says the aim of providing more incentives for the segment is to reduce dependence on Chinese imports. In the area of biotechnology, the committee has said the government should form a biotechnology board to facilitate academia-industry partnerships and support start-ups to promote growth. A biotechnology park may be formed near Chennai with over 100 acres, a pilot good manufacturing practices (GMP) facility and high-end analytical facilities. Its focus should be on biosimilar and diagnostics. On a smaller scale, Coimbatore can have one. The State government should upgrade the Stanley Medical College Stem Cell Research Centre into an Institute of Regenerative Medicine, besides promoting contract analytical services. It should request the Department of Biotechnology of the Union government to establish an anchor institution in the State on the lines of similar bodies in Hyderabad and Bengaluru.  Government has already submitted its application for assistance under a Central scheme Senior official Tamil Nadu Government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pharma-medical-devices-are-emerging-sectors/article33007602.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on Arunagirinathar Manimandapam resumes||Work to construct a manimandapam for Saint Arunagirinathar at Tiruvannamalai near the Sri Arunachaleshwarar temple has picked up after a break due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The hall that will house the idol of the saint, who composed and sang Thirupugazh hymns in Tamil, has been completed. Orders for the idol would be placed after sometime. “The complex will have a mandapam that can house around 200 persons at a time. We also plan to construct another hall that can accommodate larger crowds since we conduct regular programmes, including on his birth star,” said a source in the Arulaalar Arunagirinathar Manimandapam Arakattalai. The granite works have been completed and civil works are to resume shortly. The manimandapam would have paintings depicting the life of the saint and also scripts of Thirupugazh songs penned by him. Land for the manimandapam has been provided by the Arunachaleshwarar temple, and it is located a few kilometres from the temple. The construction, which is being funded by members of the trust, is likely to be completed in six months. The bhumi puja for the construction work was held in September 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-arunagirinathar-manimandapam-resumes/article33008443.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||96-year-old woman recovers from COVID-19, returns home||A 96-year-old woman has been discharged from the Multi-Super-Speciality Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar Government Estate after she recovered from COVID-19. Twenty men and 11 women aged over 90 have returned home after undergoing treatment at the hospital so far. Among them, 10 were asymptomatic and 21 were symptomatic. Dean R. Jayanthi said 15 of them had arrived with breathlessness and 11 had complained of cough. Seven had fever. In 68% of these patients, the lung involvement was more than 5%, doctors said. Among the nonagenarians who came to the hospital, one was from an old-age home while the rest were being cared for by their families. V. Thripurasundari, 96, a resident of Telephone Nagar in Perungudi, was discharged on Sunday. She was admitted to the hospital after her son and daughter-in-law tested positive. Nirmala Ganesan said she had fever on October 12 and approached a doctor, who prescribed paracetamol. But three days later, she developed diarrhoea. With no change in her condition, the 59-year-old underwent the COVID-19 test, which returned positive. She was admitted on October 20. “I have diabetes and got admitted for treatment. The next day my mother-in-law and husband, who is 62, were admitted,” she said. “The hospital took good care of us. They monitored my sugar levels regularly. My son and daughter-in-law were home-quarantined. We were discharged only after they ensured that we were completely cured. We were discharged three days after we tested negative,” Ms. Nirmala said. Dr. Jayanthi said elderly patients generally had lung involvement, ranging from 5% to 50%. “This patient was so jubilant that she broke into a song for us,” she said. “Usually, we say advanced age is prognostically not good but these people have stood it well. At the Omandurar hospital, more than 15% of those admitted are elderly persons,” she said. Since March 27, when the institution was designated as a COVID-19 hospital, it has treated 23,037 patients, with a discharge rate of 92.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-year-old-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-returns-home/article33007632.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea to reject Deputy Speaker's plaint||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed applications preferred by journalist ‘Nakheeran’ R. Gopal, Kalaignar  TV and DMK president M.K. Stalin's son-in-law V. Sabareesan to reject a plaint filed by Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman in support of his civil suit seeking damages of Rs. 1 crore from them for having allegedly tarnished his image. Lacking merit Justice P.T. Asha held that the applications lacked merit and therefore they could not be entertained. She also directed the applicants to file their written statements to the suit, which had been filed for having reportedly linked the name of the Deputy Speaker and his family members with the Pollachi serial sexual assault and blackmailing issue. Though the suit had been filed against Mr. Stalin, too, he did not choose to file an application to reject the plaint. Instead, the Leader of the Opposition filed a counter affidavit to an interim injunction application filed by the Deputy Speaker, along with the suit, for restraining him from continuing to make defamatory and derogatory speeches in the future. In his plaint filed through advocate Arvind Srevatsa, the Deputy Speaker had sought for a direction to all the respondents to pay him Rs. 1 crore jointly. He accused the DMK president of having made public speeches that were telecast on Kalaignar TV and other media. False news He also accusedNakheeranand another Tamil magazine of publishing “false and defamatory” news reports intended at tarnishing his reputation. However, opposing his plea for interim injunction, Mr. Stalin, through his counsel S. Manuraj, said any blanket gag order restraining him from making speeches against Mr. Jayaraman would have a “chilling effect” and directly affect his fundamental right to speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-plea-to-reject-deputy-speakers-plaint/article33008133.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auditors must update contact details, says expert||Under the Faceless Income Tax Assessment Regime, all communications to assesses would be via electronic channels and only 10 PAN numbers can be linked to a mobile number or email, and so auditors should immediately update their contact details, an expert said. The faceless assessment system, which came into effect from August 13, uses data analytics and artificial intelligence and has done away with the territorial jurisdiction. The assessment cases are randomly assigned in an automated way. An assessment officer from Delhi can be assigned to look at assessment cases originating from Chennai. “All the pending cases before August 13, for which the orders have not been issued will come under the purview of the faceless tax assessment system,” said Abhishek Murali, Secretary, the Southern India Regional Council, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Under the earlier regime, the assessee or his auditor would receive notices from the I-T Department in the physical form. However, under the faceless assessment regime the communication would be only through email, mobile number or through an app (which was under development), he said. Mr. Abhishek pointed out that most auditors would have given their email and contact numbers on behalf of their clients. “Only 10 PAN numbers can be linked to an email id or mobile number. Keeping this in mind and since the communication is going to be only through electronic channels, it is important for auditors to update the contact details under the new faceless regime. Otherwise they face the risk of missing communication for the I-T Department ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auditors-must-update-contact-details-says-expert/article33007687.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic police conduct campaign to help curb stop line violations at junctions||Stepping up efforts to curb stop line violations, the traffic police began a campaign from Sunday to make motorists follow the rules. Stop lines have been marked on the roads to make motorists halt when approaching intersections controlled by traffic signals. As many motorists have been violating stop lines, it has been causing difficulties in traffic management. At traffic signals, uniformed police personnel were seen holding public address systems and advising motorists to follow the rules and stop at the marked points. They also sought the cooperation of motorists to ensure free flow of traffic in the city. A senior traffic police officer said, “After relaxation of lockdown restrictions, many vehicles have hit the road and motorists are often not following the rules In order to bring a sense of discipline, we have launched the campaign. At all traffic signals, our personnel will ensure motorists follow the rules.” The Greater Chennai Corporation has been asked by the traffic police to paint fresh stop lines wherever they have faded out. As per the Motor Vehicles Rules, a motorist will have to pay a fine of  Rs. 100 for the first offence of stop line violation and up to Rs. 300 for subsequent offences, police officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-police-conduct-campaign-to-help-curb-stop-line-violations-at-junctions/article33008441.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students of IIT-Madras develop game to create COVID-19 awareness||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, have developed a digital game to create awareness, especially among children, of the importance of following the precautions laid down by the government to protect themselves from COVID-19. The browser-based game can be played on any device, including personal computers, laptops, tablets and mobile phones. It can be played at www.letsplaytolearn.com for free. It is also available at https://dost.iitm.ac.in/iitmd- ost/pages/game-corner. The inspiration came from the popular game Super Mario. In the one-minute game, players must do the right things to earn maximum points. The student team tested the prototype among different audiences and based on their feedback, has translated the game into 12 languages, besides English. The students plan to translate the game into more regional languages. The students took a nine-credit elective course, Let’s Play to Learn, offered between January and May to create the game. The co-facilitators of the game were Preeti Aghalayam, a faculty member of the Department of Chemical Engineering, and Kartic Vaidyanathan, founder of LetsPlayToLearn and student of the B. Tech mechanical engineering batch of 1996. Ms. Aghalayam credited the students with creating the game. She said the students had conceived the game while the pandemic was raging. “The IIT-M COVID game is a small but meaningful and engaging contribution, and exhibits how thoughtful and aware our students are,” she said. Mr. Kartic Vaidyanathan said the students applied concepts and created game design prototypes relevant for science and engineering courses. These include aircraft design, tissue engineering, circuits, buildings and structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-of-iit-madras-develop-game-to-create-covid-19-awareness/article33007630.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Land meant for park turns into a dump||The residents of T.S. Krishna Nagar in Anna Nagar West Extension want the Greater Chennai Corporation to take steps to convert a vacant plot into a park. The residents have been demanding a park for several years. There were a number of complaints that the vacant land, spread over 23,000 sq ft along the Ambattur Estate Road, was being misused as a dump yard. It had also become a haven for anti-social elements. The residents, pointing out that a portion of the vacant land had been encroached upon as the Ambattur Municipality failed to retrieve the land, want the Open Space Reservation (OSR) to be protected so that the remaining portion of the land did not fall prey to encroachments. S.K. Babu, president of the T.S. Krishna Nagar Welfare Association, pointed out that the residential layout formed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) had a portion of the layout earmarked for a park. The TNHB made a gift deed of the vacant land designated as OSR for constructing a park to the then Ambattur Municipality (since merged with the Greater Chennai Corporation) in 2009. However, the land had turned into a dump. The residents complained that several representations had been made to the Ambattur Municipality in the past and to the Greater Chennai Corporation but steps had not been taken to protect the land at least by constructing a compound wall. Last month, some persons set fire to the garbage in the vacant land, causing severe pollution. Under litigation A senior official of the Ambattur zone said as the matter was pending in court, the civic body was unable to construct a compound wall. Very soon steps would be taken to construct a compound wall, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-meant-for-park-turns-into-a-dump/article33008120.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Washermenpet-Wimco Nagar Metro track work completed||The crucial track work along Metro Rail’s 9 km stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar has been completed. Within two weeks, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) is likely to do a trial run of a locomotive engine before the train services commence on this stretch. Four years ago, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had launched the phase I extension project at an estimated cost of Rs. 3,770 crore to improve mobility for commuters in north Chennai. This stretch should have been inaugurated in last June but was delayed because of the lockdown. The work resumed after a few months of break and is back in full swing. Construction is on According to officials of CMRL, the track work was recently completed on this stretch but the construction of stations was on. “The construction of the ramp portion [that links the underground station at Tondiarpet with the elevated station at New Washermanpet] is on now and only when that is over, the trial run with the loco can be done. Also, the laying of cables for signalling work and that of overhead equipment too began sometime ago,” an official said. Sources said the track work in the depot at Wimco Nagar had not been finished yet and may take a few more months. It is essential to execute trial runs with trains along this stretch but sources said this might happen only in December or January. Ten trains manufactured in Sri City would be used for operations along this stretch. “The challenge is not just with starting operations but in making people take the Metro. The fares are pretty high and we have to see how many in north Chennai actually use the system,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/washermenpet-wimco-nagar-metro-track-work-completed/article33008124.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New shrimp species found in Indian coral reef||Scientists associated with the National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources have identified four species of shrimps hitherto not found in Indian waters. The species were found in the coral reef in the Lakshadweep islands and have since been studied. The findings have been published in Zootaxa , an international peer-reviewed journal. The species, Hippolytoid shrimps, were found at a depth of 0.5-2 m from the intertidal region of Agatti Island of Lakshadweep group of islands. T.T. Ajith Kumar, principal scientist at the National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resource at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), said they discovered the species during exploratory surveys in the reefs. “We discovered two shrimp species, which are new to science. We named one Periclimenella agatti after the Agatti island where it was found and another as Urocaridella arabianesis , after the Arabian Sea,” Mr. Ajith explained. The Department of Biotechnology has funded the development of germplasm resource centre for marine ornamental invertebrate, aiming to conserve the biodiversity. Export business “Business in ornamental fish is as much as US $500 million across the world but India has no share,” said Mr. Ajith, a native of Nagarcoil, who had worked at Annamalai University till 2014. He is currently working at NBFGR, Kochi. Kuldeep Kumar Lal, director of ICAR, said the discovery offered an opportunity to develop ornamental fish trade in India besides supporting the livelihood of the coastal and island communities. The NBFGR has since collected three species of marine ornamental shrimps and raised them in captivity. Since March, 20 women from the island had been trained to raise the shrimps. The aim is to develop hatcheries to enable sustained income for the beneficiaries, who will establish rearing units in their backyard. The DBT would also create marketing channels and link them directly to enable them sell the captive reared ornamental shrimps and sea anemones, he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-shrimp-species-found-in-indian-coral-reef/article33008367.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Glitches in new IVRS irk Indane LPG customers||Teething problems in Indane’s new IVRS liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) refill booking number launched on Sunday have left many customers fuming. Many were unable to make bookings from Monday since the system did not let them complete the process. “Though I tried several times, I could not go beyond selecting the language from my registered mobile number (RMN). I then tried my gas agency’s phone number so that I can ask them to make the booking but that was busy too. Hopefully, the issue will be sorted out in a few days,” said Sivan, a senior citizen. Many agencies saw irate consumers flocking to their premises. “We got around 200 people today and when the numbers grew, they ganged up. They started cursing us asking why the earlier IVRS had been disconnected without the new one becoming fully operational. We were asked to make the bookings on their mobiles,” said a distributor in the city. Not toll-free Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said the new IVRS was not a toll-free facility and that consumers had to pay for every call. “The least that they could have done is provide a free calling facility. They should have made the system to automatically transfer the calls to the new number when consumers dial it,” he said and added that this was not the time to change the number since Deepavali was around the corner. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) sources said the issues were being sorted out with the private telecom operator. “Our field officers and distributors had called us and we kept a constant watch on the bookings. We usually get around 2.3 lakh bookings a day and on Monday by 6 p.m. we got 1.52 lakh bookings, which is a normal figure,” said an official. WhatsApp number Meanwhile, many Indane consumers took to making bookings via the company's WhatsApp number 7588888824. “Consumers are being asked to switch over to WhatsApp. They have to save the number in their phones and type Refill along with their 16 digit consumer ID. It is easy and free,” said a distributor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glitches-in-new-ivrs-irk-indane-lpg-customers/article33007647.ece
03 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rahul may take part in farmers’ rally: Alagiri||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to take part in a farmers’ rally in the State for which dates are being worked out, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri has said. The TNCC is all set to organise farmers’ protests across the State from next week aimed at countering the BJP’s proposed Vel Yatra in the State that is set to begin on November 6. Mr. Alagiri said the party will hold a protest against thethree recently-enacted farm legislationsin 150 places in the State. “These rallies will aim to educate farmers about the problems of the three Farm Acts and how the BJP is being anti-farmers,” he said. Senior leaders of the party and office-bearers will campaign across the State. “The BJP’s Vel Yatra is a communal campaign. We are going to counter it by mobilising farmers against the Farm Acts,” a senior TNCC member told The Hindu . The campaign will likely begin around November 6 or 7 and will be completed around Deepavali. “Our idea is to invite him to one of the delta districts. The dates for his participation will be finalised soon,” the TNCC member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-may-take-part-in-farmers-rally-alagiri/article33007646.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death near M.M. Nagar||A 27-year-old man was hacked to death by a gang during a petty quarrel between two shopkeepers at Maraimalai Nagar near Chengalpattu on Sunday night. The name of the victim was given as Devapraksah, 27, of Keelakaranai. He was running an eatery at Maraimalai Nagar. On Sunday night, he was consuming liquor near his outlet. Two owners of neighbouring outlets — a tea shop and a hotel — had quarrel over placing a sign board. The tea vendor complained to Devaprakash who interfered in their dispute. The owner of the hotel called up Malaimetu Vijay, an anti-social, and his associates, to support him. The gang reached the spot when the quarrel had escalated into a scuffle. The gang attacked Devaprakash with knives and he collapsed in a pool of blood. Maraimalai Nagar police recovered the body and conducted an investigation. The suspect Vijay has been arrested and a man hunt has been launched to nab three more suspects in connection with the killing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death-in-maraimalai-nagar/article33008121.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T. Nagar theft case solved, 4 held||The city police said four suspects had been arrested in connection with the burglary at the office of a jewellery trader on Moosa Street, T. Nagar, which was reported two weeks ago. About 1.4 kg gold and diamond jewellery and 11 kg silver were recovered from them. On October 20, Tharun, one of the three partners of Uttham Jewellery, lodged a complaint with the Mambalam police alleging that jewellery worth more than Rs. 4 crore had been stolen from the premises. Manufacturing unit The victims — a father and his two sons — have been buying gold as bars and getting jewellery designed to sell them to different showrooms from their office located on the first floor of a building on Moosa Street. Three special teams were constituted to trace the suspects. Though CCTV footage showed a masked man breaking open the door before escaping with the jewels kept in trays inside a cupboard, the police suspected that more than one person was involved in the crime. Additional Commissioner of Police (South) R. Dhinakaran said: “Our investigation revealed that Suresh, alias ‘Market’ Suresh, was the main accused, and he had roped in his associates for the offence. Suresh and his associate Ganga were arrested in Tiruvallur. Based on their confession, we have arrested two more suspects — Venkatesan alias Appu and Amalraj alias Vishnu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-nagar-jewellery-theft-case-solved-four-arrested/article33008122.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Visually impaired struggle to find new ways to make ends meet||For nearly six months, Karuppaiah, 55, a visually impaired person, has remained confined at home. Before COVID-19 broke out, he used to repair chairs at offices and homes. During the lockdown, some people helped him. Now, he has set up a roadside stall, selling fancy items and baskets. Many visually impaired persons like him have begun looking for alternative ways of earning a livelihood. M. Janardhanan, a 51-year-old visually impaired person and a graduate in history, used to sell remote covers, torch-lights and car cleaning brushes on suburban trains. “For the past week, I have been selling masks at the Ennore bus stand. Since I couldn’t make much money, I decided to sell peanut candy or cleaning brushes or torchlights. I have to borrow money to buy a microphone to promote the products,” he said. While many think it is natural for people to start a new business during a pandemic, it is extremely difficult for a visually impaired person to adapt himself/herself to a new situation, he said. “We rely on our routine. We can’t walk from one bus stand to another or from street to street. Even to purchase these items, I have to travel as far as to Central, and that’s tough,” he noted. Some visually impaired persons sell snacks like ‘sundal’, ‘bajji’ or ‘bonda’ on the street. P. Balasubramanian, who used to sell popcorn, now plans to sell eucalyptus oil at bus stands. Though he resumed selling popcorn last week, travelling for three hours to buy it and carrying it in a bus proved to be an arduous task. Hence, he plans to switch to selling eucalyptus oil. “While we have been trying our best to somehow survive, we hope the government will improve the assistance being provided to us. All of us rely hugely on the Rs. 1,000 it gives us. But with the current cost of living and this pandemic, what will we do with this? We request the government to increase the assistance to Rs. 2,000,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visually-impaired-struggle-to-find-new-ways-to-make-ends-meet/article33007643.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal not likely to have any truck with Dravidian parties||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday met the district secretaries in charge of 100 Assembly constituencies, mostly from the northern and western regions, to discuss the party’s preparation for the election. Mr. Haasan reportedly told them that the party would not form an alliance with the two big Dravidian parties — the AIADMK and the DMK. He is expected to meet party functionaries from other regions on Tuesday and Wednesday. Mr. Haasan reportedly told them to prepare for the election by re-energising booth committees and to look for candidates for each of the constituencies. According to a functionary, Mr. Haasan said the party would strive to be an alternative to the two Dravidian parties. “He asked us to prepare for the election and said that there won’t be any alliance with the two Dravidian parties. He has also asked us to get ready for the election as candidates and also identify other candidates who are selfless, secular and smart,” said a district secretary from the northern region. He also advised the candidates “to prepare and train ourselves before becoming an MLA”, the functionary said. A party member from Chennai said they reiterated to Mr. Haasan and the party executive council not to look for an alliance as they had already fought an election as an alternative political force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-not-likely-to-have-any-truck-with-dravidian-parties/article33008129.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK demands floor price for vegetables||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday urged Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take a cue from the Kerala government and fix the floor price for vegetables to prevent increase in the prices of essential commodities. “If he does not do it, the DMK will fix the floor price once elected to power [after the 2021 Assembly election],” he said in a statement. Alleging that the farm legislation enacted by the BJP government at the Centre had resulted in an increase in the price of essential commodities, Mr.Stalin said the Indian market had been forced to import potatoes. “Enactment of these laws has created an artificial crisis in the market since hoarders have bought vegetables from farmers for cheaper rates. The role of the middleman has to be blamed for the price hike,” he said. Pointing out that Uzhavar Santhai’s (famers’ shandies) were created during the DMK regime to ensure a fair price for farmers, Mr. Stalin said they had become ineffective during the AIADMK rule. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister should fix a floor price like the Kerala government, which was 20% above the product cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-demands-floor-price-for-vegetables/article33008131.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel asked to study impact of Mettur-Sarabanga project||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a joint committee to study the environmental impact of the Mettur-Sarabanga Lift Irrigation project and submit a report. An application was filed against the implementation of the project on the grounds that prior Environmental Clearance (EC) was not obtained before commencing the work on the project and that the project was in total disregard of the riparian rights of the delta farmers. The applicant alleged that the project only intended to exploit the water source to develop new agricultural ayacuts in Edappadi, Sangagiri, Omalur and Mettur taluks to irrigate about 4,238 acres of land. The applicant said construction of the project had begun without obtaining EC, and the project would entirely affect the livelihood of the farmers in the Cauvery delta region and the lower riparian region. “It is submitted that the G.O. was issued in an arbitrary manner and there was no expert body constituted to study the flow of excess water to be diverted to develop new ayacuts. It is also submitted that no opportunities were given to the farmers in and around the lower riparian region to raise their objections and concerns,” the applicant said. The petitioner further said in the past few decades, there was no excess water available in Mettur dam and that drawing water illegally from the Cauvery would lead to further scarcity in and around the lower riparian areas. The bench directed a committee of officials of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the EIA authority, and the PWD to study the impact of the project and submit a report by December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-asked-to-study-impact-of-mettur-sarabanga-project/article33007652.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No tax for battery-operated vehicles||In a bid to boost the sale and use of electric vehicles in the State, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday exempted battery-operated vehicles from the payment of motor vehicle tax till the end of 2022, in line with the Electric Vehicle Policy released last year. The government has decided to grant 100% tax exemption for all battery-operated vehicles (electric vehicles) as transport and non-transport vehicles up to December 31, 2022, a notification issued in this regard stated. Since March 2008, a concessional rate of 50% of the lifetime tax for the battery-operated motorcycle was being levied under the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974. From November 2008, new battery-operated non-transport vehicles, too, were given concession in tax. The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to grant 100% tax exemption to all battery-operated vehicles till December 31, 2022, followed a proposal from the Transport Commissioner made in November 2019. The government, in its e-vehicles policy released in September 2019, has been pushing for electric vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-tax-for-battery-operated-vehicles-till-2022/article33008134.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Violinist T.N. Krishnan is no more||Violin maestro T.N. Krishnan, whose playing represented the pristine beauty of Carnatic ragas, died here on Monday. He entered the music world as a child prodigy and performed till his last days. He was 92, and is survived by wife Kamala, son Sriram Krishnan and daughter Viji Krishnan, who often accompanied their father. “None was as gifted as Krishnan when it came to capturing the essence, taste and life of ragas. He had clarity about what he thought as good music and he followed it unwaveringly,” said singer and author T.M. Krishna, who, like Krishnan, is a disciple of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer. Born Tripunithura Narayanaiyer Krishnan in 1928 in Kerala, he learnt music from his father A. Narayana Iyer. He gave his first solo violin concert in Thiruvananthapuram in 1939 as a boy of 11. He had a mentor in Alleppey K. Parthasarathay, and Krishnan had always acknowledged the support rendered by him during the early days of his career. He had accompanied great musicians such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Musiri Subramania Iyer, Alathur Brothers, G.N. Balasubramaniam, Madurai Mani Iyer, Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, M.D. Ramanathan and Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer and the recordings available explain Krishnan’s talent as a accompanying artiste before becoming a solo performer. He shifted his base to Chennai in 1942 and came under the tutelage of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer.  Excellent teacher Krishnan also excelled as a teacher and he was the professor of music at the Music College, Chennai. Later, he became the Dean of the School of Music and Fine Arts, University of Delhi. He was known as Professor Krishnan in the music world. He won many awards, including Sangita Kalanidhi of the Music Academy and the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan. “His greatest assets are his understanding of ragas and conviction about music. Even though so many things changed over decades in the music world, he had the conviction about good music and would only offer it. If you like it, you come to my concert. It is very difficult to have such conviction and be successful,” explained Mr. Krishna. “You will not come across a single non-musical phrase in his playing. You cannot say he experimented with music, but brought out the existing beauty of the Carnatic ragas and you have to be in his concerts to realise how he would reach the higher octaves,” said Lalitharam, the biographer of vocalist G.N. Balasubramaniam and mridangam player Palani Subramania Pillai, with whom he teamed up for many concerts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violinist-tn-krishnan-is-no-more/article33008127.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali bonus for over 2.1 lakh PSU workers||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced a Deepavali bonus for over 2.1 lakh employees of State Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) for the year 2019-20. The C and D category employees and workers would get a 10% bonus, including 8.33% bonus and 1.67% ex gratia, an official press release said.  Bonus Rs. 8,400 “With this, eligible and permanent employees would get a bonus and ex gratia of Rs. 8,400,” it added. A total of Rs. 210.48 crore would be given to 2,91,975 employees in bonus and ex gratia. As per the amendments to the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, those drawing Rs. 21,000 a month or less are eligible for bonus, and the monthly bonus calculation ceiling is Rs. 7,000. Pandemic impact The release said the COVID-19 pandemic had affected the PSUs. Because of the lockdown that had hit transport and the functioning of factories for the past six months, the revenue of these PSUs had come down. “However, in the interest of the families of those employed at the PSUs, the monthly salary is being paid. Though the profit-making PSUs had surplus funds to pay bonuses, they continue to face challenges,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deepavali-bonus-for-over-21-lakh-psu-workers/article33007637.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Chennai||A 32-year-old man was hacked to death by a four-member gang a few metres from his house at Tirumullaivoyal on Sunday night. The name of the victim was given as S. Pandian, 32, a daily wage employee. He was named one of the accused in the murder of a loader at Chennai Central in June this year. Pandian was released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death-in-chennai/article33008439.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MDMA tablets seized||Chennai Customs have seized MDMA tablets worth Rs. 4 lakh that arrived from the Netherlands. Two postal parcels containing narcotics came from the Netherlands at Foreign Post Office and when examined, the first one had a parcel having 60 grey tablets with 350 mg of MDMA. The second one had 40 tablets, containing 225 mg of MDMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdma-tablets-seized/article33008440.ece
03 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Papanasam seat notified as vacant||Two days after the death of Minister R. Doraikkannu, Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal on Monday notified the vacancy in the Papanasam Assembly constituency, which is located in Thanjavur district. Currently, four seats in the 235-member Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly are vacant. They are: Tiruvottiyur, Gudiyatham, Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni and Papanasam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/papanasam-seat-notified-as-vacant/article33007638.ece
03 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation asks TWAD Board to complete UGD works in South Zone||Coimbatore Corporation has asked the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board to complete the UGD earthwork in South Zone at the earliest so that it could re-lay the roads. The civic body had asked the Board to also expedite the completion of the earthwork in the project to revamp the drinking water distribution network in the zone. Sources familiar with the development said the Corporation waited with the funds it had received from the State government under the Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Project to rebuild damaged roads. With the money received, which was for all the five zones, the Corporation had taken up work in all the four zones, except the South Zone because both the underground drainage and drinking water distribution improvement projects were in progress. While the projects were in progress it made no sense to rebuild roads because the TWAD Board would dig those roads to provide sewerage and drinking water connections to houses and other establishments in the zone. The sources said if the Board prioritised the earthwork first, it would help the Corporation rebuild the damaged roads. The Board then could take up other works – those that did not warrant digging roads. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian had conveyed this to the TWAD Board officials at a meeting held a few days ago. He had also asked the Board to engage more labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-asks-twad-board-to-complete-ugd-works-in-south-zone/article33008138.ece
03 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Various events mark Vigilance Awareness Week||Awareness activities and administration of integrity pledge marked the observance of the Vigilance Awareness Week in Coimbatore district. At Coimbatore Collectorate, District Collector K. Rajamani administered the integrity pledge to employees of various government departments. D. Ramaduraimurugan, District Revenue Officer, T.H. Ganesh, Deputy Superintendent of Police with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), and senior officials were present. Awareness posters were pasted at government offices. The activity was aimed at ensuring transparency and good governance in taking the services and welfare schemes of the government to the people, said a press release. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian flagged off the awareness rally on the Corporation office premises in the presence of Corporation Deputy Commissioner S. Madhuranthagi, and DVAC inspectors Parimaladevi, Ezhilarasi and Sasikala. More than 200 staff of the civic body took part in the rally which ended on the Collectorate premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-events-mark-vigilance-awareness-week/article33008145.ece
03 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow govt. school students to come on rotational basis’||With the State government allowing schools to reopen for classes IX to XII amid the COVID-19 pandemic, teachers and officials suggested on Monday that the students studying in government schools may be allowed to come on a rotational basis to avoid crowding. The State government had allowed the reopening of schools only for classes IX, X, XI and XII from November 16 along with colleges, research institutes and other educational institutions, which remained closed since March owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. Although the number of cases reported every day has seen a considerable decline in the district, teachers in government and aided schools are concerned about the implementation of physical distancing norms inside the school premises, according to T. Arulanandam, State treasurer of Tamil Nadu High Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association. He suggested that the State government could allow students to attend the physical classes on a rotational basis so that students from one class would come to the school in a day. “The students might still not have realised the seriousness [of the pandemic],” he opined regarding the challenges of ensuring physical distancing norms. Mr. Arulanandam, who is a teacher at an aided school in Coimbatore, also suggested that the government could postpone the reopening for Class IX as the students from other three classes would have to sit for the public examinations next year unlike Class IX students. An official from the Department of School Education said that the schools must ensure that the students are mentally prepared to attend physical classes after attending online classes for nearly eight months. “Instead of starting classes immediately, the teachers could give small tests based on online classes,” she said. The desks could be arranged in a manner similar to examination halls with adequate space to ensure personal distancing inside the classrooms. However, she noted that the standard operating procedures from the Department of School Education are awaited, based on which the arrangements will be made in the schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-govt-school-students-to-come-on-rotational-basis/article33008141.ece
03 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 centres at educational institutions likely to be closed down||The fall in COVID-19 cases reported every day has prompted the district administration to consider closing a few COVID-19 Care Centres that it had established at educational institutions. The district that had 5,000-odd beds at COVID Care Centres for asymptomatic persons was seeing only around 500 beds occupied. This had prompted the administration to consider a reduction in beds at the centres, starting with those at educational institutions, Collector K. Rajamani told journalists here on Monday. Many of the beds that the administration had established at the centre at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex, a wedding hall and a few institutions were never occupied even when the COVID-19 positive case count was high. Many beds vacant As of November 2, only 294 of the 1,128 beds in the CODISSIA complex were occupied, he said and added that even in hospitals that treated symptomatic persons, many beds were vacant to underscore his point. The district was doing well in containing the infection spread. The infection rate was 5% well below the State average of 5.3%. The death percentage was 1.3, again better than the State’s 1.5, Mr. Rajamani added. Though there had been a reduction, the district administration was leaving nothing to chance. Teams to check shopping areas In the next few days, it would form teams of officials from the Revenue, Coimbatore Corporation or other local bodies and police to conduct frequent checks in shopping areas. In the city, there would be dedicated teams on 100 Feet Road, Cross Cut Road, Big Bazaar Street, Oppanakara Street, R.G. Street and its neighbourhood to check overcrowding and ensure observance of physical distancing norms. For, it did not want a spike in cases. In fact, the administration was contemplating if it should post personnel there on shifts till Deepavali, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-centres-at-educational-institutions-likely-to-be-closed-down/article33008140.ece
03 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Train services via Pollachi yet to resume’||Train services via Pollachi section, which were stopped in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic, are yet to be resumed, officials in Palakkad Division of Southern Railway said on Monday. On October 23, Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram wrote to General Manager of Southern Railway John Thomas requesting for resumption of Amritha Express between Thiruvananthapuram and Madurai, Superfast Express train between Palakkad and Chennai and passenger train between Pollachi and Coimbatore. These trains were operational prior to the lockdown, he said. No orders received However, no orders have been received from Southern Railway as of Monday despite the festival season being around the corner, Palakkad Division officials said. Mr. Shanmugasundaram in his letter had also requested for the operation of two special trains via Pollachi Junction to Chennai and Nagercoil originating from Coimbatore or Mettupalayam Junction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-services-via-pollachi-yet-to-resume/article33007686.ece
03 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore records deficit rainfall in Oct.||The northeast monsoon for Coimbatore, it appears, started on a rather dull note in October. Data from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s Agro Climate Research Centre showed that the district had received only 36 mm rainfall and that was in four rainy days. A day with over 2.5 mm precipitation is accounted as rainy day. The reason for the rather poor rainfall, according to the Centre’s head S.P. Ramanathan, was the delayed onset of the northeast monsoon. “The delay in the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon delayed the onset of the Northeast monsoon. Hence, the poor rainfall.” The southwest monsoon that ended in September was good this year for the district in that it recorded 41% excess rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-records-deficit-rainfall-in-oct/article33008137.ece
03 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two women killed in accident||Two women workers from Jharkhand were killed in an accident near Mettupalayam on Monday. The police said that Lakshmi Roy Mohato (21) and Sonali Munda (21) from Jharkhand were killed after they were ran over by a mini truck. The women had been working in a fabric company at Thoppampatti, near Thudiyalur. The accident took place when they were returning to their workplace after visiting Coimbatore Collectorate where they had gone to enquire about Aadhaar card. The vehicle hit the two-wheeler on which the women were travelling and ran over them near the Government ITI. They died on the spot, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-killed-in-accident/article33008147.ece
03 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||41 new cases in Cuddalore||As many as 41 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 23,290. With 49 persons getting discharged on Monday, 22,862 have recovered from the disease. The official death toll stood at 271. In Villupuram, 43 fresh cases were reported, taking the total to 13,821. A total of 27 tested positive in Kallakurichi, taking the tally to 10,320.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-new-cases-reported-in-cuddalore/article33008376.ece
03 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Two children die as mother throws them into well||Two children died as their mother threw them into a well, before jumping into it here on Monday. The woman was, however, rescued. Selvi was pregnant and was staying with her parents along with her four-year-old daughter and three-month-old son in Anjalwadi here. Her husband Vanjinathan was employed in Bengaluru. On Monday, Selvi threw her children into a well and jumped into it. While the children drowned, she was rescued by neighbours. The Harur police have registered a case. People with suicidal thoughts can contact the State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-children-die-as-mother-throws-them-into-well/article33007698.ece
03 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Gang kills man; five held||In a suspected revenge act, an armed gang barged into the dwelling of a man identified as Selvaraj (35) at KMS Nagar here on Sunday night and attacked him with deadly weapons in which the victim died on the spot. When his mother Pappathi (60) attempted to intervene, she too received cut injuries and had been admitted to the Government Hospital. Police inquiries revealed that about five months ago when an anti-social 'Sullan' Ravi was murdered, Selvaraj figured in the list of the accused. Hence, this could be the motive to eliminate him. When police secured the suspects, they confessed to having murdered Selvaraj. The names of the arrested included Simon, Manikandan, Prashanth, Rasputhin, Ayyanar and Madhavan. All the accused were produced before the court. The weapon used was also seized. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-kills-man-five-held/article33008435.ece
03 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Gang kills man; five held||In a suspected revenge act, an armed gang barged into the dwelling of a man identified as Selvaraj (35) at KMS Nagar here on Sunday night and attacked him with deadly weapons in which the victim died on the spot. When his mother Pappathi (60) attempted to intervene, she too received cut injuries and had been admitted to the Government Hospital. Police inquiries revealed that about five months ago when an anti-social 'Sullan' Ravi was murdered, Selvaraj figured in the list of the accused. Hence, this could be the motive to eliminate him. When police secured the suspects, they confessed to having murdered Selvaraj. The names of the arrested included Simon, Manikandan, Prashanth, Rasputhin, Ayyanar and Madhavan. All the accused were produced before the court. The weapon used was also seized. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-kills-man-five-held/article33007664.ece
03 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand higher relief||Demanding the State government to intervene and settle the compensation amount to the farmers whose land had been acquired for the NH 209 four-way lane purposes in the district, the members of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam resorted to a sit-in stir at the Collectorate here on Monday. The members demanded that the compensation announced was far from satisfactory and that they wanted at least 10 times higher as per the 2013 Land Acquisition Act. Speaking to reporters, central committee member of the Vivasayigal Sangam R. Sachidanandam said that farmers from Oddanchatram, Reddiarchatram, Thoppampatti, Palani and Athur had participated in the agitation. The issue was that the officials had offered to settle at the rate of Rs. 118 per square metre as compensation to the farmers from the region. This was unfair and unacceptable, he said. Recently, when the Government of India acquired land for construction of an airport in Bangalore, the compensation was 10 times the fair/market value. Similarly, the Power Grid Corporation of India had given compensation at the rate of Rs. 2587 per square metre to people in Coimbatore for the land acquired from them. The Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced a hefty package for the land acquired for the eight lane road project between Salem and Chennai. After completing the acquisition, they would start laying the roads, which would certainly bring in more traffic on Madathukulam to Oddanchatram and beyond. The land prices in the belt too would inflate. Collector M Vijayalakshmi invited a few representatives and held talks with them. According to Mr. Sachidanandam, the Collector agreed to get the award copy to them in about a week's time from the authorities concerned. However, she pleaded inability on the demand to enhance the compensation, he clarified to reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-higher-relief/article33007667.ece
03 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Central Bus Terminus in Erode to be modernised at Rs. 24.72 crore||With the number of commuters utilising the Central Bus Terminus is on the rise, the Corporation has proposed to modernise it, carry out improvement works and create additional parking facilities at Rs. 24.72 crore. Spread over 12 acre at the heart of the city with two entry and two exits, the bus stand was opened to the public in 1973 and caters to inter-city, intra-city services and mini-buses. Shops in the commercial complexes and a two-wheeler parking stand on the premises generate income for the Corporation. Buses to destinations in Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and to other districts in the State keep the bus stand busy round the clock. Thousands of commuters, who throng the premises every day, demand improved facilities including more seating arrangements in platforms, drinking water, waiting halls and improved toilets and parking facilities. Hence, under the Smart City Mission programme, the Corporation has proposed to modernise the terminus in the Area Based Development of the Erode Smart City. Works include modernisation at Rs. 12.48 crore, improvement works at Rs. 7.61 crore and construction of additional parking facilities and mini bus shelter at Rs. 4.63 crore. While the bus bays will be altered, the terminus will have modernised seating arrangements for commuters, granite flooring, new compound wall and solar lighting. Also, an underground two-wheeler parking stand will come up at the rear side of the bus stand for the benefit of shopkeepers while the space above the stand will be used for mini-bus operations. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu all the works focused on improving the amenities for the commuters and also to decongest the premises. Once the works were completed, it would give a facelift to the entire premises. Tenders have been floated for the works and the last date of receipt of bids is November 17 up to 3 p.m. Period of completion of works is 18 months and officials are hopeful that work order will be issued this month and the work will begin next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-bus-terminus-in-erode-to-be-modernised-at-rs-2472-crore/article33007693.ece
03 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Flash floods affect movement of people to tribal settlements||Flash floods in the four streams that bring water to the Gunderipallam Reservoir affected the movement of people to Vilankombai and Kembanur tribal settlements located inside the buffer zone of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Gobichettipalayam Taluk here on Monday. Heavy rain in Kadambur, Gundri and Malliamman Durgham areas in the early hours of Monday brought copious water to the reservoir, leading to rise in the water level by two feet in four hours. People of these two hamlets that come under Kongarpalayam Panchayat in T.N. Palayam Panchayat Union, have to cross the streams to reach Vinobanagar and Kongarpalayam for work and to buy groceries. Due to flash floods, they could not cross the stream on Monday and waited for hours for the water to recede. They were demanding bridges across the streams and also a motorable road to their hamlets for many years. Two months ago, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan inaugurated repair works to the eight km forest road from Vinobanagar to Vilankombai. However, works were not carried out so far causing inconvenience to people. The demand for constructing high level bridges was also ruled out as only 56 families reside at these settlements. But, a school is planned at Vilankombai and works are expected to be started soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flash-floods-affect-movement-of-people-to-tribal-settlements/article33007696.ece
03 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest||Residents of Pachapali Medu at Periyasemoor staged a protest here on Monday against the move by a private telecom company to set up a tower in their area. They said radiation would not only affect children and elderly people, but also the cattle as most of them were carrying out farming and rearing cattle in their land. They said they had already filed a case that was pending in court. Erode North Police personnel held talks with the company workers and instructed them not to carry out any work until a judgment was delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-protest/article33007697.ece
03 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers affected by IDPL project to organise meet on Nov. 9||Farmers affected by Irugur (Coimbatore) – Devangonthi (Karnataka) Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) project will organise a conference from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Modakurichi here on November 9 to explain their stand to the public. Members of Federation of Farmers Affected by the IDPL project said the project envisaged laying pipelines through farm lands in six districts. The farmers wanted the pipelines along the road and the political parties to announce it as a policy decision in their manifesto. Farmers from Tiruppur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri had begun the conference works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-affected-by-idpl-project-to-organise-meet-on-nov-9/article33007694.ece
03 November 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Paintings on fauna and flora light up 10-km stretch of Cauvery North Wildlife Sanctuary||An Indian Muntjac also known as barking deer peeks out of the stone canvas it is painted on. In another hairpin bend, a leopard lurks frozen in colours on the stone platform. These are but a few of the paintings that dot the picturesque stretch along the Denkanikottai reserve forest. The reserve forest, part of the Cauvery North Wildlife Sanctuary, is dotted with paintings of fauna and flora along its route. An initiative by the forest department, the paintings is only a small effort to showcase the richly biodiversity of Cauvery North Wild Life Sanctuary, says D. Sukumar, Forest Range Officer, Denkanikottai forest range. Paintings on fauna and flora light up the 10-km stretch of the Cauvery North Wildlife Sanctuary running through Denkanikottai Reserve Forest. Common Kingfisher, Chital also known as spotted deer, Indian Muntjac, leopard, gaur, common emerald dove, spotted owlet, red fox – are some of the animals painted on stone platforms. The flora and fauna depicted with their scientific name is an attempt to educate the traveller and also highlight the richness of the forests here, says Mr.Sukumar. These forests are also the only dry evergreen forests in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri region, he says. The scenic route that leads to some of the most remote and backward hamlets also leads to most picturesque view point in Kodagarai hills. The paintings were commissioned by Dharmapuri-based artist Selvam. The artist along with four others had painted turning the stone into a rich canvas of colours. All of the animals are part of the forests, except for tiger, which has not been sighted over little over a decade, says Mr. Sukumar. “The last time a tiger was sighted was 12 years ago.” For now, the paintings act as a reminder to the clueless traveller of what lives inside the forests unseen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paintings-light-up-10-km-stretch-of-cauvery-north-wildlife-sanctuary/article33007645.ece
03 November 2020||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||National Unity Day observed||The Department of History of Alagappa University celebrated the National Unity Day on Monday as part of the 145 birth anniversary celebrations of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran spoke about Patel's remarkable achievements and contributions to the country after independence. The Vice-Chancellor urged the students to follow the principles of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in leading the country towards its development. G. Gopa Kumar, former Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Kerala, spoke about Sardar Patel's role in integration of the country. S. Anantha Krishnan of A.M. Jain College, Chennai, spoke at the event. A.R. Saravanakumar, Head of the Department of History, Alagappa University, delivered the welcome address. S. Rajavelu, adjunct faculty, Alagappa University, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-unity-day-observed-in-university/article33007660.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Be ready to watch action on big screens again very soon||After remaining shut for the last seven months during the COVID-19 induced lockdown, cinema houses in Madurai are gearing up to resume operations from November 10 by following safety precautions issued by the government. However, huge sums of money has to be spent to resume the operations, say theatre owners. M. Rathinakumar, secretary of Madurai- Ramanathapuram Theatre Owners’ Association, says there are 45 single screen theatres and 10 multiplexes in and around Madurai. “Irrespective of whether it is a small theatre or a big multiplex, all theatre owners were deeply affected in the last seven months due to the closure,” he said. Association president R. Kannan says discussions were held with theatre owners on Monday regarding movies to be screened. “Though the government has given permission to operate from November 10, most of the cinema houses plan to start operations the following day. It will take a couple of days to start screening regular shows,” he says. “Complete disinfection and cleaning works are under way at many theatres across the district. However, it will be quite a task to resume operations as huge sums of money must be spent to keep the theatres ready for screening movies and for regular maintenance in accordance with the safety precautions issued by the government,” said a proprietor of a cinema house in the city. “Despite regularly cleaning the theatre during the last seven months, infestation of rats posed a major problem for many theatre owners. The equipment, which remained idle all these months, have to be repaired to restart operations,” he said. During the COVID-19 pandemic, many workers, including the technical staff, who were without work and little income, had quit the the job. So, many theatre owners had to hire new staff before restarting the operations, he said. “There are so many expenses even when theatres had no income for the past seven months,” says Mr. Rathinakumar. “Although the theatres remained closed, the owners had to pay for electricity charges and salaries to the staff who remained with us every month. Many small theatres are on the verge of bankruptcy,” he says. S. Govindarajan, manager of Central Theatre, which screens old movies, says it will be expensive to follow the COVID-19 precautionary measures. “Our theatre caters to the poorer sections of the society and the tickets are sold for a maximum of Rs. 40. But, with this income, we will have to cover the expenses of buying hand sanitisers and completely disinfecting the premises. Nevertheless, we will follow these precautions to ensure the safety of the audience,” he says. Even before the COVID-19 days, many theatres could fill only 50% of the seats, says Mr. Rathinakumar. “But, we are hopeful that the audience will slowly come back and start watching movies on big screens,” says Mr. Kannan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-begins-on-big-screens-again/article33007650.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Higher qualification of employees is good for an organisation, says HC||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that Tangedco had powers to modify educational qualifications for higher posts. Protection for service conditions were provided only for the post in which the employees were working and not in respect of any amendment in educational qualification for higher posts. The court was hearing a petition filed by S. Meenakshi who was appointed as Helper (Training) in Tangedco in 2010. The grievance of the petitioner was that following the amendment issued by the Department in 2014, the prospects of promotion to the post of Junior Assistant was restricted. Originally the qualification prescribed for promotion or appointment to the post of Junior Assistant was Class 10. But, following the amendment, the qualification for appointment to the post was a graduation in any degree. The amendment should not come in the way of promotion to existing employees, she said. Dismissing her petition, Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that the contentions raised by the petitioner deserved no merit, in view of a settled principle of law which stipulates that prescription or amendment of educational qualification or service condition are the prerogative administrative powers vested with the employer. The judge said that the Centre and the State have to look forward in respect of the advancements and developments of the country. Modifying the qualifications is certainly imminent to provide constant progress in respect of the development of the nation. Prescribing a higher qualification will certainly be an advantage to the organisation. For long, the prescribed qualification to the post was Class 10 and considering the current day educational growth, certainly modification of educational qualifications in all departments was required. Prescription of higher qualification will encourage students to pursue higher studies and provide opportunities to the youth, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/higher-qualification-of-employees-is-good-for-an-organisation-says-hc/article33008267.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corporation yet to disburse salaries for September, say contract workers||A section of contract workers, who were engaged in door-to-door surveillance for COVID-19 by Madurai Corporation till September, petitioned the Collector here on Monday, demanding disbursal of salaries for September. M. Shenbaga Raj, one among the petitioners, said hundreds of workers were hired on contract basis in June for door-to-door screening in the 100 wards of the city. However, they were asked to quit the job on September 23 without prior notice. “It has been more than a month since we were asked to leave the job. But we still haven't received our salary,” he said. A. Jayakumar, another petitioner, said while the Corporation officials say they have disbursed the salary, the contractors say they have not received the money from the Corporation. “In this confusion, the workers are ultimately affected,” he said. Being without a job during Deepavali festival was deeply impacting the workers, he added. “Despite testing positive for COVID-19, many workers continued performing their duty. Hence, the district administration must consider providing alternative job opportunities,” said Mr. Jayakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-yet-to-disburse-salaries-for-september-say-contract-workers/article33008266.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Non-implementation of 50% OBC reservation flayed||Members of Adi Tamilar Peravai staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Monday, condemning the government for not implementing 50% reservation this year for Other Backward Classes (OBC) students in medical seats contributed to All-India Quota (AIQ) by State government-run colleges. The members raised slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party government. M. Karthik, State joint secretary of the movement, said underprivileged students were deeply affected because of not extending the reservation benefits in the medical college seats. “This has shattered the dreams of many students from underprivileged families,” he said. The protesters said that the BJP government was working against the interests of poor people. “Even the ruling government in the State is not working towards the interests of the disadvantaged students,” he said. Mr. Karthik said similar protests were held across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-implementation-of-50-obc-reservation-flayed/article33008270.ece
03 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks clarity on functioning of DPCs||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday took note of the contradictory statements made by the State with regard to the action taken in curbing irregularities in direct purchase centres (DPCs). While the State in its counter affidavit submitted that the allegations that officials were demanding Rs. 30 to Rs. 40 per bag for procurement of paddy was false, it also submitted that 105 officials were found guilty during surprise inspections. The State said that 1,725 inspections were conducted and action was taken against the guilty officials. The government was taking steps to curb malpractice and mismanagement at the DPCs, it submitted. Taking note of the contradictory submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought clarity on the issue and directed the State to submit an additional affidavit. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam from Chennai, who alleged corruption and mismanagement at the DPCs. He said that it was the farmers who had to suffer as a result of irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-clarity-on-functioning-of-dpcs/article33007604.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rise in deliveries performed at GRH during lockdown||A total of 9,879 deliveries were conducted from April to October at Government Rajaji Hospital here during the COVID-19 pandemic. This is 1,471 more deliveries when compared to the deliveries performed during the same period last year. A press release from Dean J. Sangumani said 8,408 deliveries were performed last year. Head of the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology N. Sumathi said many critical cases were referred to GRH from several government hospitals and private hospitals in South Tamil Nadu during the pandemic. 66 on a single day Interestingly, 66 deliveries were performed on a single day on July 2 and October 22. Dr. Sumathi said this was the highest number of deliveries performed on a single day in the past seven months. The hospital had been performing deliveries throughout the lockdown period, including for those who tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 266 deliveries were conducted for COVID-19 positive women during the pandemic.”We have a separate team of doctors to handle deliveries of COVID-19 positive pregnant women at the COVID-19 speciality wing of the GRH,” said Dr. Sumathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9879-deliveries-performed-at-grh-during-pandemic/article33008272.ece
03 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs CBI to file counter affidavit||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to file a counter affidavit in the bail petition filed by S. Veilmuthu, an accused policeman in the case of Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan directed the CBI to file the counter and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-cbi-to-file-counter-affidavit/article33007656.ece
03 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on improving air connectivity||Taking into account the fact that Karaikudi in Sivaganga district and Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram district attract a large number of tourists, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a response from the Central and the State governments on development of air connectivity to the places under Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) scheme. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notices on the public interest litigation petition filed by S. Ramesh Kumar of Karaikudi, who sought the development of an airstrip in the region into a full-fledged airport. He pointed out that Karaikudi was a tourism hotspot. Considering the submission, the judges also sought a response on developing air connectivity to Rameswaram in view of the huge footfall in the town. The case was adjourned for filing of response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-improving-air-connectivity/article33007657.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea to conduct Gram Sabha meetings||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a response from the State government to a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the government to find an alternate day to conduct the special gram sabha meetings that were cancelled last month. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the State to the PIL petition filed by advocate A. Arun Ayyanar. The petitioner said the government had cancelled the special gram sabha meetings due to COVID-19. The meetings could be held by following COVID-19 guidelines, he added. “Gram sabha is the fulcrum of panchayati raj and village development. People use this forum to discuss local governance and development at village levels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-to-conduct-gram-sabha-meetings/article33008135.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Family quarrel leads to murder||A quarrel between a drunk husband and his wife that was mistaken for abusing the neighbours led to relatives fatally assaulting the man at Kalligudi on Sunday evening. Police said that K. Jeyaram, 49, of Maiyittanpatti, under the influence of alcohol, had picked up a quarrel with his wife, J. Athilakshmi. When he was abusing her, his neighbour D. Thangapandi, 40, and his family members, who are his relatives, shouted at him under the impression that his abuse was only directed at them. Jeyaram, who came out of the house, told them that it was a domestic quarrel. But Thangapandi and his wife Vijayalakshmi, his son, Pandiarajan, and daughter, Rajalakshmi, attacked him with a log. Jeyaram, who suffered head injuries, was rushed to the Government Hospital in Tirumangalam where the doctor declared him brought dead. Kalligudi police have arrested Thangapandi and his wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-quarrel-leads-to-murder/article33008273.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Yoga teacher arrested||A yoga teacher, I. Gurunathan, 64, of Tirumangalam has been arrested on charge of sexually harassing a minor girl who had come to learn yoga at Ramakrishna Thabovana Mutt in Tirumangalam, on Sunday. The police said that the 13-year-old girl had been going to the mutt to learn yoga for the past two weeks. On Saturday morning, after the yoga session was over, the man had taken the girl to his office room. On the pretext to checking her pulse rate, the man had made sexual advances to her. After the girl reported the incident to her parents, her father lodged a complaint with the All-Women Police Station in Tirumangalam. “This incident seems to be the first complaint against him. Further investigation will reveal whether he had been involved in any previous such crimes,” Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police Vinothini said. Gurunathan has been booked for aggravated sexual assault under the provision of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yoga-teacher-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-girl/article33007658.ece
03 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea to conduct gram sabha meetings||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday called for a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State government to find an alternative day to conduct the special gram sabha meetings that were cancelled last month. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the State in the PIL petition filed by advocate A. Arun Ayyanar from Madurai. The petitioner said that the government had cancelled the special gram sabha meetings due to COVID-19. The meetings could be conducted by adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines, he said. Gram sabha was the fulcrum of the panchayat raj and village development. People used this forum to discuss local governance and development at village level. When the government could open Tasmac shops and allow public transport, arrangements could also be made to conduct the meetings, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-to-conduct-gram-sabha-meetings/article33008268.ece
03 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed as bike hits tree||Two youth were killed when the motorcycle they were riding with two others hit a roadside tree near Alanganallur on Sunday night. Police said G. Naveen Sankar, 23, an army man, had come home to Kondayampatti on leave. He hosted a party for his friends, and he and and his three friends proceeded to an eatery in Thanichiyam on a motorcycle. The speeding bike hit a roadside tree at 9.15 p.m. While C. Sasi, 22, and M. Balamurugan, 23, were killed on the spot, Naveen and J. Santhana Karuppu, 19, sustained head injuries and were taken to Government Rajaji Hospital. Alanganallur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-as-bike-hits-tree/article33007665.ece
03 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Online training on GIFT Tilapia farming||The Dr. M.G.R. Fisheries College and Research Institute at Thalainayeru, a constituent unit of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam, has announced conduct of a day-long online training programme on Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia on November 10. GIFT Tilapia culture in the world and Indian scenario, site selection, pre-stocking, stocking, post-stocking management practices, harvesting, marketing and economic aspects will be taught to the trainees. The fee for the online training programme is Rs. 300 per person. The amount could be paid through RTGS / NEFT / Online banking (IOB / Account Number: 006201000073000 / IFSC code: IOBA0000062 / Branch: Nagapatinam), a press release issued by the Dean of the Institute said. Interested candidates should register their names with the Professor and Head, Department of Aquaculture, Dr. M.G.R. Fisheries College and Research Institute, Thalainayeru - 614712, Nagapattinam District, Ph. 04356-240441/ 09442288850, E-mail: athithan@tnfu.ac.in, on or before November 9, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-training-on-gift-tilapia-farming/article33007613.ece
03 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Woman kills two daughters, self||After allegedly administering sleeping pills to her two daughters, a young widow set herself ablaze on Monday. Police said R. Raasi, 29, of East Weavers’ Colony under Nesamony Nagar police station limits here lost her husband Rajkumar, 32, who was running a pharmacy last year even as he was undergoing treatment after getting critically injured in an accident. With her two children, Akshaya, 5, and Aniya, 3, Raasi was living in the house of her 72-year-old father-in-law Ramdas, a labourer. Even as Raasi’s father-in-law had to toil hard at this age to feed the family, the woman was reportedly under depression ever since she lost her husband. After allegedly administering sleeping tablets to her daughters, Raasi took the tablets in excess before going to bed on Sunday night. When Raasi woke in the early hours of Monday despite taking the sleeping pills, she saw her children were already dead. She, after pouring varnish all over her body, immolated herself inside the bathroom. She died on the spot. On hearing the scream for help, the family members and the neighbours tried to save her, but in vain. On getting information, Nesamony Nagar police retrieved the bodies and sent them to Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam for post-mortem. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-kills-two-daughters-self/article33007671.ece
03 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||CM to chair review meeting on Nov. 10||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will chair a meeting here on November 10 to review the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations and inaugurate completed development works while laying foundation stone for new projects. An official statement said the Chief Minister, on reaching Nagercoil via Thiruvananthapuram on November 10, will chair the meeting at the Collectorate at 3 p.m. After holding discussions with the officials, he will inaugurate the completed projects and lay foundation stone for new schemes. Thoothukudi visit Following overnight stay at Nagercoil, Mr. Palaniswami will leave for Thoothukudi on November 11 to chair similar meeting, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-chair-review-meeting-on-nov-10/article33007670.ece
03 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Inquiry into building collapse at Namakkal GH sought||Representatives of various political parties demanded the district administration to conduct an inquiry into the collapse of a building under construction for Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital. Members of All India Students Federation protested in front of the Collectorate here and urged authorities to ensure quality of construction. They demanded that a fact finding committee must be formed to ensure quality of construction and the contract of the current contractor should be cancelled. Similarly, members of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam alleged that the structure collapsed due to poor quality of construction and demanded that an IIT expert committee should be formed to assess the quality of the construction. The work should be stopped until then, they said. E.R. Eswaran, general secretary of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi challenged Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani whether he would be ready to accompany them to check the quality of construction of various government works here as he stated that there were no issues of the quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inquiry-into-building-collapse-at-namakkal-gh-sought/article33007704.ece
03 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Decreasing trend in COVID-19 cases’||There is a decreasing trend in COVID-19 cases in the district and the public should co-operate with the government’s efforts to continue this, said Shantha Arulmozhi, Dean of Namakkal Medical College Hospital. Compared to last week of September and early weeks of October, the cases were decreasing, she said and advised the public to follow safety protocols to contain the disease spread. A 10,000-litre liquid oxygen supply tank was installed at the Hospital on Monday at Rs. 35 lakh. Dr. Shantha said the need for oxygen supply had increased and the State government approved the hospital’s request immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decreasing-trend-in-covid-19-cases/article33007702.ece
03 November 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||P. Sri Venkada Priya assumed charge as the Collector of Perambalur district on Monday. She succeeds V. Santha who has been posted as Collector of Tiruvarur district. Ms. Venkada Priya had earlier served as the District Revenue Officer of Tiruchi district in 2009 and Director of Sericulture in 2017, an official release said.    Culmination of Vigilance Awareness Week activities at BHEL Tiruchi on Monday was marked by a valedictory function to honour prize-winners of various competitions on the theme ‘Vigilant India-Prosperous India’. A.V. Boovarajan, Vigilance Officer, TANGEDCO, Tiruchi, delivered a special lecture on the corollary between individual integrity at work place and national prosperity. Mr. Boovaragan gave away prizes to the winners of essay, poster, debates and other competitions in the presence of R. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL Tiruchi, and other senior officials.     The office of District Revenue Officer (Land Acquisition), Chennai-Kanyakumari Industrial Corridor Scheme, Kumbakonam, started functioning at Koranattu Karuppur near Kumbakonam from Monday. Hitherto ,the DRO office functioned at Ko.Si.Mani Nagar (North), Mayiladuthurai Road, Kumbakonam. It has now been shifted to Plot No.21, Sri Ayshwarya Nagar, Chennai Road, Koranattu Karuppur, Kumbakonam Taluk, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article33007627.ece
03 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||A snapshot of Puducherry’s evolution||From the first contact of the French with these shores, the Anglo-French wars and destruction and restoration of the city to the modern history of liberation and accession to the Indian Union, an exhibition hosted as part of the 66th Liberation Day celebrations offered a snapshot of the U.T.’s evolution. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy opened the exhibition hosted by the Tourism Department and curated by Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH-Puducherry). The event was supported by Alliance Francaise, the French Institute of Pondicherry and Ecole Française d’Extrême Orient (EFEO) (French School of the Far East) in the city. Though the exhibition used to be at least a week-long event in past years, this time the programme was curtailed to a day in view of the pandemic situation. Through a series of panels and charts, the exhibition was designed to chart the historical, architectural and cultural evolution of the place, spanning over 400 years. It features stalwarts who shaped the city’s architectural and cultural identity and highlights the restoration work undertaken by INTACH in the heritage town. The French first settled in erstwhile Pondicherry in 1674. The coastal town was taken over by the Dutch in 1693, who prepared the first comprehensive and unique grid-patterned layout for the settlement. The place changed hands to the French again in 1700, paving the way for implementation of the architectural plan and a series of fortifications — being enclosed in an oval-shaped rampart by 1740. As early as 1709, there would be one of the first initiatives by the French company to build a stronghold — Fort Louis — in the heart of the town. Modelled on the fort built by French military engineer Vauban in Tournai, the city would have a pentagon-shaped fort with five bastions, underground chambers for storage and a moat around it. The period between 1761 and 1825 saw several outer fortifications and the Boulevards. In 1761, the place came under the onslaught of the British, leading to its near-total destruction. However, the French wrested back Pondicherry in 1763 and reconstructed the town as seen today over the old foundational design. There are frames on personages from the French era from Governor-General Joseph Francois Dupleix to Ananda Ranga Pillai, the Dewan whose diaries are a rich source of archival material on life in the mid-18th century. Panels documented the contributions of Sri Aurobindo and The Mother, whose legacy permeates the quietude associated with the White Town precincts, and fascinating figures from history such as Chinese scholar Xu Fancheng, who lived in the city for 27 years. According to Ashok Panda, INTACH co-convener, new investigations by French scholars regarding crucial periods of the town’s development hold immense appeal for revisiting the Union Territory’s story. Dutch maps and plans throw new light on the origins of the settlement at the end of the 17th century; the register of land in the White Town precincts in 1777 which constitutes a veritable cadastre, an inventory of the essential elements of urban life. The historical and statistical accounts of the main French settlements in 1824 can be considered the first gazetteers of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-snapshot-of-puducherrys-evolution/article33008369.ece
03 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports less than 100 cases for second consecutive day||New COVID-19 cases fell under 100 for the second successive day with 70 persons testing positive and no fatalities being reported in Puducherry on Monday. With the cumulative death toll at 595 in the Union Territory, health authorities are planning to carry out “near-death” audits to document and analyse instances of patients who came back from the brink. Also, for the first time in several months, the number of active cases fell below 4,000. Of the 2,956 active cases, 639 patients are in hospital and 2,317 in home isolation. The new cases were identified from testing 2,820 samples, Director of Health S. Mohan Kumar said. Puducherry accounted for 62 cases, followed by Yanam (6) and Mahe (2). There were no new infections reported from Karaikal. As many as 482 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 2.48%, the case fatality rate 1.69% and the recovery rate 89.91%. Dr. Mohan Kumar said the overall COVID-19 tally in the Union Territory stood at 35,178 after the transfer of one case to Tamil Nadu. So far, 31,627 patients have recovered, including 482 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. The Health Department has undertaken testing of 3.14 lakh samples, of which the results of 2.76 lakh were negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said health officials would be initiating near-death audits to record the phenomena of patients who came close to death but were saved, in addition to the regular analysis of mortalities. With the opening of inter-State transport services, a strategy was being worked out for testing and monitoring passengers, Ms. Bedi said. Improving testing The Lt. Governor said as per the recommendations of the ICMR experts, the RT-PCR test numbers were being ramped up substantially. An added emphasis is on identifying the source of infection through case analysis and tracing secondary contacts to home in on hotspots/clusters. Surveillance is being stepped up in vulnerable areas by carrying out intense active testing/screening by ASHA workers/ANMs. Surveillance teams would be strengthened in these areas, Ms. Bedi said. At the same time, passive surveillance would be carried out by SHGs/urban volunteer groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-less-than-100-cases-for-second-consecutive-day/article33008374.ece
03 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Arrest of protesting trade union leaders sparks tension||Tension prevailed in front of Raj Nivas on Monday after police tried to physically remove trade union workers, including those belonging to AITUC and CITU, while they were staging a protest demanding the implementation of welfare measures. The workers, who gathered near Rangapillai Street, suddenly broke police barricades and gathered in front of the Raj Nivas main gate. Arguments and jostling broke out after the police attempted to physically remove them from the area. Later, a team, led by Superintendent of Police C. Maran, arrested the workers, numbering around 100. The Grand Bazaar Police registered a case and charged four of them under Section 353 (non-bailable) of the Indian Penal Code. Pending demands Secretary of CITU G. Sinuvasan told The Hindu that the trade unions were pushed to protest after the government failed to implement any of their long pending demands. He also charged the police with using force to remove them. Mr. Sinuvasan said they had been demanding the setting up of a welfare board, regularisation of workers in societies and public sector undertakings, disbursal of festival assistance to the tune of Rs. 2,000 and revival of mills. The revival of mills was a necessity as they were the only ventures that could provide jobs to hundreds. The Chief Minister, he said, had blamed the Lt. Governor of blocking the welfare measures. “We don’t know who is to be blamed and our fight will continue,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrest-of-protesting-trade-union-leaders-sparks-tension/article33008379.ece
03 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Police recruitment process postponed||The Police Department has postponed its recruitment process in Puducherry. In a release, Officer on Special Duty, Police Department, D. Raghunathan said, “The physical standard test and physical efficiency test for the recruitment to the posts of police constable, radio technician and deck handler in the Police Department is postponed due to administrative reasons.” The revised schedule will be intimated to the candidates in due course. Candidates were told not to come to the test venue on the date fixed as per the schedule given in the admit card. Candidates may visit the website https://recruitment.py.gov.in for updates, the release said. The department had initiated the process to start the tests from November 4. However, last week, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi issued a note directing the Chief Secretary to keep the recruitment process in abeyance. Her direction was based on a few complaints she had received about certain changes made in the recruitment process. As per the guidelines notified on August 20, 2018, the physical test should be conducted in digital/biometric mode. But recently it was changed to manual mode. Also, in the outlying regions of the Union Territory, the physical standards test and endurance tests were not possible due to the non-availability of swimming pools and 400 m tracks, the note said. In response to her directive, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy submitted a file to the Lt. Governor contending the necessity to hold the recruitment process as per schedule. He had been maintaining for a few days that the recruitment rules were changed to conduct the tests manually after the firm appointed for the digital recruitment process refused to participate.  Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi’s direction was based on a few complaints she had received about certain changes made in the recruitment process||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-recruitment-process-postponed/article33008380.ece
03 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Online quiz to be held||The Pondicherry AIDS Control Society will conduct a State-level online quiz competition on November 4 for college students of the Union Territory. A press note said participation is open to students of all private and government colleges and institutions from the polytechnic level and above. The quiz competition will deal with the topics of HIV, TB and COVID-19. The competition aims to raise awareness among the youth. The top 10 student winners of the State-level competitions will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 4,000 each with a certificate. The top two winners will be deputed for the regional-level quiz to be hosted in the third week of November, comprising contestants from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, Puducherry and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Two winners from the regional-level quiz will participate at the national level to be organised later by the National AIDS Control Organisation, New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-quiz-to-be-held/article33008375.ece
03 November 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||BJP to stage protest against govt.||The Bharatiya Janata Party will organise a protest in front of the Employment Exchange on November 6 to highlight the failure of the Congress government to address the unemployment problem. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, nominated legislator and president of BJP local unit V. Saminathan said the Congress had promised to provide one job per family. But no one was provided jobs through the Employment Exchange. Around 2.5 lakh people have registered with the Employment Exchange. To highlight the failure of the Congress government, party workers would take out a rally from the Rajiv Gandhi Women and Child Hospital to the Employment Exchange on Friday, Mr Saminathan said. He appealed to the youth to participate in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-stage-protest-against-govt/article33008377.ece
03 November 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP protecting ‘corrupt’ AIADMK government, says Stalin||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre of protecting the ‘corrupt’ AIADMK regime headed by Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami as the latter was ready to be a ‘slave’ to the Central government. The BJP government had allowed the AIADMK to plunder Tamil Nadu as the regime under Mr. Palaniswami had mortgaged the State government and the party to the Centre, Mr. Stalin alleged. Addressing DMK functionaries of the district through virtual meet from Chennai as part of his ‘Tamizhagam Meetpom’ campaign, Mr. Stalin alleged that akin to the British period when some smaller kings were looting the people after making payments ('Kappam') to the colonial rulers, the AIADMK government was ‘plundering’ the State by doing the same to the BJP government at the Centre. As a sequel to this, Tamil Nadu had not only lost its due rights but also its economic power with industrial development completely destroyed resulting in unemployment. Further, projects affecting the people were being imposed on the State. Terming the 10-year AIADMK rule as ‘anarchic’, ‘anti-people’ and ‘corrupt’, Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu was under severe distress under the present regime with no achievements. Mr. Stalin said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, a native of Pudukottai district, had a major role in bringing disrepute to the AIADMK government. Lashing out at Mr. Vijayabaskar, Mr. Stalin said the Health Minister had lied that COVID-19 preparatory measures were taken in January itself. Without carrying out any preparatory measures for COVID-19, the Health Minister had enacted a drama and spread wrong information that the State would protect everyone and it was prepared to deal with the pandemic. However, the pandemic had claimed over 11,000 lives in Tamil Nadu besides affecting lakhs of people, he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar had been giving wrong statistics on the number of deaths and the number of those affected due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Stalin claimed. Highlighting the raids conducted by different Central agencies in connection with gutka payments and distribution of money to voters during the by-poll at the R.K. Nagar assembly constituency in which Mr. Vijayabaskar was alleged to be involved, Mr. Stalin said that Mr. Vijayabaskar continued to remain a Minister only because of the BJP government at the Centre. Earlier, Mr. Stalin inaugurated a statue of late DMK Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi at the Pudukottai district party unit office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-is-protecting-corrupt-aiadmk-government-stalin/article33007615.ece
03 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Car gutted||A private car, driven by Vijay from Kerala, reportedly caught fire and was destroyed near Keelakarai road check-post on Monday. Police said four people from Kerala were staying in a rented house at Senthamizh Nagar. They were engaged by the government to renovate public parks. When they were travelling to R.S. Madai to inspect a park, the driver spotted a fire. He stopped and escaped. Three others too moved out to safety. The police are investigating the cause of the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-gutted/article33007659.ece
03 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery showroom burgled||Unidentified persons burgled a jewellery showroom near Salem Steel Plant and decamped with gold and silver articles worth over Rs. 3 lakh. The police said the shop was located near owner Raja’s house and he was not at home from Sunday afternoon. Passers-by noticed the shop’s locks damaged on Monday and alerted Raja and the police. Fingerprint experts lifted samples. The police said the burglars decamped with three kg of silver articles and about five sovereigns of gold jewellery. The police collected CCTV footages from the shop and were investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-showroom-burgled/article33007703.ece
03 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for duping women||The Salem City Crime Branch on Monday arrested two persons for duping women to the tune of Rs. 40 lakh promising various benefits under State and Central government schemes. The police said Vennila had been running an organisation by name Ulaga Pengal Munnetra Kutamaipu and Muthukumaran was its director. The duo appointed persons in various districts and took an advance amount of up to Rs. 1,500, promising women sewing machines and cows under government schemes. However, the women did not receive any benefits and when they asked their money back, there was no response from them, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-duping-women/article33007705.ece
03 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam increased||The outflow from Mettur dam was increased to 18,000 cusecs on Monday evening. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 99.07ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage was 63,641 mcft and the inflow to the dam was 6,324 cusecs. The discharge from the dam through Cauvery river to delta region was increased from 15,000 cusecs to 18,000 cusecs. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 900 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-increased/article33007706.ece
03 November 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks industry shocked over cracker ban by Rajasthan govt.||The Rajasthan government’s order banning the use of firecrackers and the notice issued by the National Green Tribunal to the Centre, seeking its reply for a ban on crackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) during November, have shocked the fireworks hub here. Even as the industry was busy with last-minute production to meet the demand during Deepavali amid the COVID-19 threat, the latest developments have raised concerns about the very existence of the sector. The production of fireworks was hit badly due to the lockdown. “The industry found it difficult to meet the precautionary measures to resume production. Our workers too risked their lives under the pandemic threat to produce the fireworks with the sole objective of keeping the people happy during the festival celebrations,” said Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association (TIFMA) general secretary T. Kannan. He wondered why the issue of pollution was being raised during the time of sales after a year of hard work by lakhs of workers. President of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association Ganesan Panjurajan said the industry was producing green crackers approved by the Supreme Court. “We are not using any chemicals that pollute. Besides, the additives suggested by the National Environmental Engineering Institute were used to bring down the emissions,” he said. Being targeted The manufacturers wondered why fireworks used for a few hours for two to three days during Deepavali were being targeted when major pollutants like thermal power plants and the cement industry, and pollution caused by automobiles and road dust were being ignored. “The Environmental Protection Act states that any emission that gets dissolved in the atmosphere within 48 hours is not a pollutant. Studies have proved that fireworks are not all polluting,” Mr. Kannan said. Mr. Ganesan said the fireworks stocks meant for north Indian States have already reached the destinations. Any ban on bursting crackers will not only hurt the dealers but also affect the resumption of production post-Deepavali and the livelihoods of lakhs of employees. The fireworks industry has written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Chief Minister of Rajasthan Ashok Gehlot and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, seeking their support for sales and bursting of crackers.  A spokesman of the industry says that they are producing green crackers approved by the Supreme Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-industry-shocked-over-cracker-ban-by-rajasthan-govt/article33007636.ece
03 November 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek swift action to retrieve looted deposits||Seeking stringent action against those who misappropriated their deposits made in the Govindaperi Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society, a group of investors submitted a petition to the officials here during the weekly grievance redressal meet on Monday. The petitioner farmers said more than 1,000 members, who had deposited several lakhs of rupees in the Govindaperi Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society at Ravanasamudram and having small savings accounts, were getting farm and the jewel loans to meet their demands. When a few farmers recently approached the Govindaperi Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society officials to get back their deposits on maturity, they were informed that only a trivial amount had been left in their accounts while huge sum of money had been illegally siphoned off. Even after the aggrieved farmers had filed complaints with the police and petitions with the officials, no proper action had been taken to retrieve the misappropriated investments from the culprits and arrest them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-swift-action-to-retrieve-looted-deposits/article33007673.ece
03 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||People observe All Souls Day||The annual requiem for the dead was held at cemeteries across Thanjavur on Monday. Family members of the departed persons visited the CSI cemeteries at Nanjikottai Road, Misson Road and other places in the town and paid floral tributes to their ancestors. The Thanjavur Archbishop Most Rev. Fr. Devadoss Ambrose conducted the requiem at the Sacred Heart Cemetery where the body of the departed priests were buried. The special mass that are usually conducted in connection with the ‘kallarai thirunal’ (requiem for the dead) at the Sacred Heart and Vyakulamatha churches have been cancelled in view of the standard operating procedures imposed by the government in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, official sources said. Similar events were also held at the cemeteries at Kumbakonam, Pattukottai, Poondi and other areas in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-observe-all-souls-day/article33007617.ece
03 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Assign specific responsibilities to officials at DPCs’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation AITUC Employees Union and Loadman Union staged a demonstration near the TNCSC Zonal Office here on Monday urging the government to assign specific responsibilities to officials administering the direct purchase centres (DPCs). The demonstrators, led by TNCSC AITUC EU State general secretary, C. Chandrakumar and Loadman Union State president A.Samikannu, raised slogans demanding that the responsibility of arranging of materials required for procurement, stocking of gunny bags, movement of procured paddy, prevention of loss of grains in transit and other responsibilities should be entrusted with the officials. They had also raised slogans demanding a minimum salary of Rs.20,000, loading wages at the rate of Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 per bag for the loadman, a pension of Rs.10,000for the TNCSC employees, suspension of levying fine on the field workers for grain loss due to transit and to desist from suspending field staff for petty reasons. Similar demonstrations were also held near the TNCSC offices at Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assign-specific-responsibilities-to-officials-at-dpcs/article33007616.ece
03 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Move to set up stone quarry in the midst of farms decried||Protesting the move to set up stone quarry in the midst of cultivable lands, a group of farmers from South Ilanthaikulam panchayat in Kayathar taluk in the district submitted petition to Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Monday. Led by president of Milk Producers’ Union of South Ilanthaikulam Kothandaraman and Kayathar union secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam Seeni Pandian, the farmers submitted the petition. They said the farmers, who have a few acres of rain-fed land around South Ilanthaikulam area, were cultivating maize and vegetables besides getting revenue from the guava, amla and sapota orchards. As an individual had applied for permission for setting up stone quarry in a land in the midst of these cultivable lands and the orchards, clearance of the application without verifying ground reality would affect ongoing farming operations around South Ilanthaikulam. Moreover, the proposed quarry would destroy the grassland denying fodder for the cattle being reared by the milk producer of South ilanthaikulam. Hence, the Collector, after conducting proper inspection of the proposed site, should reject the application, the petitioners said. The denial of reservation in medical colleges for Other Backward Communities during this academic year triggered opposition from the affected group. Members of Denotified Community Welfare Association, in their petition, said 18% of seats in Tamil Nadu medical colleges should be reserved for Scheduled Castes, 1% for Scheduled Tribes, 30% for Backward Communities and 20% for Most Backward Communities. The State Government should ensure this reservation guaranteed by the reservation policies being followed in Tamil Nadu for decades. “If not, we’ll boycott the Assembly polls and campaign actively among the OBCs to boycott the elections,” the petitioners said. A section of the residents from Lakshmipuram near Kayalpattinam submitted a petition for better roads in 6 streets in the hamlet and public drinking water taps in all these streets. Another group of villagers from Mavilpatti village in Ettaiyapuram taluk submitted a petition seeking re-laying of the road leading to the cremation ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-set-up-stone-quarry-in-the-midst-of-farms-decried/article33008436.ece
03 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||DMK will end farmers’ woes: Kanimozhi||The problems being faced by the farming community will come to an end after the DMK comes to power, MP Kanimozhi has said. When she interacted with farmers at Kallamparai and Kurumbur in the district on Monday, the agriculturists told the MP that steps should be taken to desilt Kadambakulam and the supply channels carrying water from Srivaikundam dam to the largest irrigation tank of the district. They also said damaged shutters of 10 irrigation tanks getting surplus water from Kadambakulam should also be repaired. Replying, Ms. Kanimozhi said she would release funds from the MP’s Constituency Development Fund for addressing the farmers’ grievances. Earlier, the MP, along with Tiruchendur MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan, and the government officials visited the Srivaikundam dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-will-end-farmers-woes-kanimozhi/article33007605.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of Deepavali, bussiness areas come under surveillance||Commercial hotspots falling under Fort and Gandhi Market police station limits here have been brought under enhanced surveillance and monitoring in connection with the forthcoming Deepavali festival in an effort to curb offences. A temporary police outpost has been established on the NSCB Road near Teppakulam as part of the detailed security arrangements put in place by the police keeping in mind the security of the public and to enable them convey information and prefer complaints regarding movement of suspicious persons at the business hotspots. Eight watchtowers have been established at vantage locations including at ‘Malaivaasal’, Main Guard Gate, Anjuman Bazaar, Singarathope and at the Gandhi Market arch. Police personnel with binoculars would be deployed atop the watchtowers to monitor public movements. A dome camera has been installed at the NSCB Road junction besides installation of a total number of 127 surveillance cameras covering major hotspots including Big Bazaar Street, Chinna Kadai Veedhi, Chathram Bus Stand, Singarathope, Super Bazaar, Madurai Road, areas in and around the Anna statue for continuous monitoring. The cameras are connected to the monitors placed at the Chathram Bus Stand and at the NSCB Road -Raghunath junction. A total number of 100 police personnel attached to the crime wing would be deployed to keep a watch in the commercial hotspots and identify movement of criminals. In addition to police personnel attached to Fort and Gandhi Market station limits, as many as 100 personnel have been drawn from the Armed Reserve for maintenance of law and order. Members of the Home Guards have been drafted for duty to assist the police personnel. In an effort to regulate traffic movements and curb crimes, the City Police has identified four places for temporary checking of vehicles. These spots were Nandhi Koil junction; Chinna Kadai veedhi - Babu Road junction; Big Bazaar Road - Kiledar Road junction and opposite Poompuhar at Singarathope. Parking lots The City Police has earmarked separate temporary parking lots for two-wheelers and four-wheelers. The designated parking lots for two-wheelers have been put up at the Corporation ground on the stretch between Holy Cross Higher Secondary School and Banana Leaf restaurant; Corporation ground at Yaanaikulam and Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School ground. The parking lots for four-wheelers were at railway ground on the Old Goods Shed Road; Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School ground and near the Tiruchi Fort railway station. The City Police has stated that vehicles coming to the commercial hotspots should be parked only in the temporary designated parking lots and not in other places. The parking system comes into effect from November 2 and up to 7 a.m. on November 14, a police press release said. Fiat for auto drivers The City Police has also announced that cars and autorickshaws would not be allowed on the Big Bazaar Street, Chinna Kadai Veedhi, NSCB Road and Nandhi Koil Street. However, two-wheelers would be permitted in those places. Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan inaugurated the temporary police outpost created at the NSCB Road near Teppakulam on Monday in the presence of senior city police officers. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Loganathan said the city police were according emphasis on personal distancing and wearing of masks by public coming for shopping at the commercial hotspots ahead of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-deepavali-bussiness-areas-come-under-surveillance/article33007623.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK dispensation a puppet of the BJP, says Congress leader||Terming the AIADMK dispensation as a puppet of the BJP-led Government at the Centre, Sanjay Dutt, National Secretary of the Congress and in-charge of the State unit, said on Monday that the ruling party would be unseated from power for its misdeeds and anti-people policies. Speaking to reporters here after flagging off a signature campaign against Farm Laws enacted by the BJP government, he said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who claimed himself to be a farmer, had extended total support to the Act without studying their demerits. The Act was anti-farmers and anti-people. The laws would ruin the livelihood of farmers, who had already been facing severe crisis due to various reasons. It would gradually force the farmers to give up agriculture. But, the AIADMK government had simply accepted the Act as it had no courage to oppose them, he said. Mr. Dutt said that the prices of essential commodities had already gone up in the market. It was mainly due to the impact of the Farm Laws. Hence, the State government should take a stand not to implement them in the State. He said that both the BJP and the AIADMK governments had failed to minimise the sufferings of the people due to COVID-19 pandemic. It had wreaked havoc on livelihood of people and thousands of people had lost jobs. But, the governments were making false claim on COVID-19. Mr. Dutt said that there was a good understanding between the Congress and the DMK. The alliance would teach a lesson to the AIADMK. Later, Mr. Dutt held a discussion with V. Jawahar, president of the district Congress committee (Tiruchi urban) and senior leaders of the Congress on the forthcoming Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dispensation-a-puppet-of-bjp-sanjay-dutt/article33007609.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Garbage once again blights Rockfort Teppakulam||The teppakulam of Thayumanaswamy Temple presents a picture of neglect amid the festive season shopping rush. Street vendors blame the public and the apathy of the Tiruchi Corporation for the dumping of garbage into the waterbody. The floating plastic bags, bottles and garbage in the temple tank of the Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple, which is considered the main business hub, depicts a sorry state. With the public thronging the area to purchase clothing, gifts and jewellery for the upcoming festival, the tank has become a dumping ground, many claim. The teppakulam is surrounded by clothing stores occupying Nandhi Kovil Street, while eateries, small street carts selling fruits and snacks line the other two sides. Most of these traders and vendors conveniently dump their waste and refuse into the tank, the locals complain. Traders, however, say that the public throw garbage over the parapet wall and from the sides. “There are mosquitoes throughout the day and the foul smell drives away our customers. The only people who are affected by it are the vendors,” a shopkeeper on NSB Road said. Civic activists, meanwhile, say that the civic body must tighten security and supervision in the area. “The shop keepers must keep a watch and urge customers not to throw anything into the temple tank. CCTV cameras can also be installed. The most effective way to ensure that garbage dumping is avoided is to impose a fine,” said K. C. Neelamegam, Secretary, Thanneer, a voluntary organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-once-again-blights-rockfort-teppakulam/article33007619.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees further dip in cases and no deaths||The central districts registered a further dip in COVID-19 cases with 201 fresh cases recorded on Monday. No deaths were reported for the first time since June, when the first COVID death was reported in the region in Tiruchi. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded the highest number of cases in the region, with 49 patients testing positive for the infection. Thanjavur came a close second, with 48 fresh cases reported. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and those with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) and Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). In Tiruchi, a further drop in patients testing positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus was reported. Among the total of 31 patients who reported positive were isolated cases or those from existing containment zones and were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Nagapattinam, 23 fresh cases were reported, while in Karur, 22 patients reported positive. Many patients in both districts were asymptomatic and were identified through door-to-door testing and fever camps conducted across the districts, official sources said. In Karur, patients who tested positive hailed from Kadavur, Kulithalai among other localities. Pudukottai district reported a significant decline in COVID cases with 17 patients testing positive for COVID on Monday. In Ariyalur, seven patients tested positive, among which two people hailed from Ariyalur, two from Thirumanur, one from Sendhurai and two from Andimadam blocks in the district. The addition of these patients further increased the total number of COVID-19 recorded in the district to 4,393. In Perambalur, four patients tested positive, increasing the total number of cases reported in the district to 2,090. Among them, two hailed from the Perambalur block, Veppanthattai, while one each hailed from Veppanthattai and Alathur block. Meanwhile, a total of 444 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-further-dip-in-cases-and-no-deaths/article33007621.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Chalk piece makers in the red||Cottage industries making chalk pieces on Melur Road in Tiruchi have lost a lot of business as schools and colleges have taken to e-learning so far this academic year. While many units have closed, those still running hope for a boost to the sales with the re-opening of schools and colleges scheduled for later this month. The clanking of metal plates used to shape chalk into the cylindrical shape has become feeble. With the lockdown imposed to curb COVID-19 during what they call their peak business period, many units were forced to shut. The dry summers are when a large amount of chalk can be made. “We have borrowed huge sums to run our business; with the lockdown and the closure of schools and colleges, which are our major source of income, we are apprehensive of our future,” said M. Govindaraj, owner of Gayathri Enterprises, a chalk piece-making unit. Mr. Govindaraj reopened his unit 20 days ago, with just three employees. “My wife, along with two other women, works at the unit now. Before the lockdown, eight persons, including two men, were employed with us,” he said. He could not afford to pay the salaries and had to let the workers go. “We were paying them once in 15 days earlier, but now we are forced to sell some of my wife’s jewels and tap into all our savings to make ends meet,” he said. G. Jayanthi, Mr. Govindaraj's wife, said that usually, 50 bundles, each having 3,600 pieces, would be sold every month. “Now, we are unable to sell even one or two bundles. Only offices and stationery shops purchase and stock them,” she said. It has also been difficult to buy raw materials, including limestone that was usually bought from Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi, Ms. Jayanthi said. Their regular suppliers were unavailable amid the lockdown; now, they are unwilling to send the material because they are unsure of receiving payments. A long-standing demand of the manufacturers to subsidise kerosene, which is used to lubricate the metal moulds, is yet to be considered. “The State government must heed our plea as we cater to the needs of educational institutions,” she said. “With the monsoon set in, opening the unit is a big risk, but we need to eat,” she said. After the government announced the re-opening of higher secondary schools and colleges, the manufacturers are hopeful. “We have slowly begun to make and stock the product. However, we are yet to receive any order,” Ms. Jayanthi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chalk-piece-makers-in-the-red/article33007634.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Quality Month: BHEL Tiruchi plans over 30 training and lecture programmes||BHEL Tiruchi will be conducting over 30 training and lecture programmes as part of the Quality Month observance on the theme ‘Quality First-Do it Right the First Time and Every Time’. Internal and external faculty will be engaged for this purpose, R. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL Tiruchi, said. A renewed thrust will be accorded to nurture the culture of ‘Quality First’ to ensure that all commitments to customers are fulfilled while strictly adhering to government guidelines on COVID-19, Mr. Padmanabhan said while inaugurating this year’s Quality Month activities on Monday. Underlining the importance of quality in maximising contribution of BHEL Tiruchi towards the Centre's Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, Mr Padmanabhan said it was important for employees to be passionate about quality and think in line with the customer’s expectations in issues related to quality. Focus on quality is also vital to overcome the business challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic, and ensuring prompt delivery of high quality products and services at optimum cost as a top priority for the organization. Mr. Padmanabhan administered quality pledge to General Managers, products and functional heads, representatives of participative unions, engineers and officers’ association, executives’ association and other senior officials. I. Kamalakkannan, General Manager, Boiler Shops and Maintenance and Services, and T. S. Murali, General Manager, Operations, administered the pledge to the employees in Tamil and Hindi respectively. A message from Nalin Shinghal, Chairman and Managing Director, BHEL, on Quality Month was read out on the occasion. A ceremonial lamp was lit by the senior most employee of BHEL Tiruchi, KR Veerappan, Additional Engineer II, Valves, to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quality-month-bhel-tiruchi-plans-over-30-training-and-lecture-programmes/article33007625.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mission to create green cover in Thaluthalapatty||Yi Trichy and Holy Cross College have embarked on the task of clearing prosopis juliflora and desilting ponds on an expanse of 23 acres surrounding the lake at Thaluthalpatty village in Mannachanallur block in the district, for creating a green cover. The social forestry activity envisages raising of 450 trees of 11 varieties in three acres, and planting 1,000 palm tree seeds along the embankment of the waterbody. Ketan Vora, Chair, Young Indians Trichy Chapter, said the focus was to improve the lives of the rural people and to see empowerment of women and youth through government interventions. Training on entrepreneurship will be conducted and awareness programmes on various issues including health, sanitation (Swachh Bharath) and education will be jointly carried out by the Yi and Holy Cross college, he said. To begin with, the two entities have undertaken desiltation of the waterbody. The planting of saplings will be carried out in the next phase. In all, 1,000 saplings of neem, pungai, naval, tamarind and other varieties will be planted, besides sowing 1,000 palm seeds, K. Gopinath, Chair, Climate Change Vertical, Young Indians, Trichy Chapter, said. The greening activity was launched recently in the village in the presence of the Thaluthalpatty panchayat president V. Satto, Principal of Holy Cross College Rev. Sr. Christina Bridget; and Dean of Extension Sujatha Illongovan. Besides Thaluthalapatty, the other villages under the ambit of the college's extension wing RESCAPES (Rural Enrichment through Students Community Action and Participation for Environmental Sustainability) comprise Azhagiyamanvalam, Kovathakudi, Sirupathur, Thiruvasi, Thathamangalam, Kariyamanickam, S. Ayampalayam, Thirupanjalee, Ayikudi, and Valaiyur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mission-to-create-green-cover-in-thaluthalapatty/article33007612.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gang involved in chain snatching cases arrested||A special team of the city police has arrested a three-member gang on the charge of indulging in a series of chain snatching cases here and recovered stolen gold items weighing 22 sovereigns from them. Two among the accused Thirupathi and Prakash had confessed to the team about their involvement in the recent kidnap of a minor boy here who was subsequently rescued. The special team was constituted on the direction of Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan to identify and apprehend those indulging in chain snatching here. A police press release said the team was conducting vehicle checks at Karumandapam check post when the trio on a two-wheeler made a vain attempt to escape. The team interrogated the gang and established their identities as Thirupathi of Woraiyur, Prakash of Keezhakalkandarkottai and Kishore Kumar of Karur district. The trio had reportedly admitted that they were involved in snatching gold chains from women going by walk and riding two-wheeler at seven places in the last 10 months besides indulging in a robbery case. They were later remanded in judicial custody, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-involved-in-chain-snatching-cases-arrested/article33007610.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Traders seek support||Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale and Retail Traders Association has sought the support of the district administration and City Corporation authorities for early functioning of the market. At a time when the situation is turning to normal, the authorities must ideally take a stand to get the stay order on functioning of the market vacated at the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, Ve. Govindarajulu, president of the association said in a press release. Nearly 3,000 traders were facing losses due to the legal stalemate, Mr. Govindarajulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-seek-support/article33007614.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 98.85 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 6,338 cusecs and the discharge was 14,999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33007624.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner tries to escape from sub-jail; caught||A remand prisoner who tried to escape from the Kovilpatti sub-jail was caught within the next few minutes on Monday. After being arrested in connection with a mobile phone theft, Sakthivel, 32, of Koottaampuli in Thoothukudi district was lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail on October 14. When the cell was opened on Monday, Sakthivel, who climbed atop a tree near the tall wall of the sub-jail, managed to scale the wall studded with nails and broken glass. Even though he sustained bleeding injuries on the foot, Sakthivel jumped on the other side of the wall only to be chased by the traffic police even as the warders were also following him. Though he ran for a distance, a group of youths playing cricket in the nearby ground and the construction workers in a building under construction also joined the police and the warders in the chase. After Sakthivel entered a nearby government office, he was nabbed and taken to the Government Hospital for administering medicine for the cut injuries he had suffered in the foot. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-tries-to-escape-caught/article33007606.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Outfit flays abolition of reservation for OBC students||Members of Adi Tamilar Peravai staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Monday condemning the abolition of reservation for the other backward community students in education and employment by the BJP-led Union Government. The protesters also condemned the Tamil Nadu Government for being mute to the Centre and for not protesting against “killing” of opportunities for students from these community. The protesters said the BJP-led government at the Centre had buried the dreams of such students. The Bill ensuring 7.50% reservation to the government school students was allowed to gather dust by the Governor. Moreover, the employment opportunities in Tamil Nadu are being given to north Indians following the pressure exerted by the BJP. Even as educationally and technically qualified Tamil youths have been left unemployed, the vacancies in the government departments in Tamil Nadu are being filled up with the north Indian youths, the protesters alleged. The protesters were led by Ilaiyaraja, organising secretary of Adi Tamilar Peravai’s Tirunelveli city district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outfit-flays-abolition-of-reservation-for-obc-students/article33007675.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Terminated COVID-19 voluntary nurses in tears||The abrupt termination of voluntary nurses who were hired recently on temporary basis for treating the COVID-19 patients has rocked them as they have been asked not to report for duty from November 1 onwards. In the petitions submitted to the officials here on Monday during the weekly grievance day meeting, the volunteer nurses said around 60 nurses, who volunteered for treating the COVID-19 patients in the district even as the pandemic had reached the crescendo, were hired by the Deputy Director of Public Health on the basis of consolidated pay. Even as the prevalence of the viral infection was coming down, thanks to the joint efforts of all stakeholders, the volunteer nurses had been asked orally not to report for duty from November 1 onwards. “We, after taking care of the COVID-19 positive patients for a week, were quarantined for seven days before returning to the week-long duty again to attend the patients. Even without taking care of our families, especially our children, we attended the COVID-19 positive patients risking our lives. Even though some of us got infected, we continued to serve the patients for the consolidated pay, which is very much essential for feeding our children. The abrupt termination from this temporary job has left our families, particularly children, in the lurch. Hence, we request the Chief Minister to allow us to work on compassionate grounds, which will save our families from starvation,” they said. A similar petition was also submitted to Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri by sacked voluntary nurses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/terminated-covid-19-voluntary-nurses-in-tears/article33007607.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari’s COVID-19 tally nearing 15,000-mark||Even as its COVID-19 infection tally is nearing the 15,000-mark, Kanniyakumari district lost one more life to the viral infection on Monday to have a death toll of 245. After 40 new cases were admitted to hospitals, the district has 260 active cases and an infection tally of 14,987. A total of 102 people were discharged. Thoothukudi reported 39 fresh cases to have an infection tally of 15,128, with 447 active cases. Fifty people were discharged from hospitals in the district. Madurai recorded 37 new cases, with which the total number of positive cases rose to 18,813. Forty-six people were discharged from hospitals in the district, which has 474 active cases. There was one fatality, which took the district’s death toll to 420. The tally of Tirunelveli went up to 14,260 with the addition of 25 new cases. After 32 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 151 active cases. Nineteen people tested positive in Dindigul, which has marked a tally of 9,821. Five patients were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases is 62. So far, 185 people have succumbed to the virus. Theni registered 18 fresh cases to have a tally of 16,268. Hospitals discharged 17 people and there are 55 active cases in the district, which has a death toll of 193. The number of fresh cases registered in Virudhunagar was 16, which took the district’s tally up to 15,471. After the discharge of 37 people, the number of active cases came down to 107. The district recorded one more fatality – that of an 84-year-old man at a private hospital in Virudhunagar on October 29 – to have a death toll of 221. Ramanathapuram reported 14 fresh cases, which pushed its tally up to 6,021. Hospitals marked the discharge of 17 people. The district, which has so far lost 130 lives to COVID-19, has 50 active cases. Sivaganga accounted for 10 new cases, which raised the overall case count to 5,922. There were 31 discharges from hospitals. The district, which has 103 active cases, has had 126 fatalities. Tenkasi recorded four fresh cases to have a tally of 7,830, with 27 active cases. Three people were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumaris-covid-19-tally-nearing-15000-mark/article33007654.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Move to construct police quarters on temple land opposed||Residents from Andipalayam and neighbouring villages on Monday staged a demonstration on Mangalam Road condemning the move to construct police quarters allegedly on temple land. The residents gathered on Mangalam Road within Tiruppur Central police station limits around 9.30 a.m. and staged a protest. They alleged that there was a move to construct a new police quarters on an 11-acre land belonging to a temple in Andipalayam village. The land was used by residents for many generations to celebrate festivals and for other events, they claimed. Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam visited the protesters to offer his support for the agitation. The women also staged ‘kummi’ folk dance during the demonstration. An officer with the Tiruppur City Police said that the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department had offered nine acres out of the 11-acre land to the Police Department nearly six years ago for the police quarters. The residents were unaware of this and decided to protest now, he said. The construction works have not commenced yet, according to the officer. Around 750 residents participated in the demonstration, of which around 450 were women, the officer said. Tiruppur City Police deployed nearly 200 police personnel on Mangalam Road. Revenue Department sources said that Tiruppur Revenue Divisional Officer Jegannathan and City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan held talks with the residents regarding the issue. They agreed to solve the issue legally and to submit a petition to the district administration. The officials also assured the residents that steps will be taken to allow them to use the land for celebrations, sources said. The demonstration was withdrawn around 3 p.m. after the meeting with officials concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-construct-police-quarters-on-temple-land-opposed/article33008142.ece
03 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sit-in protest temporarily withdrawn||The Federation of Farmers’ Associations Against Transmission Towers has announced that the sit-in protest in Uthukuli, which entered its sixth day on Monday, was temporarily withdrawn. In a release, the farmers said that they met with Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar and Tiruppur Revenue Divisional Officer Jegannathan on Monday and that their demands were accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sit-in-protest-temporarily-withdrawn/article33008143.ece
03 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Kodanad accused fear threat to safety in prison’||The two prime accused in the Kodanad estate dacoity-cum-murder case feared for their safety, according to their lawyer G. Anandan. Speaking to reporters outside the district judge court premises in Udhagamandalam where the accused K.V. Sayan and ‘Walayar’ Manoj appeared on Monday, Mr Anandan said they were apprehensive of their safety. The two were in judicial custody and lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison. Mr. Anandan said that they had requested the judge during an earlier hearing to direct the prison authorities to allow the two accused to use phone services at the prison to speak to their families. He, however, alleged that after they were taken back to jail, they were put in a cell with no basic amenities and were not given adequate food and water. “Even today, while being brought to court, they were not allowed to change clothes and are being ill-treated, with prison officials stating that they have been given orders from higher authorities,” claimed the lawyer. Mr. Anandhan said that following a petition filed before the court, the district judge directed the public prosecutor to communicate to prison officials to allow both the accused to speak to their families via phone as per prison rules, and to ensure that they are treated humanely. The next hearing in the case has been posted for November 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-accused-fear-threat-to-safety-in-prison/article33007651.ece
03 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant dies of electrocution||An adult male elephant died of electrocution when it accidentally came into contact with a power line in the Bitherkad forest range in Gudalur. The carcass of the animal was found only on Monday. Forest department officials believe that it could have died more than a week ago. Private tea estate Forest department officials said that the animal had died inside a private tea estate and was found by an estate employee on Monday. The estate had allegedly not been functioning for over a week, and workers only returned on Monday. District Forest Officer, Gudalur Division, Sumesh Soman, rushed to the spot along with other department officials and staff. A postmortem was conducted on Monday evening. It is believed that the elephant was trying to eat from an areca palm tree when one of the branches of the tree fell on top of the power line and came into contact with the elephant. Major threat Officials believe that the tusker, believed to be around 20-years-old, was part of a herd that was travelling from the Bitherkad forest range and into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) when the incident occurred. Power lines running through elephant habitats continue to be a major threat to elephants in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-dies-of-electrocution/article33007691.ece
03 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad accused fear threat to safety: lawyer||The two prime accused in the Kodanad estate dacoity cum murder case feared for their safety, according to their lawyer G. Anandan. Speaking to reporters outside the district judgec ourt premises in Udhagamandalam where the accused K.V.Sayan and ‘Walayar’ Manoj appeared on Monday, Mr Anandan they were apprehensive of their safety. They were lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison in judicial custody. Mr. Anandan said they had requested the judge during an earlier hearing to direct the prison authorities to allow them to use phone services at the prison to speak to their families. He alleged that after they were taken back to jail, they were put in a cell with no basic amenities and were not given adequate food and water. “Even today, while being brought to court, they were not allowed a change of clothes and are being ill-treated,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-accused-fear-threat-to-safety-lawyer/article33008130.ece
03 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Land of defunct finance company being illegally sold in Virudhunagar district’||PACL PGF Investors Association has alleged that several parcels of land belonging to a defunct finance company have been illegally sold by vested interests in Virudhunagar district. In a petition submitted to Collector R. Kannan here on Monday, the association alleged that the parcels of land which were bought by PACL through the investment made by public to promote farming on promise of higher returns had been seized and was under the custody of Supreme Court-appointed R.M. Lodha Committee. The committee is in the process of selling the land to compensate the 5.85 crore investors through the sale proceeds, said the association secretary, J.S. Kumaran of Chennai. Stating that SEBI has written to the Chief Secretaries of various States and Collectors to protect the land belonging to PACL, the association said that the land in Sankarapandiyapuram, Servaikaranpatti, Karisalpatti among 24 listed places were being illegally sold by vested interests by preparing fake documents. Lodha committee has listed the survey numbers of the land seized and has banned their sale. Such activity will delay the process of investors getting back their money, the association said seeking intervention of the district administration.  R.M. Lodha Committee is selling the land to compensate the 5.85 crore investors through sale proceeds PACL PGF Investors Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-of-defunct-finance-company-being-illegally-sold-in-virudhunagar-district/article33007662.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Active cases on the decline in Coimbatore district||The number of COVID-19 patients under treatment in Coimbatore district is seeing a steady decline as per details shared by the Health Department. Statistics showed that active cases decreased from 2,739 on October 29 to 1,318 on Monday. The department attributes the decline in the number of active cases to an increase in the recovery rate. The district on Monday reported 243 new cases, taking the overall tally to 43,751. As per the media bulletin issued by the department, five COVID-19 patients from the district died on Saturday and Sunday. As many as 652 persons from the district who recovered from the disease returned to their homes on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 149 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 12,992. The district did not report any deaths on Monday. Out of 12,992 cases, 11,758 have recovered and 1,040 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 194 deaths in total. As many as 75 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Monday. As many as 125 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 104 are indigenous, including 50 in Salem Corporation limits. A 73-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, died on Sunday. Erode reported 91 new cases, taking the tally to 10,478. While 100 persons were discharged, 785 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 125 in the district. In Namakkal, 59 cases were reported. Krishnagiri witnessed 25 cases and Dharmapuri - 16 cases. In the Nilgiris, 62 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 6,723. The death toll stands at 40, while the district administration said that 290 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-125-cases-erode-91/article33007701.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Pharma, medical devices are emerging sectors’||A member of the committee said the recommendation on the pharma policy had been made with a view to restoring the State’s position as a major pharma manufacturing hub. The committee, while calling for better incentives than a general package for medical devices production, urged the government to establish a medipark near Chengalpattu at the earliest with a focus on diagnostic imaging and IV Diagnostics. Its member said the aim of providing more incentives for the segment is to reduce the dependence on Chinese imports. Biotechnology park In the area of biotechnology, the committee said the government should form a biotechnology board to facilitate academia-industry partnerships and support start-ups to promote growth. A biotechnology park may be formed near Chennai on over 100 acres, a pilot good manufacturing practices (GMP) facility and high-end analytical facilities. Its focus should be on biosimilar and diagnostics. On a smaller scale, Coimbatore could have one such park. The State government should upgrade the Stanley Medical College Stem Cell Research Centre into an Institute of Regenerative Medicine, besides promoting contract analytical services. It should request the Department of Biotechnology of the Union government to establish an anchor institution in the State on the lines of similar bodies in Hyderabad and Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pharma-medical-devices-are-emerging-sectors/article33007648.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Precautionary measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precautionary-measure/article33007689.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Day of remembrance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/day-of-remembrance/article33008150.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Remembering departed souls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remembering-departed-souls/article33008372.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A day of remembrance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-day-of-remembrance/article33007708.ece
03 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Doctors say testing has been reduced||The State government has said that the number of COVID-19 positive cases and the rate of death due to the virus infection have both reduced in October. Doctors, however, contest this saying that the figures are low because the government has reduced testing. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said in a release that the rate of incidence of the epidemic and the resultant deaths were on the decline since the first week of October. According to the officer, the rate of death has fallen to 0.4 % from over one per cent in July. There have been a total of 328 deaths in the 10 taluks of the district till now. He also said that over 94 % of the afflicted had been cured completely. As many as 23,020 of the 24,039 positive patients had been cured of the virus infection. The district now has only 961 active cases. Another intriguing fact is that the district civil hospital, that has over 700 beds dedicated to coronavirus treatment, has just 80 positive cases. The other beds are empty. Since the government stopped treatment of all other diseases in the hospital, there are no in-patients other than those with COVID-19. Among the out-patient departments, only emergencies and medico legal cases are being treated. Doctors say that the government’s figures are based on manufactured data. “The fall in the number of positives and the number of deaths is the result of reduced testing and nothing else,” said a doctor, who is a member of the district COVID management team. “In mid August, the Union government pointed out that Belagavi was among the districts with a low testing rate in the State. Our rate of testing is still the lowest. Our tests per million are 10 times less than districts such as Udupi or Dakshina Kannada,” the senior physician said. “We were doing over 4,300 tests in August-September. We have dropped to 1,500 tests in October. Considering that the district population is nearly 55 lakh, the tests per million have dropped by almost half. There is no clarity about the reasons behind this. We don’t know if the government is trying to send a positive message to the public about the spread of the epidemic,” the medical officer said. Mr. Hiremath said that there was no deliberate attempt by the government to fudge figures or reduce testing. He said that the trends noted were arrived at in a scientific manner. He, however, said that he would ask Health Department officers to take a look at such complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-say-testing-has-been-reduced/article33007717.ece
03 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rally against lapses in pension distribution||Brushtachar Nirmulan Samajik Sansta members took a rally in Belagavi on Monday to protest against irregularities in the distribution of old age pensions. They said that officers of the Revenue Department and Nada Kacheri had collected bribes to include over 80,000 ineligible beneficiaries in the list of old age pensioners in the district. A survey by Sakal, a Marathi daily, had found a sizeable number of such ineligible beneficiaries in Uchagaon, Kakati, Bagewadi and surrounding villages. Based on this, the sansta had submitted Right to Information applications to the Nada Kacheri in Belagavi taluk, but had received no response. Sansta activists said that this was because the revenue officers were afraid that sharing the list of beneficiaries and their eligibility status would expose them. Activists Shivaji Kaganikar and others submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and sought action against the officers concerned and also the ineligible beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rally-against-lapses-in-pension-distribution/article33007720.ece
03 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Overseas branch inaugurated||The former Minister M.B. Patil inaugurated the overseas branch of Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha at a virtual ceremony on Sunday. He urged members to spread the message of equality, fraternity, dignity of labour and distribution of wealth preached by Basaveshwara and other Sharanas of the 12th Century. He said that lack of translation of Vachanas into European languages and limited outreach by Lingayats had restricted the spirit of the cultural revolution to India. Youth involved in the effort should contribute intellectually to the spread of the movement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/overseas-branch-inaugurated/article33007730.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infection growth rate above State average in 10 districts||Nearly 39% of the State’s COVID-19 burden is from districts other than Bengaluru Urban and Ballari that, till August, were considered to be COVID-19 hotspots in Karnataka. What is more worrying is the fact that the growth rate of the infection is higher than the State average in at least 10 districts including Bengaluru Urban. On the high side A look at the district-wise average compounded daily growth rate (CDGR) of COVID-19 positive cases in the last five days revealed that the growth rate is the highest in Kolar at 1.7%. The State average is 0.4% in the last five days. Kolar is followed by Vijayapura, Chitradurga, Bengaluru Urban and Chickballapura with an average growth rate of 0.6%. Infections have been spreading at an average growth rate of 0.5% in the last five days in Mandya, Hassan, Tumakuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar, according to data from the State COVID-19war room. On a decline The State’s growth rate which touched 4.2% on August 15 reduced to 2.1% on September 12 and further to 1.5% on October 10. Since then it has been on a decline touching 0.4% on October 31. However, ten districts are seeing a higher CDGR indicating that the virus is spreading at a faster pace there. According to the war room data, the lowest CDGR of 0.1% has been reported from Bidar, Raichur and Koppal. The growth rate in Bengaluru Rural, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru and Dakshina Kannada is similar to the State average of 0.4%. The CDGR has reduced to 0.2% in Ballari and 0.3% in Mysuru, which earlier had a higher rate. Doubling rate Kodagu is taking the least number of days to double cases at 37 days followed by Bengaluru Rural at 38 days. While the State average is 54 days, at least 14 districts including Bengaluru Rural are seeing cases doubling in a span shorter than that of the State average. Bidar and Kalaburagi are taking the highest number of days to double at 78 and 71 days respectively. However, in terms of Case Fatality Rate, Dharwad has the highest at 2.7% and Chitradurga the lowest at 0.5%. While the State average is 1.4%, CFR in Bengaluru Urban is 1.1%.  Agreeing that infections are spreading at a higher rate in districts and rural areas, Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said testing levels have to be increased depending on the stage of outbreak in the districts. “A thorough review of district-wise testing approach has to be done that includes not just number of tests but on whether they are using a syndromic approach to find the suspects and employ the right tests judiciously. The focus given by BBMP to increase testing in Bengaluru should be emulated in all cities with corporations while the district health authorities should plan for rest of the areas,” he said. Travel leading to spread C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, State’s COVID-19 task force, attributed the spread to inter-district travel. “Many people have returned to their villages in Karnataka from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and other states. People from Bengaluru also keep visiting their native districts carrying the virus from here. There should be an increased awareness and responsible behaviour by the people. There is no room for complacency and people should continue following precautions,” he added.  The focus shown by BBMP to increase testing in Bengaluru should be emulated in all cities with corporations, while the district health authorities should plan for rest of the areas Giridhara R. Babu,member, State’s Technical Advisory Committee   Highlights  State’s average compounded daily growth rate is 0.4% over last five days  Kolar reports highest CDGR at 1.7%  Lowest CDGR of 0.1% has been reported from Bidar, Raichur and Koppal  Kodagu is taking the least number of days to double cases at 37    Fatality rate  Karnataka: 1.4%  Highest: Dharwad 2.7%  Lowest: Chitradurga 0.5%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infection-growth-rate-above-state-average-in-10-districts/article33007733.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Send forensic samples to FSL within 15 days, DG&IGP tells investigating officers||Forensic evidence collected by investigating officers (IOs) from the crime scene, crucial to the investigations, is not sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination for months, sometimes even years. This not only goes against the standard operating procedure but also delays the legal process further. Concerned over the delay, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood has issued a standing order directing IOs and officials concerned to submit the samples within 15 days from the date of collection. In the order, issued on Monday, Mr. Sood said the subdivision police officers should complete all legal formalities within the period. The order also stated that in case of delay of up to 30 days, the DCP or SP concerned should personally sign the forwarding letter to the FSL. Approval of the Additional-Director General of Police (Crime and Technical Services) should be obtained before sending the samples which are delayed beyond 30 days from the date of seizure. Mr. Sood, in the order, also said that in all criminal cases where pending FSL reports become “infructuous” owing to the death of the accused or filing of ‘B’ report , the IOs should bring it to the notice of the FSL officials concerned immediately to avoid efforts in such examinations. Welcoming the order, Additional Director-General of Police (Administration) M.A. Saleem said it would ensure that crucial forensic evidence is deposited at the earliest, which would, in turn, ensure that the case is taken to its logical end. “Many times, the samples are not sent to the FSL owing to the sheer negligence of the IOs and this further burdens the due legal course,” he said. ‘Procedural lapses’ Police officials who are part of the investigating teams, however, said the delay was not intentional and there were many factors involved. Though there have been instances of hampering the case by delaying sending the samples, there are also procedural lapses which need to be addressed first, the officer added. Another senior police officer said there was also a delay in the FSL to get the results owing to high pendency of cases. “So if the IOs delay sending the samples on time, there will be further delay in the process and justice will not be served,” the officer said. A police officer at the station level argued that the delay in sending samples to the FSL was owing to the delay while handling the “chain of custody” and following the due procedure. According to the officer, the IOs do not want to delay sending the samples, but the samples collected from the scene should go through many stages — including mahazar (spot inspection), taking them to the safe custody of the station for paperwork, and getting the hospital report, which take days and sometimes months of follow up — before they are sent. In the midst, the IOs will have multiple roles to play in the station — from bandobast to maintaining law and order, attending meetings and taking up new cases — and priorities change and issues which are serious in nature gain importance, he added. Another officer said that there are different types of samples, including physical, chemical and biological, which have to be handled in different ways and have different expiry dates. “The order should have elaborated a little more on this and also given instructions to medical officers who take days to hand over the viscera to be submitted to the FSL. The IOs should not be held accountable for such delays,” he added.  Many times, the samples are not sent to the FSL owing to the sheer negligence of the IOs and this further burdens the due legal course. M.A. Saleem,Additional Director-General of Police (Administration)   Delay in sending samples to the FSL is owing to the delay while handling the ‘chain of custody’ and following the due procedure. A police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/send-forensic-samples-to-fsl-within-15-days-dgigp-tells-investigating-officers/article33008085.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Result of the prestige battle to be sealed today||After two weeks of no-holds-barred campaigning, all eyes are now on the byelection on Tuesday to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies. It is a potential launch pad for four candidates of three major parties making their electoral debut. As far as the parties go, it is important for the ruling BJP even though it enjoys a comfortable majority in the Assembly. The election happening amid the pandemic will be a test of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s popularity as he is facing criticism on many fronts over his handling of the COVID-19 crisis and the State’s economy. Meanwhile, it is crucial for the Congress and the JD(S) to retain their hold in the constituencies they had won in 2018. It is also important for them in terms of a perception change in the coming elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike as well as the gram panchayats, though the latter will be held on non-party lines. The poll outcome would also set the tone for the upcoming byelections to Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly seats. Former allies — Congress and JD(S) — have gone their separate ways in Sira and R.R. Nagar, eyeing votes in the largely Vokkaliga-dominated constituencies and accusing each other onseveral issues. This byelection is the first major test for Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar, who is leading the party for the first time in polls since taking over the State unit. Victory in both segments would help him establish his authority in a party, which is otherwise seen as faction-ridden. This is also the first election to Randeep Surjewala, who has been appointed All-India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Karnataka. As many leaders have deserted the JD(S) in the past couple of years, the bypolls will give an indication of the party’s strength in Sira and R.R. Nagar. With both its candidates making their electoral debut, the party is relying heavily on its traditional voters to win the elections. Prestige battle Largely seen as a triangular fight, the byelection in Sira will be a battle of prestige for all three major parties. The JD(S) campaign was powered by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, who managed to inspire the party cadre. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy led the campaign in R.R. Nagar. The JD(S) has fielded Ammajamma, wife of the late MLA B. Sathyanarayana, in Sira. In 2018, Sathyanarayana defeated T.B. Jayachandra (Congress) by a margin of over 10,000 votes. Mr. Jayachandra and political novice Rajesh Gowda (BJP) are the two other major candidates in the fray this time. The Chief Minister’s son and State BJP vice-president, B.Y. Vijayendra, camped in Sira after the announcement of polls and even took a pledge to repeat the K.R. Pet bypoll results for the BJP. For Mr. Jayachandra, victory would ensure not only his stature in the party, but also his entry to the Assembly for the seventh time. Cong. vs BJP The R.R. Nagar constituency is seen as a straight contest between the Congress and the BJP. The “D.K. brothers”, particularly Mr. Shivakumar, have led the campaign from the front and asked voters to defeat the BJP candidate, two-time MLA Munirathna, who “betrayed his mother” (as he had once described the Congress) and forced the byelections. Electoral fresher H. Kusuma, of the Congress, is banking on women and young voters. The percentage of voting by women is likely to be an important factor here. Apparently, Mr. Munirathna geting ticket to contest has not gone down well among the local-level former BBMP councillors and party workers of the BJP, against whom he had allegedly filed cases earlier. V. Krishnamurthy of the JD(S), contesting for the first time, is likely to split the Vokkaliga votes, considering both he and Ms. Kusuma are from the community. In all, there are 15 and 16 candidates in the fray in Sira and R.R. Nagar, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/result-of-the-prestige-battle-to-be-sealed-today/article33007896.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 blights Republic Day flower show||The pandemic has ensured that the city’s date with flowers does not happen. COVID-19 has forced the government to cancel the biannual flower show at Lalbagh, scheduled to be held next on the occasion of Republic Day in 2021. This comes months after the Independence Day flower show was cancelled owing to the pandemic. This is the first time since the country gained independence that the biannual flower shows — held to mark Independence Day and Republic Day — have been cancelled. “Though the number of COVID-19 cases may have dipped slightly recently, the government has advised against large gatherings. The flower show usually sees a footfall in the range of five to six lakhs in the week. On any given day, we usually have over 50,000 visitors to Lalbagh Botanical Gardens during the show, which is not advisable any day now. So we have decided not to hold the flower show in January 2021 as well,” said M. Jagadeesh, Joint Director of Horticulture (Parks and Gardens). The Lalbagh flower show has its origins in the second half of the 19th century, inspired by The Great Spring Show, an annual flower show organised by the Royal Horticultural Society of England. Before the Glass House was built in 1890, the flower shows were held at the bandstand. The Lalbagh flower show became a biannual event — in summer and winter — from 1912. It soon developed into one of the most eagerly awaited events in the city’s calendar and has retained its charm even over a century later. The flower shows have been cancelled only twice earlier — during the plague epidemic and the Second World War. The shows held to mark Independence Day and Republic Day had never been cancelled until this time. Five months in advance Preparations for a flower show begin at least five months in advance, as horticulturists start growing the plants and to time the flowering to the schedule of the show, based on the theme of the event. “Preparations for the January flower show usually begin in October. But given the uncertainty over the show, we did not begin any preparations. Now even if the COVID-19 situation improves by January 2021, we cannot hold the show as we have not prepared. Growing plants for a show that is unlikely to be held will only incur huge losses. So no preparations are afoot,” Mr. Jagadeesh explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-blights-republic-day-flower-show/article33008081.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Aggressive testing after bypolls||Having recorded rampant violations of COVID-19 protocols in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira, where bypolls are being held on Tuesday, the district administration of Bengaluru Urban and Tumakuru are now gearing up to ramp up testing once polling process is completed. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the district administration — local Deputy Commissioner and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner — have been authorised to take a call on intensifying testing in these constituencies. Tumakuru District Health Officer (DHO) M.B. Nagendrappa said they were planning to intensify testing and also conducting random tests in Sira to identify and isolate new cases. Pointing out that ever since campaigning began in Sira, although no noticeable rise has been recorded in the number of cases, there are chances of the spread after the incubation period. Incubation period is the time between the exposure to the virus and the display of symptoms. This can be one to 12 days and can even go up to 14 days. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also the District Election Officer for Rajarajeshwarinagar, said testing would be ramped after voting. Speaking to the media after inspecting the mustering centre at Rajarajeshwarinagar, Mr. Prasad said that since the area had witnessed a lot of crowding in the past few days, the number of positive cases in the zone had also comparatively increased. “Trends show that there has been an increase in the number of cases, in the past few days, on the outskirts of the city as well,” he said. As many as 14 cases have been filed in various police stations in the Assembly segment under the Disaster Management Act for violation of COVID-19 norms while campaigning. Earlier, to ensure the bypoll campaign does not lead to the spread of COVID-19, the civic body deployed additional marshals in the nine wards in R.R. Nagar segment. According to BBMP COVID-19 War Room data, R.R. Nagar zone, which also includes Bengaluru South taluk, had 4,706 cases as of November 1. Between October 24 to November 1, the zone reported 1,245 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aggressive-testing-after-bypolls/article33008093.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Absence of Kannada flag at Rajyotsava functions criticised||In keeping with the convention, the government hoisted both the tricolour and the yellow and red Kannada flag at the Rajyotsava function led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the State capital on Sunday. However, in several districts, Ministers only hoisted the tricolour, giving the Kannada flag the go by. This has caused outrage in some circles. Hubballi-Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru, Mandya, Bidar, Kalaburagi and several other districts did not see the Kannada flag hoisted, even as it was hoisted in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Hassan. Even as several writers criticised the move, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) led a Twitterstorm protest on Monday evening. Kannada and Culture Minister and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, who had earlier opposed the State adopting a flag officially, received criticism. “Kannadigas will never tolerate attempts to erase the markers of our identity and to impose an ideology on us,” said T.A. Narayana Gowda, president of KRV. Senior writer S.G. Siddaramaiah, who led the flag committee constituted by the erstwhile Congress government in 2017, said this was an attack on the federal structure of the country. “A State flag is not a secessionist act. Our identity is complementary to the national identity. After all, our ‘ nadageethe ’ describes ‘Karnataka Mate’ as the daughter of ‘Bharata Janani’,” he said. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, who had earlier championed a State flag, criticised the move in a series of tweets. “All previous governments have been hoisting the Kannada flag on Rajyotsava day. The CM has to answer as to what the constraints were that troubled district administrations, when the Kannada flag was hoisted in his presence.” Mr. Ravi, however, said that in the absence of the flag having an official status, confusion reigned among district administrations on whether to hoist it. “A few days ago, I asked for a clarification on the matter from the Chief Secretary. No circular could be issued as the flag isn’t recognised officially,” he said. As district in-charge Minister of Chikkamagaluru, he hoisted only the tricolour. He also claimed there was no practice of hoisting the Kannada flag in the district. Earlier, Mr. Ravi had batted against giving official status for the flag, arguing that the Constitution provided for only one flag, the tricolour. He also said the yellow and red flag was a cultural one and not the “State flag”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/absence-of-kannada-flag-at-rajyotsava-functions-criticised/article33007888.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cold response from COVID-19 patients to calls from BBMP||Though the civic body has made elaborate arrangements to get COVID-19 patients to vote in the bypolls in Bengaluru, the response from patients has been poor. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has made transport arrangements in ambulances to get voters infected with COVID-19 to their respective polling booths and back home. They will also be giving them PPE kits. The last hour of polling, from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m., has been slotted for COVID-19 patients to vote. “We have called all the infected voters two or three times, but the response has been cold. Any infected person who wishes to vote will be provided with all the facilities, including transport and PPE kits. And necessary sanitisation will be done,” said BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. The BBMP has contacted at least 1,500 people who have currently been infected with COVID-19 in R.R. Nagar. “Out of the 1,500 we called, only 27 confirmed that they will come to vote. Out of that number, 12 are in hospitals and the rest under home isolation. If people with COVID-19 still want to come and vote, they can reach out to us even on Tuesday and we will make the necessary arrangements,” he said. Mr. Prasad also said that the non-infected persons who reach polling station before 6 p.m. will also be given a chance to vote after 6 p.m., after the COVID-19 patients finish voting and sanitisation is carried out.  Additional staff of 20% will be deployed on poll duty on Tuesday to handle any case of emergency. Voters will be given gloves to wear on their right hand for voting. “As many as 678 teams have been set up for the 678 polling stations. We have also deployed over 670 personnel from the Health Department for thermal screening, distribution of gloves for voters, and for hand sanitisation,” he said.  Out of the 1,500 people with COVID-19 we called, only 27 confirmed that they will come to vote. Out of that, 12 are in hospitals and the rest under home isolation N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cold-response-from-covid-19-patients-to-calls-from-bbmp/article33007890.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trend of weekend slump in testing, cases continues across Karnataka||Continuing the trend of a weekend slump in the number of tests conducted and cases recorded, Karnataka on Monday reported 2,576 new cases, the lowest ever on a single day after months. With this, the total number of cases touched 8,29,640. Karnataka is now in the second position after Maharashtra in terms of total number of cases. One lakh tests Although over one lakh tests are being carried out on a daily basis for the past one month, the numbers usually decline after a weekend. A similar trend could be seen this week too. The number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours reduced to 78,496, of which 65,015 were RT-PCR tests. With this the total number of tests rose to 80,91,137. Meanwhile, with 29 new deaths, the toll rose to 11,221. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 8,334 persons were discharged on Monday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,73,595. Of the remaining 48,805 active cases, 931 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day further stood at 3.28%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.12%.  Bengaluru Urban Bengaluru Urban reported 1,439 cases taking the tally to 3,40,075. With 14 of the 29 deaths reported from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,888. The number of active cases in Bengaluru have reduced to 26,098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trend-of-weekend-slump-in-testing-cases-continues-across-karnataka/article33007734.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bineesh Kodiyeri’s custody extended by five days||The Special Court designated for ED cases on Monday extended by five days custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI (M) Kerala State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), on the basis of a money trail in the drug case busted by NCB in August. While in custody Bineesh complained of ill-health and was taken to Bowring Hospital where the doctor after examination said he was fine. However, Bineesh continued to cite ill-health in the court and sought respite. However ED officials, through their counsel Prasanna Kumar, contended that Bineesh did not cooperate while in custody earlier citing ill-health and that more time was needed to question him. Mr. Prasanna Kumar argued that Bineesh wasted two and a half days of the custody citing health reasons. The officials had to take him to the hospital and get tests done. The probe so far has revealed that Bineesh floated two shell companies and transferred Rs. 3.5 crore to his associate Mohammed Anoop through hawala. Besides, Bineesh has around 10 cases pending against him, including one in Dubai. ED officials had earlier taken the custody of Anoop for questioning about the money transactions between them. Anoop was among the three, including D. Anikha and R. Ravindran, arrested by NCB officials in August 28 with a huge quantity of drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bineesh-kodiyeris-custody-extended-by-five-days/article33007736.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 7 months on, KSRTC to resume services to Telangana||After a gap of over seven months, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has received the green signal to resume services to Telangana. From Tuesday, limited number of services will be operated from Bengaluru and Mysuru to Hyderabad. KSRTC officials said the number of services will be gradually increased depending on the patronage. Wearing masks is mandatory while travelling and people have been advised to book tickets online. “Prior to the pandemic, we were operating 25 high-end AC buses from Bengaluru to Hyderabad. After resuming services to Andhra Pradesh and other States, attempts were made to run buses to Telangana as well, but we received the green signal only now. Initially, we may operate five to six buses. If there is increased demand, we will run more,” said an official. The official said that the Telangana Road Transport Corporation will also resume services from Hyderabad to Bengaluru. In the south, the KSRTC was the first corporation to initiate resumption of inter-State services after the lockdown was partially relaxed. In mid– June, inter-State services were started between Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Later services were restarted to other States such as Goa, Maharshtra, and Kerala. However, services to Tamil Nadu are still suspended. “We are ready to resume services to Tamil Nadu but we are yet to receive a positive response from their side. Prior to the lockdown, over 400 buses were operated by KSRTC and they are still under suspension for over seven months. To Kerala, we are operating limited number or buses on long distance routes. The number of people travelling to Kerala is low due to strict COVID-19 SoPs in the neighbouring State,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-7-months-on-ksrtc-to-resume-services-to-telangana/article33007740.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC collects Rs. 95,000 from passengers not wearing masks||It is not just the police or Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) marshals who are cracking down on people not wearing masks, the line checking staff of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) have also been penalising passengers for not wearing masks properly while travelling in buses. They have booked cases against 950 passengers and collected Rs. 95,000 (Rs. 100 per person) as fine so far. BMTC officials said the penalty is being imposed since June. “As per the instructions of the higher-ups, penalty is being imposed on passengers violating rules. As per the rule, bus crew do not allow passengers without masks. However, some passengers remove the mask while travelling. While booking cases, some of the passengers do show resistance, but in most of the cases, other passengers support our staff to initiate action,” an official said. The line checking teams are using body cameras and everything gets recorded, the official said. “To create awareness about wearing masks, the BMTC has deployed Sarati vehicles at Majestic to make announcements. At TTMCs, posters on following SOPs have been put up,” the official said. Shiva Prasad, a commuter, said, “People not wearing mask or maintaining social distance can be seen at bus stations. Even inside the bus, some people remove the mask while talking on the phone. The BMTC should also make sure that both the bus driver and conductor strictly follow the guidelines as they interact with hundreds of people every day.” The number of BMTC services has gradually increased since the operations resumed in mid-May. Now, the BMTC operates 4,700 buses, but a majority of the AC bus fleet has remained off the road. There are more than 800 AC buses, but hardly 50 are plying owing to poor patronage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-collects-rs-95000-from-passengers-not-wearing-masks/article33008089.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No tree removed for N.R. Colony skywalk, BBMP clarifies to HC||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Monday clarified to the High Court of Karnataka that no tree was removed or felled for the construction of a skywalk near N.R. Colony bus stand. In a statement filed before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, the BBMP also said only a few branches of trees were pruned to enable construction of the skywalk. The BBMP also said the footpath had not been encroached as only the landing pillars for the skywalk were put up on the footpath ensuring that it did not obstruct the movement of pedestrians. Pointing out that 80% work on the construction of the skywalk had been completed, the BBMP said any construction debris would be removed soon after the completion of the work. The statement was filed on a PIL petition, filed by one Prashanth Rao, a resident of N.R. Colony, questioning the construction of the skywalk at the site near N.R. Colony bus stand. However, the court in its October 7 order itself had declined to interfere in the decision of the BBMP to build the skywalk at the particular site but had restrained the civic body from felling any tree without obtaining prior permission from the expert committee, which was set up on the court’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-tree-removed-for-nr-colony-skywalk-bbmp-clarifies-to-hc/article33008087.ece
03 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ leader picks Kannada medium for son’s education||At a time when parents are keen to send their children to English-medium schools, Chukki Nanjundaswamy, daughter of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha founder M.D. Nanjundaswamy, has enrolled her son in a Kannada-medium school. Her husband, Luca Montanari, who is of Italian origin, too is convinced of the need for primary schooling in mother tongue. Ms. Nanjundaswamy and her husband work out of Chamarajanagar in organising farmers and nurturing native farming systems. Tene Cosmo, her son, is studying in class 6 at a Kannada-medium school in Chamarajanagar. “Putting my son in a Kannada-medium school was the natural choice for me as I strongly believe that you will get a deeper and real understanding only when you study in your mother tongue,” she said. “My father was a strong proponent of learning in the mother tongue. In fact, my brother and I studied in Kannada medium, as per his wishes. We are very proud of that.” She pointed out that her husband too had studied in his mother tongue (Italian). “He was also keen that our son study in a Kannada-medium school,” she said. Language skills Ms. Nanjundaswamy is happy with the impact the move has had on her son’s learning process. “He now speaks many languages, including Kannada, Italian, English, and Hindi,” she said, adding that he had never lagged behind on account of the medium of instruction. He is studying in a school run by noted poet G.S. Shivarudrappa’s son Jayadev, which focuses on life skills. Trying to dispel the myth among parents that not studying in English-medium schools would be an hindrance to the child’s future, she said, “English is only a medium of learning. What is more important for the child’s future is his understanding and learning abilities.” She argued that the modern-day education system was more focused on creating a labour force rather than in the child’s personality development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-leader-picks-kannada-medium-for-sons-education/article33007898.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police open fire at four murder case suspects||The Anekal police on Monday opened fire at four persons accused in a murder case. The incident happened when they allegedly tried to attack the police who had gone to arrest them. The accused — Gopi, Basava, Ganga, and Ananth — and policemen Irfan, Nagaraj, Mahesh, and Suresh have been hospitalised. According to the police, the accused are habitual offenders and wanted to be “dominant” in their areas. However, their rival, Vineeth, who came to know about it, began harassing them.The accused allegedly plotted to murder him, and on October 30, they confronted Vineeth and hacked him to death on Shettyhalli main road near Attibele. On Monday, on learning about the whereabouts of the accused, the police rushed to the spot to arrest them.The police said the accused attacked the personnel in a bid to escape; and in retaliation, the police opened fire at them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-open-fire-at-four-murder-case-suspects/article33008083.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctor who treated Sampath Raj questioned||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), on Monday, summoned and questioned a doctor and staff of Baptist Hospital to ascertain why they failed to inform the police about the discharge of the former Mayor R. Sampath Raj. Mr. Sampath Raj, who is an accused in the D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli violence case, is on the run after getting discharged from the hospital. The CCB pasted a notice on the locked house of the former Mayor informing him to appear before them for questioning, while forming special teams to track him down. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said Mr. Sampath Raj got admitted in the hospital soon after the notice was issued. The CCB had issued notices to the doctor and the hospital administration to inform them prior to his discharge. The hospital administration agreed to do this and also gave it in writing in response to the notice. However, after a month of Mr. Sampath Raj’s admission and treatment, he was discharged without following due procedure, which prompted the CCB to issue notices to 11 persons, including the doctor and the hospital staff , a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-who-treated-sampath-raj-questioned/article33008086.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress complains to EC on ‘bogus voters’ in R.R. Nagar constituency||The Congress has lodged a complaint with the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) alleging that Munirathna, the BJP candidate in R.R. Nagar Assembly constituency, had illegally included 42,000 bogus names in the voters list. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar said that party leaders had met CEO Sanjiv Kumar and demanded Mr. Munirathna’s disqualification from the election. Speaking to presspersons here, Mr. Shivakumar alleged that voters from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu had come to vote in the constituency and their names were included in the voters list. “A bogus voters list was created by adding the names of 56 voters in a single house in Dombighat in the constituency,” he said. “The bogus voters list was revealed during a survey by the party. All illegal voters’ houses and names have been videographed,” the KPCC chief said. “Additional bogus voters were included using the addresses of vacant sites and houses. Officials were involved in the generation of the fake list.” The Congress also alleged that the BJP candidate had distributed set-top boxes, worth Rs. 3.4 crore, to voters. On October 26, while campaigning, Mr. Munirathna himself stated that he had distributed set-top boxes to voters, the Congress leader said, demanding disqualification of the BJP candidate. Against police The State Congress also filed a complaint with the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner against police officers and others for their alleged “corrupt practices” in R.R. Nagar constituency in the city. The party claimed that Mr. Munirathna was influencing the police to give support and cooperation to leaders and workers of the BJP for distribution of money to voters. They named two Assistant Commissioners of Police and four Circle Inspectors as having been found supporting the BJP cadre and helping them “transport cash” in police vehicles to various parts in the constituency. “This is nothing but criminalintimidation,” the Congress said, seeking action against the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-complains-to-ec-on-bogus-voters-in-rr-nagar-constituency/article33007891.ece
03 November 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Candidate list announced||Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) on Wednesday announced the list of candidates eligible for interview for three posts of Assistant Scientific Officer and a Legal Assistant in the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. Details can be obtained from the KPSC website(http://kpsc.kar.nic.in),said an official release issued here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/candidate-list-announced/article33007899.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest by farmers||The Karnataka unit of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) has announced protests on November 5 against recent amendments by the State and the Centre seen as detrimental to the agricultural sector. AIKSCC State convener J.C. Bayya Reddy said that it is part of a larger protest across India. This will be followed by ‘Delhi Chalo’ on November 26 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-by-farmers/article33007738.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||International drug racket unearthed, nine peddlers arrested||An international drug racket, which was allegedly operated via the dark net, was unearthed by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Monday. Ten peddlers, including a Nigerian national, were arrested, and narcotics, worth Rs. 90 lakh, seized in raids carried out by CCB sleuths at eight places across the city. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the accused imported various drugs by paying in bitcoins. They supplied them to youths, including college students, through an organised network. The arrests were made by the CCB police with the help of Customs officials, he said. Upon getting specific information, CCB officials raided eight places — in HSR Layout, Vijayanagar, Mahalakshmipuram, Ulsoor, K.G. Halli, Indiranagar, HAL, and Ramamurthynagar — and picked up the accused. The arrested are Sarthak Arya (31), Nithin (24), Karthik Gowda (25), Zaman Anjameena (25), Mohammed Ali Aalitujari (29), Amal Baiju (20), Phoenix D'souza (24), Shon Shazi, Venkat Varun (33), and Sanni O Innocenta (26). Police seized 660 LSD papers, 386 MDMA tablets, 180 ecstasy tablets, 12 grams MDMA crystal, 10 grams cocaine powder, 12 mobile phones, three laptops, and two two-wheelers from the accused. As gift parcels The police registered eight cases at eight police stations and the accused were booked under the NDPS Act. Investigations have revealed that they were getting the drugs in the form of gift parcels through India Post. The police are further investigating the cases to ascertain the possible involvement of others in the racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/international-drug-racket-unearthed-nine-peddlers-arrested/article33007739.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ISO certificates||South Western Railway (SWR) on Wednesday received ISO 14001:2015 certificates for five railway stations. They are: Kuppam, Channapatna, Mandya, Hindupur, and Malur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iso-certificates/article33007741.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tight security in R.R. Nagar constituency||As many as 2,563 police personnel will be deployed as part of elaborate security arrangements for the byelection in R.R. Nagar Assembly constituency, Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said on Monday. Mr. Pant said that an Additional Police Commissioner, two Deputy Commissioners, eight Assistant Commissioners, 30 inspectors, 94 police sub-inspectors, 185 assistant sub-inspectors, head constables, constables, and Home Guards, were among those deployed for security. Three companies of the Central Armed Police force, 19 platoons of the Karnataka State Reserve Police, among others, would be patrolling round the clock to monitor law and order, Mr. Pant said. There are 678 polling booths in 141 places; 82 booths have been declared as critical where Central forces will be deployed. The other 596 are general booths, which will be monitored by the reserve police and the city police. As many as 112 mobile squads have been formed to maintain law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tight-security-in-rr-nagar-constituency/article33008094.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Welder electrocuted||A welder was electrocuted and his co-worker sustained injuries at an under-construction building at Byadarahalli on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Krishna Kumar, 25, a native of Bihar. The injured, Rajan, 22, has been admitted to hospital. According to the police, they were working at the building belonging to Srivardhan, an electrical contractor. The incident occurred when the two were working to put up a railing for the stairs. A part of the railing came in contact with a live wire of an electricity pole. Krishna Kumar, who was holding the railing, sustained electric shock, fell down and died on the spot. Rajan, who rushed to help Krishna Kumar, sustained injuries. The Byadarahalli police have registered a case of death due to negligence against the building owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/welder-electrocuted/article33008082.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic violation cases||As many as 89,957 cases of traffic violation were booked and fines totalling Rs. 3,81,44,800 were collected between October 25 and 31 in the city. The highest number of cases was against riders not wearing helmet — 30,431 cases; Rs. 1,11,62,100 was collected as fine from them. As many as 18,356 cases were booked against pillion riders who were not wearing helmet and Rs. 67,80,700 was collected as fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-violation-cases/article33008092.ece
03 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. colleges neglected: Revanna||Former Minister H.D. Revanna on Monday said the State government had not taken any measures to improve basic amenities in government schools and colleges. “Going by the suggestions of an adviser who sells seats in his engineering colleges for huge money, the Chief Minister was neglecting government schools and colleges,” he alleged. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan, Mr. Revanna wondered how Mr. Yediyurappa could appoint Doreswamy as his adviser. “Did he not get a better person? He has no concern for poor students in rural areas. With suggestions from such an adviser, the government would dance to the tune of private people and finally, all government institutions would be closed.” The JD(S) leader said the State government has decided to reopen degree colleges from November 17 but many colleges lack basic amenities. There were many vacancies in the colleges. The government had not taken any action to provide basic amenities and fill up the vacancies, he alleged. He appealed to the Chief Minister to give attention to the education sector, instead of bothering about elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-colleges-neglected-revanna/article33007871.ece
03 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: DC holds meeting||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has said the administration has begun the process of collecting details of officials and people engaged in combating the COVID-19 pandemic as they will be the first to get a vaccination, once it is available. The DC held a meeting with officers of the Health Department and representatives of private hospitals in this regard. Exuding confidence that the vaccine could be available soon, the DC said the people engaged in countering the spread of the pandemic would get it on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-dc-holds-meeting/article33007883.ece
03 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Provide data on frontline health staff by tomorrow, private hospitals told||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has asked all private healthcare providers in the district to provide data on all frontline health staff by Wednesday to facilitate compilation of data on COVID warriors. Chairing an awareness programme on guidelines for data collection of health staff for the administrative officers of private hospitals in Dharwad on Monday, Mr. Patil said that all global agencies, including World Health Organisation, were in the process of data collection on COVID warriors. It had been decided that COVID-19 vaccine would be given to frontline health staff to begin with, once it was launched and that is why providing information on the health staff was important, he said. Mr. Patil pointed out that data collection was being carried out across the nation and it was necessary to provide it to ensure that all health staff in the district got access to vaccine once it was launched. “Irrespective of which country develops the vaccine, WHO has decided to provide it to all health staff on a priority basis,” he said. District Reproductive and Child Health officer S.M. Honakeri said that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), led by member of Niti Aayog V.K. Paul had already been constituted and the committee would identify the priority areas. “Details are being collected on frontline health staff, including nurses, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), supervisors, doctors of different medical systems, pharmacists, physiotherapists, nursing assistants, ward boys, drivers, security staff, cleaning workers, paramedical staff, medical and paramedical students. The hospitals are required to provide their data,” he said. Dr. Honakeri said that there were 3,855 doctors and staff in government hospitals and all of them had provided the information already. However, of the 1,316 private medical establishments in the district, only 433 had provided information so far, he said and asked them to provide data by Wednesday. Representative of WHO Siddalingayya briefed about the process of providing data through a presentation. He asked private hospitals to contact Manjunath on Ph: 9535663384 or Satish on Ph: 9448693023 for clarification and further details. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar, District Surgeon Shivakumar Mankar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provide-data-on-frontline-health-staff-by-tomorrow-private-hospitals-told/article33007724.ece
03 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Avoid felling trees while executing road projects, says Minister||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has asked officials, contractors and other authorities concerned to avoid cutting trees while laying concrete roads and follow what had been done in Bengaluru to save trees while widening roads. The Minister, who is also in-charge of Dharwad district, visited several localities in Hubballi on Monday, where various works under State and Union government-sponsored projects are under way. He told the officials not to fell trees unnecessarily and try to save as many of them as possible, like the way it had been done in Bengaluru while executing various projects. The Minister also took exception to the slow pace of works at a few places and asked the authorities to ensure that minimum inconvenience was caused to the public during execution of the projects. “It also does not look nice to keep asking you to expedite the work every time. You should do it on your own,” he told them. During inspection of the ongoing works, the Minister first visited Kotilinga Nagar where drinking water project is under way. He also visited New Cotton Market and inspected the work on concrete road near the Divisional Railway Manager’s office. Mr. Shettar pointed out the lack of coordination between the municipal corporation and Public Works Department and asked the officials to coordinate properly to sort out technical and administrative issues so as to ensure better and timely execution of the projects. The Minister also inspected works at the Karnataka Public School at Gopanakoppa village where classrooms are being built under grants from MPLAD Funds. Works under Smart City Scheme at Devangpet were also inspected by the Minister. He was accompanied by HDMC Assistant Commissioner S.B. Bevur, Public Works Department Assistant Engineer Vijaykumar and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/avoid-felling-trees-while-executing-road-projects-says-minister/article33007727.ece
03 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Surgery helps save 20-day-old infant||In what is being considered a rare surgery, doctors of SDM Narayana Heart Centre (SDMNH), Dharwad, have saved the life of a 20-day-old infant suffering from critical cardiac condition. According to a press release issued by the hospital, the infant was treated using a complex cardiac intervention called Left Carotid Artery Cutdown followed by balloon dilation of coarctation segment. The infant (from Hubballi) weighing 2.3 kilograms was brought to SDMNH reportedly after a circulatory shock. On thorough evaluation, it was diagnosed that she had suffered circulatory shock due to a major block in the great artery of the heart. Further investigation confirmed 95 % block of Aorta (Coarctation) with severe Left Ventricular (LV) dysfunction. Owing to the criticality and complexity of the infant’s condition, she was recommended a complex and rare hybrid procedure called Left Carotid Artery Cutdown followed by balloon dilation of coarctation segment, the release said. A team of doctors consisting of consultant paediatric cardiologist Arun K. Bableshwar, senior consultant and chief cardiothoracic surgeon Ravivarma Patil and cardiac anaesthetists successfully performed the procedure recently opening up the major block making the baby girl immediately recover from the shock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surgery-helps-save-20-day-old-infant/article33007725.ece
03 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Samiti demands statehood for Kalyana Karnataka||Stating that the successive State governments have neglected Kalyana Karnataka region, the Hyderabad Karnataka Janapara Sangharsh Samiti on Monday demanded statehood for the region. President of the samiti Lakshman Dasti in a release said that the establishment of Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) and the special status conferred on the backward Kalyana Karnataka region under Article 371(J) of the Constitution had failed to ensure the expeditious development of the region. The region would see development only if it gets statehood. The the successive governments in the State have inflicted step-motherly treatment on the region and now, though special status has been accorded, the region’s interests are still being ignored. “We have been made victims of deliberate neglect and a separate State is the only solution to our problems,” Mr. Dasti added. Mr. Dasti said that there had been discrimination in providing funds for the various projects in the region by the successive governments, including the ruling BJP government in the State. “The region was also secluded from representation, while the old Mysuru region continues to dominate both in the political and development landscape,” he added. The State has failed to implement the Nanjunappa Committee report and also Article 371(J). Though huge funds were allocated under KKRDB to take up development works in the six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region, it is not being utilised properly. Demanding Statehood is the need of the hour, Mr. Dasti reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samiti-demands-statehood-for-kalyana-karnataka/article33007721.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||8,000 houses converting wet waste into compost in city||With the handling of solid waste emerging as a challenge both in urban and rural areas, at least 8,000 houses, covering 84 apartments and other individual houses, are converting at least six tonnes of wet waste into compost daily in the city now. With civil society members gradually responding to the need of the hour, two start-ups, Mangala Resource Management Pvt. Ltd., which functions under the guidance of Ramakrishna Mission, and Give Green Solutions, founded by social activist Jeeth Milan Roche, are in the forefront in assisting and guiding people to convert the wet waste into manure. Ranjan Bellarpady, one of the five directors of Mangala Resource Management Pvt. Ltd., told The Hindu that 17 apartments with about 500 flats outsourced wet waste management to the start-up about eight months ago. The start-up is now converting at least 450 kg of their wet waste into manure daily using pot compost method which works out at an affordable cost. Mr. Bellarpady said that each flat owner through the respective apartment owners association will have to deposit a refundable amount of Rs. 1,000 with the start-up for three years. In addition, each flat will have to pay Rs. 150 monthly to the start-up for handling wet waste which will be converted into compost by keeping the pots as one pot per flat on their own premises. The laboratory testing has shown that the compost thus produced has the NPK level of 7.2. The start-up either sold the compost to farmers or to the apartments concerned at an affordable rate. Swami Ekagamyananda of Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mission, who led the five-year Swachh Mangaluru campaign on a Swachh Bharat Mission call by the Union government, said that the mission had arranged for the distribution of 4,000 pots in the city last year for pot composting of wet waste. As a majority of them are using them, at least between two tonnes and three tonnes of wet waste is being converted into waste in those houses daily. “Pot composting is the cheapest and affordable method for every one,” Swami Ekagamyananda said. Mr. Roche said that his Give Green Solutions has installed bio-compost units in 42 apartments having about 2,500 flats and in 220 individual houses. Wet waste is digested with the help of microbes in those units. It has installed National Green Tribunal (NGT) approved electrical composters in five apartments having at least 300 flats. He said that Give Green Solutions has installed the compost units on the campuses of St. Aloysius College and Father Muller Institutions and also in a mall. “All put together at least five tonnes of wet waste is being converted into compost daily,” he said. Environment Engineer of Mangaluru City Corporation Madhu S. Manohar said that apart from the houses and establishments covered by the two start-ups, about 20 apartments having at least 500 flats in the city have installed compost units on their own. Different technologies of converting wet waste into compost are available now, he said. The corporation is now offering 50 % rebate in solid waste management cess under property tax for such houses and establishments that convert wet waste into compost, Mr. Manohar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8000-houses-converting-wet-waste-into-compost-in-city/article33008290.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru University final semester undergraduate exam results likely to come by November 10||Mangalore University is expected to announce the results of the final semester undergraduate examinations of 2019-20 by November 10. Registrar (Evaluation) of the university P.L. Dharma told The Hindu that the evaluation of answer scripts is expected to be completed by November 5. He said that about 400 teachers are evaluating approximately 85,000 B.Com answer scripts since November 27. The evaluation of about 46,000 answer scripts of BA, B.Sc, BBA and other professional courses began on Monday (November 2). Between 150 and 200 teachers are engaged in evaluating each subject paper. The evaluation is being done at the University College, Canara College, the Government First Grade College in Mangaluru, MGM College in Udupi and at FMKM College in Madikeri. “As the evaluation is being carried out at five centres, we are trying to complete the process for all answer scripts by November 5,” he said. Once the results are announced, students can download their digital marks cards from the website of the university. PG exams Mr. Dharma said that the university will announce the results of some of the final semester post-graduate examinations of 2019-20 starting from Tuesday. The evaluation of theory papers of all post-graduate examinations has been completed. The results of such courses to which students are yet to submit their project reports will be announced after some days. It is due to COVID-19, students are not being allowed to go on field visits to compete their project reports. They will have to rely on secondary data to complete the projects. Hence, the results of such courses which had only theory papers will be announced first.  Admissions  The university has already invited applications for admissions to the post-graduate courses on its Mangalagangotri campus, its constituent colleges and in its post-graduate centres for 2020-21. The last date for submitting applications for post-graduate courses will be November 16. And, applications for post-graduate diploma, diploma and certificate courses can be submitted till December 10. The university will conduct entrance tests for admissions to nine post-graduate courses from November 20 to November 26. The courses covered are Mass Communication and Journalism, Social Work, Business Administration in Travel and Tourism Management, Business Administration in International Business, Computer Science, Yogic Science, Physical Education, Tulu and Konkani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-university-final-semester-undergraduate-exam-results-likely-to-come-by-november-10/article33008292.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bulk waste generators start complying with rules||With the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 prescribing the duties of waste generators and Mangaluru City Corporation and other civic bodies threatening to impose heavy fines on bulk waste generators for not segregating and processing waste, the latter have now begun complying with the rules. As per the Rules: “Bio-deg adable waste shall be processed, treated and disposed of through composting or bio-methanation within the premises as far as possible. Residual waste shall be given to waste collectors or agency as directed by the local body.” Founder of a start-up, Give Green Solutions, Jeeth Milan Roche told The Hindu that in addition to 47 apartments where his start-up has installed compost units in the city, 12 more apartments having 700 flats have approached seeking installation of such units. The units in those apartments will be set up within a week. In addition, an education institute at Deralakatte has approached his start-up to set up a compost unit, he said. Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mission’s Swami Ekagamyananda, convener of the five-year Swachh Mangaluru campaign, said that Mangaluru University and the authorities of Kateel Durgaparameshwari temple have approached the mission seeking help to make their premises zero waste campuses. The temple produced about a tonne of waste a day. Mr. Roche said that incidentally some well-informed persons do not know what wet waste is. “Recently, a medical professional asked me why a used sanitary pad cannot be a wet waste,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bulk-waste-generators-start-complying-with-rules/article33008288.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Temple darshan hours to be extended from tomorrow||Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi will extend the darshan hours for devotees from Wednesday. Accordingly, devotees will be allowed to have darshan for one-and-half hours in the forenoon, from 8.30 a.m. to 10 a.m. The darshan schedule in the afternoon has been extended by an hour. The new time will be from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m., according to a release issued by the manager of Admar Mutt which is the Paryaya mutt managing the Krishna Mutt/Temple now. The devotees are now being allowed to have darshan only between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. The schedules have been extended to enable more people to have the darshan of Lord Krishna. The restrictions are due to the COVID-19 situation, the release said. After the lockdown began, the mutt had arranged for darshan from March 22 to September 27 only through the Kanakana Kindi and was not allowing people inside the temple. It started allowing devotees inside the temple between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. on September 28. Sources in the mutt said that between 2,000 and 3,000 devotees are visiting the mutt daily. As people will be allowed to have darshan in the morning, the devotees from faraway places who stay overnight in the city can visit the temple forenoon itself. This will also help reduce the rush in the afternoon, the sources said. Ishapriya Tirtha Swami, junior seer of Admar Mutt, ascended the Paryaya Peetha, also known as the Sarvajna Peetha, at the 800-year-old mutt/temple early this year. It is his first Paryaya. Paryaya denotes the transfer of power of the exclusive right of worshipping Lord Krishna and managing Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple from one seer to another seer of the Astha Mutts once in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-darshan-hours-to-be-extended-from-tomorrow/article33008285.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||RSS leader says Ullal town is ‘nothing but Pakistan’||A video clip in which RSS leader Kalladkka Prabhakar Bhat making a controversial statement that Ullal town in Dakshina Kannada is “nothing but Pakistan” went viral on social media on Monday. Mr. Bhat is said to have made the statement while addressing a closed-door programme as part of the Grama Vikasa Sapthaha at Keshava Shishu Mandira in Kinya village on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. In the video, Mr. Bhat is heard speaking on the “reducing number of Hindus” and expressing his fears that the Hindu culture, traditions, temples and daivasthans may come under threat in such circumstances. Stating that the video clip of his speech which has gone viral was made at a convention held closed doors on Sunday, Mr. Bhat told The Hindu that he does not regret making the statement. “What I have said is based on facts and the situation on the ground,” he said. Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader, meanwhile, said that the statement by Mr. Bhat comparing Ullal with Pakistan was uncalled for. “With age catching up, Mr. Bhat does not know what he talks,” he said. Ullal is a land from where Rani Abbakka ruled and it is also a place where one can find places of worship of Hindus, Muslims and Jains. When people from different communities are living in harmony in Ullal, there was no reason to rake up a controversy, the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rss-leader-says-ullal-town-is-nothing-but-pakistan/article33008283.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two dead in road accident in Puttur||A nine-year-old girl and a 44-year-old woman died while a six-year-old girl was seriously injured after they were hit by a car on the Darbe Bypass Road in Puttur on Monday. The police gave the names of the deceased as Swati and Geeta. The injured girl is Ananya. The police said that the accident occurred when all the three were walking by the roadside towards their houses from an auditorium in Darbe. The car hit another vehicle and the driver reportedly lost control only to hit the three. Swati and Geeta died on the spot. Ananya is admitted to a nearby hospital, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-dead-in-road-accident-in-puttur/article33008293.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tribunal sets aside official’s transfer||Mohammed Imtiyaz H.K., who was recently transferred as Deputy Director of Pre-University Education to Kodagu, will be returning to the post in Mangaluru on Tuesday as his transfer was set aside by the Karnataka State Appellate Tribunal. Mr. Imtiyaz had questioned before the tribunal his premature transfer to Kodagu and the posting of Vishnu Murthy, the principal of Government PU College, Car Street, to that post on the latter’s promotion. In his petition before the tribunal, Mr. Imtiyaz said he was transferred to Mangaluru from Bhadravati and he reported to duty on March 2. When he was due to retire on May 30, 2021, the government passed order on September 25 to transfer him to Kodagu and post Mr. Murthy to that post. This transfer was against the transfer guidelines and norms, he contended. The tribunal comprising chairman K.Bhakthavatsala and member S.K. Pattanayak on October 22 quashed the transfer order of Mr. Imtiyaz and Mr. Murthy and directed Mr. Imtiyaz to immediately resume charge as the Deputy Director of Pre-University Education, Dakshina Kannada. Mr. Murthy was asked to approach the Secretary to Government, Education (Pre-University), for the posting order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribunal-sets-aside-officials-transfer/article33008298.ece
03 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University bags award||Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya received the Karnataka Kreeda Poshak Award announced by the State government for Mangalore University for 2019-20 at a function in the Banquet Hall of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru on Monday. The award carries a purse of Rs. 5 lakh and a certificate. The university has been given the award for promoting sports activities and for producing national and international level sportspersons. The award instituted by the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports was presented in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Dy.CM C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Youth Empowerment, Sports, Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi, and Minister for Revenue R. Ashok.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-bags-award/article33008297.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Wait of Kodagu homestays for licence gets longer over ‘vague’ papers||Nearly 200 homestays that had registered with the Tourism Department along with about 750 other homestays in Kodagu may have to wait for getting the licence to run business legally as their documents were apparently lacking clarity and they had been told to put papers in order. Also, the homestays having no clearances from the local panchayats and the police besides the Tourism Department but running business and getting clients through online bookings from various marketing platforms have come under the scanner. The details of such homestays are being collected by the department and notices would be served to them soon, seeking an explanation and submission of documents. If they fail to respond, the local panchayats and the police would be alerted on acting against them, according to the department. The process of legalising homestays already registered with the department was expedited with Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy asking the Deputy Tahsildars in the three taluks to submit factual reports on the conditions of homestays for giving final approval after a detailed inspection. The homestays had been awaiting inspection after registering with the department but the COVID-19 pandemic delayed the process. Also, the homestays had shut down their operations following lockdown and thereafter due to poor footfall. Despite fast tracking of the process, the verification could not be completed by Dasara as expected since about 200 homestays lacked certain clearances/papers and such properties had been asked to bring legally valid papers. Assistant Director of Tourism Raghavendra told The Hindu that some homestays had been given time for getting the documents since certain clearances were “missing”. Out of 935 registered with the department so far, about 50 had been approved while the verification of others was underway. Nearly 200 homestays lacked some papers during verification and such properties will get approval only when they bring authorised documents, including the NoCs. “Some unauthorised ones are coming forward to register after a warning by the district administration. We hope all homestays will fall in line by the end of this year and the district will be free of unauthorised homestays. Using some online booking platforms, some homestays were getting clients. Such homestays have not registered with us. We are soon issuing notices to them for reply within seven days. In case of no response, the respective panchayats and the police will be told to act,” Mr. Raghavendra said. The Deputy Commissioner asked the deputy tahsildars to complete the pending verification tasks in gram panchayat and hobli limits as the process of legalising the already-registered homestays took time over manpower shortage in the Tourism Department. The district administration resolved to get them evaluated by the revenue authorities. The list of approved homestays was made available on the website of Kodagu district administration https://kodagu.nic.in Homestays should have a maximum of five rooms and a minimum of two rooms with attached bathroom, ample parking, CCTV surveillance,and ample space for the guests to move around and the property owner should reside on the same premises. The NoC from the GP and the police are a must for approval. The licence has to be renewed once in five years. “I rejected permission to a homestay as it lacked parking space. The district administration wants to ensure safety of guests and put details of all legally permitted homestays online for visitors’ information,” the assistant director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wait-of-kodagu-homestays-for-licence-gets-longer-over-vague-papers/article33007873.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||3D and laser mapping of 105 monuments over||The Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology (KSCST) has completed the 3D and laser mapping of 105 monuments coming under the Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage in the Bengaluru revenue division. This is part of a larger project — Karnataka Digital Heritage — entailing 3D mapping of 844 protected monuments. The report on the completion of the work was submitted recently and the KSCST has now begun 3D mapping of monuments in Mysuru division and expects to complete it by the end of the current financial year. The work for Belagavi and Kalaburagi revenue divisions will be taken up next year. All 844 protected monuments under the State Archaeology Department in Karnataka will be covered within the next two years. Sources in the Archaeology Department told The Hindu that the primary data of the protected monuments will be collected and their geographical location captured using GPS. This will help capture the surface geometric details, using 3D laser scanner for 3D modelling, the sources added. The project also entails geo-tagging of photographs and creation of the database on various parameters of the protected monuments using geo-spatial technologies. The project is being executed at nearly Rs. 64.92 lakh and the first phase entailed an expenditure of Rs. 8.51 lakh, the sources added. The objective of the Karnataka Digital Heritage project is to use digital technology to create the database to preserve and share the same for future conservation. It will also help delineate boundaries and prevent future encroachments. The data can also be utilised to provide virtual tours of the monuments, besides help researchers and scholars and also for future restoration. Variety of monuments The protected monuments include forts, heritage buildings, inscriptions, archaeological sites temples, mosques, palaces, wells, kalyanis, and dargahs. Some of the monuments which have been covered include the Magadi Fort, the Arkeshwara temple at Malur, the Ramadevaru and Sitadevi temple at Kudlur, Channapatana, Bara Imam Makhan, Kolar, Shivappa Nayak’s palace, Shivamogga, Shantinatha Jain Basadi, Shikaripur, Ranganatha temple, Rangasthala, Chickballapur, Hussain Shah Darga, Hirebidanur, Raja Madakari Nayaka’s tomb, Mayakonda, Davangere, among others. Though the project covers 844 monuments declared as protected under the Karnataka Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1961, the list was prepared decades ago. Recently a pilot project was launched to document and update the protected monuments list. Experts believe Karnataka has more than 25,000 monuments and sites of historic and archaeological importance but they are not notified as “protected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3d-and-laser-mapping-of-105-monuments-over/article33007745.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AAP launches Rajyotsava campaign||As part of Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations, Aam Aadmi Party, Mysuru, launched a unique campaign of distributing “Simply Speak”, a book to help non-Kannada speaking bank employees learn speaking in Kannada. District President Malavika Gubbivani, who launched the campaign, distributed the books to the non-Kannada speaking employees of banks and Central government offices, and requested them to learn to speak in the language. AAP volunteers visited Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank, Indian Bank, Canara Bank and Bank of Baroda branches in and around Vijayanagar, greeted the staff and urged them to learn and speak in Kannada. Nasrin Taj, Renuka Prasada, Shivkumar and Raju, all volunteers, participated in the campaign. The entire week will be celebrated by AAP as Rajyotsava Week and hundreds of books will be distributed, a release by AAP organisers said here. Ms. Malavika, on the occasion, urged donors and institutions to join hands with AAP for taking up projects like the one done as part of Rajyotsava celebrations. Ms. Malavika had earlier organised campaigns and protests seeking increased usage of Kannada in banks and also for conducting banking examination in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-launches-rajyotsava-campaign/article33007875.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Floods, pandemic hit them hard||The number of homestays in Kodagu has dropped by nearly 50 per cent after the district witnessed unceasing calamities since 2018 that took a heavy toll on tourist footfall. “There was a time when homestays thrived and a big spurt in their numbers, including many unauthorised ones, was noticed before the first major calamity struck in 2018. The losses over steep fall in footfall and rising maintenance costs drove many to shut down operations permanently,” said Assistant Director of Tourism Raghavendra. Contradicting the claims that Kodagu had over 4,000-5,000 homestays, he said there was a spurt in their numbers but definitely not the way being claimed in the industry. Many discontinued business and sold their properties over losses incurred after tourism was badly affected due to floods and landslides. Also, some homestays were damaged in the calamities. Nearly 50 per cent of them have closed their business in the last three years and the pandemic was the latest to impede their business, he said. Sources said people from Kerala had taken properties in good locations, close to estates and hillocks, on lease and running homestays. Such homestays had been wound-up over losses barring a few. Homestays located in remote areas and facing hurdles over connectivity besides those in areas prone to landslides and floods have voluntarily closed business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/floods-pandemic-hit-them-hard/article33007872.ece
03 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cameras keep an eye on students||The sprawling Manasagangotri campus is now under camera surveillance. The 700-plus acre campus has been equipped with CCTVs recently and it happens to be one of the few university campuses in the State to put in place such a large network of camera scrutiny for the safety and security of students, its properties besides the campus, located in the heart of Mysuru. “Around 750 cameras are guarding the campus. The installation was completed recently and the images retrieved from the cameras are monitored by a team at the control room set up at the Department of Computer Science,” said Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar. He told The Hindu : “This is perhaps the largest area among the State universities coming under camera surveillance. The students’ and campus safety is the reason behind the initiative.” With multiple television monitors, the tracking of live visuals from cameras has been made easy. The COVID-19 pandemic delayed camera installation which was actually planned for launch in March/April. The lockdown and subsequent travel restrictions delayed the supply of cameras. The cameras with night vision had been fixed on the poles at vantage points and main campus roads and in the departments, and other properties. At the centralised control room, dedicated staff monitor the footage. The camera surveillance is in addition to private security guards and patrol teams guarding the campus. The university has more than 1.20 lakh UG, PG, M.Phil, and Ph.D. students studying in 63 departments and a large chunk of students are part of the Mysuru campus.Indian and international students pursue research. Foreign students from about 63 countries are pursuing various courses and doing research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cameras-keep-an-eye-on-students/article33007879.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,KARNATAKA||Bypoll to RS seat on Dec. 1||The Election Commission on Monday announced the schedule for the byelection to the one Rajya Sabha seat from Karnataka that fell vacant when Ashok Gasti passed away on September 17. The polling and counting of votes will be held on December 1. Gasti, a BJP leader, had been sworn in as a Rajya Sabha member for the first time in July, but could not attend any session of Parliament because of COVID-19. While announcing the schedule, the EC said that all those involved in election-related activities have to wear face masks. “The Chief Secretary, Karnataka, is being directed to depute a senior officer from the State to ensure that the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for the election. Furthermore, the commission has also appointed the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, as Observer for this election,” the EC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypoll-to-rs-seat-on-dec-1/article33007889.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru anti-tobacco crusader’s voiced heard at U.N. forum||Mysuru’s anti-tobacco crusader Vasanthkumar Mysoremath has managed to flag at a United Nations forum his concerns over governments extending subsidies for cultivation of tobacco, which is detrimental to the health of people. When the United Nations 75th General Assembly held its first-ever virtual round table on October 6 on “Building forward better: A new approach to mobilise investment for non-communicable diseases”, the Question and Answer session took up a question posed by Mr. Mysoremath. “When it is proved that smoking aggravates Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs), how far is it correct on the part of the Governments, signatories to the UN-sponsored FCTC (Framework Convention on Tobacco Control) protocol to invest in tobacco cultivation, subsidies, levy tax, earn foreign exchange, allow production and manufacturing of smoke/non-smoke/chewing tobacco products that are detrimental to the health of the people?”, Mr. Mysoremath asked. Rachel Nugent, President of RTI International Centre for Global Non-Communicable Diseases, who was the moderator for round table, passed on Mr. Mysoremath’s query to Ingvar Theo Olsen, Policy Director for Health, Norwegian Agency for Development Co-operation (NORAD). Mr. Ingvar said the question was very “interesting and important” and the issue was being discussed in Norway as in many other countries. Though Mr. Ingvar said he personally beleived there were strong reasons against governments investing in tobacco cultivation or providing subsidies for the same, the situation was very difficult when tobacco was a major industry in the country providing a lot of employment. Hence, it was a challenge to balance both by doing it in the “right order”. Complex issue Ms. Rachel Nugent observed that the issue was “quite complex” even when these policies are found to be clearly harmful from the health perspective. In response, Mr .Mysoremath said though he did not receive a direct answer to his questions, the panellists agreed that investment in tobacco cultivation and extending subsidies were complex issues that need to he further deliberated. “If a world body like United Nations cannot take hard decision in the best interest of ensuring better health for the people suffering from NCDs on either total ban or gradual reduction on cultivation, manufacturing and distribution of deadly tobacco products, then who else can?”, asked Mr. Mysoremath, who is also the Honorary Advisor of Cancer Patients Aid Association and Anti-Tobacco Forum, Mysuru. Round table The Non-Communicable Diseases Alliance had co-hosted the round table with Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Mission of Jamaica to the United Nations and United Nations Inter-Agency Taskforce on NCDs. The round table had brought together policy makers, experts and civil society leaders to reinforce mutual learning across sectors and identify new approaches to mobilise domestic and international investment for NCDs, particularly taking into account the hurdles presented by the on-going COVID-19 pandemic and its social and economic aftermath in the world, particularly on poorer countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-anti-tobacco-crusaders-voiced-heard-at-un-forum/article33007882.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||ESIC contract labourers threaten to go on strike||As many as 192 daily wage workers - sweepers, cleaners employed in ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Kalaburagi - are a disgruntled lot as the contract company has failed to pay them their complete salaries. Bhagwan Bhovi, president of the ESI Hospital Daily Wage Workers’ Union, addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, demanded that Global Management, the contract company, pay the full salary to the workers. The workers were getting paid only for 15 days, though they had worked for a full month. He demanded that the contract company pay as per the attendance. Mr. Bhovi alleged that if workers demanded full payment, the contractor in connivance with officials was trying to fire them. Even after repeated complaints to ESI officers, the issue had not been not resolved. Mr. Bhovi urged that the payment of the employees be made directly into their bank accounts on the 1st of every month. As per the law, the daily wage worker should get at least Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 20,000 per month, but the contractor was paying around Rs. 15,000, and most of the workers were paid less than the payment fixed in the agreement. The contractor had also failed to pay the bonus and social security benefits, Mr. Bhovi added and demanded that the government regularize their services. The union along with the daily wage workers hired on a contractual basis threatened to stop work and go on strike from November 21, if the ESI failed to resolve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/esic-contract-labourers-threaten-to-go-on-strike/article33007737.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Idigas oppose monitoring committee for temple||The leaders of Idiga community have asked the State government to withdraw the committee constituted to look after the accounts of Siganduru Chowdeshwari Temple at Sigandur in Sagar taluk. The leaders, who met at Idiga Bhavan in Shivamogga on Monday, have resolved to launch a movement to save the temple. Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa said the appointment of the committee was a shock to the community. “This temple belonged to the community and we have to retain it. I will speak to Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra and others”, he said. Former MLA Belur Gopalakrishna said the State government should not act according to the whims and fancies of a few people. “We are about 65 lakh people in the State. We will hold a convention of 25,000 people. When there were similar incidents in other temples, the government did not intervene to constitute committees. But, here it has intervened because the temple belongs to a backward community”, he opined. Recently Shivamogga DC constituted committees to look after the temple, following reports of differences between temple trustee S. Ramappa and priest Sheshagiri Bhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idigas-oppose-monitoring-committee-for-temple/article33007877.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-normal/article33008091.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Economic life revives...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/economic-life-revives/article33008295.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CIIL’s Kannada online course on SWAYAM||Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru, will soon be making an online course on Kannada hosted on the Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (SWAYAM) platform of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. The 12-week basic course had been designed for non-Kannada speaking persons. In this connection, a five-day workshop began at the Educational Technology Unit (ETU) of the CIIL on the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava here on Sunday. P. Dwivedi, officer in-charge of ETU, is coordinating the workshop under the chairmanship of Deputy Director P. Perumalsamy. Lakshminarayana Aurora and .C Naganna, retired professors from the University of Mysore; and other scholars are participating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ciils-kannada-online-course-on-swayam/article33007876.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All for a cause||tobacco protest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-for-a-cause/article33007885.ece
03 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||498 test positive in Alappuzha district||The district recorded 498 COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 482 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another nine persons remains unknown. The district also reported three COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official death toll to 105. The 498 cases include 87 logged from Alappuzha, 45 from Cherthala, 43 from Aroor and 30 from Mararikulam South. 350 in Kollam The district reported 350 new COVID-19 cases, 553 recoveries and four deaths on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 339 contact cases, six persons with no known source, three health workers and two persons who had travelled from other States. 246 in Kottayam As many as 246 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all but two contracted the disease through local contact, a pressnote said. The patients also included 51 people aged above 60 and 30 children. 44 in Pathanamthitta As many as 44 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta disrict on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all but one contracted the virus through local contact.  (With inputs from Kollam, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/498-test-positive-in-alappuzha-district/article33007831.ece
03 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||New building of Alappuzha jail opened||The Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services Department’s ‘Freedom Food Pack’ is a model for the entire country, Chief Minister Pinarayi has said. He was virtually inaugurating the new building of the Alappuzha district jail on Monday. Mr. Vijayan said that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had done a lot of development work in the last four-and-a-half years. “Freedom Food Pack is part of the food chain. All jails in the State are part of it. The government is getting an amount from it. The government is providing training to jail inmates in various sectors,” the Chief Minister said. The new building has a facility to house 110 people. Other facilities include general office, doctors' room, interview room, waiting room, common cells, single cells and conference hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-building-of-alappuzha-jail-opened/article33007830.ece
03 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur, Himachal schools jointly celebrate National Unity Day||Marygiri English Medium School, Podikkalam, Kannur, celebrated National Unity Day with a colourful cultural integration programme, bringing together the cultures of the North and South of the country. The school joined hands with V.R. Public School, Himachal Pradesh, on the Microsoft Teams platform for the celebration. There were a variety of programmes based on the cultures of Kerala and Himachal Pradesh. Students from Marygiri and V.R. Public School presented cultural events, reminding all about the country’s unity in diversity. The programme was witnessed by 500 students and teachers from both the participating schools. The most attractive feature of the programme was that students from Marygiri sang songs and performed dances in the native Pahari language of Himachal Pradesh and students from the Himalayan State performed programmes based on Kerala’s culture. This kept all the participants curious till the end. Dr. Ravinder Gargesh, Head of the Department of English, Samarkhand State University, Uzbekistan, was the chief guest of the function. The Principal of Marygiri English Medium School, Regy Scaria CST; Principal of V.R. Public School, Anshi Bhanot Batta; Director of NIFT, Kannur, Puneet Sood; PTA president Manu Joseph; and Vice Principals Manoj Kuriakose, Pradyumanan P.P., and Sunitha Vajpayee spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-himachal-schools-jointly-celebrate-national-unity-day/article33007752.ece
03 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||First postman of Kelakam recalls Kerala formation||As Kerala celebrated the 64th Formation Day on Sunday, P.G. Peethambaran, 90, turned nostalgic. For him, the year 1956 was even more important as he was the first postman appointed to the hilly settlement of Kelakam, where the post office was opened in the same year. Like several other settlers who moved to Kannur from southern Kerala, Mr. Peethambaran arrived with his parents Govindan and Parvathy, who were from Ramapuram in Kottayam in the year 1949. He was just 17 yearss old. He recalled that those were the days when several people from southern Kerala were settling in the region. By the time the State was formed by the amalgamation of Malabar, Kochi, and Travancore, there were already a large number of settlers who had made these hilly terrains adjoining the Western Ghats their abode. However, they were still connected to their roots, which was made possible by the postal department. For settlers here, Mr. Peethambaran soon became the only solace who brought in communication from their loved ones far away. He was just 25 years when he joined as the first postman to be appointed at the Kelakam post office, which opened on the day same day as the State of Kerala was formed. “I was the only educated person to have studied till Class 8. When the post office was opened here, I immediately got the job at a salary of Rs. 20, he said. Before, there was a post office at Peravoor, which was 10 km away from Kelakam,” recalls Mr. Peethambaram. The job was not easy as he had to walk about 25 km everyday to deliver post and money orders to the people. There were no roads, vehicle, and electricity. Even newspapers were delivered a day later, he said. However, he fondly remembers the celebration and meetings when the State was formed. “People were celebrating with meetings, sports events and cultural programmes in the region. In those days, these areas including Kanichar, Kelakam, and Kottiyoor were still facing the concerns and anxieties of the colonial period and formation of the State was a huge relief to the people,” he said. With an increase in the settlement here, there were about 100 items of post or money orders that had to be delivered everyday. He was the only postman and it was a job with a huge responsibility, said Mr. Peetharmabaran. It was almost impossible to reach everyone, so he used children who came to the school from various areas to deliver the letter to designated shops in those areas. The people would collect the letter from the shops. In the case of money orders, the people collected it from the post office and anything above Rs. 50 was delivered to them in person. Though the postal department had promised to confirm him in the job after five years, it did not happen. After six years, he decided to leave. He then worked as a peon at the Manjalampuram UP School for a salary of Rs. 35, where he worked till the age of 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-postman-of-kelakam-recalls-kerala-formation/article33007761.ece
03 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Beaches to remain off limits till Nov. 15||Even though the government opened the beaches to the public on November 1 in the State, the beaches in Kannur will remain off limits to the people in the wake of increasing cases of COVID-19 and people violating the protocol. Kannur District Collector T.V. Subhash has decided to extend the restrictions till November 15. As part of strengthening the preventive measures against COVID-19, the district has imposed Section 144. The Collector said the ban on visitors to the beaches was due to the fact that overcrowding in tourist destinations without any restrictions and compliance with COVID code of conduct would quicken the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beaches-to-remain-off-limits-till-nov-15/article33007762.ece
03 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Abandoned ponds being rejuvenated||The rejuvenation and beautification of abandoned ponds have picked up steam in Ernakulam. Six such waterbodies were shortlisted for restoration under a joint initiative by the Haritha Keralam Mission and the Department of Local Self-Government. Financial assistance from Cochin Shipyard Ltd. was also utilised for the project. Among the six ponds, beautification work on the Amballurkavu pond in Amballur panchayat has been completed. The pond, spread over 50 cents, was given a facelift after adopting environment-friendly methods like wall strengthening and pond bank stabilisation efforts. Work on the remaining five ponds is at various stages. “These include Pavamkulangarakulam in Thripunithura, Pannikuzhi Chira in Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat, Chirakadamoola Chira in Thiruvaniyoor panchayat, Mulapan Chira in Rayamangalam and Manikyamangalam Chira in Kalady grama panchayat. Cochin Shipyard had earmarked Rs. 35-lakh funding for the six ponds under its corporate social responsibility initiative,” said Sujith Karun, District Coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission. Several ponds in the district had been cleaned up as part of the ‘Ente Kulam’ project aimed at reviving abandoned water bodies. However, the project to carry out pond stabilisation and side wall strengthening was undertaken on the inference that such works would give a fresh lease of life for water bodies. The primary objective is to enhance the overall ecosystem and improve the water quality in ponds to meet the increasing water scarcity this summer. As per the project document, local communities play a major role in the successful implementation of the pond rejuvenation project by protecting water bodies from ecological deterioration. They are also responsible for checking the condition of the ponds besides reviewing maintenance works on a periodical basis. The panchayats will be responsible for maintaining the cleaned-up ponds by involving the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abandoned-ponds-being-rejuvenated/article33008249.ece
03 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Lakshadweep islands lured by a ganja high||Ganja seems to have emerged the new fad among youngsters in Lakshadweep Islands, a designated dry land, going by the number of cases registered both there and the mainland post-lockdown. The Harbour police have registered eight cases for attempted smuggling in of ganja to the archipelago, while around 15 cases registered by the Kavaratti police under the Lakshadweep Prohibition Regulation during the same period also accounted for drugs along with liquor. The arrest of a 19-year-old defence personnel, a resident of Kadamath island in Lakshadweep, by the Harbour police with 2.50 kg of ganja recently from T.D. Road was the latest in a string of attempts to smuggle in the drug to the archipelago. This was after the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) intercepted four parcels sent via speed post with over 1 kg of ganja meant for Lakshadweep and handed them over to the Harbour police. “We had found that a single person had sent all four of them, and a tip-off led us to the accused. We are now tracking down the source of the drugs in his possession, though he claims to have received it from parties in Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad. He also seems to have a regular clientele in Lakshadweep. Sending ganja as parcels in small quantities to avoid easy detection appears to be a preferred modus operandi,” said T.G. Rajesh, Sub Inspector, Harbour police. The Kavaratti police said turning ship employees into hirelings for smuggling in both drugs and liquor seems to be on the rise. Mohammed Khaleel, Sub Inspector, Kavaratti, recalled an incident in which a radio officer of a passenger ship allegedly colluded with a nexus to smuggle in 43 bottles of foreign liquor. “Ganja is now the most popular drug on the island, and it almost entirely comes from Ernakulam. Before the pandemic breakout, people could easily move around and consume it in Ernakulam and come back, which is not the case now, with restrictions in place. As a result, there are increasing attempts to smuggle in the drug through conduits,” said Mr. Khaleel. The Kavaratti police had foiled an attempt to smuggle in the drug hidden in a cargo of fruits recently. He bemoaned that even girls were now using the drug after getting used to it during their stints in Kerala or Bengaluru for higher studies.  Ganja is now the most popular drug on the island, and it almost entirely comes from Ernakulam Mohammed Khaleel Sub Inspector, Kavaratti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakshadweep-islands-lured-by-a-ganja-high/article33008246.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cases fall to 518 in district||New COVID-19 cases in the district fell to 518 on Monday from over 1,000 fresh cases on each day of the weekend. Testing also dipped to 3,095 on Monday, compared with over 5,000 samples that were collected on Saturday and Sunday. Of the people who tested positive on Monday, six people had arrived from outside the State, 407 acquired the infection through local contact and the source of infection of 97 people could not be traced. Eight health workers were newly infected. Kumbalam and Angamaly recorded over 20 cases each on Monday. People from areas including Kalamassery, Fort Kochi, Thrikkakara, Maradu, Pachalam, Aluva, Kadungalloor, and Kaloor tested positive. A total of 29,242 people remain in quarantine in the district. While 261 patients were admitted to FLTCs and hospitals on Monday, 228 people were discharged. The district’s active case load is now at 12,233. While 9,454 people are recovering at home, 167 patients are at SLTCs, 969 people are FLTCs, 779 are at private hospitals, 61 patients are at PVS Hospital and 199 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-fall-to-518-in-district/article33008261.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Biomedical waste disposal: PCB notice for 10 depts.||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has issued notices to 10 departments to ensure that healthcare facilities under them obtain authorisation from the board for treatment and disposal of biomedical waste. The board revealed this in its report filed before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal in a case related to the poor implementation of Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 in the State. The tribunal had asked the board to file a detailed report on action taken against violators. The Central Pollution Control Board had earlier pointed out that several healthcare facilities in the public and private sectors were yet to obtain consent or authorisation from the State board. The inventorisation of healthcare facilities generating biomedical waste had also not been completed, it said. The PCB has issued notices to the Directorate of Animal Husbandry; Directorate of Health Services; Director, Ayurveda Medical Education; Directorate of Medical Education; Indian System of Medicine; Directorate of Homoeopathy; Government Homeopathy Medical College; State Mission Director, National Health Mission; Directorate of Panchayats; and Director, Urban Local Body. The departments have to submit their action plan by November 30. Quantity of waste The report said that the total quantity of biomedical waste generated is 42,932 kg daily. The total biomedical waste treated and disposed through the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE) facility at Kanjikode in Palakkad is 36,853 kg per day while the corresponding figure of waste treated in captive treatment facilities is 3,557 kg daily. Fifty-two health-care facilities are equipped with captive treatment facilities. The board informed the tribunal that the quantity of COVID-19 and non COVID-19 waste generated and disposed in the State on a daily basis is being entered on the mobile application developed by the Central Pollution Control Board. The healthcare institutions have been mandated to register on the app. On the enhancement of additional biomedical waste treatment facilities, the board said the operation of the new facility by Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Limited (KEIL) has not yet commenced. The government had allocated three acres for the IMA’s second facility at Brahmapuram in Kochi, according to the report.  Depts under scanner Directorate of Animal Husbandry Directorate of Health Services  Director, Ayurveda Medical Education  Directorate of Medical Education Indian System of Medicine  Directorate of Homoeopathy Govt. Homoeopathy Medical College State Mission Director, National Health Mission Directorate of Panchayats  Director, Urban Local Body||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biomedical-waste-management-rules-violated-finds-pcb/article33008259.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kumbalanghi’s nature lovers save a darter in distress||If not for the humanity of a bunch of nature lovers of Kumbalanghi, a bird with its beak trapped shut by shreds of plastic would have certainly met its end on Monday. Members of the Nature Club at Kumbalanghi were cleaning the road to Kandakkadavu on the way to Chellanam when they spotted an Oriental darter, locally known as Cherathalayan, standing unusually on the road, its wings spread out. The darter figures on the Red List of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and is a near-endangered species. “They do not generally come out of water. When we approached it, we realised its beak had been trapped shut by plastic. Seeing us, the bird, visibly weak, got down the road to the wetland paddy area below. I sought the help of Suresh, another member of the club, who trapped the bird using a net and with lot of difficulty, we removed plastic and cotton stuck around its beak,” said Jossy Veliyil, secretary of the Nature Club. Relieved though, the avian perched on the branch of a tree. “It was still not flying away and we realised it would have been without food for a few days. So we caught some prawns and other fish from the wetland, trapped the bird again and fed it. A good 15 minutes later, it flew away,” added Mr. Veliyil. Martin Gopurathinkal, environmentalist and bird watcher, who was in the area, shot the episode on his mobile. “The wetlands of Kandakkadavu receive several migratory birds in the season, but they have not started arriving. It was tough netting the darter and cutting away plastic entangled around the beak. But fortunately, it could be saved. Last year, a flamingo was found in a similar condition. Post-rescue, it had to be operated upon, but its life could not be saved. There were also similar incidents involving storks. All of it shows the extent of plastic contamination of the wetlands and paddy land,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kumbalanghis-nature-lovers-save-a-darter-in-distress/article33008242.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court permits ED to quiz gold smuggling accused||The Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Cases on Monday permitted the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to question Sarith P.S., Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, key accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The agency can interrogate the accused from Tuesday to Thursday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. There should be a break of half-an-hour if they are questioned for two-and-a-half hours at a stretch. Swapna and Sandeep are now at the Central Jail in Thiruvananthapuram while Sarith is lodged at Viyyur Central Jail. The investigating officials had sought permission to question the three as they wanted to cross-check their statements with those given by M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Sivasankar was arrested by the ED on Wednesday in connection with the money laundering angle in the gold smuggling case. The agency believes that he had assisted Swapna in the usage of proceeds of crime on the pretext of untainted money.  Swapna’s plea dismissed Meanwhile, Swapna’s petition seeking a copy of her statements given to the Customs in the smuggling case was dismissed by the High Court stating that these could not be termed documents produced in or in the custody of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-permits-ed-to-quiz-gold-smuggling-accused/article33007848.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Inspection of canals delayed||The process of inspecting the canal connecting the Periyar river and Edayattuchaal paddy field to check the presence of unauthorised pipelines and discharge from industrial units in the Edayar region is getting delayed. The Pollution Control Board had requested the Irrigation department in a letter dated September 7 to make the canal accessible for inspection. It had also suggested providing inspection chambers or manholes at definite intervals along the entire stretch of the canal to identify unauthorised pipelines, if any, laid from the industrial units to the canal. “We are awaiting action from the Irrigation department to carry out the inspection,” said board officials. The board had received complaints from the local residents alleging discharge of effluents into the canal along the Edayar industrial area. “Since the canal is concealed, the board officials are not able to verify whether any discharges/unauthorised pipelines are laid from the industries discharging to the drain/canal,” said the letter. The canal joins the Periyar at the upstream of Pathalam bund regulator. The discharge of any sewage/trade effluent to this canal will ultimately reach the river at upstream of Pathalam bund, affecting the water quality and ecosystem of the river. The board has quoted the directive by the National Green Tribunal, which had ordered immediate steps to check pollution of the river and dumping of effluents and sewage into the river. The government has prepared an action plan for rejuvenation of the river and it is under the implementation stage by various departments. The board had conducted investigations in the area and collected water samples from the canal. The analysis report had revealed presence of effluents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inspection-of-canals-delayed/article33008255.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fort Kochi taluk hospital turns care centre||Facilities at all government hospitals in the district will be augmented to treat COVID-19 patients, according to V. S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, who is in charge of pandemic-related measures in Ernakulam. The Fort Kochi taluk hospital has been readied as a 100-bed COVID care centre that was inaugurated on Monday. The hospital will begin functioning on Wednesday with 26 beds. Additional beds will be put to use as required. Five ICU beds and a single ventilator are available at the hospital which is fitted with centralised oxygen supply for 60 beds. A walk-in sample collection kiosk for testing was also set up. The CIAL convention centre, which had been functioning as an FLTC, has been equipped with oxygen supply to treat 167 patients with more severe symptoms. With 150 beds at the Adlux convention centre, 50 beds at Palluruthy, 30 at Muvattupuzha, 25 at Aluva and 20 beds at Paravur, more category B patients can be treated at government facilities, the Minister said. The Thripunithura taluk hospital will also be equipped to treat COVID-19 patients. At PVS Hospital, a treatment facility for category C patients, which has been operating with around 60 beds so far, is also likely to begin treating its full capacity of 120 patients. As many as 41 private hospitals are also treating COVID-19 patients, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. “As per projections, we were expecting 3,500 new cases in the October-November period, but the average daily figure now is less than 1,000,” he said. The dialysis centre at the Fort Kochi taluk hospital will continue to function and non-COVID patients will also be able to seek treatment in a separate zone. An effort was being made to treat COVID and non-COVID patients simultaneously at government hospitals, the Minister said. Meanwhile, an FLTC readied by the Kochi Corporation at A. J. Hall, Kaloor, will be set aside for police officials who test positive, Mayor Soumini Jain said. The centre is likely to have 60 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-taluk-hospital-turns-care-centre/article33008264.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi hoteliers to roll out food delivery app||Around 200 hoteliers in Kochi city will be part of a pilot project to launch an online application for food aggregation and distribution. The application ‘REZOY’ is being launched this month and will initially involve around 200 eateries in Kochi, says Aziz Moosa of Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association. Hoteliers feel there is stiff competition in the market, and hotel owners need to stand on their own to face the competition from other online food aggregators and suppliers, he adds. “We will not exclude anybody from the network. It will include the smallest eateries to three-star facilities,” says Mr. Moosa, pointing out that some of the other delivery services focused mainly on high volume restaurants. According to him, restaurant and hotel owners felt the need to support all outlets as the COVID-19 lockdown and loss of business had affected all the association members, irrespective of their volume of business during the last eight months. It is estimated that there are around 33,000 hotels and restaurants across Kerala and most of them are members of the association, says Mr. Moosa. The mobile application will be immediately available for hoteliers to deliver food directly with their own arrangements. The hotel and restaurant business has taken a big hit from the COVID-19 restrictions and the continuing spread of the pandemic. Though most of the eateries are open now, the business volume is down substantially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-hoteliers-to-roll-out-food-delivery-app/article33008258.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hopes high for KMTA removing encroachments||With civic agencies and the police doing little to remove or dismantle encroachments on footpaths and roads, Kochiites are pinning their hopes on the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) doing the job. The newly-constituted body, which has, among others, the responsibility to ensure safe roads and footpaths in the region, is also expected to take a call on haphazard and obstructive parking of vehicles, including on footpaths, road shoulders and at congested junctions, to ensure safe and hassle-free movement of vehicles and pedestrians. According to a transportation planner, the KMTA should use powers vested under “land use”, so that road users can make optimal use of public space. Public interest must be accorded priority over what vendors and shops term as right to earn a livelihood. Many vendors and stall owners, who claim to have licence issued by the Kochi Corporation, illegally occupy the entire width of footpaths, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road. Former Mayor K.J. Sohan expressed dismay at vendors and encroachers thriving even in the vicinity of the High Court and the Corporation office. “It is no more the poor and downtrodden sections of society that are into vending goods. Most vendors are controlled or employed by a few influential people,” he said. On their part, local bodies must specify their location and curb encroachments. In Kochi, the post of Town Surveyor has been remaining vacant for about a decade, while survey offices are closed. Such bodies ought to have maps which specify the extent of government land in each area. They must be revived so that encroachers could be identified and evicted, said Mr. Sohan. “It is high time that a standardised design was made mandatory for vendors, just like in most cities worldwide, so that they do not encroach further into public spaces,” said P.M. Harris, chairman of the works standing committee of the civic body. All encroachments must be dismantled, without yielding to pressure from vested interests. It had to be seen how effective the KMTA would be in the matter, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopes-high-for-kmta-removing-encroachments/article33008253.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Women’s panel biased: Cong. leader||The Kerala State Women’s Commission had been acting in a partial manner and its working over the past four and a half years had been marked by support to some who had been accused of harassment of women, said KPCC general secretary Deepthi Mary Varghese here on Monday. She said that such a commission was not needed and that Left political parties tended to support and protect those who made bad remarks about women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-biased-cong-leader/article33008256.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand for extension of buses to Kochi||The 15-year-old demand from commuters and non-governmental organisations to permit entry of around 200 private buses from the Goshree islands into the city, might well be among the first few decisions of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) that was inaugurated on Sunday. The buses currently terminate services at the High Court Junction, with the result that thousands of commuters who want to reach destinations in the city and suburban towns such as Kakkanad and Thripunithura have to walk to the nearest bus stop to board another bus or two. Approximately three lakh people reside in the Goshree islands, spread across eight panchayats. Most of them earn less than Rs. 15,000 per month. They end up spending Rs. 10 extra per trip since they have to switch buses, according to Ebenser Chullikkat of Greater Cochin Development Watch, an NGO that has been spearheading the demand that buses from the isles be permitted into city routes. “The State government has issued permits to buses from Aluva to operate through the city and up to Chellanam – a total distance of 40 km. But, buses from Mulavukad, located less than 5 km from the city, are permitted to operate only up to the High Court Junction. Thousands of commuters had to purchase two-wheelers, flooding the city during peak hours. Successive State governments were hiding behind the facade of rules that curbed entry of buses from the Goshree region into the city. This cannot be cited as an excuse any more, since the KMTA can henceforth take a call on such matters,” said Mr. Chullikkat. The KMTA is keen to extend its jurisdiction to areas falling under the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA), considering that a few lakh commuters from the suburbs come to Kochi each day, it is learnt. Route rationalisation Retired Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner and former advisor to Kochi Metro Rail’s Urban Transport Wing B.J. Antony said with the KMTA coming into effect, it was easier to take a decision on entry of Goshree buses into the city. Route rationalisation, which the KMTA is expected to take up, will ideally result in buses operating in routes where there is demand, at specific timings. That Puthuvype in Goshree isles was part of Division 1 of the Kochi Corporation would help extend the bus services, he said. “The KMTA has the top brass of the Transport Department – the Minister, Secretary and Transport Commissioner – apart from internationally renowned experts like O.P. Agarwal, who pioneered the KMTA legislation. It can take a decision on such matters,” said Mr. Antony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clamour-for-extending-goshree-bus-service-may-find-resonance-in-kmta/article33008251.ece
03 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Aided colleges getting govt. fund come under RTI: HC||Private aided educational institutions would come under the ambit of the Right to Information Act, 2005 if they are substantially financed by the State government, the Kerala High Court has held. In an order on Monday, a Division Bench headed by Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly noted that the Act was brought into force in 2005 to secure information for citizens and access to the information under the control of public authorities to make the administration and governance transparent and accountable. It was on appeals filed by SN Colleges of Kollam, Varkala, Chengannur, Nattika, Cherthala, Chempazhanthy, and Shoranur; SN College for Women, Kollam; TKMM College, Nangiarkulangara; M.D. College, Pazhanji; and S.N. Training College, Nedungandam, that the order was issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aided-colleges-getting-govt-fund-come-under-rti-hc/article33007853.ece
03 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF begins seat talks in Kottayam||Amidst reports about the coalition parties pressing for more seats in view of the exit of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) from the front, the district unit of the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Monday commenced seat-sharing talks on a formal note. A meeting, attended by All India Congress Committee general secretary Oommen Chandy, concluded without going into detail into the number of seats for each constituent party. It, however, decided to meet once again on November 8 in the presence of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran and UDF convener M. M. Hassan to settle all outstanding issues. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Chandy said the differences between the constituent parties would be settled within the coalition framework through democratic means. “People are badly awaiting a change. We have to face the challenge united and gain the confidence of the people,” he said. While the seat-sharing talks at the panchayat level were progressing without any major hiccups, disputes are expected crop up when talks on block panchayats and the district panchayat will begin. Of the 22 divisions in the district panchayat, the Joseph group of the Kerala Congress (M) has already staked claim to half the seats. The UDF, however, is unlikely to accept the demand. “The actual number of divisions from where the Joseph group had contested last time was just three but with two Mani group members switching to the side, the party is now entitled for five seats. The rest of the seats will be shared by taking into account the winning prospects of the respective constituents,” said a Congress leader. Besides the Joseph group, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) also counts on contesting from the division comprising the the Erumely region Meanwhile, the Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress (M) received a major boost on Monday with veteran leader E.J. Augusthy joining the party. Mr Augusthy, who is the senior-most member of KC(M), was staying away from active politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-kick-starts-seat-sharing-talks-in-kottayam/article33007829.ece
03 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Destination weddings prop up Kumarakom||After a long gap, the picturesque lakeside resort of Kumarakom has once again started playing host to nuptial ceremonies of young couples. Tourism industry stakeholders here are now looking up to destination weddings to boost their prospects. Seven so far The village has hosted at least seven destination weddings since the reopening of hotels and resorts there in mid-September. “We have a handful of inquiries coming in though they are yet to get converted into a demand for accommodation. But given the current trend, the sector is expected to pick up momentum by the second quarter next year,” says K. Arun Kumar, secretary, Chamber of Vembanad Hotels and Resorts (CVHR). With the COVID-19 guidelines stipulating a sharp reduction in the number of guests, the wedding packages are now offered at a lower price. “The post-COVID regulations, which envisage the marriages to be a very intimate affair, appear to have drawn the interest of premium customers within the State,” he adds. With an open-to-sky setting and the placid Vembanad lake in the backdrop, Kumarakam hosted about 75 destination weddings last year and the sector, according to hoteliers, was growing steadily by 25-30% per year. These weddings, planned at least six months in advance and involves a couple of days of accommodation, meal plans and other programmes, generated an average billing of Rs. 20 lakh per event. However, there were massive cancellations from the second half of March following the COVID-19-induced lockdown. A majority of these bookings, according to the resort owners, were from Europe while a few were from north Indian. Boost to local economy The revival of destination weddings is expected to spur the local economy. “Most of these events are organised on the basis of certain themes, which involve the staging of cultural events, sourcing of local cuisine or handicraft or even offering the village-life experience to the guests. That way, it serves as a consistent source of income to the local populace,” says K. Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator, Responsible Tourism Mission Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/destination-weddings-prop-up-kumarakom/article33007837.ece
03 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||576 fresh cases in Kozhikode||A total of 576 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday, of whom 549 people acquired the infection through local transmission. The number of tests done was only 4,275. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, there were 839 recoveries and the active caseload from the district slipped to 9,077. The test positivity rate is 13.47%. As many as 5,914 people are under home isolation. Kozhikode Corporation continues to have a high number of locally acquired infections at 181, followed by Ramanattukara 52, Nadapuram 38, and Perumanna and Peruvayal 35. Five deaths Meanwhile, a 65-year-old man from Narikkuni in Kozhikode died at the Government Medical College Hospital on Monday. A medical bulletin from the hospital also reported four more deaths that happened on Sunday. In Wayanad A total of 46 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Monday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 809. Of the new cases, 43 patients were infected through local contact and three persons came from other States. As many as 72 people recovered on Monday. The district has so far reported 7,207 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 6,346 have recovered. As many as 8,457 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/576-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article33007767.ece
03 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Auto drivers struggle to pay loans||The financial crisis subsequent to the COVID-19 pandemic is compelling many auto-rickshaw drivers in the city to go in search of other odd jobs to pay the Equated Monthly Instalments of their vehicle loans obtained from various banks. The number of defaulters has also increased, as many are yet to find any alternative jobs or generate a satisfactory daily income from the existing job. Of the 5,000-odd auto-rickshaws, only less than 50 per cent are now operational in the city limits according to the leaders of various drivers’ unions. They point out that those who do not have Calicut City permits are also struggling to cope with the situation and trying to find other jobs to beat the crisis. “I even have friends who go for fishing now to pay the monthly instalments. There are many others who have taken up construction work and the sale of vegetables for survival. Those who used to lease out their vehicles for rental income are also in crisis now with the poor response of drivers,” says A.K. Sajeev Kumar, leader of an auto-rickshaw drivers’ union in the city. He feels that the majority manage to survive the situation as banks do not attempt to seize the vehicles in the name of interrupted payments. For many, the night services are least profitable now as passengers are minimal with the continuing containment zone regulations and the prohibitory orders in place. Only people who own a vehicle are mostly spotted on the streets in late night hours. Those who secure night service permits from the police are also on the decline. “The main dilemma is that we cannot go for all types of jobs now with the continuing COVID-19 threat. There are openings for bystanders in various hospitals for caring for patients, but it is difficult to opt for such jobs now as many of us have elderly people at home,” says C. Ajilesh, an auto-rickshaw driver near Puthiyangadi. He feels that there should be some relief package by the government to support the ailing taxi drivers in the sector. Though the State government had sanctioned a temporary aid through its welfare boards for drivers, the leaders of various drivers’ unions claimed it was hardly sufficient to meet the crisis. “Many of us have been managing the situation by borrowing money from close friends and relatives. At least, the penalising actions by the Motor Vehicles Department and police should be stopped to temporarily support us,” they demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auto-drivers-struggle-to-pay-loans/article33007759.ece
03 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||In a first, ‘Bio Park’ opened at school||The first ever ‘Bio Park’ in a school in the State, opened with an aim to create awareness on waste management among students and the public, opened at Model Higher Secondary School in Kozhikode on Monday. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran opened the park in the presence of councillors, representatives from the Haritha Keralam Mission and the school authorities. Novel venture The ‘Bio Park’ is a novel venture being implemented by the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation with the help of Haritha Keralam Mission at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh. The park consists of working models of various methods for processing of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Models The models include those of vermi compost, bucket compost, kitchen bin, bio-bin, ring compost, biogas plant, pipe compost, biocomposter bin, biodigester pot, Thumboormuzhi aerobic compost unit, bottle booth, pot compost and a mini Material Recovery Facility with separate containers for paper, plastic bottles, metals, glass, footwear, leather, thermocol, rexin, old clothes, medicines, pesticide bottles, light bulbs and electronics. The models were set up by Socio Economic Unit Foundation (SEUF) with detailed descriptions of each. For students also The corporation plans to use the facility for training the Harithakarma Sena, residents’ associations, people’s representatives and officials from local bodies, besides students on waste management. Corporation Health Standing Committee chairman K.V. Baburaj, Education Standing Committee chairman M. Radhakrishnan and Haritha Keralam District Mission Coordinator P. Prakashan were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-a-first-bio-park-opened-at-school/article33007751.ece
03 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Janakeeya Hotels live up to their name||Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree had plans to open only 10 economy restaurants (Janakeeya Hotels) in the city under the State government’s ‘Hunger Free Kerala’ project. But the popularity of the restaurants since the opening of the first one in May this year have prompted the agency to open the 11th outlet in the city. The 11th economy hotel, Ruchipura, opened on Sunday opposite the mofussil bus stand on Rajaji Road is an upgraded version of the Kudumbashree restaurant that has been functional for several years. “The difference between a normal Kudumbashree restaurant and a Janakeeya Hotel is in the price, while there is no compromise on quality,” said T.K. Prakashan, Project Officer of Kudumbashree in the corporation. The speciality of the economy hotels is the availability of a full-course meal for just Rs. 20. “This is a blessing for working class people who live a hand-to-mouth existence. It was a big hit among labourers, autorickshaw drivers and bus crew,” Mr. Prakashan said adding that 300 to 400 food packets were sold from each of these restaurants per day even during the lockdown period. Besides, food distribution to the five first-line COVID treatment centres in the city is also being carried out through the restaurants. “The Rs. 20 meal is beneficial to both restaurants and customers. While customers get a good meal at a feasible rate, the restaurants get a Rs. 10 subsidy for each meal. Also, the utility bills for the restaurants are taken care of by the Kozhikode Corporation,” Mr. Prakashan said. Besides Rajaji Road, the economy hotels were opened at Vengeri, Butt Road, Elathur, Wayanad Road (Near Fathima Hospital), Mankavu, Kovoor, Kundayithodu, Meenchanda, Vattakkinar and Mavoor Road. Nine of them were new while two were upgraded recently. The State has a target of opening 1,000 economy restaurants of which the one opened at Rajaji Road on Sunday was the 750th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/janakeeya-hotels-live-up-to-their-name/article33007756.ece
03 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New cracks emerge in BJP||Veiled threats of defections of senior leaders and a string of resignations by local leaders in the past week seem to be rocking the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The dissidence has emerged when the party is fiercely attacking the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government on a series of allegations, including the gold smuggling case and the arrest of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in connection with the alleged financial transactions for peddling drugs in Bengaluru. Complainants The latest episode involves State vice president and national executive member Shobha Surendran and former vice president P.M. Velayudhan raising a banner of revolt against State president K. Surendran for sidelining them in party affairs. Their grumblings come close on the heels of an embarrassing incident of alleged breach of protocol by Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan by helping a public relations professional Smitha Menon to participate in a meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Indian Ocean Rim Association in Abu Dhabi last November. The charge Both have alleged that the official faction led by the Muraleedharan-Surendran duo was denying them key responsibilities and trying to cut them to size, especially when the party was gearing up for the three-tier local body polls this year and the Assembly polls next year. Their complaints have been aired to the Central leadership. Incidentally, both are not associated with the faction led by former president and national council member P.K. Krishnadas. The official faction, while dismissing these allegations, has put up a brave front saying that they had apprised the Central leadership of these developments. The State leadership enjoys the wholehearted support of party national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh who was instrumental in anointing Mr. Surendran to the post of party chief. Placatory efforts Sources said the Central leadership may try to politically placate Ms. Surendran, who is already a Director (Independent) of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, a group company of the Indian Oil Corporation. However, it does not want such internal pressures to disturb the equilibrium of the party apparatus for the time being. As such, the Rashtirya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) State leadership, which has an uneasy love-hate relationship with the BJP leadership, has been maintaining a stoic silence on these issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cracks-emerge-in-bjp/article33007838.ece
03 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Jail records growth in revenue from food sale||The Kozhikode district jail has recorded a covetable growth in its daily revenue from the sale of food items under the Freedom Food Factory brand. Latest figures available with the sales team show that the jail gets an average daily collection of Rs. 50,000 from the food business. “The daily collection was just Rs. 8,000 a few months ago from the limited number of local sales outlets. We managed to increase it by opening more sales outlets and mobile supply units,” said Jail Superintendent K.V. Jagadeeshan. He added that one more unit was opened near Palayam bus stand on Sunday. Last month, the total amount remitted to the State exchequer was Rs. 14 lakh. It also included the amount generated from the sale of other products apart from the jail brand food items. According to the jail authorities, they will be able to spend 50% of the total income for meeting their in-house expenses and business expansion activities. Though prisoners also tried to cash in on the scope of manufacturing masks and sanitisation materials, it did not generate the expected revenue compared to that of the food business. According to jail officials, demand is more for food items. There was no decline in the total sales even during the pandemic time, they said. Customers’ take Some of the regular buyers of food products said the affordable pricing was the biggest attraction for them to support Freedom Food Factory ventures. The jail authorities also noted that there were no private entrepreneurs in the city to challenge them because of the pricing of jail brand products. “We supply chappathi for just Rs. 2. A chicken curry costs only Rs. 25 and biriyani Rs. 65. A bottle of mineral water is available through our counters at just Rs. 10. And no one can offer these products at this rate,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jail-records-growth-in-revenue-from-food-sale/article33007765.ece
03 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Leprosy patients get washing machines||Patients of the Government Hospital of Dermatology were given a special gift by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday: four fully automatic washing machines. M.K. Sribiju, State coordinator, Patient Care Scheme, a charity wing under the IMA Kerala, said that these patients had been finding it difficult to wash their own clothes due to various disabilities. He claimed that the new machines were expected to solve the problem. A.V. Abraham Varghese, State president of the IMA, handed over the documents for transferring the machines to Sarala Nair, Superintendent of the hospital. P. Gopikumar, State secretary, IMA, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leprosy-patients-get-washing-machines/article33007757.ece
03 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Writers’ village to come up at Thasrak||Thasrak, the pastoral backyard in the district made popular by writer O.V. Vijayan through his celebrated novelKhasakkinte Ithihasam, will soon have a village exclusively for writers. It will be the country’s first writers’ village, thanks to the State Tourism Department and the O.V. Vijayan Memorial Committee. “When finished, it will mark an amazingly unique place in the firmament of literature,” said T.K. Narayanadas and T.R. Ajayan, chairman and secretary respectively of the O.V. Vijayan Memorial Committee. The writers’ village will be the State’s gift to O.V. Vijayan on the occasion of the golden jubilee of his magnum opus Khasakkinte Ithihasam. The novel celebrated its 50th year in 2019. The State Tourism Department will spend Rs. 5 crore for setting up the writers’ village on 1.04 acres behind the O.V. Vijayan Memorial campus at Thasrak. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will lay the foundation stone for the village at an online function to be held on Wednesday afternoon. State Administrative Reforms Commission chairman and former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan, MLA, will preside over the function. Minister for Welfare of SC, ST and OBC A.K. Balan will lay the foundation for the cottages in the village. A unifying platform “No other Indian writer has got such an honour posthumously. We are happy we could give shape to a village where writers from all over the world can come, stay and give life to their creative thoughts by enjoying the pastoral beauty of the village,” said Mr. Ajayan. The village would have a dormitory, where 50 people could stay. It would be a perfect place to hold literary and cultural camps, and it would have an open stage and lawns, said Mr. Narayanadas. He said the village would start beckoning more visitors to Thasrak from across the country. Apart from the dormitory, the village will have eight cottages, five tree-top houses, one administrative block, walkways, gardens and toilets.  No other Indian writer has got such an honour posthumously T.R. Ajayan Secretary, Memorial Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thasrak-to-host-writers-village/article33008248.ece
03 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||O.V. Vijayan literary awards announced||Writers T. Padmanabhan, Subhash Chandran and Amal Raj have won this year’s O.V. Vijayan Memorial Literary Awards for best stories, best novel and best youth story respectively. The awards instituted by the O.V. Vijayan Memorial Committee were announced here on Monday in different categories. When T. Padmanabhan won the award for the best stories, Subhash Chandran won the award for the best novel, and Amal Raj bagged the award for the best youth story. In December Minister for Culture A.K. Balan will give away the awards at a function to be held at O.V. Vijayan Memorial at Thasrak near here in December. The award will consist of a plaque, a citation and a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 for story and novel. The cash prize for the best youth story will be Rs. 10,000. A jury comprising T.K. Sankaranarayanan, P.R. Jayaseelan, T.K. Narayanadas and T.R. Ajayan chose Mr. Padmanabhan for the best story award considering his books titled ‘Maraya’ and ‘Ente Moonnamathe Novel”. A jury comprising Asha Menon, C.P. Chitrabhanu, Raghunathan Parali and E. Jayachandran chose Mr. Subhash Chandran’s ‘Samudra Sila’ for the best novel award. A jury comprising Mohandas Sreekrishnapuram, Rajesh Menon and Jyothibai Pariyadath selected Amal Raj’s ‘Nagu Saguva Hadiyali’ for the best youth story. An unpublished single story of writers below 40 years of age was considered for this award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ov-vijayan-awards-announced/article33007835.ece
03 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Appointed CMD of Instrumentation Ltd.||B. Balasubramanian, general manager of BHEL, Tiruchirappalli, has been appointed chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of Instrumentation Ltd., Palakkad. He will be in charge of both Central government public sector units (PSU). Instrumentation Ltd., a profit-making PSU, manufactures control valves and allied products under the Ministry of Heavy Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointed-cmd-of-instrumentation-ltd/article33007852.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Veli gets a toy train that saves energy||The country’s first solar energy-driven miniature railway at Veli was commissioned by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as part of a string of projects to elevate the tourist village to world-class standards. The Urban Park and swimming pool at the eco-friendly tourist village, located on the outskirts of the capital where the Veli lake meets the Arabian sea, was also commissioned by the Chief Minister on Monday. “The solar-powered 2.5-km miniature railway will enable all kinds of visitors to enjoy the beauty of nature. The Rs. 10-crore project is the first-of-its-kind in the country.” the Chief Minister said in his address via videoconference. Vintage look Artificial steam spouted by the locomotive of the train, modelled after the vintage steam locomotive, will stir nostalgic feelings. The station house is also designed in a traditional style. “The surplus energy generated by the system will be routed to the KSEB’s grid,” he said. A tourist facilitation centre, convention centre, and art cafe are also to be opened at the tourist village soon. The convention centre will have an art gallery, digital display facility to feature major tourism and cultural centres, and an open air theatre. These world-class facilities would impart a new look to Veli, he said. Tourism Minister, Kadakampally Surendran, who presided, noted that the government had allotted around Rs. 120 crore for tourism sector in one year alone. Of these, administrative sanction had been given to Rs. 60-crore worth of projects for Veli. Among the projects for Veli, Rs. 20 crore worth of works were completed, and other schemes were progressing. The Tourist Facilitation Centre would be opened in January, Mr. Surendran said. The miniature rail had all the features of a fully equipped rail system including a tunnel, station, and ticket office. The train had three bogies that could accommodate around 45 persons on board at a time. The Urban Park entailed a budget of Rs. 5 crore and the swimming pool Rs. 2.5 crore. V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, Mayor K. Sreekumar, and M. Vijayakumar, chairman KTDC, Tourism Secretary Rani George, P. Bala Kiran, K. Rajkumar, Joint Director, Tourism, KTIL CMD K.G. Mohanlal, and TourFed Chairmani C. Ajayakumar attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veli-gets-a-toy-train-that-saves-energy/article33008407.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SEC bar on transfer of govt. staff||The State Election Commission (SEC) has issued orders prohibiting the transfer of State government employees and teachers until the upcoming local body elections are over. This is to ensure the smooth conduct of the elections as the employees and teachers will be engaged for election duty, said State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran on Monday. Valid from Nov. 2 Mr. Bhaskaran issued directions in this regard to the Chief Secretary and heads of government departments. The order is valid from November 2 to the conclusion of the elections, which are most likely to be held in December. The order applies to the staff of various government departments, local self-government institutions, educational institutions, statutory boards and other institutions. The commission is in the process of assigning government employees and teachers for duties related to the voting and the counting of votes, Mr. Bhaskaran said. The SEC asked the police to ensure that the COVID-19 protocols are strictly enforced during the elections. Mr. Bhaskaran met State Police Chief Loknath Behera and other senior officers on Monday in connection with the arrangements for the elections. At the meeting, the officers pointed out that the local body polls in 2015 were held in two phases, but no specific recommendation was made in this regard for the upcoming elections, commission officials said. Sensitive booths The commission directed the police to prepare a list of sensitive polling booths and provide details of the deployment of police personnel. Although the term of the elected councils will end on November 11, the commission had decided to put off the elections considering the COVID-19 situation in the State. The commission had recently issued orders stating that the entire election process would be completed by December 31.  Submission at HC Meanwhile, the SEC told the High Court (HC) that preparations for holding the elections are in its final stages. It submitted the details of discussions held with political parties, State Police Chief, health authorities and other agencies. It was while considering a writ petition filed by P.C. George, MLA, seeking to issue directions for postponing the elections in the wake of COVID-19 that the commission submitted the statement. The High Court has posted the case for orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sec-bar-on-transfer-of-govt-staff/article33007844.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cases in capital district slip to 361||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 case graph slumped to 361 on Monday with only 2,573 people being tested during the last 24 hours. This is around half of what has been the average testing count during the last few months. Active cases With 507 people testing negative for SARS-CoV-2, the number of active cases has fallen to 8,372. Barring one imported case, all other cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Of these, the source of infection of 72 cases is unknown. Seven health-care workers have also been infected. Three more people have died due to the disease in the district. The deceased hailed from Alankode, Vattiyurkavu, and Vizhinjam. Quarantine The district health authorities quarantined 1,590 people on the day, thereby taking the number of those being monitored to 25,267 people in houses and 174 in various institutions. As part of the ongoing crackdown on violations of the prohibitory orders, sectoral magistrates acted against 253 people in various parts of the district. They included seven people who were booked for flouting COVID-19 protocol and 24 people who were fined by the sectoral magistrates and the police during inspections held separately. In all, 17,877 have faced stringent action since the clamping of prohibitory orders in the district a month ago. Containment zones A new micro-containment zone was declared in the sixth ward of Ottoor grama panchayat. Existing ones in wards 7 and 16 of Venganoor grama panchayat, wards 4, 14, 19, 41, and 44 of Neyyattinkara municipality, wards 1, 4, 13, 14, and 16 of Kollayil grama panchayat, wards 1, 3, 9, 12, 13, 16, and 18 of Chenkal grama panchayat, ward 4 of Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat, ward 4 of Vilavoorkkal grama panchayat, ward 4 of Karumkulam grama panchayat, wards 1 and 13 of Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat, wards 1, 3 and 15 of Kottukal grama panchayats, wards 2, 17 and 18 of Aryanad grama panchayat, divisions 54, 74, 76, 77, 78 and 87 of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been removed from the list of micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-in-capital-district-slip-to-361/article33008413.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases in State come down by half to 4,138||New cases of COVID-19 slumped by nearly half on Monday in Kerala, registering just 4,138 new cases, when testing also dipped by as much to 33,345 samples in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate, at 12.4 %, has more or less been stabilised since the past week. The State registered more recoveries than new cases on Monday, with 7,108 patients leaving hospitals. The cumulative case burden of the State went up to 4,44,268 cases and the active case pool has come down to 86,681 cases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State’s weekly increase in cases had dipped by 5% and that the cumulative case doubling period had increased to 40 days. At the current growth rate, it will be weeks before the State’s active case pool crosses the one lakh mark. The recovery rate has been on a high, helping the State’s hospitals from getting swamped. The current case per million population ratio in the State, at 12,329, is more than double the national average of 5,963. However, the case fatality rate remains at 0.34 %, much lower than the national average of 1.49%. The addition of 21 new COVID deaths to the official list took the State’s total COVID toll to 1,533. Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam reported four deaths each, Alappuzha and Ernakulam three each, Thrissur two, and one case each by Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kottayam. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 4,084 cases (98.6%) are locally acquired infections. Source of infection remain untraced in 438 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 47. Among districts, Kozhikode reported 576 cases, Ernakulam 518, Alappuzha 498, Malappuram 467, Thrissur 433, Thiruvananthapuram 361, Kollam 350, Palakkad 286, Kottayam 246, Kannur 195, Idukki 60, Kasaragod 58, Wayanad 46 and Pathanamthitta 44 cases. COVID vaccine trials Mr. Vijayan said that the government had been in touch with the pharma firms Reddy’s Laboratories and Serum India Ltd. regarding the government’s willingness to conduct vaccine trials in the State. However, the former was yet to launch any clinical trials here. The latter had been provided details regarding the Government Medical Colleges at Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-in-state-come-down-by-half-to-4138/article33007842.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A driving force behind Touring Talkies||The year was 2008. The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy’s Touring Talkies, its now popular travelling film festival, was in its initial days. A screening was being organised in an interior village in Kasaragod. The large makeshift screen, made out of cloth, and the projectors were ready. The academy’s programme organisers were wondering whether a sizeable enough crowd will gather. By evening, when the show began, a large crowd had gathered. One of the persons who ensured that the screening was a success was Ravikumar, the academy’s driver, who passed away on Saturday. As academy officials testify, he was one of the pillars of strength of the Touring Talkies programme, aimed at taking quality cinema to the farthest corners of the State. He was at the wheel of the tempo traveller carrying the films from the academy’s archives, to be screened in village libraries, schools, colleges, film societies and in street corners. But, his work did not end with taking the films to these locations. He was involved in constantly coordinating with film societies or local organisers, setting up the screens and even in campaigning to ensure a crowd. Staff since 2000 According to Chalachitra Academy secretary Ajoy Chandran, Ravikumar, a resident of Neyyattinkara, had become a staff member at the academy in 2000, soon after it was formed. “The academy decided to launch Touring Talkies when filmmaker K.R. Mohanan was the chairman. Even before that, Ravi has been involved in organising screenings for the academy in various places. At that time, the academy did not have regional offices. While the academy coordinated Touring Talkies from here, it was executed on the ground by those like Ravi. Over the years, he built a close connect with film societies across the State. He used to criss-cross the State with films throughout the year and would be at the IFFK [International Film Festival of Kerala] by December to be part of its organising work. We used to joke that he would stand with a knowing smile while watching film appreciation camps from the sidelines, having spent all his life amid cinema,” says Mr. Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-driving-force-behind-touring-talkies/article33008245.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister reviews facilities at Neyyar Safari Park||Forest Minister K. Raju has promised steps to improve facilities in the Lion Safari Park at Neyyar following the escape and the subsequent capture of a 10-year-old tigress from its premises. Speaking during a visit to the park during which he named the animal ‘Vaiga’, Mr. Raju said he had ordered a comprehensive probe into its escape from the cage it was confined to since its arrival at Neyyar following its initial capture from Pulpally in Wayanad last week. He instructed the Principal Secretary, Forest and Wildlife Department, to submit a report on the enquiry and recommendations to improve the existing system within two weeks. The Minister said the existing cages for accommodating and treating animals in the park would be renovated. A new treatment cage would be established in addition to the existing one. While many cages were in a dilapidated condition, the worn-out grills would either be replaced or welded to reinforce the structures. The park would also come under round-the-clock surveillance with the installation of CCTV cameras. In addition, the facility would come under constant scrutiny wherein senior officials would be entrusted to conduct security audits for which a separate diary would be maintained. The Lion Safari Park will be reopened for visitors within a week. The park currently houses two lions—19-year old female lion Bindu and a 10-year old male lion Nagaraj. He added that the work on establishing a tiger centre in Wayanad to rehabilitate captured tigers was in its final phase. Tigers requiring treatment would also be shifted to the facility, Mr. Raju said. The Minister was accompanied by Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar, Conservator of Forests (Agasthyavanam Biological Park) J. Devaprasad, and Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-reviews-facilities-at-neyyar-safari-park/article33008350.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vizhinjam seaport work resumes after 32 days||The work on the upcoming Vizhinjam international multi-purpose deep water seaport which had been stalled for 32 days following an indefinite stir by local people in support of an 18-point charter of demands resumed on Monday. The seaport site has become live again since September 30 after the stir was withdrawn ‘temporarily’ following assurances given by a two-member Ministerial team and issuing of government order for the three demands raised by the agitators. The protesters removed the fishing boats and gear used to block the road to the project site and a pandal, paving the way for the resumption of the work of the seaport. The construction of the 3.1-km breakwater had resumed, official sources said.The work on the road connectivity from the NH 66 Kazhakuttam-Karode Bypass to the seaport, the 220-kV gas-insulated substation to take care of the power needs of port operations, switch yard, and backup yard had resumed, and men were being mobilised. The movement of granite for breakwater construction had also started. The government issued orders for distribution of kerosene on the Kottapuram drinking water project and for restoration of the Gangayar. A monitoring committee with Subcollector was also set up. Michael Thomas, parish priest, said they would wait for one month as promised by the Ministers to implement the demands raised by them. “If the demands are not executed by then, the stir will be resumed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vizhinjam-seaport-work-resumes/article33008243.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTI Act violation: SIC reprimands KU||The State Information Commission (SIC) has pulled up officials of the University of Kerala (KU) for flouting the provisions of the Right to Information (RTI) Act by denying a former professor the information sought by him. Lashing out at the purported laxity by the joint registrar and the registrar, who are the designated State Public Information Officer (SPIO) and appellate authority respectively, Chief Information Commissioner Vinson M. Paul in his strongly worded order stated that the “SPIO is not an authority to function as a sheer post office”. The reprimand came after the SIC considered a complaint submitted by Immanuel Thomas, former Professor and Head of Department of Psychology, who had sought information under the RTI Act regarding the circumstances that prompted the university to restrict his entry on the Karyavattom campus and also demanded a copy of memo charges that contained the allegations against him, among other documents. The Chief Information Commissioner said the SPIO had furnished copies of irrelevant documents merely to “fulfil the formality of furnishing some sort of a reply”. The official was mandated with ensuring a reply that contained all information sought, unless the information sought was covered under Section 8 or 9 of the Act. Finding the official of acting against the letter and spirit of the RTI Act, the serious lapse warranted penal action under Section 20(1) of the Act. While directing the SPIO to furnish an explanation within 15 days, the SIC found that the appellate authority also erred in its responsibilities by disposing of the appeal filed by the applicant in a casual manner, while it ideally should have conducted a detailed hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rti-act-violation-sic-reprimands-ku/article33008347.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bold steps needed to save economy: ex-PM||It is time to shed economic orthodoxy and take bold decisions to pull the national economy out of the “deep depression” into which it appears to be headed, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has said. Dr. Singh was speaking online on Monday after releasing the book Kerala and the World Economy published by the Centre for Development Studies (CDS) here to mark its 50th anniversary. “Unless firm and quick measures are taken at the national level to stimulate demand, as we did so effectively in 2008 in the wake of the U.S. sub-prime mortgage crisis, I am afraid still darker times are ahead of us. This is the time to shed economic orthodoxy and take bold decisions that will pull the national economy out of the deep depression to which it seems inexorably headed,” Dr. Singh said. Downward spiral At the national level, the economy has been on a downward spiral for two years even before the pandemic struck. COVID-19 and its devastating effect on the poor, both in terms of employment and incomes, had further aggravated India’s problems, he said. Kerala today faced challenges that it had to overcome as quickly as possible, Dr. Singh said. The growing trend towards protectionism and the hardening of national borders through increasing tariff and non-tariff barriers, steep decline in economic activity, plunging prices of energy sources, growing restrictions on movement of skilled and unskilled labour — all these pose global threats which Kerala had to bravely confront, he said.  Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac received the first copy. “ Kerala and the World Economy is an important addition to our body knowledge, as it brings together certain recent aspects of Kerala’s interface with the rest of the world such as international trade, commercial agriculture, migration and remittances,” he said. K.M. Chandrasekhar, chairman, CDS governing body, presided. Frances Stewart, Professor Emeritus of Development Economics, University of Oxford; Robin Jeffrey, National University of Singapore; M.A. Oommen, Honorary Fellow, CDS; former CDS director K.P. Kannan; and Tirthankar Roy, Professor, London School of Economics; and CDS director Sunil Mani; spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bold-steps-needed-to-save-economy-manmohan/article33007763.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Minister slams Central agencies||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday slammed Central law enforcement agencies for using the UAE gold smuggling case as a cover to destabilise the State government. The government would legally and politically counter the jurisdictional overreach of the Central agencies, he said. Mr. Vijayan’s criticism of the Central agencies appeared to be the precursor of a major political campaign to counter anti-government propaganda sparked by the multiple probes. It also signalled the start of a protracted legal battle over the limitations of Central authority and rights of States. The agencies had attempted to usurp the watchdog role of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India by seeking the receipts and expenditure of various flagship programmes. The agencies had impeded governance by asking officials to turn up with records that do not pertain to their investigations. They acted as if they were regulators of State governments. The agencies had sought information on the LIFE Mission and K-Phone projects. The law limited Enforcement Directorate’s authority to investigating money laundering cases. It did not task the agency with vetting State governments. The ED was not a constitutionally mandated “checks and balances” monitoring agency, Mr. Vijayan said. ‘Colonial mindset’ The Central agencies had violated the founding tenets of federalism. They had infringed on the rights of the State. They displayed a colonial mindset, the Chief Minister said. Their investigative overreach had demoralised civil servants. The agencies were judgemental in their approach and not judicious as expected of them. Central investigation agencies behaved in a scripted manner. They seemed intent on denying the poor in Kerala free modern housing and lakhs of households, affordable high-speed Internet, he said. The agencies were working to the advantage of private players who wanted to render the proposed 52,000-km fibre optic connectivity a non-starter. The agencies had broken their oath of secrecy. They selectively leaked cherry-picked portions of the statements given by suspects to the media with the sole intention of besmirching the government, the Chief Minister said. Certain persons outside the agencies appeared to have foreknowledge of how the investigations would unfold. Their political messaging guided the agencies, the Chief Minister said  Central enforcement agencies act as if they are regulators of State governments.  Pinarayi Vijayan  Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-slams-central-agencies/article33008346.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Election symbol frozen||The State Election Commission (SEC) has issued orders freezing the election symbol (TV set) of the Aravindakshan faction of the Communist Marxist Party (CMP) following a dispute between M. Ajeeb and M.V. Rajesh, leaders of the group. The two groups will have the right to apply for the independent symbols published by the SEC for the forthcoming elections to local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-symbol-frozen/article33007855.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 3-crore sports hub at Peringamala||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the Peringamala sports hub, the first hi-tech sports facility to be established in the high ranges in the district, on Monday. The sports hub and an indoor stadium have been constructed on a plot of 50 cents at a cost of Rs. 3 crore sanctioned by the district panchayat. The facility is equipped with badminton and tennis courts which have PVC flooring; and volleyball, basketball and kabbadi courts with wooden flooring; cricket nets of global standards; gymnasium and a video-conferencing hall. While the sports hub at Peringamala is the fourth one to be established in the district after those at Pallikkal, Uzhamalakkal and Plamoottukada, a fifth one is nearing completion at Mithrumala. Industries and Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan presided over the function. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and D.K. Murali, MLA, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-3-crore-sports-hub-at-peringamala/article33008409.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of theft||The Medical College police have arrested a youth for allegedly stealing mobile phones from the Government Medical College Hospital after masquerading as a patient. The police identified the accused as Haja Hussain, 22, of Pallichal. He allegedly roamed around the hospital after bandaging an arm to create an impression that he was undergoing treatment in the hospital. He was nabbed after the police launched a probe into several complaints of thefts. The police have recovered five mobile phones from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-theft/article33008410.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pakalveedu opened for the elderly||Neyyattinkara MLA K. Ansalan inaugurated a ‘Pakalveedu’, a day care centre for senior citizens, in Vadavoorkkonam, Karode, on Monday. The facility was built at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh that was sanctioned from the development funds allocated by Chengavila division member P.P. Shiju of Parassala block panchayat during the 2020-21 fiscal year. Block panchayat member V.R. Salooja presided over the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pakalveedu-opened-for-the-elderly/article33008348.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Incubator for start-ups inaugurated||Kerala has the reputation of the country’s best IT climate even during COVID times, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Speaking after inaugurating the Accelerator for Electronics Technologies (ACE) established as a joint initiative of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) recently, he said the new facility would nurture the development of high-tech start-ups in electronics and allied disciplines. The accelerator would be complementary to the KSUM-supported incubator in electronics technologies established in Kochi with the assistance of the Union Ministry of Electronics and IT, the Chief Minister pointed out. “CDAC will mentor the start-ups for a specific period by providing them access to the new facility’s physical and intellectual infrastructure.” The 50,000 sq ft facility on the Technopark campus would generate 1,000 direct employment opportunities. Mr. Vijayan said the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 had not impeded the prospects of Kerala’s growth in the IT sector. “ACE will be highly beneficial to young entrepreneurs, enabling them to steady their ventures that show prospects of flourishing. At a time when Kerala is working towards doubling the space for IT firms, the accelerator will help software infrastructure earn support for research and development of high-end electronic systems, tools and services,” he added. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran presided over the online function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/incubator-for-start-ups-inaugurated/article33008351.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Call to learn Malayalam||The existing situation of Kerala being the only State where one could graduate without learning Malayalam should change, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating a book exhibition and a webinar on reading and Malayalam language organised at the R. Sankara Narayanan Thampi Members’ Lounge at the Legislative Assembly Complex on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-learn-malayalam/article33007854.ece
03 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NSS harvests crop at Attingal govt. college||The National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of Government College in Attingal on Monday harvested the rice it cultivated this year. It is for the second year that the unit was having a good harvest. Principal Sunil John and former Principal Manikandan Nair inaugurated the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-harvests-crop-at-attingal-govt-college/article33008411.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi hails Keralite Minister in NZ cabinet||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has hailed Priyanca Radhakrishnan, the first person of Indian origin and Malayali to become a Minister in New Zealand. He said Ms. Radhakrishnan’s induction into the New Zealand Cabinet was a matter of pride for Keralites. Noting that New Zealand’s COVID-19 management had won global acclaim, Mr. Vijayan hoped she would contribute to the development of the nation in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-hails-keralite-minister-in-nz-cabinet/article33007846.ece
03 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Subsidised onion from today||The sale of onion procured from NAFED to tide over the shortage in the market will begin in Thiruvananthapuram through Supplyco outlets on November 3. Ration card holders will get two kg at Rs. 45 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subsidised-onion-from-today/article33007847.ece
03 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Repairs on Kuthiran road to begin today||Repair work on the road at Kuthiran on the Wadakkanchery-Mannuthy stretch of National Highway 544, which is in a pathetic state, will be started on Tuesday. A meeting convened by District Collector S. Shanavas took the decision to undertake emergency work to the tune of Rs. 6.47 crore as accidents have become a regular affair on the the stretch of the NH. Barricades will be erected to avoid accidents. The huge potholes on the road at Nadathara will be filled to avoid waterlogging. Steetlights Streetlights will be installed on stretches where there is no sufficient light on the road. The police will be deployed to control traffic. The Collector convened the meeting following a demand from Chief Whip K. Rajan seeking immediate intervention of authorities to repair the road which is in a pathetic condition. Two drivers lost their lives in two accidents recently. The repair works will be done on the stretch from Nadathara to Vaniampara. NHAI apathy The meeting observed that the apathy of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) led to the delay in repair works, causing many accidents. Though the NHAI has the responsibility to fill the huge pit dug for laying pipes on the road from Mannuthy to Nadathara, the Collector, who is also the chairman of the Disaster Management Authority, asked the Executive Engineer of the Public Works to fill the pit immediately considering the urgency of the situation. The initial instalment of money for the work will be taken from the District Collector’s fund and it will be levied from the National Highways Authority of India later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repairs-on-kuthiran-road-to-begin-today/article33008345.ece
03 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Day of relief for Thrissur as cases decrease||It was a day of relief for Thrissur on Monday. After several days, there was a dip in the number of new COVID-19 cases as only 433 cases were reported on the day. As many as 967 patients recovered from the disease. There are 9,797 active cases in the district while 87 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 41,147 positive cases were reported in the district and 31,022 recovered. Five health workers According to official statistics, 420 persons contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Five health workers were infected. The patients include 62 people above the age of 60 and 36 children below 10 years. In all, 6,749 patients are under home care. Of the 951 patients who started treatment on Monday, 346 are in hospitals and the rest are under home observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/day-of-relief-for-thrissur-as-cases-decrease/article33008343.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s a global poll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-a-global-poll/article33007850.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-ritual/article33007834.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Clarification||The Hindu on October 31 had carried a report with the headline “Dept. head accuses Central varsity VC of harassing him”. The report had mentioned the letter written by Chief Vigilance Officer Muthukumar Muthuchamy to the Central Vigilance Commission against the Vice Chancellor of the Central University of Kerala. Mr. Muthuchamy was the convener of a three-member committee to probe the complaint of ineligibility of K.J. Thomas, faculty member in the Department of Physics. The letter by Mr. Muthuchamy had alleged that there was an attempt to coerce him to sign another report prepared by Prof. Thomas, which he refused, citing its illegality. Prof. Thomas has later clarified that all allegations raised against him by the Chief Vigilance Officer of the university were baseless. He further said that he had challenged the report submitted by the inquiry committee and the subject was pending before the court. There was an attempt to defame him by a group of people within and outside the university, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clarification/article33007764.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For farmers’ cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-farmers-cause/article33008416.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Leisure trip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leisure-trip/article33008354.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Window to past||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/window-to-past/article33007754.ece
03 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special compensation package sought for groundnut farmers||The Anantapur District Review Committee meeting, chaired by in-charge Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, on Monday sought a ‘special compensation package’ for groundnut farmers, who lost their crop on a large scale due to excessive rains during the south-west monsoon. “The groundnut crop yield has drastically fallen and 80% of the crop sown in 4.4 lakh hectares has either been damaged due to inundation or farmers suffered a loss due to lower yield, according to all the people’s representatives in the district,” said Mr. Satyanarayana at a press briefing in the evening after the meeting. People’s representatives were unanimous in demanding higher compensation for the crop loss. When asked about the payment of input subsidy due to farmers for the 2018 kharif/rabi seasons, the in-charge Minister said that there were some suspicious claims and technical problems in uploading of the documents, hence unless all those were streamlined, that amount cannot be paid. “We have paid Rs. 2,300 crore in other districts, where the records/claims were proper,” he added. With regard to the finalisation of subsidy modalities in micro/drip irrigation projects pending for the eighth month, the Minister said the State government was seized of the matter and a comprehensive plan would be chalked out soon. “While the district irrigation officials have been asked to stick to the timetable for the release of water to several canals and irrigation tanks, the State government is yet to take a decision on the widening of the Hundri Neeva Sujalasravanthi (HNSS) canal from the existing 3,800 cusecs to 6,000 cusecs as finances and other technical details need to be looked into,” Mr. Botcha said. The meeting, attended by all MLAs, decided to take up road repairs in each constituency with Rs. 10 crore initially for which estimates have been already submitted and another Rs. 5 crore each would be sanctioned later. Media not allowed The media representatives were not allowed to the meeting. They protested against the decision of the organisers to keep the media out of the meeting, though three rows of seats were reserved for them. He clarified that the decision was taken in view of the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-compensation-package-sought-for-groundnut-farmers/article33008327.ece
03 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable ‘kidnapped’ girl, allege kin||Family members of a 22-year-old girl have made a complaint that the girl has allegedly been kidnapped by a police constable of Owk in Kurnool district on Monday afternoon. IV Town Circle Inspector K. Srinivasulu said the girl, B. Jyothi, and the constable, Bhagiratha Aachari, had got engaged before the outbreak of COVID, but their engagement was cancelled four months ago. On Monday afternoon, while Jyothi was alone at home, Achari allegedly came in a Scorpio SUV and kidnapped her, according to a complaint given by Jyothi’s father Gopinath to the IV Town police. The police tracked the vehicle up to Bellary Bypass Junction in Anantapur and after that they could not trace it as there were no CCTV cameras, the Inspector said. The police are continuing the search. The Inspector said the phones of both Achari and Jyothi were switched off, hence tracking them was turning difficult. He added it was yet to be ascertained if this was a kidnap case, as alleged by her family, or Jyothi had gone willingly with Achari. Hailing from Kolimigundla in Kurnool district, the constable had joined the police service four years ago, and was posted at Owk Police Station one year ago. He had weekly off on Sunday and was supposed to join duty on Monday morning, but when his colleagues and Owk Sub-Inspector tried to contact him, his phone was switched off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-kidnapped-girl-allege-kin/article33007563.ece
03 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kasapuram temple staffer in ACB net||A senior assistant of Kasapuram Anjaneya Swamy Temple in the district was trapped by the Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Monday while accepting a bribe of Rs. 1.5 lakh. Anti-Corruption Bureau Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Allabaksh told The Hindu that Vinay Kumar, the son of a deceased (due to COVID19) archaka, was given a compassionate appointment in the temple. Vinay had paid Rs. 90,000 for obtaining his appointment order and Rs. 30,000 for his father’s pension, but when he went there to take the order, the Senior Assistant allegedly demanded another Rs. 1.5 lakh prompting him to approach the ACB officials. The ACB officials led by Tirupati DSP laid a trap and on Monday caught the assistant accepting the money. The officials took the assistant into custody and are interrogating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kasapuram-temple-staffer-in-acb-net/article33007570.ece
03 November 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Partial reopening of schools evokes mixed response||The partial reopening of schools on Monday, nearly seven months after the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, evoked mixed reaction from parents and teachers alike. The government allowed reopening of schools for students of 9th and 10th classes from Monday. The students, however, seemed to enjoy school after the long shutdown. There was some confusion whether classes could be held for both 9th and 10th classes simultaneously on the same day or on different days with the next day given as holiday. All the government and aided schools opened but most of them reported very low attendance. Though there are safety concerns among parents in view of the pandemic, a majority of the parents feel it is good to make a beginning somewhere by taking all precautions. Children of higher classes can take care of their own safety, but lower classes should not be started now, they say. “The classrooms were sanitised yesterday and today the students were allowed after thermal screening and hand sanitisation. A few students, who did not come with masks, were provided the same by the school,” says T. Sridevi, a Biology teacher of KDPM High School, China Waltair. “The children were administered the COVID pledge and the teachers told the students on maintenance of COVID-19 protocol, health, hygiene and the importance of nutrition. They were allowed to go to the washroom by turns,” she says. “We have given three masks to each students along with the kits under Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme. We have a total strength of 330 students (both 9th and 10th classes, all sections and both Telugu and English medium included),” says Headmaster D.A. Naidu of KDPM High School. “A total of 145 students attended on the first day. Classes will be held for 10th class on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and for 9th class on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays,” he says. Only 47 out of 138 students attended classes on the first day at the KNM Girls High School, Railway New Colony. “We are ensuring hand sanitisation, wearing of masks and social distancing,” says K. Ramu, Headmaster. Thermal screening “While 32 out of 36 students of 10th classes attended, only six out of 35 from 9th class attended on the first day. This indicates that most parents are keen only on the academic performance of their children in SSC. We are allowing children after thermal screening. We have asked the students to bring sanitisers and come with masks,” says Uday Kumar, Principal of Keystone School, Seethammadhara. However, big private schools like Little Angels and Sri Prakash are yet to reopen, with a majority of parents opting only for online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/partial-reopening-of-schools-evokes-mixed-response/article33008382.ece
03 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reports of youth ‘going missing’ trigger tension||Tension prevailed for a while atop the Sadasiva Kona hill near Puttur on Monday following reports that a group of youth went ‘missing’ in the forests. However, the police from Puttur and Renigunta sub-divisions, who acted swiftly, cleared the air stating that the youth on picnic trip were right on their track and the ‘missing’ buzz was due to poor mobile signals in the terrain. According to information, a batch of twenty youths, working with a private bank in Nellore, were on a picnic atop the hill. They arrived at the foothills near Papanaidupeta of Yerpedu mandal on Sunday afternoon by cars and ventured atop the hill in a hired tractor, carrying with them the provisions for night halt, besides engaging men for carrying the baggage and cooking. Some of their family members tried to contact them but in vain. Mobile signals were poor in the thickly wooded hill range and this led to tension among their family members, who contacted the Chittoor police on Monday afternoon. Superintendent of Police (Chittoor) S. Senthil Kumar alerted the Puttur sub-division police. Special parties were formed to go in search of the ‘missing’ persons.  Meanwhile, the police who trekked to the Sadasiva Kona temple zone atop the hill heaved a sigh of relief seeing the youth getting ready for their return journey. Deputy SP (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar told The Hindu that the youth were on a jolly trip to the Sadasiva Kona hill. “Owing to poor signals, it was mistaken that they went missing. All of them were brought downhill safely,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reports-of-youth-going-missing-trigger-tension/article33008329.ece
03 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite in sight for Chittoor from virus||Despite downward spiral of the COVID-19 incidence elsewhere, Chittoor district continues to record a daily average of above 400 cases, remaining at the top of the list of daily tally in the State. On Monday, the totaly number of positive cases in the district crossed the 76,000-mark, followed by 785 casualties. It was observed that the majority of cases is emerging from Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations, followed by Srikalahasti and Madanapalle. The impact is also felt in their surrounding areas such as Renigunta and Chandragiri. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said that until now close to 7 lakh tests had been conducted in the district since the outbreak COVID-19 in March. The officer admitted the administration was worried over the number of new cases, despite the recovery rate of more than 90% is encouraging. He said that with more and more positive cases requiring home isolation, the task force officials were prompted to take all precautions before finalizing the isolation norms. ‘Carelessness led to spike’ The field officials at the rural areas said the COVID graph was playing truant in several mandals, showing sharp decline on some days, but immediately followed by sudden spike, causing concern. It was reasoned that the spike could be due to lifting of strictures on travel as also due to movement of rural people to urban areas for work. Wearing of masks and use of sanitisers have also come down drastically in recent weeks, contributing to the consistency in the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-respite-in-sight-for-chittoor-from-virus/article33007564.ece
03 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for alleged sexual assault on minor girl||The police on Monday took a 28-year-old man into custody on the charge of sexually assaulting a six-year-old girl at Rayalpeta village of Peddapanjani mandal, 20 km from Palamaner, on Sunday night. According to information, the girl was at her grandmother’s house in the same village as her parents were away at a neighbouring village. Mahesh, their neighbour, had reportedly lured the girl with some eatables, and allegedly sexually assaulted her after taking her to an isolated spot. As the girl returned home shocked and with profuse bleeding, people in the neighbourhood rushed her to the primary health centre at Peddapanjani and later to the area hospital at Palamaner. The duty doctor at Palamaner said that the girl was admitted to the hospital with heavy bleeding. “Now her condition is stable,” she said. Case registered The Peddapanjani police registered a case after receiving a complaint from the girl’s parents. The man was taken into custody. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-alleged-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article33008330.ece
03 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five from T.N. burnt alive as vehicles catch fire after collision||In a bizarre incident, four persons were burnt alive and one died in hospital, after the SUV in which they were travelling rammed a tipper and burst into flames near the Kadapa airport early on Monday. The incident happened around 3 a.m. on the Kadapa-Tadipatri highway between Goturu and Tholla Gangannapalle villages of Valluru mandal. The SUV was allegedly involved in illegal ferrying of red sanders logs and the four deceased in it were woodcutters from Tamil Nadu. They were overspeeding after sensing police movement on their heels, when the accident occurred. The police lay in wait based on a tip-off. The SUV had taken a detour to avoid the police, but crashed straight into the tipper. According to Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, the bodies were burnt beyond recognition and they could get the details only from those rescued. The red sanders logs were also totally damaged. Escort car too collides Fire engulfed the vehicle as soon as it hit the tipper’s diesel tank. Rajan, Ramachandran, Kathiravan and Muthaiah were charred to death. The fire intensified after another car collided with the SUV from behind. The third vehicle was an escort in the smuggling operation. Of the three rescued and rushed to the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) from the escort vehicle, one unidentified person died under treatment, while the other two have been identified as Muni and Murthy, who speak Tamil, said the SP. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot and it took three hours for the rescue operation to be completed. Valluru police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-vehicle-catches-fire-five-killed/article33007479.ece
03 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Konaseema to have better medical facilities||Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswarup has said that better medical infrastructure facilities will be provided in the Konaseema area. Accompanied by Amalapuram MP Ch. Anuradha, Mr. Viswarup on Monday laid the foundation stone for modernisation of the area hospital in Amalapuram, apart from provision of 50-bed facility on the third floor of the existing hospital building. “Modernisation of the area hospital is being done by the AP Vaidya Vidhana Parishad with the financial aid of Rs. 5.75 crore offered by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The area hospital is presently equipped with ten ventilators, providing a timely treatment for the COVID-19 patients,” said Mr. Viswarup. “The medical infrastructure facilities are being developed on par with the corporate hospitals in the Konaseema area. The State government is offering a range of medical treatment facilities in the government hospitals,” said Mr. Viswarup. In an interaction with the doctors of the area hospital, Ms. Anuradha exhorted them to try to increase the number of institutional deliveries in the hospital. She appealed to the public to avail of the medical infrastructure and expertise in the gynaecology wing in the area hospital for the institutional deliveries. Area hospital Superintendent Supriya and Resident Medical Officer V.R.K. Murthy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/konaseema-to-have-better-medical-facilities/article33008333.ece
03 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for removal of encroachments on irrigation sources in East Godavari||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Monday said that 64 committees had been constituted to remove the 4,075 encroachments on irrigation channels and canals across the district. Recently, the district authorities identified the encroachments following the flooding of agricultural fields and habitations surrounding the irrigation sources and chalked out a plan for their removal. According to Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, 691 encroachments were identified in the Eastern Delta, 3,149 in the Central Delta, 126 in the Yeleru Irrigation System and 109 in the Kakinada Drains Division. Review meeting At a review meeting on encroachment removal, with Rajamahendravaram Sub-Collector Anupama Anjali and Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik, Mr. Lakshmisha said that the mandal-level committee comprising officials from the Revenue and Irrigation departments would begin the task of removing the identified encroachments this week. A revenue division-level committee would monitor the three-stage exercise. The district-level committee for the purpose was headed by Joint Collector Mr. Lakshmisha, the Collector said. “The committees will ensure removal of the encroachments apart from monitoring the irrigation sources to prevent occupations in future,” Mr. Lakshmisha told The Hindu.  Reconciliation report Simultaneously, they had commenced the exercise of preparing a reconciliation report on crops and the extent of land under the existing irrigation sources in the district. Such data would be useful for future policies, said Mr. Lakshmisha. At present, nearly 7 lakh acres of land gets irrigation facility across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-removal-of-encroachments-on-irrigation-sources-in-east-godavari/article33008331.ece
03 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sexual assault charge against boy||A 14-year-old boy allegedly sexually assaulted a six-year-old girl under Pattipadu police limits in East Godavari district. The incident occurred on Sunday evening and came to light after the victim’s mother lodged a complaint with the police on Monday. Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao said, “The minor boy had allegedly sexually assaulted the six-year-old girl on Sunday evening. He resorted to the heinous act when the victim’s mother asked him to take care of the girl as she had to go out of the village.” The victim’s father had passed away a few years ago. “The health condition of the victim is stable. However, she has been sent to the government hospital in Yeleswaram for further medical tests. A case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act, 2012 has been registered against the accused. The investigation is on. The accused will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sexual-assault-charge-against-boy/article33008335.ece
03 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister for modernisation of canals||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Monday directed the irrigation officials to make a proposal for modernisation of canals under the Yeleru Irrigation System for permanent solution to inundation of agricultural fields due to breach to canal banks in East Godavari district. At a meeting with the irrigation officials here, Mr. Kannababu asked them to come up with a solution to address the frequent breaches to the canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-for-modernisation-of-canals/article33008336.ece
03 November 2020||MAREDUMILLI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal dies in freak mishap while hunting in Rampa Agency||A 35-year-old man in a group of persons died on the spot when a country-made gun of a member in the group misfired while they were hunting on the Papikonada National Park (PNP) boundary in Pamuleru area in Rampa Agency in East Godavari district on Sunday evening. The incident occurred at around 3 p.m. The group, comprising six tribals, went into the forest for hunting. The dead was identified as Sarla Narayana Reddy (35) of Konda Reddy tribe at Kutravada village. According to Maredumilli Circle Inspector A.L.S. Ravi Kumar, investigation is on to ascertain who actually operated the weapon during the hunting and how the incident occurred. The body was sent to government hospital in Rampachodavaram for post-mortem examination. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-dies-in-freak-mishap-while-hunting-in-rampa-agency/article33008334.ece
03 November 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. activists protest against excise policy||Activists of the Congress staged a demonstration in front of the Indira Bhavan here on Monday, in protest against the ‘huge profiteering’ by the State government by selling liquor at several times higher than the manufacturing cost. The activists gathered near of the Indira Gandhi statue and raised slogans against the ‘revenue-driven excise policy’ and demanded total prohibition in the State. It is unfortunate that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government is cashing in on the weakness of the poor people by introducing the prohibition in phases, they said. Why cheap liquor is being sold at a price several times higher than the production cost of just Rs. 36 per litre and a price much higher than in Telangana, they asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-activists-protest-against-excise-policy/article33007567.ece
03 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore district registers zero deaths||The severity of COVID-19 subsided in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as the number of positive cases and fatalities continued to decline in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam in the last 24 hours. The toll marginally increased to 572 in Prakasam district as one more person succumbed to the disease during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Monday night. Nellore district registered zero deaths for the fourth day in a row. As a result, the toll remained unchanged at 486. As many as 271 persons tested positive for the disease in the two districts in a span of 24 hours, while 275 patients recovered from the illness during the period. With 93 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 61,251 in Nellore district. However, the number of active cases dipped to 1,315 as 113 persons were discharged on recovery in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam, the count increased to 59,834 as 178 new cases were registered during the period. As many as 162 persons recovered from the disease, bringing down the caseload to 1,446. Committee formed Taking stock of the health situation, Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar exhorted the medical and education department staff to work in tandem to ensure that all the rules were followed as schools reopened on Monday.Committees were formed in all schools to identify any sick children and isolate them, District Education Officer V.S.Subba Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-district-registers-zero-deaths-for-fourth-day-in-a-row/article33007569.ece
03 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health staff demand fair deal||Accredited Social Health Activists(ASHA) staged a demonstration and formed a human chain at the busy Church Centre here on Monday to press their demands. The health workers led by Centre of Indian Trade Unions-led ASHA workers union Prakasam district secretary P. Kalpana raised slogans demanding social security benefits, continuation of welfare schemes meant for the poor for them too and immediate settlement of pay arrears. The grassroot-level health workers, who did a yeoman service, deserved Rs. 3 lakh retirement benefit and at least 50% of last drawn pay at the time of retirement, said All India Democratic Women’s Association City Secretary K.Rama Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-staff-demand-fair-deal/article33007566.ece
03 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarva darshan tokens to be issued till weekend||The Tirumal Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Monday decided to issue the Sarva Darshan tokens to common pilgrims till this weekend. Speculations were rife that the TTD might give a second thought to the issue after thousands of pilgrims had converged at the ticket counters in Tirupati at the last weekend and reportedly jostled in the queue lines, throwing the restrictions imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic to the wind. High-level meeting A high-level meeting of senior officials chaired by TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy discussed the issue thread bare and resolved to adopt a ‘wait and watch approach’ till this weekend before taking a final call. At present, the TTD issues around 16,000 special entry darshan tickets (Rs. 300) online daily, in addition to 3,000 Sarva Darshan tokens. In the aftermath of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, the TTD resumed the issuance of Sarva Darshan tickets. However, it was interrupted twice—heavy pilgrim turnout during the holy Peratasi, an auspicious month for the Tamilians and the steep increase in the COVID-19 positive cases in Tirupati. The issuance of Sarva Darshan tokens was resumed on October 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarva-darshan-tokens-to-be-issued-till-weekend/article33007716.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt.’s liquor policy flawed: Chinta||Congress Working Committee member Chinta Mohan has demanded that the State government either impose total prohibition or sell quality liquor at an affordable price. Speaking in support of a party demonstration demanding prohibition here on Monday, he dubbed the liquor policy ‘flawed’, which had failed to move towards total prohibition and at the same time, badly dented the State’s finances. Dr. Mohan, a medical practitioner himself, pointed out that the quality of liquor sold in the State was too inferior to that sold in other States, leading not only to rampant smuggling, but also causing damage to brain, liver and heart of those consuming it. “How can the State sell liquor costing Rs. 9 for a whopping Rs. 200 per 180 ml?”, he questioned. It was in this context that Dr. Mohan demanded that quality liquor be sold at an affordable price or impose prohibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govts-liquor-policy-flawed-chinta/article33007571.ece
03 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDS rice bags seized||The Tirupati Urban police prevented smuggling of rice meant for public distribution and seized two truck loads here on Monday, while the conduct of vehicular checks at the Lakshmipuram Junction. As per reports, the drivers attempted to flee the spot. They were nabbed by a team of policemen waiting at a distance and seized 1,410 rice bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pds-rice-bags-seized/article33007572.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many parents averse to sending their children to schools, colleges||Majority of the parents are not ready to send their children to schools and colleges due to prevalence of COVID pandemic. Students too are in a grip of fear, though the government reopened schools and colleges on Monday. All the school and college students attended classes by wearing gloves and masks. They carried water bottles, napkins and sanitisers. Some were also seen wearing face shields. Teachers were seen attending classes by following COVID-19 protocol. They spent most of the time by teaching COVID-19 preventive measures, rules and precautions to be taken in classrooms, dining halls and toilets. The school managements arranged thermo scanners, tested the students and took consent letters from the parents for allowing students. However, many parents submitted letters expressing unwillingness to send their wards to schools. Staff asked the students not to exchange books, water bottles and other belongings. In some institutions, the managements arranged hot water. Parents and elders in the families urged the school managements not to insist on physical presence of students and continue online classes, which are safe, in the wake of the COVID-19 cases and deaths in the State. Meetings held At the meetings held with the parents associations in some schools on Sunday, parents appealed to the school managements to ensure cleanliness in classrooms, complete sanitisation in corridors and toilets. “I don’t want to send my son to school, as the virus is still prevalent and there is no vaccine to prevent it. We want to allow my son for virtual classes only,” said a father, P. Sreekumar. Krishna District Education Officer (DEO) M.V. Rajya Lakshmi said the attendance in the schools located in urban areas was good, compared to rural areas. West Godavari DEO C.V. Renuka said the attendance percentage on the first day was good and opined that the strength of students would increase in the next few days. Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the BIE officials would visit the colleges and ensure cleanliness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-parents-averse-to-sending-their-children-to-schools-colleges/article33008448.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools, colleges reopen after seven months||After a gap of almost seven months, schools and colleges reopened in the State on Monday. High schools, junior, degree and PG colleges began half-day classes by following COVID-19 rules. Schools began classes for ninth and tenth classes. Attendance in some schools was thin while in some institutions a good turnout of students was witnessed. Officials of the School Education Department visited some government and private schools and enquired about the arrangements. Seating was arranged for only 16 students for each room and only half-day schools were being conducted, said a school headmaster. There are about 21,000 high schools in the State. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said 42% of students attended schools on the first day on Monday. A woman staffer of a model school and two students of Nellore district tested positive. The institutions were sanitised and necessary treatment would be provided to the patients. Sanitiser bottles were kept at office rooms, corridors and in some classrooms. Students attended classes by wearing masks and carried water bottles. Guidelines issued “About 5.2 lakh Intermediate second year students are studying in 3,000 junior colleges in A.P. Dos and Don’ts have been issued to all institutions,” said Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) Secretary V. Ramakrishna. Classes were conducted from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Students could also attend classes online. All the teaching and non-teaching staff were instructed to wear masks, gloves and maintain social distance, Mr. Ramakrishna said. At some schools and colleges, parents were seen dropping their wards on their own vehicles. However, educational institution managements are not operating school and college buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-colleges-reopen-after-seven-months/article33008324.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t pressurise students to cover time, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials of the Higher Education Department not to exert pressure on students while trying to make up for the lost time in the academic year due to COVID-19. He suggested that the guidelines laid down by the Centre and the University Grants Commission (UGC) be followed. At a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan said emphasis should be laid on online classes and other means of teaching as social distance needed to be maintained to the extent possible to contain the spread of COVID-19. Convener quota seats He wanted the infrastructure in private universities to be augmented and steps taken to improve the standards of education. At the same time, licensing regulations should be strictly followed. Fifty percent of the seats in private colleges should be under the convener quota and the rest in the college quota, he said and pointed out that the government would reimburse the fee to be paid by poor students for seats in the convener quota. He insisted that private colleges should have the recognition of the National Board of Accreditation and the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. Mr. Jagan asked the officials to provide all facilities required by the IIT-Tirupati, IISER-Tirupati, IIM-Visakhapatnam and NIT-Tadepalligudem and the Anantapur Central University. New courses He suggested that courses in polytechnics be integrated and new ones introduced in tune with the changing times. ‘Capacity building complexes’ should be set up in every parliamentary constituency, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-pressurise-students-to-cover-time-cm-tells-officials/article33008316.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees further dip in COVID cases||The State recorded 1,916 new COVID cases and 13 deaths in the past 24 hours ending Monday morning, taking the tally to 8,27,882 and toll to 6,719. The daily tally was below 3,000 for the ninth day in a row and the daily positivity rate of 64,581 samples tested in the past day was lowest in four months at 2.97%. The overall positivity rate stands at 10.13% as 81.75 lakh samples were tested so far. Recovery rate The death rate remains at 0.81% and the recovery rate was at 96.47%. In the past day, 3,033 patients recovered leaving 22,538 patients active and under treatment. So far, 7,98,625 patients recovered from the illness. The tests per million ratio increased to 1.53 lakh. Of the 13 new deaths, three each were reported from Anantapur and Krishna districts and one each from West Godavari, East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam, Kadapa, Chittoor, and Srikakulam districts. Other districts reported no new deaths. Break-up While five districts reported less than 100 new cases, West Godavari reported highest tally of new cases at 426. It was followed by East Godavari (354), Guntur (179), Prakasam (178), Kadapa (141), Chittoor (121), Anantapur (106), Visakhapatnam (105), Nellore (93), Krishna (68), Srikakulam (68), Vizianagaram (55), and Kurnool (22). The district-wise tallies were: East Godavari (1,16,389), West Godavari (86,449), Chittoor (78,886), Guntur (67,786), Anantapur (64,835), Prakasam (59,834), Nellore (59,685), Kurnool (59,530), Visakhapatnam (56,003), and Kadapa (52,346), Srikakulam (44,095), Krishna (39,720) and Vizianagaram (39,429).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-further-dip-in-covid-cases/article33008326.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC tells govt. to submit plans for State guesthouse in Vizag||A three-judge bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari has directed the State government to submit plans and budget estimates of the State guesthouse proposed in Visakhapatnam. During a hearing of the petitions filed against the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and the CRDA Repeal Acts on Monday, Justice Maheswari said the petitioners could raise their objections, once the government furnished the details of the guesthouse project, which is alleged to be the part of making the port city the executive capital of the State.  The court said that the petitioners could bring to its notice if the government envisaged the construction of the Chief Minister’s camp office in furtherance of its agenda to shift the capital to Visakhapatnam. Meanwhile, the court dismissed the implead petitions filed by some individuals and organisations from 11 districts in support of the government’s stand in favour of proposed three capitals. Arguments on the controversial legislation will continue in the coming days as the government has sought adequate time to present its views. The court has already taken cognizance of the context in which the government came up with the concept of three capitals, a move which is being vehemently being opposed by the farmers from Amaravati region and other stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-tells-govt-to-submit-plans-for-state-guesthouse-in-vizag/article33008314.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC officials asked to brace for possible second wave of virus||Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh has cautioned the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials of the possible second wave of COVID-19 infection surge and asked them to ensure that all COVID safety measures are in place and guidelines are followed by one and all in the city. Mr. Venkatesh has also appealed to the people to be more cautious and follow the prevention guidelines without fail. Mr. Venkatesh conducted a review meeting with all the heads of the departments here on Monday. He said the possibility of a second wave of infections was possible, given the situation in the European countries. Considering the reopening of educational institutions, theatres and other establishments, more caution should be exercised. He asked the officials to regularly monitor the influx of persons from the neighbouring States and abroad, and conduct test on them upon arrival by ward health secretaries. Further, Mr. Venkatesh asked the officials to prepare and maintain a database of regular inter-State travellers such as truck and cab drivers, and others so that regular testing is facilitated. Strict surveillance Door-to-door surveillance for identification of persons suffering from fever and other COVID symptoms, enforcing physical distancing and wearing of masks by all individuals at public places, the arrangement of mobile COVID testing vehicles at educational institutions for mass testing are among other guidelines issued to the officials. He asked the health wing officials to collaborate with the city police if necessary and ensure that mandatory mask rule is strictly enforced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-officials-asked-to-brace-for-possible-second-wave-of-virus/article33008446.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Landslides: expert team inspects Durga temple||An expert team of engineers and geologists inspected Indrakeeladri hill area at the Kanakadurga temple here on Monday. The team inspected the recent landslide site and other locations to assess the possibility of further landslides in the future. The team also assessed the durability of the wire mesh installed nearly 10 years ago to avoid landslides and stop boulders from rolling down on to the ghat road. The team held discussions with the engineers of the Endowments Department and an action plan will be prepared. Two incidents of landslides occured recently following continuous rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/landslides-expert-team-inspects-durga-temple/article33008445.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notification to fill 58 posts in APFSL issued||The State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) has issued notification for recruitment of 58 scientific assistant posts in AP Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The board will fill 18 scientific assistant (physical) posts, 17 scientific assistant (chemical), 22 scientific assistant (biology/serology) and one scientific assistant (chemical) posts. Online application forms will be available from November 2 to 22. Candidates can select the option, submit application from the website slprb.ap.gov.in and fill the details. Fee for (local AP candidates) OC and BC candidates is Rs. 600 towards processing of application, written examinations and other purposes. For SC and STs, the fee is Rs. 300. Online payment through credit and debit cards and internet bank is available. The tentative date for the written examination consisting of one 120-mark paper is December 6, 2020 (Sunday), from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notification-to-fill-58-posts-in-apfsl-issued/article33008449.ece
03 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre should bear entire cost of Polavaram project: govt.||A team of Water Resources Department of Andhra Pradesh (AP), led by its Special Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das pushed for the Central government's sanction of the Polavaram project's entire revised cost of approximately Rs. 55,657 crore, at the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) meeting held in Hyderabad on Monday. Mr. Das insisted that it was the Centre's responsibility to complete the project as per the AP Reorganisation Act by giving it funds at 2017-18 price level (not at the rates that prevailed in 2013-14), while pointing out that the Central Water Commission and the PPA itself have approved the revised cost of the project which has been accorded the national project status. He argued that the drinking water supply should be considered as part of the project as has been practice in such projects, for which guidelines were laid down by Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS). Nod for fund release Meanwhile, the Union Ministry of Finance (MoF) has agreed to release nearly Rs. 2,235 crore towards the reimbursement of a part of the expenditure incurred by the A.P. government on the project. It MoF has sent a communication to that effect to the MoJS requesting it to get the process done by the PPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-should-bear-entire-cost-of-polavaram-project-govt/article33008317.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval exercise to begin today||The 24th edition of the MALABAR naval exercise is scheduled to begin in two phases from Tuesday in Bay of Bengal, off Visakhapatnam coast. The first phase involves the participation of Indian Navy (IN), United States Navy (USN), Japan Maritime Self Defence Force (JMSDF) and Royal Australian Navy (RAN). The exercise will span from November 3 to 6. MALABAR series of maritime exercises commenced in 1992, as a bilateral IN-USN exercise. JMSDF joined MALABAR in 2015. The 2020 edition will now witness participation of the RAN in this joint maritime exercise. The first phase will witness the participation of Indian Navy units with United States Ship (USS) John S McCain (Guided-missile destroyer), Her Majesty’s Australian Ship (HMAS) Ballarat (long range frigate) with integral MH-60 helicopter, and Japan Maritime Self Defence Ship (JMSDF) Onami (Destroyer) with integral SH-60 helicopter. The Indian Navy participation will be led by Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet. Indian Navy units participating in the exercise include destroyer Ranvijay, frigate Shivalik, off shore patrol vessel Sukanya, fleet support ship Shakti and submarine Sindhuraj. In addition, Advanced Jet Trainer Hawk, long-range maritime patrol aircraft P-8I, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, and helicopters will also be participating in the exercise. The exercise, being conducted as a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ exercise in view of COVID-19 pandemic, will showcase the high-levels of synergy and coordination between the friendly navies, which is based on their shared values and commitment to an open, inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order. The first phase would witness complex and advanced naval exercises including surface, anti-submarine and anti-air warfare operations, cross deck flying, seamanship evolutions and weapon firing exercises. Phase 2 of MALABAR 20 is scheduled to be conducted in the Arabian Sea in mid-November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naval-exercise-to-begin-today/article33008321.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 105 cases||The district recorded 105 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 56,515, since the outbreak of the pandemic. For the first time there was no deaths in the last three months. “The district has been averaging 3 to 4 deaths on a daily basis since July and for the first time we had no deaths in the last 24 hours,” said a health official. This keep the cumulative death count to 479. Coming to discharges, 155 persons undergoing treatment at various COVID hospitals, COVID Care Centres and under home isolation, were declared free of the virus and discharged. This takes the total number of discharges to 54,142 and the number active cases has dipped to 1,894. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that there are six very active, 19 active and 294 dormant clusters in the district. As many as 627 clusters were already de-notified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-105-cases/article33008469.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers stage massive protest||A massive protest was organised by Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, under the aegis of the AP ASHA Workers Union, affiliated to the CITU, opposing the decision of the State government to utilise their services at the village/ward secretariats, at the Gandhi statue, opposite GVMC Office, here on Monday. Addressing the striking workers, ASHA Union honorary president P. Mani and district secretary V. Satyavathi alleged that the State government’s decision has led to a feeling of job insecurity among ASHA workers. They said that the ASHA workers were being entrusted various tasks and to report for duty beyond the working hours and irrespective of holidays. They alleged that the ASHA workers were being harassed by officials by making them sign the attendance register at the secretariats at the end of the day. They were earlier working through PHCs, CHCs and Urban Health Centres The ASHA workers were being deprived of the benefits of welfare schemes like scholarships for children’s education, widow pension and retirement benefits though they were being paid a meagre Rs. 10,000 a month as honorarium. They said that the services of ASHA workers come under the purview of the National Health Mission (NHM). They were not having job security, PF, ESI, gratuity and other social security measures. Later, the participants went in a rally to the Collectorate and tried to picket it, but were stopped from doing so by the police personnel on duty. The leaders of ASHA union and CITU were arrested and taken away to the police station. Union leaders Mani, K. Varalakshmi, V. Satyavathi, S. Padma and V. Mary and CITU leader V.V. Srinivasa Rao were among those who led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-workers-stage-massive-protest/article33008401.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) for early solution to temple land issue||The CPI(M) has demanded an early solution to the long-pending issue of 'pancha gramala lands'. Party Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao said in a statement on Monday that the recent move of the government to add three more members to the committee, which was appointed on the issue through G.O. no. 794 on July 25, 2019, indicates that the government was not keen on resolving the issue. He recalled that Mr. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had assured of solving the dispute within 100 days of coming to power. He sought that landowners should be permitted to register the lands on their name and to take up constructions. There was no mention that the lands in question belong to the Simhachalam temple except in the pattas issued by the previous government in 1996-97. The CPI(M) leader demanded removal of the temple Executive Officer, who is a party to the issue, from the three-member committee, which was formed to resolve the dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-for-early-solution-to-temple-land-issue/article33008464.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home Minister promises speedy justice to family of murder victim||ñHome Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha on Monday met the family members of Varalakshmi and assured speedy trial and justice to the family. She also handed over Rs. 10 lakh as compensation to the parents Padma Priya and Gurunadha Rao. It may be remembered that 18-year-old Varalakshmi, who completed her Intermediate, was allegedly murdered by Akhil Sai, a student of Law College, Andhra University, and his friend Ramu, on October 31st evening. The girl’s throat was reportedly slit with a blade and she died while undergoing treatment at King George Hospital. The Home Minister on Monday met the parents and consoled them. She assured to complete the investigation within seven days and file chargesheet. She informed the parents that the case has been transferred to Disha Police Station to speed up the investigation and deliver quick justice to the victim’s family. She said that 108 cases were fast-tracked by Disha Police Stations so far, ever since these special police stations were initiated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy with the idea of delivering quick justice in all cases related to atrocities against women. Ms. Sucharitha said the accused tried to misguide the police by creating a scene at the crime spot, as if the girl was sacrificed as per a ritual. “We are investigating this angle and have asked the police to provide adequate protection to the victim’s family,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-minister-promises-speedy-justice-to-family-of-murder-victim/article33008319.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||School buses, autos checked for COVID compliance||Special drives were conducted by the Transport Department officials on school buses and autos in the city and district, to check compliance of the COVID-19 protocol, as schools reopened after the long lockdown on Monday. The special teams conducted the drives at major junctions like Anandapuram, Maddilapalem, Isukathota, Endada, NAD and Narsipatnam. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam said that the drivers should ensure that students boarding buses and autos should compulsorily wear masks and sanitise their hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-buses-autos-checked-for-covid-compliance/article33008463.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||23-year-old ‘jumps off’ building, dies||A 23-year-old youth reportedly committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of a building at Rajeev Gruhakalpa in Marikavalasa, on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Vanapalli Sai Prakash, who completed his ITI (electrical) and was working as an private electrician. According to Assistant Commissioner of Police (Madhurawada) Ravishankar Reddy, the deceased was enjoying a birthday party of a friend at a shop in the colony. His mother Vanapalli Chinnammulu have been repeatedly calling him to come back home and have his dinner. After repeated requests failed, she reached the shop and reprimanded him. Unable to bear the scolding, he reportedly took the drastic step at around 11.30 p.m. His friend rushed him to a hospital, but was declared brought dead by the duty doctor. The body has been sent for autopsy and cases have been booked. Investigation is on. Those with suicidal tendencies can dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-jumps-off-building-dies-in-vizag/article33008383.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DLS gets NABL accreditation||The Diesel Loco Shed (DLS), Visakhapatnam, had bagged the NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accreditation with the standard ISO/IEC 17025:2017 in the field of testing. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava appreciated the efforts of DLS in ensuring quality service to the railways and congratulated the team for achieving the unique feat. He presented the certificate to Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (DLS) Santosh Kumar Patra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dls-gets-nabl-accreditation/article33008465.ece
03 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||General services resume at GIMSR Hospital||With the number of coronavirus cases declining steadily, the GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) Hospital resumed the general services on Monday. GIMSR Hospital Superintendent N. Dwarakanath said the hospital, which was converted into a COVID hospital a few months ago, has been reinstated to treat general and emergency services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/general-services-resume-at-gimsr-hospital/article33008466.ece
03 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 infection count declines in Vizianagaram||The substantial drop in the number of new coronavirus infections per day in Vizianagaram district has brought the much-needed respeite to the health officials and the people as well. On Monday, the district reported only 55 new infections when compared to around 400 positive cases per day till last month. The district has reported 39,524 positive cases till date. However, only 475 cases are active. Hectic business activity were witnessed in almost all the market areas including Clock Tower, Kanyakaparameswari Junction, Vulli Veedhi, Balaji Market and others. However, District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari said even as the single-day spike in cases is declining, lowering of guards at this juncture may worsen the situation. “Restrictions imposed on the movement of people will continue in all the 478 containment zones in teh district. People who with symptoms of coronavirus can contact the control room by dialing 08922-236947,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-infection-count-declines-in-vizianagaram/article33008338.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Street entertainers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/street-entertainers/article33008455.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floral tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floral-tribute/article33008340.ece
03 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||4 Maoist sympathisers held in Mulugu||Four alleged Maoist sympathisers were arrested by the police on the outskirts of Tadwai mandal headquarters town in Mulugu district on Monday afternoon. Police identified the arrested as D Suman, 32, and Mahesh, 32, both from Tadwai mandal, T Ramesh, 44, of Mahabubabad district and Jangudev, 23, of Mathadiguda village in Adilabad district, according to a police press release. They were heading to Chhattisgarh to meet some top Maoist leaders when apprehended by the police near a hotel on the periphery of Tadwai, the release added. Police are on the lookout for another 13 alleged sympathisers of the outlawed CPI (Maoist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-maoist-sympathisers-held-in-mulugu/article33008235.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railways to set up CoE in AI, data analytics in Secunderabad||South Central Railway (SCR) will host the prestigious Indian Railways’ Centre of Excellence in artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics to be established in association with the Indian School of Business (ISB) in Secunderabad, said Railway Board chairman and CEO Vinod Kumar Yadav on Monday. “Indian Railways generate vast wealth of data on trains operations, passenger trains and freight trains, through the reservation system and the assets maintenance. With the help of AI and data analytics, we can introduce new trains, do productive maintenance and operations,” he pointed out. Participating in an online media interaction, Mr. Yadav said all the railway zones and divisions have been asked to appoint a Chief Technology Officer to make use of the emerging technologies in AI and data analytics. “We have recently completed a two-month training module for 88 senior officials from across all zones on these two aspects at the ISB. Soon, we will conduct training for officers in every zone and division as we want to make use of these technologies majorly,” he said. Passenger earnings The Railways CEO said while the freight earnings last month has been Rs. 869 crore more than that from the same period last year with 14.32 million tonnes more transported, the passenger earnings have been just above Rs. 3,000-odd crore which is “90% less” in comparison. The newly-introduced ‘Freight Business Development Model’ has been effective in providing digital communication to the customers as they can make use of the advanced freight calculator on rates and rebates, alternate terminal suggestion, expected transit time, route on GIS, terminal facilities, suitable wagon, prospective time tabled trains on GIS, logistics service providers, etc., he said. Festival trains Mr. Yadav said efforts are on to ensure every passenger gets a confirmed ticket during the festival season and more trains will be introduced as per demand. “When confirmed tickets are unavailable, we are introducing clone trains, observing the situation carefully,” he maintained. “We want everyone to be safe, therefore, we are not allowing passengers without confirmed tickets to travel. Although the trains show 92.14% occupancy in total, about 19 trains have below 30% occupancy, 44 trains show 30-50% , 83 trains 50-75% and about 373 have waiting lists,” he explained. While 736 are the regular special trains running across the 17 zones across the country, 436 are festival specials. Fare for the special trains is as per the 2015 formula and no new surcharges have been imposed, he clarified. Local suburban trains will be run as per respective States’ acceptance with Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu allowing the services to commence. He said it will be difficult to assess when the normal train-running can be resumed considering the evolving pandemic situation and though ready-to-eat meals, e-catering and restaurants on stations are running, food and bed rolls on long distance trains are prohibited.  With the help of AI and data analytics, we can introduce new trains, do productive maintenance and operations. V.K. Yadav, Railway Board chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railways-to-set-up-coe-in-ai-data-analytics-in-secunderabad/article33008189.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to take up Strategic Nala Development Programme||The government has, on Monday, announced ‘Strategic Nala Development Programme’ (SNDP) along the lines of the Strategic Road Development Plan, for development of stormwater drains in the city, post the devastating floods in October which drowned hundreds of colonies and resulted in several fatalities. A dedicated new project wing has been announced under the GHMC for implementation of the programme, in which Engineering officials from various departments will be participants. G.O. issued  Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has announced this on Monday, and said the government is keen on studying the stormwater drains and taking measures for their improvement. A government order by the Municipal Administration & Urban Development department came on the heels of this announcement, towards constitution of the special wing. The SNDP wing will be responsible for planning, developing and maintaining comprehensive storm water drainage or nala system in the city, with the overall objective of mitigating the adversities on account of heavy rains or urban floods in future, the order said. The wing will, to begin with, study the existing nala/ stormwater drainage system, and identify critical narrow points, encroachments on nalas, besides studying the sewerage trunk mains and feeder channels into River Musi, before submitting a report to take up all works in mission mode, the order said. It will function directly under the Commissioner, GHMC, while also coordinating with other officials from Irrigation department. The committee has a go ahead to induct field experts from open source based on the field requirements. Officials from different government departments have concluded in a primary study that severely encroached storm water drains were the major reason behind the flooding. Retired chief engineer, Roads & Buildings, C.Vasantha who had till recently discharged responsibilities as the chief engineer in the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation (HRDCL), will head the new wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-to-take-up-strategic-nala-development-programme/article33008200.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||922 more COVID-positive in State||Less than a thousand cases were reported in Telangana on Sunday as fewer tests were conducted. Usually, around 40,000 samples are examined in a day, but on Sunday, just 25,643 people underwent tests, leading to detection of 922 positive cases. The results of 415 others were awaited. The new cases include 256 from GHMC area, 56 from Rangareddy and 44 from Sangareddy. Of those who got tested, 23,779 opted for government facilities. So far, a total of 43,49,309 samples were tested and 2,40,970 were found to be virus-positive. Of the total cases, 17,630 are active and 2,21,992 have recovered. With the death of seven more COVID patients, the toll has reached 1,348. In the 61 government hospitals, 4,588 oxygen beds and 1,369 ICU beds were available on Sunday while at the 226 private hospitals, 2,958 oxygen beds and 2,246 ICU beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/922-more-covid-positive-in-state/article33008182.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘More awareness needed on free telemedicine services’||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan emphasised the importance of telemedicine services offered free of cost by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare during this COVID-19 pandemic as more people wishing to consult doctors on outpatient basis are increasingly relying on video consultation to avoid hospital visits. In this context, she has called for creating awareness of eSanjeevani, the free telemedicine service offered by the Ministry. Addressing a webinar on ‘Improving tele-consultation services using eSanjeevani platform of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, in Telangana State’ on Monday, Ms. Soundararajn said the free-of-cost online outpatient services offered as part of the national tele-consultation service need to be popularised on priority basis for the benefit of the people. The Governor pointed out that there was an overwhelming response to telemedicine service during the recent floods in Hyderabad. “Telemedicine is free and safe. It would avoid further potential infections during the hospital visits. As clinics and outpatient department (OPD) services remain closed in most areas, eSanjeevani is a big boon for people,” the Governor added. Patients with cancer, renal, gynaecology and cardiac issues and other complications other than COVID-19 can also utilise the eSanjeevani services through free OPD. Ms. Soundararajan suggested utilising the services of retired doctors or other medical professionals who had shut their OPD clinics during the pandemic. Executive director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Bibinagar, Vikas Bhatia and eSanjeevani project director Sanjay Sood of C-DAC, Mohali were among those who participated in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-awareness-needed-on-free-telemedicine-services/article33008184.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pandemic claims Hyderabad’s beloved bookstore||Walden, one of Hyderabad’s most loved bookshops, is no more. After a successful run of 11,083 days, or 30 years, four months and three days, the store’s glass door enamelled with ‘WALDEN’ was pulled shut on the last day of October in Banjara Hills. “The competition from online retailers was hurting but the COVID-19 lockdown had a big impact on our business. How can we run a business without being physically present?” said Shobha Prasad, who started the shop along with her husband Ram Prasad, more than 30 years ago in Somajiguda on June 28, 1990. The Somajiguda outlet was closed in July 2019 and the bookshop was functioning from its Gachibowli and Banjara Hills branches. Ram Prasad took to social media to announce the news about closure of the Banjara Hills store: “Yesterday.. with a heavy heart, we closed the last Walden Store… Thank you book lovers for all the love and support, since 1990! Keep reading, keep growing! To paraphrase the last words of Gone With The Wind By Margaret Mitchell “...Tomorrow is another day (sic).” There was an immediate outpouring of love and reminiscences about the book store by citizens. “Will never forget buying Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows from Walden in breathless anticipation and devouring it in one day. Your shop was the focal point of a lot of my childhood memories in Hyderabad and its closure makes me deeply sad,” wrote a social media user summing up the experience of a few generations. Named after the American philosopher H.D. Thoreau’s work ‘Walden’, the bookstore became a landmark and a benchmark for how books were sold and bought in Hyderabad in the 90s. The bookstore had a greeting cards section and music section beside the stationery one. The festive season between Deepavali and New Year could see the shop draped in fairy lights, Christmas trees and higher decibel levels in the toys section. But this year, there will be an eerie silence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandemic-claims-citys-beloved-bookstore/article33008193.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Testing facility opened at RGIA||An on-site coronavirus testing laboratory has been started at two locations inside Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) for passengers entering the city, scheduled for domestic connecting flights or international departing passengers. It will be operational round the clock and is also available for walk-in options for airport personnel or anyone interested in getting tested. Government protocols state that international passengers, upon arrival, have to carry a RT-PCR negative report, conducted within 96 hours before departures from the origin country. This report has to be furnished to the State officials deputed at the airport to avoid institutional quarantine. With RT-PCR testing facility available at the airport, passengers can now get themselves tested as soon as they land in Hyderabad, said an official spokesman. GMR Hyderabad International Airport has collaborated with ‘Mapmygenome’, a city-based agency to provide the services for testing COVID samples. “The COVID-19 testing laboratory is equipped with all necessary testing and sample collection facilities, in compliance with the protocols established by ICMR and NABL,” said Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker. Sample collection counters are available for arriving international passengers having an onward journey at the immigration level. For departing international passengers, another collection counter has been made available at the forecourt of Interim International Departures Terminal. The spokesman reminded that passengers going to get themselves tested at the airport should factor in additional time for the test report while travelling. Passengers will have to provide their details such as name, contact details and valid ID proof while registering for the facility. Results of samples will be declared within 3-4 hours. Passengers are advised to factor this time span when booking connecting flights, he said. With a negative RT-PCR test report, arriving international passengers can continue their onward journey or get exemption from institutional quarantine. However, they will have to undergo home quarantine as per government norms, unless they qualify for special exemptions. In case of a positive result, the passenger will be processed in line with applicable ICMR protocols, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-facility-opened-at-rgia/article33008078.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A treat for art aficionados||In its sixth year, the Kallam Anji Reddy Art (KARA) Festival has created a separate section to showcase the grassroots work of Jayadhir Tirumala Rao. Called KARA, the art event has become part of the cultural calendar of the city. This time round, the COVID-19 lockdown kept some connoisseurs away, but for those who visited Saptaparni, it was a treat. For the past 40 years, Mr. Rao has been working with artisans and craftsmen from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to bring to light their creativity. This year, some of the rare musical instruments, manuscripts, dokra works and other folk arts are being displayed as part of the KARA event between November 1 and 8. Parallel to this is the ongoing festival of paintings and artworks which are on sale. The proceeds of the sales will go to deserving NGOs, according to the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-treat-for-art-aficionados/article33008394.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spraying activities intensified in flood affected areas||GHMC’s Entomology wing sprayed disinfectant solution across various localities in the city, which have been affected by the floods recently. So far, 50,000 litres of sodium hypochlorite solution has been sprayed in 252 locations and 65,000 houses from where flood waters have been drained out, a statement from GHMC informed. In order to prevent mosquito breeding, 2.2 lakh gambusia fishlings and 6,000 oil balls have been dropped into nalas, feeder channels and lakes. Anti-larval and disinfectant spraying is being done inside the Musi River and its surroundings, through four teams constituting 54 workers. A total of 10 drones have been deployed for spraying inside the lakes. Of the scheduled 39 lakes, the spraying has been completed in 17 lakes. The remaining will be covered in a week’s time. On Monday, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, along with legislator Maganti Gopinath, launched the anti-larva spraying and fogging operations in the Kotha Cheruvu Lake of Shaikpet in Jubilee Hills. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ram Mohan has asked the citizens to refrain from discarding old furniture and articles into nalas and lakes, to prevent them from choking and aiding mosquito breeding. For beautification of lakes in the city, water hyacinth weed is being removed from the selected 39 lakes using machinery. An intensive drive has been taken up by GHMC to spray the anti-larval and disinfectant solutions in flood-affected colonies and locations, he said. Spraying will also be done in empty plots. A total of 350 workers have been engaged in fogging operations, besides 842 knapsack sprayers, 1,000 power sprayers, 64 large fogging machines, and 305 smaller ones. Door-to-door campaigns will be taken up in the flood affected areas to spread awareness about diseases such as dengue, malaria, chikungunya, filariasis, encephalitis and COVID-19, Mr. Ram Mohan Said. Chief Entomologist A.Rambabu and other officials were present during the launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spraying-intensified-in-flood-hit-areas/article33008203.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vehicles to carry chlorine cylinders launched||Special hydraulic cargo vehicles, three in number, have been flagged off by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board to transport heavy chlorine cylinders to the water treatment plants and reservoirs. Executive Director of the Water Board M. Satyanarayana launched the vehicles with 11 tonnes capacity. When attached with hydraulic cranes, the vehicle could lift the cylinders to facilitate loading, transport and unloading near the treatment plants and master balancing reservoirs. The hydraulic crane can lift a total 2.5 tonnes of weight, while the vehicle can carry three heavy chlorine cylinders of 1,000 kilograms weight. The vehicles will be available at the reservoirs in Sainikpuri, Lingampally, and Saheb Nagar, a note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vehicles-to-carry-chlorine-cylinders-launched/article33008195.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS inching back to normalcy in GST revenue||The State is inching back to normalcy regarding collection of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue with registering a positive growth in collections during October. The State witnessed a GST revenue of Rs. 3,383 crore during October. This against Rs. 3,230 crore collected during the same month in the previous financial year marking 5% growth. The positive growth rate comes after five months since the lockdown was imposed at the end of March hitting the GST revenues. The State, according to figures released by the GST Council, witnessed an estimated 26.3% decline in GST revenues between April and August. In the month of August, for instance, the collections were 9% less at Rs. 2,793 crore against Rs. 3,059 crore of the corresponding period in previous fiscal. The negative trend continued in September too, with GST revenue declining by 2% to Rs. 2,796 crore compared to Rs. 2,854 crore of the same period last fiscal. The Central government said the total revenue earned by it and State governments after regular settlement in October was Rs. 44,285 crore for CGST and 44,839 crore for the SGST. The claim assumes significance in the light of concerns expressed by the State government over pending dues relating to GST compensation. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, who participated in the GST Council meeting, had urged the Centre to take steps to release the State’s share of compensation of Rs. 5,420 crore and IGST dues amounting to Rs. 2,700 crore with immediate effect. The release by the Central government, however, did not make any mention of payment of compensation dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-inching-back-to-normalcy-in-gst-revenue/article33008232.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Groundwater levels in State show significant rise||Ground water levels in different districts of the State have registered a significant rise thanks to the copious rains that covered the entire State during monsoon, particularly October. The State received 53 % more rainfall during the water year 2020-21 ending October 31 — 1,249.2 mm against the 816 mm normal rainfall. The rainfall varied in different districts from 835.6 mm in Nalgonda to 2,040 mm in Mulugu district with 27 districts receiving rainfall in the range of +26 % to 142 % above average while six districts recorded -14 % to 11 % considered as normal rainfall. As a result, average groundwater levels in the State at the end of October stood at 4.22 metres below ground level (bgl) varying from 0.91m in Warangal to 13.52m bgl in Sangareddy. Of the 33 districts in the State, 24 districts reported groundwater levels at 5m bgl, eight districts between 5m to 10m bgl and one district above 10m bgl.  Net rise The Groundwater department observed a net rise in the level of 3.7m during October as compared to the same period last year with Kumram Bheem Asifabad registering minimum rise of 0.01m and Mahabubnagar 10.85m. A net average rise of 7.06m in the groundwater levels was observed during the month as compared to May this year and the rise ranged between 2.65m in Wanaparthy to 13.48m in Medak. As compared with the decadal average for month of October (2010-19), it has been observed that 543 mandals constituting 92 % of the total 589 mandals registered rise in the range of 0.05 to 21.96m while there was fall in the range of 0.03 to 20.52m in the rest of the 46 mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/groundwater-levels-in-state-rise-significantly/article33008215.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic diversions between Agapura and Boiguda Kaman||In order to ensure smooth flow of traffic and to reduce the inconvenience to commuters during the period of VDCC Road laying between Agapura and Boiguda Kaman, Hyderabad Traffic Police imposed traffic diversion for 20 days starting from Monday, to November 21. Commuters coming from Alaska, Darussalam side and intending to proceed towards Mehdipatnam should take an alternate route via Aghapura crossroad, Charkandil, Café Tabanda, Badi Masjid, left turn towards Mallepally crossroads and Mehdipatnam. Similarly, traffic coming from Darussalam side and intending to proceed towards Puranapul should take an alternative route via Aghapura crossroad, Agapura, Ghode-ki-Khabr, Jummerat Bazar T Junction, Gandhi Statue etc and Puranapul. While motorists coming from Mangalhat and proceedings towards Nampally should take an alternative route via. R.K. Brass Band, Right Turn, Aghapura, Agahapura crossroad, Charkandil, Café Tabanda T junction and Nampally Junction, buses and heavy vehicles coming from Alaska and going towards Mehdipatnam should take an alternative route from Darussalam, Ek Minar Mosque, Yousufain Dargah crossroad, Bazarghat crossroad, Vijaynagar colony, Masab Tank and Mehdipatnam. Heavy vehicles Buses and heavy vehicles coming from Mehdipatnam and proceeding towards M.J. Market and Puranapul should take an alternative route from Mallepally crossroad left turn, Vijaynagar colony, Bazarghat crossroads, Yousufain Dargah crossroad, Ekminar, Tajisland, Malakunta, M.J. Bridge and Jummerat Bazar, Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. “Commuters are requested to co-operate with the Traffic Police and take alternative routes to avoid traffic jam and inconvenience,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-diversions-between-agapura-and-boiguda-kaman/article33008209.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allocation of buses on main routes in TS, A P||On Vijayawada and beyond route, TSRTC will operate 52,944 kms with 273 buses in AP and APSRTC will operate 52,524 kms with 192 buses in TS, while on Kurnool and other routes, the TSRTC will operate 43,456 kms with 213 buses in AP and APSRTC will operate 43,202 kms with 146 buses in Telangana. The TSRTC buses on Piduguralla and Guntur route via Wadapally will ply for 19,044 for kms with 67 buses in AP and APSRTC will operate 20,238 kms with 88 buses in Telangana. Similarly on Macherla and beyond routes, TSRTC will run 14,158 kms with 66 buses in AP and APSRTC will operate 16,060 kms with 61 buses in Telangana. On Nuzvid, Tiruvur, Bhadrachalam - Vijayawada routes, TSRTC will operate 12,453 kms with 48 buses in AP and APSRTC will operate 14,026 kms with 65 buses in Telangana. On Khammam, Jeelugumilli, Jangareddygudem route, the TSRTC will now operate 9,140 kms with 35 buses in AP and APSRTC will operate 11,541 kms with 58 buses in Telangana and on Srisailam route the Telangana RTC will continue operation of 1,904 kms with 62 UO buses in AP and APSRTC will not operate buses on this route in Telangana. “On remaining routes such as Sathupally Eluru (two routes), Bhadrachalam and Kunta via Kallugudem, Sathupally - Vijayawada and other route, we will operate 8,159 kms with 62 buses, and they will ply for 3,408 kms with 28 buses in our State,” Mr. Ajay Kumar said. When asked about increasing the city buses fleet in the State capital, the Transport Minister said “at present we will go with the existing number. In case the seat occupancy ratio goes beyond 70 % we might think of increasing the city buses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allocation-of-buses-on-main-routes-in-ts-a-p/article33008233.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi junior doctors to wear black badges||Members of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA)-Gandhi Medical College, who have postponed their boycott till November 11, stated that they will wear black badges at work from Tuesday as part of a symbolic protest to demand resumption of non-COVID services at Gandhi Hospital. Initially, they planned to boycott duties from Monday. However, they postponed after Health Minister spoke to senior officials regarding the non-COVID services at the hospital, which has been designated as an exclusive COVID-19 treatment facility since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhi-junior-doctors-to-sport-black-badges/article33008185.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A.K. Jain takes charge as SCR additional GM||Arun Kumar Jain assumed charge as additional General Manager of South Central Railway. Mr. Jain belongs to the Indian Railways Service of Signal Engineers, 1986 batch of Indian Engineering Services. Prior to the new assignment, he was serving as Principal Chief Signal and Telecommunications Engineer (PCSTE) here. During his tenure as PCSTE, he had overseen implementation of Train Collision Avoidance System. He holds a bachelor’s degree in electronics engineering from Gorakhpur and a Master’s degree in computer engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ak-jain-takes-charge-as-scr-additional-gm/article33008191.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC gives e-voting option for select voters||The Telangana State Election Commission has, for the first time ever, decided to offer the choice to exercise franchise remotely through e-voting option exclusively for a few select groups of electors during the upcoming GHMC polls. State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi has informed that the option could be offered on pilot basis to three groups — government staff on election duty registered as electors within GHMC purview, voters in quarantine on account of COVID-19 infection, and senior citizens. A meeting on Monday at the SEC office, with participation from the Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Jayesh Ranjan, and officials from the Centre for Good Governance, has thrashed out the nitty gritty of the implementation of e-Voting, including voter registration process, secrecy of voting, and other technical aspects. Mr. Parthasarathi has asked the IT wing to ready the software and organise a demo as soon as possible. Based on the results of the pilot experiment, replication of the same will be considered in the upcoming elections for Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation, and Khammam Municipal Corporation, a statement from the SEC informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-gives-e-voting-option-for-select-voters/article33008201.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Trickster held in SIM swap case||A ‘trickster’ allegedly involved in a SIM swap fraud was arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police on Monday. The accused, Tamarana Chiranjeevi, is a native of Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. In September last, the police received a complaint from a person who stated that they have three overdraft accounts with DCB Bank used for business activities and all the accounts are registered with his Yahoo mail ID and mobile numbers. “OTPs were being sent to this mail ID and his mobile numbers as well for the three accounts. When he checked his bank balance in his three accounts, he was surprised to know that Rs. 35,89,899 has been fraudulently transferred into some unknown accounts through IMPS, RTGS, NEFT,” Joint Commissioners of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. He said that the mobile number registered with the victim’s bank accounts got disconnected in May and when he opened Internet banking for the three accounts, he came to know that five beneficiary accounts were added into the three accounts without his knowledge and consent. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and the police found that Tamarana Chiranjeevi gave his accounts to the accused Diwakar Srivastava on commission for providing bank accounts. “He has supplied the victim’s three accounts, in which about Rs. 18 lakh have been transferred,” he said. On commision basis On October 12, the police arrested three accused persons — Sagar Mahato, Kumar Gourav Singh and Sanjay Agarwal — from Kolkata, in connection with the case. Explaining the modus operandi of the accused persons, Mr. Mohanty said that they open accounts in various banks and give the accounts to fraudsters on commission basis. “The fraudsters send links to the mail IDs of bank customers in the name of Income Tax refund or any other process refund. Once the customer clicks on the links provided in the email, then his electronic device which is used will be compromised. The fraudster gains access into their Internet banking and transfers the money into the bank accounts supplied by Chiranjeevi and others,” the officer said. Further, Mr. Mohanty urged people not to click on links received from unknown mail IDs, WhatsApp numbers and mobile numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trickster-arrested-in-sim-swap-case/article33008206.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea over RBI circular reserved for verdict||Telangana High Court on Monday has reserved judgement in a batch of writ petitions which challenged Reserve Bank of India’s circular declaring bank accounts of some businessmen and industrialists as fraud. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, after hearing arguments of the counsels of the petitioners, RBI and State Bank of India, reserved orders in the matter. The RBI had earlier issued a circular declaring bank accounts of one Rajesh Agarwal and others as fraud. The RBI had issued notices to other banks to take steps to declare the bank accounts of the petitioners as wilful defaulters. Mr. Agarwal and others moved the HC seeking a direction to set aside the circular issued by the RBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-over-rbi-circular-reserved-for-verdict/article33008216.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth held for unnatural behaviour||A 20-year-old youth was arrested by Chaitanyapuri police of Rachakonda Commisisonerate on Sunday evening on charges of bestiality. The accused, Sanjay Varma, a resident of LB Nagar went to Nomula Siddiraj’s farm at Saroornagar on Sunday evening and was caught red-handed by the former while committing the offence, police said. However, Sanjay managed to escape from the spot. Based on the complaint lodged by Siddiraj, a case was registered and the accused was arrested on Sunday. He was later remanded to judicial custody. Sanjay hails from Navgav village in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-unnatural-behaviour/article33008207.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Deadline to claim seized vehicles before auction||As many as 2,391 abandoned and unclaimed vehicles of various types and makes, seized by the Hyderabad police will be disposed of by public auction. Any person having any objection or ownership/hypothecation interest in any of these vehicles may file an application before the Commissioner of Police, Basheerbagh, and claim the vehicle within a period of six months from the date of notification, failing which the vehicles will be auctioned, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. “The particulars of vehicles are available with I. Narasimha Murthy, Reserve Sub Inspector of Police, Goshamahal, (9490616637) and on the official website of Hyderabad www.hyderabadpolice.gov.in,” he added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/deadline-to-claim-seized-vehicles-before-public-auction/article33008211.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Application open for Masters in Public Health||Public Health will soon be the most sought-after discipline in the country in view of the COVID-19 pandemic as the skills, health system and health administration in the country have to be improved a lot. In this context, the Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad (IIPH-H) is offering a two-year regular Masters in Public Health course under affiliation to Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences, Telangana. E-applications are available on www.knruhs.telangana.gov.in and the last date for applying is November 4. One can visit  https://cdn3.digialm.com:443//EForms/configuredHtml/ 1680/68167/Registration.html and https://cdn3.digialm.com:443//EForms/configuredHtml/ 1680/68167/login.html, which have been provided as the links.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/application-open-for-masters-in-public-health/article33008187.ece
03 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Few takers in old Khammam district||The process for online registration of agricultural lands through the newly unveiled Dharani portal started on a rather lacklustre note marred by technical glitches in the former composite Khammam district on Monday. As many as 36 persons had booked slots for registration of their agricultural lands online from 14 mandals of the total 21 mandals in Khammam district. The remaining seven mandals registered zero slot bookings on the first day, official sources said. Initial hiccups delayed the online registration process in several mandals till Monday afternoon. In Khammam rural mandal, the staff at the tahsildar’s office faced some technical issues while processing the slots booked by two villagers from Gudurupadu and Muttagudem villages respectively. Ten online applications could not be processed due to a technical issue pertaining to “multiple number of gift deeds,” sources added. In the tribal-dominated Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, only four persons from the non-scheduled villages in Aswaraopeta, Burgampadu and Dammapeta mandals booked slots for online land registration through Dharani portal on Monday. A major part of the Bhadradri-Kothagudem district comprising 23 mandals fall under the Fifth Schedule areas, where the Land Transfer Regulation (LTR) Act (1 of 70) and other legislations governing the protection of rights of Adivasis are in force. Various Adivasi organisations staged a joint protest in Bhadrachalam last month to press for protection of the constitutional rights of tribal people as guaranteed under the Fifth Schedule of Constitution and strict implementation of the LTR Act and the Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) Act, 2006. They vociferously opposed any move to implement the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) and other provisions of the new Revenue Act in the Scheduled Areas of the district. Activists of Adivasi organisations wanted the authorities of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, to ensure effective implementation of the laws applicable to Schedule Areas to prevent encroachment of tribals’ lands by non-tribals. When contacted, Khammam Rural Tahsildar/joint sub-registrar Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu that a minor technical glitch relating to reverse endorsement cropped up while processing two online applications through Dharani portal in Khammam Rural mandal. The technical support team has resolved the glitches following which the process went off smoothly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/few-takers-in-old-khammam-district/article33008228.ece
03 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Minor hiccups in Nalgonda||Online registration of agricultural properties through Dharani portal, the State’s integrated land record management system, kicked off with minor hiccups in Nalgonda on Monday. The registration process was initially delayed due to starting troubles, owing to system and printer configuration settings. As reported by officials, process to transfer ownership in the case of sale deeds was smoother when compared to gift deed transactions. In Nalgonda, online registration was started in three mandals of Narketpally, Peddavoora and Nalgonda, with participation of local leaders and officials. Nalgonda MLA Kancharla Bhupal Reddy along with RDO Jagadeeswar Reddy were present at the joint sub-registrar’s office in the town for the day’s transaction. The transfer of ownership was between two farmers of Pedda Suraram village, and the whole process was completed in about 30 minutes. Officials said the registration was successfully completed with mutation, printing and issuance of new pattadar passbook. Narketpally officials also conducted the process successfully. However, in the case of a gift deed transaction in Peddavoora mandal, although registration was completed by afternoon, the system did not respond even till the evening when mutation for the record was initiated. Also, officials reported that slot bookings did not reflect for the day even after payments were realized. They were pushed to the next working day. In Suryapet, District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy along with Revenue officials inaugurated the digital service. Of the seven slots booked for Monday in Suryapet district, four registrations were successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-hiccups-in-nalgonda-district/article33008222.ece
03 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Dharani, a revolution in land reforms, says Sangareddy Collector||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy termed introduction of Dharani portal a historical reform in land administration and it would address several problems. Addressing a gathering after examining the process of Dharani land registration portal at Kandi mandal revenue office (MRO) on Monday, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said that the facility of registration began at mandal level and the entire process, including mutation, will be completed within in 15 to 20 minutes. “In the past, once registration was completed farmers used to go to revenue office at mandal level for mutation of land records. With Dharani, both the jobs will be completed at one place in a short time and the changes will get reflected in the passbooks of both seller and buyer,” said Mr. Venkatarami Reddy adding that new pass book will be sent to the address furnished in the documents. The Collector handed over pass book to one Chandi of Erdnanur tanda who was gifted 20.5 guntas land by her husband and the registration was completed. At several mandal revenue offices initial glitches were faced by the officials dealing with Dharani due to technical and connectivity issues. It was stated that even the Collector was forced to wait for some time at Kandi mandal office in this regard. “Some 80 % of the online transactions of registrations were completed and remaining will be completed by tomorrow,” said a revenue officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharani-a-revolution-in-land-reforms-says-sangareddy-collector/article33008400.ece
03 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BJP leaders arrested||Police have arrested several BJP leaders across the district on Monday as they were staging a protest against the comments made by TRS working president and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao, who alleged that BJP has hatched a conspiracy to create unrest and communal tensions in Hyderabad. BJP leaders held dharna before the MRO offices. Suspecting that BJP workers may go to Hyderabad for protest, police have arrested workers at Sangareddy, Narayanakhed, Patancheru, Medak, Gajwel and Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-arrested/article33008221.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A day of remembrance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-day-of-remembrance/article33008197.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Helping hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/helping-hands/article33008396.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Only hi-tech, service industries can now open in Delhi: Kejriwal||In an attempt to control pollution and promote a ‘green Delhi’, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that the Centre had cleared a proposal permitting only hi-tech and service industries to operate in new industrial areas in the city. Manufacturing units operating in old industrial areas will be encouraged to shut down and switch to the service sector, Mr. Kejriwal said, adding that the move would provide opportunities to hi-tech and service industries, which have been moving to other regions of the National Capital Region, to set up offices in new industrial areas in the Capital. The Chief Minister said that the main economy of Delhi is service-based and such industries were earlier placed under the ‘office’ category, which meant they could only be opened in commercial areas according to the Master Plan of Delhi. Commerical rates “The rates in commercial areas were very high and so these offices could not open in Delhi and shifted to Gurugram and Noida. Now, office owners will not have to shift to other cities. They will be able to avail cheap and spacious locations in industrial spaces in Delhi itself,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The move is a step towards getting rid of polluting industries such as iron, steel and plastic in Delhi, Mr. Kejriwal said, while thanking Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri for clearing the proposal that had allegedly been lying with the Centre for 3-4 years. “In the coming days, we hope that all these manufacturing industries will be shut down and more service industries will be opened in Delhi,” Mr. Kejriwal added. The service sector includes offices of Chartered Accountants, lawyers, media companies; computer hardware and software industries; IT service, Internet and email providers; customer interaction services such as call centres, email helpdesk, back-office processing, finance, accounting and more, the CM added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/only-hi-tech-service-industries-can-now-open-in-delhi-kejriwal/article33007910.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Farm fires biggest contributors to pollution’||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday said that Delhiites are working hard day and night to curb pollution level in the city, but stubble burning has remained the biggest contributor of pollution in Delhi in the run-up to Deepavali. He said that the Delhi government was doing everything in its capacity to curb pollution, but had its hands tied when it came to stopping the toxic haze from stubble burning from polluting the city. “Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar says stubble burning contributes 4%-6%, whereas statistics clearly state 40% contribution on Sunday which was the highest this season,” Mr. Rai said. He requested the Central government to take some action rather than just making a commission, because pollution combined with the current pandemic can cause catastrophic consequences for the people of Delhi. “Pollution is not defined by State boundaries, it is defined by air sets. It has an air set of around 300 km, which means pollution will affect the radius of 300 km. People are being ignorant of this fact. Collective effort is required to deal with this issue,” Mr. Rai said. He was speaking after launching an awareness drive against pollution and its damaging effects. “We are launching the ‘Red Light’ campaign in all 272 wards to reduce the local sources of pollution in Delhi,” he said. Stubble burning It is repeatedly being said that the rising pollution level is due to stubble burning in neighbouring States, and the response we received from the Central government and States was that there is no alternative to stubble burning, Mr. Rai said. “We want to tell the States and the central government that there is a cheaper alternative to stubble burning, which is bio-decomposer, developed by Pusa Research Institute that has shown extremely positive results,” he said. Meanwhile, the air quality in the Capital on Monday improved and settled in the ‘poor’ category due to high wind speeds. The average AQI according to the CPCB, was 295. Delhi’s AQI on Sunday was 364 (very poor).  According to the air quality monitor of Ministry of Earth Sciences, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution was 16% on Monday. “Increased local surface wind speed and the decrease in the strength of night time inversion have improved the dispersion conditions and are likely to influence positively for the next two days,” the SAFAR bulletin read. Delhi’s overall AQI improved on Monday as flushing out owing to moderate winds finally prevailed. Improved wind conditions, along with weak night-time surface inversion have led to better ventilation during the night as well, which was so far limited up to day, SAFAR said. It added that a marginal deterioration is forecast for Tuesday and Wednesday towards the middle of the ‘very poor’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farm-fires-biggest-contributor-to-pollution/article33007914.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Teachers should not suffer in DU colleges-govt. tussle’||The Delhi High Court on Monday remarked that teachers cannot be allowed to suffer in the blame game between the city government and DU colleges while hearing a plea challenging the decision to pay outstanding salaries to staffers from the Student Society Fund (SSF). The court observed that DU is the guardian of all its colleges and there is some responsibility of the varsity to put things in order. It asked for all the colleges to be made a party in the case while posting the case for hearing on November 5. The Delhi government’s counsel informed the High Court that a coordinate Bench of the court, on October 23, had stayed the decision asking 12 DU colleges to pay outstanding salaries to staffers from the students’ fund. DU Students Union (DUSU), in its plea, has challenged the October 16 order of the Delhi government asking the 12 colleges, which are fully funded by the State, to pay the salaries of over 1,500 staffers – both teaching and non-teaching – from the students’ fund. DU’s counsel said the varsity is supporting the students’ petition and added that the students’ fund cannot be used for paying teachers’ salaries and it will amount to cheating the students. The college staffers have not been paid for the last three months. DUSU, in its plea, said that as per the UGC guidelines, only 11 heads can be included as income and 34 heads for expenditure. It added that for paying the salaries only those heads which are under “income head” can be used for paying salaries. This does not include the fund collected by students under the societies head or any amount kept in that corpus fund with regard to the SSF can be utilised for this purpose, the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/teachers-should-not-suffer-in-delhi-govt-du-colleges-tussle/article33007905.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC denies relief to school principal in riots case||The Delhi High Court on Monday set aside a trial court order granting bail to the principal of Rajdhani Public School here in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots, noting that he may influence the witnesses and hamper the investigation and trial. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said the trial court, while granting bail to Faisal Farooq, failed to appreciate that while deciding an application for bail, the interest of the society is also to be safeguarded. Larger interest “The entire country is aggrieved by the action of such offenders who tarnish the basic secular fabric of the nation and needs to be punished severely. Personal liberty of an individual though precious, is of little value if the larger interest of the people and nation are at stake,” the judge observed. The prosecution had alleged that Mr. Faisal, who also owned the school, allowed the rioters to enter his school who created havoc. Consequently, irreparable damage was caused to adjoining DRP Public School and other surrounding structures by the Rajdhani School mob. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, representing the prosecution, stated that Mr. Faisal was found as the kingpin and mastermind of the incident. At the very onset of the riots, Mr. Faisal was present at the school premises, instigating his people to damage and destroy DRP School, Mr. Lekhi said. School terrace It has also been established that during investigation lot of bullets were fired from the terrace of Rajdhani Public School resulting in death of two innocent people, Mr. Lekhi added. The ASG also stated that the persons identified through CCTV footage are to be traced and arrested. The persons connected to fundamentalist groups — Popular Front of India, Jamia Coordination Committee, Pinjra Tod — working as links between accused Mr. Faisal and these organisations have to be interrogated for unearthing the conspiracy link, the ASG said. Falsely implicated On the other hand, senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Mr. Faisal, said the police have falsely implicated him in another FIR and arrested him on June 22, the day, he was to be released on bail. Mr. Gupta argued that on the day of the alleged incident, Mr. Faisal had dialled the police six times for help and made a complaint about the damage caused to his school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-denies-relief-to-school-principal-in-riots-case/article33007908.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||Students’ plea against physical exams by GGSIPU||The High Court on Monday asked the Centre and the city government to respond to a plea by several law students of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University here seeking deferment or cancellation of physical exams, some that were scheduled to start from Monday, in colleges affiliated to the university. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also issued notices to GGSIPU, Bar Council of India, Universities Grants Commission, Vivekananda Institute of Professional Studies and Amity University. It posted the matter for hearing on November 12. Multiple exams The students contended that they have already given multiple exams under various notifications issued by their respective colleges and now are being directed to again sit for examinations for the same courses through offline mode. The plea contended that “a blanket notification forcing all students to give exams through physical mode causes immense duress to the mental health of the students and is violative of their Right to Life”.  “The changing nature of the notifications and short timespan between exams has made it burdensome for the petitioners [students] to manage studies, online classes, distance learning, internal exams of previous semester followed by internal exams of current semester clashing with current semester classes followed by physical examinations within a week,” the plea added. The counsel representing the students said the BCI has come out with a resolution allowing universities to conduct physical exams after getting a no objection certificates from the State governments and State disaster management authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-reply-from-govts-over-plea-on-ggsipu-exams/article33007906.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested from Assam for harassing Delhi woman online||A 24-year-old man has been arrested from Assam for allegedly harassing a Delhi-based woman on social media and threatening to defame her by sharing her pictures online, the police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said the accused, Chandan Nath from Mangaldoi village in Darrang district in Assam, works at a mobile shop. On September 30, the woman went to Malviya Nagar police station, alleging that an unidentified man was harassing her through chats and video calls on social media. She also told the police that he threatened to make her pictures viral on WhatsApp to defame her. With the help of surveillance and technical analysis, the police managed to locate the mobile number of the accused and his location was traced to Mangaldoi. A team was then sent to the location and he was nabbed from his village, the police said. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he befriended people online and later threatened to make their chats and pictures viral to defame them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-from-assam-for-harassing-delhi-woman-online/article33007915.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two held for ‘objectionable’ posters of Macron||Two persons have been arrested in north-east Delhi’s Jafrabad for allegedly pasting “objectionable” posters of France President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday. A senior police officer confirmed the arrests while withholding the identity of the accused persons for investigation purposes. Processions and gatherings were organised against Mr. Macron by Muslims in north-east Delhi and old Delhi. “Posters were pasted on the premises of a mosque in Jafrabad. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and two persons, who pasted those posters, were identified. They have been arrested,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-objectionable-posters-of-macron/article33007911.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||Summoned by NCB, Deepika’s manager Karishma ‘untraceable’||Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, who bas been summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case, has not appeared for questioning and remains “untraceable”, a police official said on Monday. According to NCB sources, Ms. Prakash was summoned after the Central agency claimed to have seized 1.7 gram of hashish during a search at her residence in October-end. Since then, she has been summoned multiple times by the drug law enforcement agency to join the probe and record her statement. However, Ms. Prakash has not responded to summons and remains “untraceable”, the police official said. As per the sources, besides the contraband, two bottles of CBD oil, a cannabis product, were also found at her residence during the search. Mr. Prakash has already applied for anticipatory bail. The NCB, which is probing the alleged nexus between drug peddlers and Bollywood celebrities which came to light after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide, had summoned Ms. Prakash on October 28 following seizures at her residence. Earlier Ms. Padukone and Ms. Prakash have appeared before the NCB for questioning. Ms. Prakash’s name cropped up during interrogation of one of the arrested drug peddlers, an official said earlier. Statements of Ms. Padukone and fellow actors Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh, among others, were recorded by the NCB in September. The Central agency has so far arrested 23 people as part of its investigation in the drug case linked to Rajput’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/summoned-by-ncb-deepikas-manager-karishma-untraceable/article33007812.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||Discontent within Mumbai Congress over nomination to Council||Discontent is growing within the Maharashtra Congress even before it announces the names of four candidates out of the 12 to be nominated to the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. According to sources, the four names chosen by the Congress leadership do not include a north Indian leader. “We have been insisting that there has to be representation from Mumbai’s north Indian leadership. At a time when the BJP is promoting imported Congress leaders with plum posts within the organisation, the Mumbai unit of the Congress is neglecting the Hindu north Indian leadership,” a senior party functionary, who did not wish to be named, said. All three parties within the Maha Vikas Aghadi government have given four names each for the 12 Council seats to be filled with consent from Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. While the names are not being made public, Congress insiders claim that the four names are State unit spokesperson Sachin Sawant, senior leader Mohan Joshi, former MLA Muzaffar Hussain, and former minister Naseem Khan. “More than half a dozen north Indian Congress leaders such as Rajhans Singh, Ramesh Thakur, and Jaiprakash Singh have already been accommodated within the city unit of the BJP as senior office-bearers. The Mumbai Congress has already suffered in the previous civic polls. Despite this, the party leadership has not recognised the importance of keeping north Indian leadership intact,” another party leader said. The party leader pointed out that the Congress had two ministers in the State Cabinet from Mumbai city — one was a Muslim and the other Dalit — and the other two MLAs were Muslims. “The Congress is known to extend justice to all sections of society. North Indian voters are important in the upcoming civic polls in the beginning of 2022. Steps must be taken to bring the community back to the party from the BJP,” he said. Despite several attempts, Mumbai Congress president Eknath Gaikwad could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/discontent-within-mumbai-congress-over-nomination-to-council/article33007817.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||Decision on financial relief for electricity consumers before Deepavali: minister||Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut on Monday said that a proposal to extend financial relief to the domestic power consumers who received inflated bills for the period during the lockdown was being considered by the Finance Department and a decision would be taken before Deepavali. “The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted many employees. One of the reasons for increased bills was that people were asked to work from home. However, we have received complaints that many have got inflated power bills for that period. We have discussed ways to extend relief and expect that a decision will be taken before Deepavali,” Mr. Raut said. The minister visited Tata Thermal Power centre at Trombay. A number of consumers from different parts of the State had complained of inflated bills in August and September. While the minister had earlier too announced of extending relief to the affected consumers, the Finance Department led by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had expressed inability to bear the financial strain as the economy was already struggling due to the lockdown. Earlier, Mr. Raut said that his department had set up a technical audit committee to find out the reasons behind the complete power shutdown in Mumbai on October 12. “The Central Electricity Authority and the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) too have formed independent committees and combined suggestions from all three committees will be discussed in front of the MERC,” he said, adding that measures to improve islanding system for Mumbai and steps to be taken for modernisation would be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/decision-on-financial-relief-for-electricity-consumers-before-deepavali-minister/article33007822.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||Ajit Pawar discharged from hospital||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who was admitted to a city-based hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 last month, was discharged from the medical facility on Monday. Disclosing this, Mr. Pawar, who was admitted to the Breach Candy Hospital on October 26, said he would be in home quarantine for next some days and thanked those who had wished him a speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ajit-pawar-discharged-from-hospital/article33007813.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||Antigen test for lawyers, litigants at Family Court||There will be an antigen test for lawyers and litigants entering the Family Court premises starting November 3. The court had suspended physical hearings in view of the lockdown in March, which resumed on Monday. A notice was issued on Monday that said, “In order to ensure everyone’s safety at Family Court during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s H East ward will conduct free antigen tests for everyone from November 3.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/antigen-test-for-lawyers-litigants-at-family-court/article33007815.ece
03 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Fire breaks out near NMMC chief’s bungalow; no injuries||A minor fire broke out near the bungalow of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) Commissioner Abhijeet Bangar on Monday. The fire that was reported at 12.53 p.m. to the Nerul fire brigade office, was doused within 15 minutes. A team of six firemen and a tanker was dispatched for Mr. Bangar’s residence at Nerul. “The fire started outside the bungalow. After noticing sparks, the watchman and other workers at the bungalow alerted the fire office. The family of Mr. Bangar was immediately evacuated. Being a short circuit in the main connection of electricity cable, we first doused the fire with sand. After that, wiremen of the NMMC cut the power supply. We then used water to put out the blaze and also sprayed on the walls,” Nerul fire officer Vikas Koli said. Mr. Bangar, who was at the NMMC headquarters at the time of the incident, reached his house along with other senior officials. “Fire was contained within 15 minutes as it was a very breakout. Usually, we have to prepare a report in fire incidents. In this case, the incident was very minor and no report is being filed,” Mr. Koli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fire-breaks-out-near-nmmc-chiefs-bungalow-no-injuries/article33007816.ece
03 November 2020||Pune,||Quota issue: Shivendraraje urges Maratha leaders to fight together||Expressing concern over the simmering resentment among the Maratha youth after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Maratha quota law in Maharashtra, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Shivendraraje Bhosale on Monday urged community leaders to set aside their differences and stand together. Speaking at a round table conference of Maratha outfits in Satara, Mr. Bhosale — a direct descendant of the warrior King Chhatrapati Shivaji — warned that lack of unity among the community’s leaders could result in “a social Panipat”. The BJP legislator was alluding to the shocking military debacle suffered by the Maratha army in the Third Battle of Panipat in 1761. “I have come to this conference with a view to seeking justice for the Maratha community. I have not come here as a royal, but as a common member of my community. The apex court’s decision has irked the Maratha youth. Therefore, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government needs to sort out this issue on a priority basis,” Mr. Bhosale said. Imploring community leaders not to repeat history, he said that it would do no good to the cause if the community was riven with factionalism. Pawar’s attention The Satara royal, along with leaders of other Maratha outfits present on the occasion, demanded that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, whose party is an important part of the tripartite MVA, pay more attention to the quota issue. Skipping the meet Incidentally, despite Mr. Bhosale’s exhortations for community leaders to stand united, his cousin and rival from Satara — BJP MP Udayanraje Bhosale — who, too, was expected to be present, yet again skipped the conference. On Friday, Mr. Udayanraje had abruptly cancelled another conference that was scheduled to be held in Pune. Meanwhile, Aba Patil of the Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha said that the sub-committee on the Maratha reservation issue headed by Congressman Ashok Chavan had not been of any use to the community. ‘No requisite seriousness’ “We demand that the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government dismiss this committee and form a fresh one with new members who are seriously interested in working for the rights of the Maratha community. Up until now, the MVA has not shown the requisite seriousness in this matter,” Mr. Patil said. Urging Mr. Pawar to take on a major role in securing justice for the community, Mr. Patil said that Maratha outfits had lost faith in Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/quota-issue-shivendraraje-urges-maratha-leaders-to-fight-together/article33007821.ece
03 November 2020||Pune,||Free online classes begin for Class XI students||The Maharashtra Education Department on Monday started free online classes for Class XI students to prevent loss of the academic session due to the COVID-19 outbreak, an official said. The classes have begun on YouTube and over 60,000 first-year junior college (FYJC or Class XI) students have so far enrolled for these classes, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) director Dinkar Patil said. The decision to start online classes free of charge for FYJC arts, science and commerce students was taken to avoid the academic loss till colleges start functioning normally, he said. The admission process for the FYJC currently stands suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the Supreme Court order staying the implementation of reservation for Marathas in jobs and education. “Schools and colleges in the State are shut due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Besides the pandemic, the admission process for FYJC is suspended due to the ongoing Maratha quota issue,” Mr. Patil said. “To avoid the academic loss, we decided to start free online classes for arts, science and commerce students through YouTube,” he said. Mr. Patil said till Sunday evening, they received around 62,000 registrations from Class XI students for the online classes across the State. The registration is still going on, he added. As per the SCERT’s data, over 9,000 FYJC students from Pune and 7,600 from Mumbai have registered for the online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/free-online-classes-begin-for-class-xi-students/article33007814.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy birthday King Khan||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/happy-birthday-king-khan/article33008162.ece
03 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. sees 95 mn early votes; one more day to go||More than 95 million Americans had cast their votes in the 2020 presidential election by Monday, according to a tally by the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida, a harbinger of what is expected to be the highest turnout in modern times. Just a day before Election Day, the record-breaking number is equal to 69% of the entire voter turnout for the 2016 election. A sharp increase in mail-in and early in-person voting was largely prompted by the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 2,30,000 people in the United States and continues unabated in many States. President Donald Trump, his administration criticised for its handling of the COVID-19 outbreak, trails Democratic challenger Joe Biden in national opinion polls. But the race is still a toss-up in battleground States that decide the election through the Electoral College, including Arizona, Florida and North Carolina. In-person voting A large number of Mr. Trump's Republican supporters are expected to turn up in person to vote on Election Day after he sowed distrust, without evidence, of mail-in voting by asserting it was riddled with fraud. Democrats have largely embraced early voting, not only because of the pandemic, but also because of steps the Trump administration has taken to slow down the processing of U.S. mail. Experts predict turnout will easily surpass the 138 million who voted in 2016. Only 47 million votes were submitted before Election Day four years ago. With one day left for polling, President Trump and Mr. Biden stepped up campaigning in the battleground States on Monday. Former President Barack Obama, whom Mr. Biden served as Vice-President for eight years, will hold a get-out-the-vote rally in Atlanta on Monday before closing out the campaign in the evening with a rally in Miami. Mr. Biden has wrapped up the campaign on the offensive, travelling almost exclusively to States that Mr. Trump won in 2016 and criticising the President's response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has dominated the race. Mr. Biden accuses Mr. Trump of giving up on fighting the pandemic, which has killed more than 2,30,000 Americans and cost millions of jobs. Polls show Americans trust Mr. Biden more than Mr. Trump to fight the virus. During a frantic five-State swing on Sunday, Mr. Trump, who was impeached by the Democratic-led House of Representatives last December and acquitted by the Republican-controlled Senate in February, claimed he had momentum. He promised an economic revival and imminent delivery of a vaccine to fight the pandemic. Anthony Fauci, the top U.S. infectious diseases expert, has said the first doses of an effective coronavirus vaccine will likely become available to some high-risk Americans in late December or early January. Mr. Trump, who has often disagreed with Dr. Fauci publicly, suggested early on Monday he might fire him as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases after the election. ‘Terrible thing’ Mr. Trump again questioned the integrity of the U.S. election, saying a vote count that stretched past Election Day would be a “terrible thing” and suggesting his lawyers might get involved. “I don't think it's fair that we have to wait for a long period of time after the election,” Mr. Trump told reporters. Some States, including battlegrounds Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, do not start processing mail-in votes until Election Day, slowing the process. Mr. Trump has repeatedly said that mail-in votes are prone to fraud, although election experts say that is rare in U.S. elections. Mail voting is a long-standing feature of American elections, and about one in four ballots was cast that way in 2016. Democrats have pushed mail-in voting as a safe way to cast a ballot in the coronavirus pandemic, while Mr. Trump and Republicans are counting on a big Election Day in-person turnout. Both campaigns have created armies of lawyers in preparation for post-election litigation battles. “We're going in the night of — as soon as the election is over — we're going in with our lawyers,” Mr. Trump told reporters without offering further explanation. The Attorneys General of Michigan and Pennsylvania, both Democrats, challenged Mr. Trump's rhetoric on Twitter. “The election ends when all the votes are counted. Not when the polls close,” Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel wrote. In a sign of how volatile the election could be, buildings for blocks around the White House were boarded up over the weekend. Federal authorities planned to extend the perimeter fencing around the White House by several blocks, encompassing the same area fenced out during this summer's protests against racism. To help ensure mail-in ballots are delivered in a timely fashion, a judge on Sunday ordered the U.S. Postal Service to remind senior managers they must follow its “extraordinary measures” policy and use its Express Mail Network to expedite ballots. A federal judge in Texas on Monday will consider a Republican request to throw out about 1,27,000 votes already cast at drive-through voting sites in the Democratic-leaning Houston area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sees-95-mn-early-votes-one-more-day-to-go/article33007469.ece
03 November 2020||KABUL,||IS attack on Kabul University leaves 25 dead, 22 wounded||Gunmen in Afghanistan stormed Kabul University on Monday as it hosted a book fair attended by the Iranian Ambassador, sparking an hours-long gunbattle and leaving at least 19 dead and 22 wounded at the war-torn country’s largest school. Most of the casualties were students. There was no claim of responsibility but the Taliban issued a statement denying they took part in the assault, which came as the insurgents continue peace talks with representatives of Kabul’s U.S.-backed government, with the aim to help the U.S. finally withdraw from Afghanistan. As the attack unfolded, students and teachers were seen fleeing the campus while hand grenades exploded and automatic rifle fire could be heard. Scores of Afghan special forces surrounded the campus, shepherding teachers and students to safety. It was the second attack on an educational institution in Kabul in as many weeks. The Islamic State group claimed a brutal assault on a tutoring centre in the Afghan capital’s mostly Shiite neighbourhood of Dasht-e-Barchi that killed at least 24 students on October 24. Five hours into the fighting on Monday, sporadic grenade explosions and automatic weapons fire still echoed down the empty streets surrounding the university’s fenced compound. Afghan troops stood guard. Ahmad Samim, a university student, said he saw militants armed with pistols and Kalashnikov assault rifles firing at the university, the country’s oldest with some 17,000 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/attack-on-kabul-university-leaves-19-dead-22-wounded/article33007458.ece
03 November 2020||Melbourne,||Chennai-born Priyanca is New Zealand’s new Minister||Priyanca Radhakrishnan on Monday became New Zealand’s first-ever Indian-origin Minister after Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern inducted five new Ministers into her executive. “Today has been an incredibly special day. I’m feeling a lot of things including an overwhelming sense of privilege to become part of our Government,” the 41-year-old Labour Party leader said. Ms. Radhakrishnan was born in Chennai but her family is from Paravoor in Kerala. She went to school in Singapore before moving to New Zealand to further her education. She has spent her work life advocating on behalf of people whose voices are often unheard — women survivors of domestic violence and migrant workers who have been exploited. She was elected first as a Member of Parliament belonging to the Labour Party in September 2017. In 2019, she was appointed the Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Minister for Ethnic Communities. Her work in that area helped her build the base for her new role of Minister for Diversity, Inclusion and Ethnic Communities. In addition to this, she has become the Minister for the Community and Voluntary Sector and Associate Minister for Social Development and Employment. She has become New Zealand’s first-ever Kiwi Indian Minister, the New Zealand Herald newspaper quotedIndian Weekenderas saying. Ms. Radhakrishnan, who is from the 2017 intake of new MPs, is a Minister outside of the Cabinet. She lives in Auckland with her husband. New talents Announcing the names of the new Ministers, Prime Minister Ardern said: “I am excited to be bringing in some new talent, with first-hand experience in the areas that they will be working in, and reflecting the New Zealand that elected us on the 17th of October. “Within this lineup, I’m playing to people’s strengths,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-zealand-gets-its-first-ever-indian-origin-minister-report/article33007463.ece
03 November 2020||Kabul,||On Afghan highways, Taliban calls the shots||When the long-haul trucker drives past this hilltop police outpost in southern Afghanistan each week, he knows exactly what to do. The officers toss down a box tied to a length of rope and like all drivers, the trucker places 5,000 afghanis — about $65 — in the box, which the officers then reel back up to their outpost. The officers don’t dare collect such bribes in person, said trucker Dawlat Khan, “because the highway is controlled by the Taliban and the police are afraid to come out.” Since the U.S. signed a troop withdrawal agreement in February with the Taliban, the militants have established new checkpoints along major highways, seizing control of long stretches of roadways, extorting millions of dollars a month from truckers and travellers and even displacing the police’s own efforts to extort bribes. Truckers and bus drivers say government forces have remained inside their bases, all but handing over control of many roadways to Taliban fighters. The drivers say in addition to collecting “taxes,” the militants search vehicles for soldiers or government employees, sometimes executing them on the spot. The lucrative highway racket helps fund the Taliban’s war effort, but there is also a strategic purpose: The militants use their control of many highways to launch attacks on beleaguered government forces, bolstering their negotiating position at the stalled peace talks in Doha, Qatar. The Taliban takeover of sections of the country’s roadways is shifting the dynamic of the war, now in its nineteenth year, by making it more difficult for the government to resupply increasingly isolated garrisons and checkpoints.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/on-afghan-highways-taliban-calls-the-shots/article33007466.ece
03 November 2020||Islamabad,||Gilgit-Baltistan to be a full province: Pak. PM||Prime Minister Imran Khan has angered India after declaring that part of the contested Kashmir region will provisionally become a full province of Pakistan. Pakistan has administered the area now known as Gilgit-Baltistan since shortly after the country’s birth in 1947, but New Delhi asserts the mountainous territory bordering China and Afghanistan is an integral part of Kashmir. “We have decided to grant provisional provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan, which was a long-standing demand here,” Mr. Khan said in a speech in Gilgit city on Sunday. The move comes after New Delhi last year revoked the special status of Kashmir, upending a decades-long status quo and drawing strong condemnation from Islamabad. Mr. Khan, who was speaking ahead of local elections slated for November 15, did not provide a timeline for the move. Chinese role China has spent years building infrastructure projects in Gilgit-Baltistan, home to an estimated 1.3 million people, including a long stretch of the Karakoram Highway, a key component to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Mr. Khan said the modern and well-maintained road had brought important progress to Gilgit-Baltistan and the move to make the area a province would help “uplift backward areas and poor segments of society”. Any change in status would require a constitutional amendment. If finalised, it would make Gilgit-Baltistan Pakistan’s fifth province. ‘Illegal occupation’ New Delhi condemned Mr. Khan’s announcement, saying it would “bring material changes to a part of Indian territory”. “Such attempts by Pakistan, intended to camouflage its illegal occupation, cannot hide the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom for over seven decades to the people residing in these Pakistan-occupied territories,” India’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Shri Anurag Srivastava said in a statement. Two of the three wars the rival neighbours have fought since independence have been over Kashmir — home to shrinking Himalayan glaciers seen as vital lifelines to the water stressed countries. In a move that outraged Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government last year revoked articles in the Constitution that guaranteed Kashmir’s partial autonomy and other rights, including its own flag and Constitution. The two parts of Kashmir are divided by a Line of Control that is subject to frequent cross-border shellings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gilgit-baltistan-to-be-a-full-province-pak-pm/article33007465.ece
03 November 2020||Moscow,||Snowden aims to become dual U.S.-Russian citizen||Fugitive U.S. whistleblower Edward Snowden said on Monday he had applied for Russian citizenship but would keep his U.S. nationality. The former American intelligence contractor, who revealed in 2013 that the U.S. government was spying on its citizens, has been living in exile in Russia since the revelations. Mr. Snowden’s tweet comes weeks after he was granted permanent residency in the country, and just days after his partner Lindsay Mills announced she was pregnant. He tweeted: “After years of separation from our parents, my wife and I have no desire to be separated from our son.”  Moscow only recently relaxed its strict citizenship laws to allow individuals to hold Russian passports without rejecting their original nationalities. In the short thread, Mr. Snowden emphasised that he and Ms. Mills would “remain Americans, raising our son with all the values of the America we love — including the freedom to speak his mind.” The former U.S. contractor is wanted in the U.S. on espionage charges after he leaked information showing that agents from the National Security Agency were collecting telephone records from millions of U.S. citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/snowden-aims-to-become-dual-us-russian-citizen/article33007460.ece
03 November 2020||Tunis,||Al-Qaeda threatens Macron over remarks||Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb urged its followers on Monday to kill anyone insulting the Prophet Mohammed and threatened French President Emmanuel Macron over his remarks on Islam. Last month, Mr. Macron defended the publication of cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed on the grounds of freedom of speech, launching a campaign against Islamic radicalism and sparking fury across the Muslim world. “Killing anyone who insults the Prophet is the right of each and every Muslim,” the jihadist group, known by its French acronym AQMI, said in a statement. Mr. Macron's remarks came after beheading of French teacher Samuel Paty near Paris by a suspected jihadist, after Paty had shown his students cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed during a civics lesson. That followed the re-publication of the controversial cartoons in September by satirical French weekly Charlie Hebdo . Mr. Macron has vowed to defend freedom of speech, but anger has spread among Muslims worldwide, with many vowing to boycott French products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/al-qaeda-threatens-macron-over-remarks/article33008066.ece
03 November 2020||Paris,||As schools reopen, France honours slain teacher||France on Monday honoured the teacher beheaded near his school by a suspected Islamist radical as millions of students returned to class after a spate of attacks that have put the country on edge. Schoolchildren across France observed a minute of silence at 11 a.m. to remember Samuel Paty, who was killed in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, outside Paris, on October 16 just as the holiday began. Paty had shown his class a cartoon of the prophet Mohammed for a lesson on freedom of expression, spurring an online campaign targeting him. His killing further heightened tensions as President Emmanuel Macron spearheads a campaign against Islamist radicalism. Schoolchildren — wearing masks — stood behind their desks or in schoolyards for the minute of silence. The gesture was matched by similar minutes of silence called as a show of solidarity by the authorities in Germany and Greece. Schools in France are reopening with the country at maximum terror alert, and parents have been told not to linger at school gates after dropping off their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-schools-reopen-france-honours-slain-teacher/article33007461.ece
03 November 2020||Dhaka,||Thousands in Dhaka rally against France||At least 50,000 people took part on Monday in the biggest demonstration yet in Bangladesh over French President Emmanuel Macron’s defence of the right to publish cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, police said. A rally which started at Bangladesh’s biggest mosque was stopped from getting close to the French Embassy, where security has been stepped up. Police estimated some 50,000 people took part in the protest. Protesters called for boycott of French products and chanted “No defamation of the Prophet”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-in-dhaka-rally-against-france/article33007456.ece
03 November 2020||London,||London, Nov 2, 2020 (AFP) -||Nigel Farage, the driving force behind Brexit, was on Monday set to relaunch his political party as “Reform UK”, with a main focus to oppose the government’s coronavirus lockdowns. “The single most pressing issue is the government’s woeful response to coronavirus. The strategy has been to terrify the nation into submission, coupled with a barrage of lockdowns, rules, regulations and threats... This is no way to tackle a disease that may be around for a long time, perhaps forever,” Mr. Farage said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-nov-2-2020-afp/article33007455.ece
03 November 2020||London,||London, Nov 2, 2020 (AFP) -||Hollywood star Johnny Depp on Monday lost his libel battle with British tabloid The Sun that labelled him a “wife beater”, after a London High Court ruled he had repeatedly assaulted his former partner and put her in fear for her life. In a ruling that could severely damage Depp’s reputation and career, the judge said he accepted claims from the actor’s ex-wife, actress Amber Heard, that he had violently assaulted her. Ms. Heard said Depp would turn into a “monster”, after binging on drugs and alcohol.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-nov-2-2020-afp/article33008069.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Education, the nation and the States||Towards the end of a recent webinar on the National Education Policy 2020, a retired civil servant asked a question. Referring to Centre-State relations and roles in education, he asked whether the new policy gives the Centre a predatory role. The use of the word ‘predatory’ felt a bit sharp in the context of education, but the intention obviously was to ascertain whether the new policy observes federal courtesy. Even the 1986 policy didn’t fully acknowledge the variety prevailing in provincial practices and the legacies those practices are rooted in. The trend has been to assume that a national system will evolve and iron out provincial variations. That is a strange assumption. For education to fulfil its social role, it must respond to the specific milieu in which the young are growing up. India has sufficient experience of attempts made from the national level to influence systemic realities on the ground. There is a considerable history of strong recommendations made by national commissions and of provincial recalcitrance. States have their own social worlds to deal with, and they often prefer to carry on with the ways they became familiar with in colonial days. A prime example is the continuation of intermediate or junior colleges in several States more than half a century after the Kothari Commission gave its much acclaimed report. Evolution in the provinces Historically, the system of education evolved in the provinces. One hundred years ago, the Central Advisory Board of Education was created to co-ordinate regional responses to common issues. The ‘advisory’ character of this administrative mechanism meant that the Board served mainly as a discussion forum. The Constitution, in its original draft, treated the States as the appropriate sphere for dealing with education. But unlike some other federal countries, India chose to have a Ministry of Education at the Centre. Its role was not merely decorative or confined to coordination among differing State perspectives and practices; rather, the Centre was expected to articulate aims and standards, or to pave the road to nation-building and development. Soon after independence, a more substantial sphere of the Centre’s activities in education emerged in the shape of advanced institutions in professional fields and schools specifically meant for the children of civil servants transferrable across India. Such institutions received higher investment than the States could afford. The same can be said for national-level resource institutions which guided policy and encouraged new practices. Thus, concurrency was already a reality before the 1976 amendment formally included it in the Constitution. What it might mean after the Emergency was an open question. A decade later, when the national policy was drafted under a youthful leader, it emphasised national concerns and perspective without specifically referring to provincial practices that indicated strong divergence. Engagement with the States remained a function of the Planning Commission. In the meantime, a burgeoning private sector had begun to push both public policy and popular perceptions of education. The force of this push can be measured from the difference between the 1986 policy and its own action programme published six years later. Throughout the 1990s, those in charge of education remained hesitant to explain publicly how exactly liberalisation would apply to this traditionally public responsibility. The rapidly expanding and globalising urban middle class had already begun to secede from the public system, posing the awkward question of why education cannot be sold if there are willing buyers. Systemic chaos grew, leaving the policy behind. Three systems India now has three systems. To call them sectors would be an understatement. There is a Central system, running an exam board that has an all-India reach through affiliation with English-medium private schools catering to regional elites. Two school chains run by the Centre are part of this system. The Central system also includes advanced professional institutes and universities that have access to greater per capita funding than what their counterparts run by the States can afford. These latter ones belong to the second system which also features provincial secondary boards affiliating schools teaching in State languages. The third system is based on purely private investment. Internationally accredited school boards and globally connected private universities are part of this third system. These institutions represent a new level of freedom from state norms. An explicit attempt was made under the Right to Education (RTE) Act to bridge the first two systems. The RTE is a parliamentary law, providing a set of standards for elementary education and a call to private schools to provide for social justice via the quota route. In higher education, such an attempt to balance private autonomy with an obligation to provide social justice is yet to be made in any palpable sense. Accreditation norms and recognition procedures create a semblance of public accountability. Coordination among the three systems has proved unmanageable, even in purely functional terms. The least we might expect would be a reliable mechanism to reconcile the marking standards of different Boards and universities. Far harder is the coordination required in adherence to social responsibilities in a period of rapid economic change. Inequalities have become sharper with the rise in overall prosperity. Education must mediate between different social strata divided by caste and economic status. The recent attempt made by Tamil Nadu to create a modest quota in NEET for students who attended government schools points towards an endemic problem exacerbated by centralisation. Social vision The new policy document underestimates the problem of reconciling the three systems. The architect of many of our national-level institutions, the late J.P. Naik, used to say that we must ask what kind of human being and society we want before we draft a policy in education. Apart from that philosophical question, we also need a systemic vision: both for recovery from institutional decay and for future progress. Functional uniformity is unlikely to offer any real solution. That is what the new policy seems to favour. In higher education, it proposes nationally codified and administered measures to oversee institutional transformation across State capitals and district towns. The assumption is that old structures will melt like wax under the heat of an empowered vision. The idea of a monolithic regulatory architecture to control a system that is privatising at a rapid pace suggests a tempting impulse rather than a considered plan. Sufficient indication has existed for many years now that economic policy favours greater private enterprise in higher education. How to reconcile this push with the necessity of equitable public education is a nagging question. Similar is the question of autonomy; it cannot be interpreted in financial terms alone. The many different ways in which the States have maintained their colleges and universities cannot all be regarded as signs of a dysfunctional or failing system. If failure is the criterion for choice of remedy, gradations of failure will have to be determined first and their causes studied before remedial steps are contemplated. To accept that one size does not fit all, and then to push every foot into a chosen shoe takes self-contradictory parlance to a new level. At the school level too, the new policy proposes a post-RTE structural shift, ignoring the fact that the RTE itself has not yet been fully implemented. It is useful to recall that the RTE was drafted with prolonged involvement with the States, not mere consultation. The consensus for such a law was no less difficult to create than the formulation of its content. A vital role was played by the highest judiciary in pushing the polity towards recognising children’s right to be at school rather than at work. This was a historic social turn towards greater parity between sharply unequal strata. It might not have been accomplished if the Centre had not played an assertive role. Further progress of this role called for continued financial support for the implementation of RTE and policy guidance for the proper use of this support so that regional disparities diminish. Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training and editor of the Routledge Handbook of Education in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/education-the-nation-and-the-states/article33007440.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Reinforcing RBI’s accountability||Popular narrative suggests that the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a low tolerance for inflation. But this may not be very accurate. In each of the last three quarters, average inflation has not only exceeded the target, but has persisted above the upper tolerance limit set by the Centre. Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI), was 6.7% in the January-March quarter, 6.6% in the April-June quarter (based on imputed data) and 6.9% in the July-September quarter. At 5.8%, the average inflation rate for the October-December 2019 quarter was also within a hair’s breadth of the upper tolerance limit. The inflation target, notified in August 2016, is 4%. The upper tolerance level was set at 6% and the lower tolerance level at 2%. Average inflation overshooting the upper tolerance level or remaining below the lower tolerance level for any three consecutive quarters constitutes a failure to achieve the inflation target. In such an event, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is required to send a report to the Centre, stating the reasons for the failure to achieve the inflation target, the remedial actions it proposes to initiate, and an estimate of the time-period within which it expects to achieve the inflation target through the corrective steps proposed. Through amendments passed by Parliament in 2016, these new provisions were written into the RBI Act. They are aimed at ensuring enhanced transparency and accountability of the central bank and are a key feature of the inflation-targeting regimeagreedupon between the RBI and Finance Ministry. Data limitations For a while now, a determined lobby, with elements both within and outside government, has been injecting confusion into the discourse on the desirability of persisting with the inflation-targeting regime. This is probably because high inflation makes all that is measured in nominal terms appear rosier — like business revenues and profits, or tax collection figures in the Finance Ministry’s budget arithmetic. The minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting after its August policy review suggest that the RBI’s defence for the breach of the 4% inflation target and 6% upper tolerance limit was the handicap of data limitations. The normal data collection exercise of the National Statistics Office was disrupted during the lockdown imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The publication of the CPI had to be suspended for the months of April and May. The CPI for these two months was imputed using proxies for several of the index’s components, as field visits for collecting the requisite price data were put off, leading the MPC to conclude that the improvised prints ought to be regarded as a break in the CPI series for the purpose of monetary policy decisions. Accommodative range However, the break that the MPC referred to is not visible in the inflation data. The data for the last four quarters — 5.8%, 6.7%, 6.6%, 6.9% — appears continuous. The average inflation for the April-June quarter, at 6.6%, looks reasonable, despite the imputations, probably because, as the RBI’s October Monetary Policy Report notes, once the COVID-19-related restrictions were lifted and non-essential activities partially restored, data collection resumed, allowing for the provisional index for June to be compiled. Prices could be collected from 1,030 urban markets and 998 villages, that accounted for 88% of the total sample. Even so, the justification of data complications, which is a rather weak one, it has been reported, is likely to be made the basis for exempting the RBI from complying with the requirement of writing to the Finance Ministry, explaining why inflation missed both the target and the upper tolerance limit. This is inexcusable.  The range around the inflation target that the Ministry provided to the RBI is for accommodating constraints and challenges like data limitations. The press statement that the Finance Ministry had issued at the time of setting the target makes this quite clear. The whole point of the range around the target, the statement emphasised, is that it “accommodates data limitations, projection errors, short-run supply gaps and fluctuations in the agriculture production”. The last factor is an important one for CPI inflation, as food articles constitute about 46% of the CPI basket.   The range, according to the Ministry’s statement, allows for unanticipated short-term shocks to be accommodated, even while nudging public inflation expectations to the target at the centre of the range, to which the monetary policy ought to return the economy over the medium term. It is hard to imagine what could be gained by letting the RBI side-step the institutional mechanism provided under the RBI Act for explaining the challenges it is up against in meeting the inflation target and what needs to be done to manage them. Why should the RBI not be made to explain what it plans to do to control inflation? The central bank should be allowed to state expressly what support by way of government policy it needs to meet the inflation target. This can only strengthen the RBI’s hand; it should not let go of the opportunity to reinforce the MPC framework. Transparency can enable more informed decision-making within the government, greater public scrutiny of the RBI’s performance, and an improved inflation-targeting regime. To slack off on it would be to compromise with the credibility, transparency and predictability of monetary policy. Puja Mehra is a Delhi-based journalist and author of The Lost Decade||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reinforcing-rbis-accountability/article33007448.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Serosurveys underestimate building of herd immunity||The theory behind population-based serological surveys (seroprevalence surveys or serosurveys) to detect the prevalence of antibodies against COVID-19 is robust. Their purpose is to measure the proportion of a population already infected, as evidenced by antibody positivity. When applied on a national scale, a random sample of the entire population is tested. Then, the data are extrapolated to the whole population. ‘Random’, according to the dictionary, means something without a deliberate order. In biostatistics, it means each individual has an equal probability of getting selected. Statisticians stratify the population and select a random sample from all strata so that the prevalence figure obtained is representative of the whole population. The result of random sample serosurveys can be confidently extrapolated to obtain national-level prevalence of antibodies. What antibody tests say Unfortunately there are problems with the antibody tests. Antibodies are the footprints of the host’s response to virus infection. Their presence in the blood-serum confirms past infection. However, test results for antibodies throw up surprises. Antibody prevalence data derived from serosurveys must be interpreted with caution and correction factors. The virus carries several antigens, both on the surface and internally. The body responds to all of them. Four antigens selected to detect antibodies are spike protein (S1, S2), receptor-binding domain (RBD) and nucleocapsid (N). An antibody against each antigen has its own time of appearance, duration in blood and rate of decay over time. Moreover, detection of antibodies does not correlate well with the protective virus-neutralising function of immunity. Testing for virus-neutralising antibodies is not an option, since handling the virus is risky for lab personnel. It is prohibited in clinical labs and restricted to selected research labs. Recent publications in The Journal of the American Medical Association and The New England Journal of Medicine say that in people with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infections, these antibody levels decline over time, reaching 50% of the initial levels by about 36 days and become undetectable by 60 days after proven infection. Such asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cases constitute more than 80% of those infected with the virus. In a study on exposure-prone healthcare workers in Tennessee, nearly half the subjects with S2 antibodies became negative in two months. If both S2 and RBD antibodies are detected, the results correlate better with the neutralising function. Also, one or the other may persist longer. However, available test kits use only one antigen. The Indian Council of Medical Research conducted two serosurveys: May 11-June 4 and August 17-September 22. The first survey measured S1 antibody and the second survey used another antigen, rendering inter-survey comparison problematic. The latent period between infection and the appearance of a detectable antibody is about four weeks. Therefore, the results of the first serosurvey pertain predominantly to the antibody status of subjects from April 13 to May 7. Those who got infected after May 7 would have been eclipsed in the study. So the result is an underestimate of the true value. The seroprevalence was 0.73% and that was extrapolated to about 30%-35% of the population having antibodies when India saw the epidemic peak in mid-September. Since infections were very few before April 13, the results of the first serosurvey were reasonably time-appropriate and the extrapolation close to the true situation. A study by the Department of Science and Technology concluded that at the peak time, the proportion of the population with antibodies was 28%, close to the published estimate of 30%-35%. The second serosurvey gave 7.1% prevalence for those immune between July 20 and August 25. For the sake of simplifying calculations, we assign August 4, the midpoint of this time interval to represent the second survey results. Subjects who were antibody positive by August 4 would have contracted the infection a month earlier by July 4. The result is not time-appropriate as at least 50% of those infected two months earlier by June 4 (representing the midpoint between April 20 and June 25) would have become antibody negative. This was the time when infections were rapidly rising. In short, the result is a gross underestimate of the true level of those with antibodies. Taking 50% as the correction factor, prevalence was 14.2% on August 4. From August 4 to September 16, (the day of the peak) new cases increased from 51,282 to 97,859 by a factor of 1.9. So, the estimated proportion of the population infected at the peak could have been 14.2 X 1.9=27 %. Cautious interpretation Evidently, serosurvey results have to be cautiously interpreted to arrive at the true level of prevalence of antibodies. If taken at face value, serosurvey results grossly underestimate true prevalence, except in the very early phase of the epidemic when infected people two months earlier were very few. Misinterpreting serosurvey results has serious consequences for understanding the epidemic profile. What is in store for India? Several countries have second or even third waves of infection. Will India face such waves? If the peak coincided with 27%-35% prevalence, the epidemic is likely to evolve as endemic after another 30% are infected in the post-peak phase of the epidemic. The predicted herd immunity level needed to end the epidemic was 60%, for a normal epidemic curve with peak at its halfway mark. For a normal epidemic curve, the cumulative number of people infected before the peak will be equal to the number who will be infected after the peak because the curve is bell-shaped. That means we did not manage to flatten the curve and further waves are unlikely. However, the speed with which people will get infected in various localities depends on human behaviour. Pre-peak there was fear and people practised social distancing and wore masks. Post-peak, many have no fear and are more relaxed about good practices to prevent infection. Major festivals are approaching. Unless care is taken, they may enhance transmission frequency, giving rise to local outbreaks and infection waves, but they are unlikely to disturb the downward slope of the national epidemic curve because half of the herd immunity level required to end the epidemic was already reached by mid-September. Governments must continuously exhort citizens not to let their guard down, not only for the safety of those who celebrate, but also, more importantly, their family members, particularly senior citizens. People can celebrate festivals but governments must enforce strict norms regarding crowding, especially inside buildings. Dr. M.S. Seshadri is Retired Professor of Clinical Endocrinology and Medicine, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, and now Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu; Dr. T. Jacob John is Retired Professor of Virology, CMC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/serosurveys-underestimate-building-of-herd-immunity/article33007437.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The nutrition fallout of school closures||As many as 116 million is the number of children we are looking at when we consider the indefinite school closure in India. The largest school-feeding programme in the world, that has undoubtedly played an extremely significant role in increasing nutrition and learning among schoolgoing children, has been one of the casualties of the COVID-19 pandemic. The report of The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020, released by the Food and Agriculture Organization in partnership with other UN organisations, painted a worrying picture. A real-time monitoring tool estimated that as of April 2020, the peak of school closures, 369 million children globally were losing out on school meals, a bulk of whom were in India. Pressing issue The recent Global Hunger Index (GHI) report for 2020 ranks India at 94 out of 107 countries and in the category ‘serious’, behind our neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. The index is a combination of indicators of undernutrition in the population and wasting, stunting, and mortality in children below five years of age. We are already far out in terms of achieving the ‘Zero Hunger’ goal, and in the absence of urgent measures to address the problem, the situation will only worsen. A report by the International Labour Organization and the UNICEF, on COVID-19 and child labour, cautions that unless school services and social security are universally strengthened, there is a risk that some children may not even return to schools when they reopen. A mid-day meal in India should provide 450 Kcal of energy, a minimum of 12 grams of proteins, including adequate quantities of micronutrients like iron, folic acid, Vitamin-A, etc., according to the mid-day meal scheme (MDMS) guidelines. This is approximately one-third of the nutritional requirement of the child, with all school-going children from classes I to VIII in government and government-aided schools being eligible. However, many research reports, and even the Joint Review Mission of MDMS, 2015-16 noted that many children reach school on an empty stomach, making the school’s mid-day meal a major source of nutrition for children, particularly those from vulnerable communities. In orders in March and April 2020, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and closure of schools, the Government of India announced that the usual hot-cooked mid-day meal or an equivalent food security allowance/dry ration would be provided to all eligible school-going children even during vacation, to ensure that their immunity and nutrition is not compromised. Nearly three months into this decision, States were still struggling to implement this. According to the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) food grain bulletin, the offtake of grains under MDMS from FCI during April and May, 2020 was 221.312 thousand tonnes. This was 60 thousand tonnes, or 22%, lower than the corresponding offtake during April and May, 2019 (281.932 thousand tonnes). There were 23 States and Union Territories that reported a decline in the grain offtake from FCI in April-May 2020, compared with corresponding months in 2019. The State of Bihar, for instance, which lifted 44.585 thousand tonnes in April and May 2019, had no offtake during these two months in 2020. Data and media reports indicate that dry ration distributions in lieu of school meals are irregular. Further, since the distribution of dry ration started only in late May, a few experts — like Dipa Sinha of Ambedkar University — are calling for immediate distribution of the April quota, to which the children are entitled. The other worrying angle is the fact that there are reports of children engaging in labour to supplement the fall in family incomes in vulnerable households. In July this year, the Madras High Court also took cognisance of the issue and asked the Tamil Nadu government to respond on the subject of how, with schools closed, the nutritional needs of children were being fulfilled. Serving hot meals, at the children’s homes or even at the centre, may have challenges in the present scenario. Even States like Tamil Nadu, with a relatively good infrastructure for the MDMS, are unable to serve the mandated ‘hot cooked meal’ during the lockdown. Innovative strategies Local smallholder farmers’ involvement in school feeding is suggested by experts, such as Basanta Kumar Kar, who has been at the helm of many nutrition initiatives. He suggests a livelihood model that links local smallholder farmers with the mid-day meal system for the supply of cereals, vegetables, and eggs, while meeting protein and hidden hunger needs, which could diversify production and farming systems, transform rural livelihoods and the local economy, and fulfill the ‘Atmanirbhar Poshan’ (nutritional self-sufficiency) agenda. The COVID-19 crisis has also brought home the need for such decentralised models and local supply chains. There are also new initiatives such as the School Nutrition (Kitchen) Garden under MDMS to provide fresh vegetables for mid-day meals. Besides ensuring these are functional, hot meals can be provided to eligible children with a plan to prepare and distribute the meal in the school mid-day meal centre. This is similar to free urban canteens or community kitchens for the elderly and others in distress in States like Odisha. Also, adequate awareness about of the availability of the scheme is needed. Thirdly, locally produced vegetables and fruits may be added to the MDMS, also providing an income to local farmers. Besides, distribution of eggs where feasible (and where a State provision is already there) can be carried out. Most of all, the missed mid-day meal entitlement for April may be provided to children as dry ration with retrospective effect. Across the country and the world, innovative learning methods are being adopted to ensure children’s education outcomes. With continuing uncertainty regarding the reopening of schools, innovation is similarly required to ensure that not just food, but nutrition is delivered regularly to millions of children. Bhavani R.V. has contributed to this article. The authors work with the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-nutrition-fallout-of-school-closures/article33007453.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Science vs. Trump||The categorical endorsement by renowned science journals of the Democratic contender in the U.S. presidential race is a plausible response to Donald Trump administration’s comprehensively hostile stance towards all evidence-based research and scientific institutions. Premier academic journal Nature and its more popular counterpart, the Scientific American , have openly backed former Vice-President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the contest, emphasising his faith in the enterprise of science and his commitment to the multilateral framework. The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) has adopted a seemingly more circumspect position, urging voters to deny Mr. Trump a second term. The London-based Nature’s recent editorial is perhaps the most sweeping of all the criticism, as it repudiates the President’s anti-science, anti-immigrant and blatantly xenophobic policies. The journal deplores the so-called ‘America first’ approach as no more than a subterfuge for ‘Trump first’, as the President has gone about withdrawing Washington from the landmark Paris climate deal, from the Iran nuclear agreement in 2018, and the World Health Organization this year. The NEJM’s editorial, “Dying in a leadership vacuum”, is the first time in its more than 200-year-old history that the institution has weighed into a presidential contest. It is also only the fourth instance that all of its editors have thrown their weight behind the widely-read column. The failure of the leadership in the U.S. is, in its view, why the country accounts simultaneously for the largest number of COVID-19 cases in the world, and over 215,000 deaths now. Particularly scathing is the observation that “Instead of relying on expertise, the administration has turned to uninformed opinion leaders and charlatans who obscure the truth and facilitate the promulgation of outright lies”. The NEJM highlights another glaring contrast — the mortality rate from the disease has been three deaths per million in China, the country home to the world’s largest population, compared to over 500 deaths per million in the U.S., the world’s richest nation. Further, the ratio of tests conducted per infected person in the country is way below than in nations with meagre medical capacity, such as Kazakhstan, Zimbabwe and Ethiopia. The intervention by the top-ranking peer-reviewed journals into the 2020 presidential contest is evidently uncharacteristic, if not entirely unprecedented. Noteworthy is Nature’s June 1933 editorial, unequivocally condemning the consequences for academic freedom arising from Germany’s expulsion of eminent intellectuals and artists under the sway of Adolf Hitler’s fanatical ultranationalism. A slew of missteps The candour of the three publications underscores the dangerous levels to which the trust, confidence and credibility of various specialised agencies have been undermined during the Trump administration. The administration, anxious to announce a breakthrough COVID-19 vaccine ahead of the November 3 election, recently sought to block the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from releasing additional guidelines in order to boost public confidence. Earlier, the agency was pressured into authorising the malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, to treat hospitalised COVID-19 patients, before the manifestation of side-effects forced a reversal of the decision. Instructions issued in July to hospitals to transfer data concerning patients directly to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services raised concerns that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was being bypassed. The body has since come under pressure over norms on reopening of schools and gathering in public places. The CDC’s crucial guideline for passengers and employees to wear masks in public transportation has been overruled. Against this gloomy backdrop, the three journals have clearly determined that silence would amount to complicity. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/science-vs-trump/article33007449.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||End of the tunnel?||Over Rs. 1.05 lakh crore has been collected from the Goods and Services Tax in October, the highest monthly revenue from the indirect tax since February 2020. This marks the second successive month of a year-on-year uptick in the GST kitty — the 10.25% rise in October was preceded by a 4% increase in September. Coming on the back of six successive months of contraction in GST revenues beginning March when the lockdown was imposed, this two-month trend clearly signifies a recovery is underway in the economy, the government has claimed. October’s revenues broadly pertain to economic activity that occurred in September, a month in which significant improvements were recorded in a range of high-frequency indicators, including exports and the purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for manufacturing. Only a part of that can be explained by the base effect — September 2019 had seen a dip in several indicators. Indeed, the wider unlocking of the economy in September when public transport restrictions were lifted and several sectors were allowed to operate with fewer curbs, helped. After the 23.9% collapse for the economy in the first quarter of 2020-21, the sense of relief from a string of positive numbers isn’t misplaced. The few signs that have come in about October’s economic performance suggest GST revenues could remain healthy in November too. The manufacturing PMI for October, released on Monday, has risen even higher, indicating large firms scaled up production further. India’s largest auto makers have clocked record sales in October, which incidentally should prop up the GST cess collections used to compensate States — a federal flashpoint this year. Yet, any prognosis of a full-fledged economic recovery could still prove to be premature and illusory. Economists have reservations about reading too much into the September-October data as a sustainable trend, for it partly represents pent-up demand brewing over the months of lockdown finding expression, and partly India’s fabled festive season effect. North Block mandarins recently critiqued these ‘experts’ for their changing opinions, swinging from a doomsday scenario in June to a cynical ‘pent-up demand’ surmise when economic indicators improve. Talking up the economy is perhaps a necessary policy device at times, but equally critical is a realistic assessment of ground realities so as to prepare better for what lies ahead. One such parameter that needs attention is employment. The government has not ruled out more stimulus measures in the coming months. Much depends on the sensitivity of its evolving worldview, be it about the pandemic’s spread and control, or the most challenged sectors in the economy that still need support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/end-of-the-tunnel/article33007431.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to school||The most significant aspect of continued unlocking of public activity during the COVID-19 pandemic is the decision of many States to reopen schools in November. While some, such as Andhra Pradesh and Assam, have allowed pupils back on campus from November 2, many others are waiting until Deepavali to resume classes. Attendance at schools remains voluntary, since the Centre’s guidelines, which now extend until the end of November, specify that parents can decide what their wards should do. Existing regulations allow research scholars and students who have to take up practical work to resume from October 15, but colleges remain understandably cautious and want to adopt a staggered approach to reopening. India’s revitalised public sphere outside containment zones, with shops and restaurants open, and buses and urban trains on stream, is set to widen its scope as cinemas also open at half capacity. These activities will restore the sinews of the economy, but they come with the risk of exposing more people to the coronavirus. At the end of several fatiguing months of restrictions, the belief that India has crossed peak infections and reduced its transmission rate could well prompt citizens to become lax about safe behaviour — proper, universal use of face coverings, personal hygiene and distancing norms. This could pose an unprecedented risk, since children who are believed to be less affected by the infection could bring the virus home to vulnerable individuals, a phenomenon experienced after reopening schools in Israel. Minimising negative impacts during the unlock and pre-vaccine phase, therefore, requires unwavering adherence to safety protocols, and additional vigilance on the part of State health authorities who must monitor the situation in educational institutions. Globally, reopening of schools has elicited mixed reactions, but governments have deferred to the learning needs of children in Europe where lockdowns have been reimposed due to a fresh wave of cases. In any case, data published in August show that children represented less than 5% of all infections in 27 European countries. Teachers’ unions in Britain are calling for limited classes to help disadvantaged children and those with parental commitments; public schools in many U.S. States remain closed while some private institutions have reopened; France is asking even small children to wear masks along with teachers. The consensus is to prevent crowding, mandate masks, and allow natural air to ventilate rooms. Such precautions have universal applicability as preventive measures. A reopening will revive the economy, but it need not impose a deadly price in the form of avoidable and invisible deaths among the elderly and the vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-to-school/article33007432.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Elections in “Azad Kashmir” (From an Editorial)||The first elections under adult franchise have been held in “Azad Kashmir” (the area of Kashmir seized by Pakistani troops in 1947 and divided from the rest of the State by the ceasefire line) though Baltistan and Gilgit were excluded from the election. There are only 1,06,000 voters and they had to choose both a president and 24 members of the legislative assembly. Under the new constitution devised by President Yahya Khan, decisions of the elected president of “Azad Kashmir” can be reversed only by two-thirds of the assembly membership. It is not surprising that Sardar Qayyum, leader of the Azad Muslim Conference and a former nominated president, has outdistanced his rivals. He is a man who stands for a strong centre, whereas some of the others have local support. For example, Sardar Ibrahim is based mainly on Poonch (where there was once a revolt against the centre) and Mr. K H. Khurshid draws his support from the refugee element in the State. Mr. Maqbool Ahmad Butt, leader of the Plebiscite Front, is reported to have been arrested with two of his colleagues. It seems that his party stands for the independence of Kashmir and is inclined to adopt terrorist methods to achieve its aim. It is perhaps needless to add that all the four parties who fielded 140 candidates for the assembly regard the election as one which concerns the whole of pre-Partition Kashmir and are pledged to recover the whole territory by fair means or foul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/elections-in-azad-kashmir-from-an-editorial/article33007445.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Manufacturing grows fastest since 2007’||India’s manufacturing sector activity improved for the third straight month in October with companies raising output to the greatest extent in 13 years amid robust sales growth, a monthly survey indicated on Monday. The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 56.8 in September to 58.9 in October, and pointed to the strongest improvement in the health of the sector in more than a decade. April’s contraction In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode, after remaining in growth territory for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “Levels of new orders and output at Indian manufacturers continued to recover from the COVID-19 induced contractions seen earlier in the year, with the PMI results for October highlighting historically-sharp monthly rates of expansion,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. ‘Resurgence will sustain’ Ms. Lima further noted that “companies were convinced that the resurgence in sales will be sustained in coming months, as indicated by a strong upturn in input buying amid restocking efforts”. Manufacturers indicated that the ongoing relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions, better market conditions and improved demand helped them to secure new work in October. ‘Payrolls shrinking’ On the employment front, the compliance with government guidelines related to the COVID-19 pandemic caused a further reduction in employment. The fall was the seventh in consecutive months. “There was disappointing news on the employment front though, with October seeing another reduction in payroll numbers. Survey participants that noted job shedding mentioned having observed containment measures to halt the spread of the [novel] coronavirus disease,” Ms. Lima said. Inflationary pressures remained subdued as seen by a modest increase in input costs and only marginal rise in selling prices. ‘At a 50-month high’ Meanwhile, hopes of an end to COVID-19 cases and the reopening of other sectors in the economy underpinned positive sentiment towards the year-ahead outlook for production. The level of confidence was at a 50-month high. “Also, confidence towards the year-ahead outlook for production improved as firms hoped that fewer COVID-19 cases and the reopening of other businesses could boost output growth,” Ms. Lima noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manufacturing-grows-fastest-since-2007/article33007425.ece
03 November 2020||MUMBAI,||HDFC Q2 net profit drops 28%||Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (HDFC) reported second-quarter net profit fell 28% to Rs. 2,870 crore, from Rs. 3,962 crore in the year-earlier period when dividend income and profit on sale of investments had been significantly higher. “The profit numbers are not directly comparable with that of the previous year,” said vice chairman and CEO Keki Mistry. “To facilitate a like-for-like comparison, after adjusting dividend, profit on sale of investments, fair value adjustments, net gains on loans assigned, charge for employee stock options and provisioning, the adjusted profit before tax for the quarter ended September 30 is Rs. 3,366 crore compared with Rs. 2,646 crore in the previous year, reflecting a growth of 27%,” he added. During the quarter, HDFC had dividend income and profit on sale of investments of Rs. 323 crore, compared with Rs. 2,701 crore in the year- earlier period. Net gains on loans stood at Rs. 159 crore, compared with Rs. 264 crore. Similarly, the charge for employee stock options was Rs. 46 crore, compared with Rs. 4 crore. Net interest income rose 21% to Rs. 3,647 crore. Net interest margin stood at 3.3%.  ‘Gain momentum’ Stating that traction in individual loans had gained momentum with successive month-on-month improvements, Mr. Mistry said low interest rates, softer property prices, reduction in stamp duty in certain States and inherent strong demand would benefit the housing finance sector. “Disbursements in October were the second highest in HDFC’s history,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-q2-net-profit-drops-28/article33007416.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Manipal Hospitals to acquire Columbia Asia in Rs. 2,100-cr. deal||Manipal Hospitals, a multi-speciality healthcare provider, on Monday entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 100% stake in Columbia Asia Hospitals Private Limited (Columbia Asia). The deal is valued at Rs. 2,100 crore, a person with knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be identified, said. On completion, Manipal Hospitals would become India’s largest healthcare chain after Apollo Hospitals. “Columbia Asia makes a compelling strategic fit to our core values of clinical excellence, patient centricity and ethical practices, and will help us advance our commitment to provide outstanding patient care,” said Ranjan Pai, Chairman, Manipal Education and Medical Group. Columbia Asia started operations in India in 2005 in Hebbal, Bengaluru, and presently operates 11 hospitals across the country including in Mysuru, Kolkata, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Patiala and Pune. The network comprises more than 1,300 beds, 1,200 clinicians and 4,000 employees. “This combination of Columbia Asia and Manipal Hospitals is very exciting because of the strong cultural alignment between the two companies – and the opportunity it provides for continued growth,” Dan Baty, Chairman, Columbia Pacific Management, said. The combined entity will have 27 hospitals across 15 cities with more than 7,200 beds and 4,000 doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manipal-hospitals-to-acquire-columbia-asia-in-rs-2100-cr-deal/article33007413.ece
03 November 2020||Chennai,||Two-wheeler sales continue to rise; TVS, Enfield, Yamaha show growth||Sales of two wheelers continued to rise in October, even as automakers increased production volume anticipating ‘huge’ sales in the ongoing festive season. Combined sales at two-and three-wheeler manufacturer TVS Motor Co. Ltd. rose 22% in October to 3.95 lakh units from a year earlier. Two-wheeler sales grew by 24% to 3.82 lakh units, of which domestic market accounted for 3.01 lakh units, an increase of 19% over the corresponding year-ago period, TVS Motor said in a statement. Motorcycle sales grew 38% to 1.73 lakh units and scooter sales by 5% to 1.27 lakh units. TVS‘s total exports grew 33% to 92,520 units. Japanese 2-wheeler manufacturer Yamaha Motor India’s (YMI) total sales rose 31% to 60,176 units. YMI has seen growth in sales volume consecutively over the past 4 months, following the lifting of the COVID-led lockdown. YMI expects sales in November to beat the preceding months. Domestic sales at motorbike maker Royal Enfield contracted 7% to 63,000 while exports shrank 9% to 4,000 units. Commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland saw marginal growth of 1% in total volume (domestic and exports) for October to 9,989 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/two-wheeler-sales-continue-to-rise-tvs-enfield-yamaha-show-growth/article33007418.ece
03 November 2020||Chennai,||Ramco Cements net up 40% as realisations rise||The Ramco Cements Ltd. on Monday reported second-quarter standalone net profit jumped 40.2% to Rs. 236 crore on improved realisations following stable cement prices, improved sales of flagship and premium products in the trade segment. Total revenue contracted to Rs. 1,265 crore (Rs. 1,326 crore) following the lockdown and restricted access in containment zones and heavy rainfall in the Southern states. Sales during the period stood at 2.21 million tonnes against 2.72 million tonnes in the year-earlier period. “The variable cost for the current quarter has come down due to lower fuel cost and improvement in blending ratio,” said A.V. Dharmakrishnan, CEO. “The commencement of waste heat recovery system (WHRS) operations of 9 MW in Jayanthipuram in September and another 9 MW during the third quarter augurs well for further cost reduction in the coming quarters,” he added . “The fuel procured in the earlier quarters have helped keep check on the overall fuel cost during the current quarter,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ramco-cements-net-up-40-as-realisations-rise/article33007420.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||GST shortfall: Centre to transfer second tranche||The Finance Ministry on Monday said it will transfer Rs. 6,000 crore as the second tranche of GST compensation shortfall to 16 States and 3 Union Territories, including Maharashtra, Bihar, Assam, Puducherry and Delhi. The Centre had on October 23 transferred Rs. 6,000 crore to 16 States and 2 UTs of Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir. In the second tranche of transfer, Union Territory of Puducherry has been included. “The Ministry of Finance, Government of India, under its ‘Special Window to States for meeting the GST Compensation Cess shortfall,’ will be releasing an amount of Rs. 6,000 crore as second tranche to 16 States and 3 Union Territories today,” the ministry said in a statement. This borrowing was done at an interest of 4.42%, which is lower than the cost of borrowings for the States and UTs, thus benefitting them, it said. “Ministry of Finance has facilitated loans of Rs. 12,000 crore till date under the Special Window to States/UTs,” it added. As many as 21 States and 3 Union Territories till date, have opted for the Special Window and the loans raised by the Centre would be released on a back-to-back basis to states/UTs, in lieu of GST Compensation Cess releases.  Puducherry has been included in the second tranche of transfers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-shortfall-centre-to-transfer-second-tranche/article33007426.ece
03 November 2020||Chennai,||CUB profit slips 18.5% as provisions rise||Private sector lender City Union Bank Ltd.’s (CUB) standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September declined by 18.5% to Rs. 158 crore on higher COVID-19-related provisioning. Provisions rose to Rs. 227 crore from Rs. 153 crore. The bank provided Rs. 115 crore towards COVID-19, Rs. 50 crore towards Income Tax, Rs. 32 crore towards bad debts and Rs. 20 crore towards depreciation on investments. Net interest income rose 15% to Rs. 475 crore and net interest margin to 4.12% from 3.91%. The capital adequacy ratio stood at 17.4% Gross non-performing assets (GNPA), as a percentage of total advances, rose to 3.44% (3.41%). Net NPAsdeclined to 1.8% (1.9%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cub-profit-slips-185-as-provisions-rise/article33007423.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||NTPC net dips 7.7%, approves buy-back||NTPC on Monday reported a 7.7% decline in consolidated net profit to Rs. 3,494.61 crore for the September quarter mainly on higher expenses. Net profit was Rs. 3,788.11 crore in the second quarter of 2019-20, NTPC said in a filing. Total income rose to Rs. 28,677.64 crore in the quarter, from Rs. 26,568.62 crore a year earlier. Gross power generation of NTPC Group in July-September 2020-21 was 67.67 billion units (BUs) as against 61.64 BUs in the same period last fiscal. The board on Monday approved the buy-back of 19.78 crore equity shares for Rs. 2,275.74 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ntpc-net-dips-77-approves-buy-back/article33007429.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||Chowgule, Denmark’s Tuco in pact to make advanced patrol boats in India||Chowgule and Company Pvt. Ltd. (CCPL), a part of the Chowgule Group, has partnered Denmark’s Tuco Marine Group for manufacturing advanced patrol boats in India. The 16-metre-long patrol boats, designed as per Tuco Marine´s ProZero concept, will strengthen CCPL’s existing business of manufacturing composite fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) boats, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chowgule-denmarks-tuco-in-pact-to-make-advanced-patrol-boats-in-india/article33007414.ece
03 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Fertilizer maker Coromandel net rises 17%||Fertilizer firm Coromandel International has posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 589 crore for the September quarter, a 17% rise over the year-earlier period. Total income fell 5% to Rs. 4,620 crore. “Better-than-normal rainfall, good soil moisture and steps taken by the government have resulted in increased crop sowing area and very good demand for agricultural inputs,” said MD Sameer Goel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fertilizer-maker-coromandel-net-rises-17/article33007410.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Expert panel rejects Dr. Reddy’s plea for change in approval status of Remdesivir||A subject expert committee (SEC) has turned down Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories proposal for change in regulatory approval status for Remdesivir injection from restricted emergency use to full marketing authorisation. “The committee opined that approval for restricted emergency use of the drug should continue,” the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expert-panel-rejects-dr-reddys-plea-for-change-in-approval-status-of-remdesivir/article33007411.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu’s ‘I retire’ tweet startles fans||World champion P.V. Sindhu caused a flutter on social media on Monday with a message that began with the words, “Denmark Open was the final straw; I RETIRE”. But anybody who read the tweet in its entirety will have learnt that she wasn’t talking about hanging up her racquet. She was referring to the negativity which has spread in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and wanting to ‘retire’ from that. “I have been thinking about coming clean with my feelings for a while now ... That’s why I am writing today to tell you that I’m done,” Sindhu tweeted. “It’s understandable you are shocked or confused but by the time you finish reading this you would have learnt about my point of view, and hopefully, will support it too... “I may have given you guys a mini heart-attack; unprecedented times require unprecedented measures. I guess I needed to get you guys to sit up and take notice. That being said, we must be hopeful about the light shining at the end of the tunnel. “Yes, the Denmark Open didn’t happen but that won’t stop me from training. When life comes at you, one must comeback [sic] twice as hard. “So will I for the Asia Open. I refuse to give up without putting up a solid fight. I refuse to give up without conquering this fear. “sAnd will carry on doing so till we have a safer world.” Sindhu is currently training in England, and although her family is concerned about the state of affairs in the UK, it is learnt that she will monitor the situation before deciding whether to return home or continue with her schedule. “The tweet is more an expression of her thoughts on the worldwide scenario with emphasis on how grim a battle humanity is waging against the pandemic,” a family member told The Hindu.  “It has nothing to do with the game.”  I may have given you guys a mini heart-attack; unprecedented times require unprecedented measures. I guess I needed to get you guys to sit up and take notice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhus-i-retire-tweet-startles-fans/article33007576.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||DC snaps out of its slump to qualify second; RCB through too||Ajinkya Rahane (60, 46b, 5x4, 1x6) and Shikhar Dhawan (54, 41b, 6x4) returned to form and helped Delhi Capitals seal second spot at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Monday. The convincing six-wicket win over Royal Challengers Bangalore was set up by a fine bowling performance that restricted RCB to 152, before Rahane and Dhawan came good with an 88-run second-wicket partnership. RCB too confirmed its place in the playoffs, after making DC bat more than 17.3 overs and ensuring that its net run rate didn’t fall below Kolkata Knight Riders’ in fourth. Dhawan started the chase with four cracking boundaries through the off-side, including an exquisite straight drive off Mohammed Siraj. Rahane was composed, catching the eye with his excellent use of the feet. The two boundaries he hit off Isuru Udana through the covers and past mid-off to round out the PowerPlay were pleasing. After scoring 53 from six overs, the duo dropped anchor and consolidated. But in the 13th over, Dhawan was caught at short fine-leg trying a cheeky sweep. Rahane, a little while later, perished trying a cheekier shot, a reverse-sweep. But DC was not to be denied the win. Earlier, Devdutt Padikkal top-scored with the fifth half-century (50, 41b, 5x4) of his maiden IPL season. But it was again left to Virat Kohli (29, 24b, 2x4, 1x6) and A.B. de Villiers (35, 21b, 1x4, 2x6) to do the heavy-lifting, a job at which they didn’t succeed. Kohli was foxed by R. Ashwin (4-0-18-1) while de Villiers was run out. After Shreyas Iyer chose to bowl, the PowerPlay fetched RCB just 40 runs. Josh Philippe was restless during his 17-ball 12 but Padikkal made full use of the pace from Anrich Nortje and Kagiso Rabada, lifting and guiding the duo for three boundaries on the off-side. Kohli’s stay contained a crunching back-foot drive (Nortje), a fierce hit over extra-cover (Rabada) and a six over long-on (Axar Patel). He was dropped by Nortje in the deep off Axar in the 10th over, but Ashwin teased the RCB skipper into charging him with a slow delivery and had him caught at deep mid-wicket. In the 16th over, Nortje breached Padikkal’s defence with a 152kmph snorter and had Chris Morris caught behind. But in a 10-ball window across the 18th and 19th overs, de Villiers and Shivam Dube raised hopes by smashing 28 runs. However, they fell within three balls of each other, denying RCB the necessary tail-wind.   MI vs DC on Nov. 5  MI and DC, the top two finishers, will meet in Qualifier 1 in Dubai on Nov. 5 RCB will meet either KKR or SRH in the Eliminator in Abu Dhabi on Nov. 6 If SRH beats MI on Tuesday, it will qualify; if it loses, KKR will be through to the playoffs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/capitals-restrict-royal-challengers/article33007537.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Knight Riders still in the hunt||Rajasthan Royals may have chased down some stiff targets this season, but not on Sunday night. Its chase for a place in the playoffs was over too after the 60-run loss to Kolkata Knight Riders at the Dubai International Stadium. Captain Eoin Morgan and Pat Cummins were KKR’s heroes. The skipper's brilliant unbeaten 68 off just 35 balls (5x4, 6x6) helped the team recover from 99 for five and post a formidable 191 for seven while the pacer’s spell with the new ball broke the back of Royals’ strong top-order. The chase had started in sensational fashion as Cummins’ first five balls went for 19, but off his sixth, he had Robin Uthappa flicking to Kamlesh Nagarkoti at deep square-leg. In his next over, he had Ben Stokes stunningly caught behind by Dinesh Karthik — the airborne wicketkeeper diving to his left to pluck the ball out of thin air — and Steve Smith playing on to his stumps. Sanju Samson and Riyan Parag also snicked to the ’keeper, off Shivam Mavi and Cummins respectively, in the next two overs. Morgan’s decision to give Cummins a third over paid off as he got rid of Parag in that over. With half the Royals side back in the dugout for 37 inside five overs, a lot depended on Jos Buttler (35, 22b, 4x4, 1x6) and Rahul Tewatia (31, 27b, 2x4, 1x6). However, neither lasted long enough.   Royals 66 for five  Royals were 66 for five in nine overs, with Buttler (22) and Tewatia (11) at the crease. Uthappa (6), Stokes (18), Smith (4), Samson (1) and Parag (0) were dismissed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-riders-still-in-the-hunt/article33007532.ece
03 November 2020||Madrid,||Zidane’s Real Madrid gets set to meet Conte’s Inter||Antonio Conte might have been in the Real Madrid dugout for Tuesday’s Champions League game against Inter Milan were it not for the five words spoken by Sergio Ramos in October 2018. “Respect is earned, not imposed,” Ramos said, when asked about the prospect of a hard-line coach like Conte taking charge. His answer was taken as a rejection of Conte’s methods and a rebuke to the idea that Real Madrid’s dressing room was in desperate need of a shake-up. Until then, Conte, now in charge of Inter, had been the overwhelming favourite to replace Julen Lopetegui, who had just overseen Madrid’s 5-1 defeat by Barcelona in the Clasico and a day later would be sacked. Instead on the Monday, the day after Ramos spoke to journalists at Camp Nou, the deal was off. Santiago Solari was appointed and lasted less than five months before Zinedine Zidane returned in March to a mixture of surprise and relief from a club tired of upheaval and crisis. The reaction to Conte’s appointment would have been very different, even if the theory that Ramos’ comments spooked president Florentino Perez have been challenged by Conte himself. Even if Conte believes the decision was more his than Madrid’s, there was no doubt he was seen as something the team needed, perhaps still need, but would not accept. Conte’s intensity, discipline, work ethic, attention to detail and relentless approach were seen as incompatible with Madrid’s squad of ageing stars, supposedly resistant to the new ideas of an unyielding coach. But almost exactly two years on, as Zidane’s Real get set to face Conte’s Inter, Madrid are still pending the revolution Conte might have initiated.   Champions League Tuesday’s schedule Lokomotiv vs Atletico Shakhtar vs Monchengladbach Salzburg vs Bayern Real vs Inter Man City vs Olympiakos Porto vs Marseille Midtjylland vs Ajax Atalanta vs Liverpool||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zidanes-real-madrid-gets-set-to-meet-contes-inter/article33007860.ece
03 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Mithali prepped to don role of mentor||India women’s ODI captain Mithali Raj is looking at the three-team Women’s T20 Challenge in the UAE commencing on November 4 as a chance to don the role of mentor to young talent. The 37-year-old Mithali, who will be leading Velocity, says she is looking at the future right now. “I have young, talented domestic players in my side. A great opportunity to mentor them, give them the platform and confidence to express themselves,” Mithali said in a chat with The Hindu . “I am sure if they are given the right kind of exposure and mentoring, they can serve the country better when they get the chance,” she said. How do you look at the format? “First, let me thank BCCI and the IPL Governing Council for having this League in place in such testing times and to give women players the opportunity to be back in action,” Mithali said. "I am sure there will be more teams in future, more players,” Mithali said. The fact that the tournament is being held given the situation is important in itself, she said. It also ensures continuity. “The League is a great platform. The girls are looking forward to it, they have really trained hard and are eager to play,” said Mithali. It was also fairly challenging, because the players were returning from a long hiatus. “Usually, a player gets some games to get into the groove, we don’t have the luxury now. We are straight into the tournament,” she said about the preparations. “It was a choice between not having any matches or having them in a bio-bubble,” said Mithali. “As a player, of course, I love to play, even if it is in a bio-bubble,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-prepped-to-don-role-of-mentor/article33007597.ece
03 November 2020||SHARJAH,||SRH has to beat MI to qualify||A resurgent Sunrisers Hyderabad will back itself to topple the mighty Mumbai Indians and qualify for the playoffs here on Tuesday. Thanks to a healthy run-rate, a win against MI should be enough for SRH to make it. After leaving out Jonny Bairstow, Sunrisers have managed to find the “right” balance. Wriddhiman Saha has made an instant impact as David Warner’s opening partner and the inclusion of Jason Holder has provided an all-round option.  Impressive Holder and Sandeep Sharma were very impressive, both upfront and at the death, in the last game Royal Challengers Bangalore. Left-arm pacer T. Natarajan and trump card Rashid Khan round off the arsenal. Sunrisers also know there is little scope for error against a formidable outfit like Mumbai Indians, who seems to be on course for an unprecedented fifth IPL title. In the absence of injured skipper Rohit Sharma, MI steamrollered RCB and Delhi Capitals in its previous encounters, becoming the first team to qualify for the play-offs. Trent Boult and Jasprit Bumrah have looked menacing with the swinging new ball and ever so frugal with the old. Kieron Pollard has been impressive with his captaincy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srh-has-an-mi-hurdle-to-clear/article33007541.ece
03 November 2020||Chennai,||Watson brought aggression and sense of occasion to CSK||For Chennai Super Kings, Shane Watson brought with him aggression and a sense of occasion. In the playoff games and the final, he would boom. He was a big- game hunter. Watson, now, has drifted into the sunset when he had some more cricket left. He is 39, but his unbeaten 83 against Kings XI Punjab in the ongoing IPL was high-octane batting. He also carried with him sunshine and laughter. Relaxed, he enjoyed his cricket... at the expense of the opposition. Now, Watson has called it quits from all forms of the game. Fast and furious He began his career as a tearaway who hustled the batsmen by making them smell leather with short stuff and inflicted pain on them with toe-crushers delivered in excess of 145 kmph. And then he could smash the sphere to the distant parts of the ground down the order. Shane Watson’s body, though, could not take the workload though, and, after injuries and surgeries, he was forced to concentrate on his powerful batting. He still sent down his medium pacers cleverly. He had his successes in Tests with 3731 runs at 35.19 and 75 wickets at 33.68 in 59 matches. Making his mark But the handsome cricketer’s biggest moments arrived in the shorter formats; he made his international debut in 2002. He went on to become a World Cup and Champions Trophy winner. In the second half of his career, Watson would open the batting and then bowl his seamers cleverly. And he was one of the most brutal pullers of the ball. Memories will remain. Watson was a true blue Aussie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/watson-brought-aggression-and-sense-of-occasion-to-csk/article33007543.ece
03 November 2020||Panaji,||SC East Bengal launches kits||SC East Bengal on Monday unveiled their jerseys for the upcoming Hero Indian Super League, retaining the club’s iconic red and gold/yellow pattern for the home games. East Bengal launched their home, away and third kit for the 2020-21 ISL season. The jerseys have been designed by Meghna Nayak, a young designer from Bengal who prefers to keep “things local”. “While the club received numerous submissions, it was looking for a designer to present concepts that were original. “Nayak’s concepts for SC East Bengal, inspired by the Flame, the ‘Ilish’ or Hilsa fish, and the Royal Bengal Tiger of the Sunderbans instantly appealed to the club,” SC East Bengal said in a release. In September, East Bengal announced the arrival of Shree Cement as a new investor, helping the club tide over its financial problems and paving the way for its entry into India’s top football league. “The jerseys look amazing. The bright red and gold home kit has traditionally been synonymous with the club and with the flaming torch adding to the firepower. “Our away and third kits also have a lot of tradition ingrained in them which makes it even more special,” SC East Bengal head coach Robbie Fowler said. The home kit is a stylised version of the flame in the club logo. The rendition in red and yellow continues to “signal the dynamism and firepower” of the team while adapting it to new design sensibilities. The away jersey is blue and white in colour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sc-east-bengal-launches-kits/article33007900.ece
03 November 2020||CHANGANASSERY:,||Anju relaunches renovated stadium||This had been a ground where long jumper Anju Bobby George trained as a school girl. And there was immense pride and joy in her voice as the Olympian, the country's lone World Championships medallist, dedicated the renovated Municipal Stadium here to sports lovers through video conferencing from New Delhi on Sunday. She said the stadium had contributed immensely during the initial years of her training when she was at St. Anne's High School and was happy to see repair works carried out at the complex. In September, a road running near the stadium had been named after the former Asian Games and Asian champion, who was also a gold medallist in the 2005 World Athletics Final. Sajan Francis, the Chairman of the Changanassery Municipality who played a major role in the stadium's renovation, said he was exploring the possibility of laying turf on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anju-relaunches-renovated-stadium/article33007824.ece
03 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Alva and Madesh in blazing form||Bengaluru racers Ruhaan Alva and Ishaan Madesh starred in the Meco-FMSCI National Karting Championship (X30 Classes) here over the weekend. Alva, who won every race in Round 1 and Round 2, won three out of the four races in each of the two rounds in the Junior Category. He holds a massive 41-point lead and has sealed the championship with one round still to go. In the Cadets section, Madesh won seven of the eight races to assert his class. In the Senior Category, Coimbatore’s Suriya Varatan (total tally 138) widened his lead over Chennai’s Nirmal Umashankar (111).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alva-and-madesh-in-blazing-form/article33007591.ece
03 November 2020||Mumbai,||New logo for Indian team jersey||The Indian team jersey is set to sport the logo of a fantasy gaming platform. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) will unveil Mobile Premier League as the Indian team’s kit sponsor for the next three years, starting with India’s tour of Australia. Once Nike had decided not to extend its sponsorship deal that expired on September 30, the BCCI had failed to attract bids, primarily owing to the uncertainty of international cricket calendar owing to the pandemic. Sensing it, the BCCI had made a provision for a non-apparel manufacturer to bid for the jersey rights. While the BCCI is yet to make the official announcement, The Hindu understands that the fantasy platform emerged as the only interested party after the BCCI had extended the deadline. As a result, it has acquired the rights for Rs. 65 lakh per match and an annual royalty of Rs. 8 crore. It means that the revenue generated on a match-to-match basis through kit sponsorship will reduce almost by 30%. Nike, for the last four years of its 14-year-long association, paid Rs. 88 lakh per international match. Dream11, a fantasy sport platform, came on board as the IPL title sponsor recently after a Chinese mobile manufacturer ended its association with the T20 league.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-logo-for-indian-team-jersey/article33007534.ece
03 November 2020||BERLIN,||Mueller slowly ‘passing to the afterlife’||Former Germany striker Gerd Mueller “is slowly passing to the afterlife in his sleep”, his wife Uschi said before he celebrates his 75th birthday on Tuesday.  ‘Der Bomber’ (The Bomber) Mueller, who won the World Cup in 1974 and countless domestic and European titles with Bayern Munich, suffers from dementia and lives in a specialised care home. “He spends almost 24 hours a day in bed, he has just the rare moments of being awake,” Uschi told newspaper Bild in an article published on Monday. “It’s beautiful when he opens his eyes a little bit. Sometimes he manages to say yes or no with his eyes. He’s slowly passing to the afterlife in his sleep,” she added. Mueller, who also lifted the European Championship with his country, holds the record of 40 goals in one Bundesliga season, set in 1971/72. Beckenbauer’s praise “It’s thanks to his goals that Bayern Munich rose to the international level and are there today,” his former teammate Franz Beckenbauer said. “In my eyes he is the most important player in Bayern Munich’s history. I’m sure people will still talk about Gerd Mueller in 100 years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mueller-slowly-passing-to-the-afterlife/article33007902.ece
03 November 2020||LONDON,||Bale’s winner puts Tottenham in the second spot||Gareth Bale came off the bench to head the winner for Tottenham Hotspur in a 2-1 victory over Brighton & Hove Albion in the Premier League on Sunday, his first goal since returning to the club from Real Madrid. The Welshman was brought on in the 70th minute and three minutes later he met a Sergio Reguilon cross with a firm and well-directed header to restore Tottenham’s lead. Harry Kane had put Spurs ahead in the 13th minute from the penalty spotafter Adam Lallana was ruled to have fouled him as he climbed for a header. Brighton responded with a long spell of good possession football as Spurs failed to drive home their advantage and Graham Potter’s side drew level in the 56th minute through Tariq Lamptey. Tottenham then struck the post twice before Bale’s winner moved it above Everton in the standings into second place on 14 points. Spurs moved points two behind leader Liverpool. Sassuolo went second in the table and ended Napoli’s 100% record on the pitch in Serie A when a Manuel Locatelli penalty and a solo Maxime Lopez goal gave it a shock 2-0 away win. Unbeaten Sassuolo has 14 points from six games, two behind leader AC Milan, while Napoli has 11. In LaLiga, Valencia drew 2-2 at home to Getafe in a frenetic, ill-tempered match which featured three late goals.   The results:   Premier League: Tottenham 2 (Kane 13-pen, Bale 73) bt Brighton 1 (Lamptey 56).   LaLiga: Granada 1 (Machis 8) drew with Levante 1 (Vezo 34); Valencia 2 (Musah 22, Soler 90+10-pen) drew with Getafe 2 (Hernŕndez 87, Rodriguez Diaz 90+4).   Serie A: Torino 3 (Bremer 19, Belotti 24-pen, Lukic 87) lost to Lazio 4 (Pereira 15, Milinkovic-Savic 48, Immobile 90+5-pen, Caicedo 90+8).   Napoli 0 lost to Sassuolo 2 (Locatelli 59-pen, Lopez 90+5); Roma 2 (Spinazzola 12, Pedro 70) bt Fiorentina 0; Sampdoria 1 (Jankto 23) drew with Genoa 1 (Scamacca 28).   Bundesliga: Freiburg 2 (Hoeler 3, Petersen 72) lost to Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Alario 29, 42, Amiri 65, Tah 76); Hertha Berlin 1 (Cunha 6) drew with Wolfsburg 1 (Baku 20) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bales-winner-puts-tottenham-in-the-second-spot/article33007577.ece
03 November 2020||Panaji,||Tiri and Sandesh boost to ATK MB’s squad||Spanish centre back Tiri, who is returning after three years, was on Monday named along with star Indian defender Sandesh Jhingan in a 27-member squad announced by ATK Mohun Bagan here. Tiri was part of ATK’s ISL-winning side in 2016 before switching to Jamshedpur FC, while Jhingan has been the most high-profile signing of the season. It remains to be seen who will partner the duo in the backline. The trio Then there’s the trio of Pritam Kotal, Sumit Rathi and Prabir Das who have been retained. During their practice session at Benaulim Stadium, the Spanish gaffer was seen paying extra attention to their defence to get a perfect combination for the duo of Tiri and Sandesh. Fijian star forward Roy Krishna is likely to wear the captain’s arm band but Habas, who is known to rotate his skipper, did not reveal any name.  The squad:   Goalkeepers: Arindam Bhattacharja, Dheeraj Singh, Avilash Paul, Arsh Anwer Shaikh, Aryan Niraj Lamba.   Defenders: Tiri, Sandesh Jhingan, Subhasish Bose, Sumit Rathi, Pritam Kotal, Prabir Das, Boris Singh Thangjam.   Midfielders: Brad Inman, Ningombam Engson Singh, Carl McHugh, Pronay Halder, Michael Regin, Sheikh Sahil, Javi Hernandez, Glan Martins, Mohammad Fardin Ali Molla, Michael Soosairaj, Edu Garica and Jayesh Rane.   Forwards: Roy Krishna, David Williams and Manvir Singh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tiri-and-sandesh-boost-to-atk-mbs-squad/article33007862.ece
03 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||‘Team Nutulapati’ to take part in INRC||The Champions Yacht Club (CYC)-FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) is getting bigger by the day. After Yokohama Tyres announced its return for the new season, it’s time for Sri Sai Venkata Rama Constructions to field a team in the championship, the first by a first real estate company. ‘Team Nutulapati’ will consist of last season’s overall runner-up and INRC 2 champion, Bikku Babu (Kerala), Dhruva Chandrashekar (Karnataka), and Aditya Thakur (Himachal Pradesh). Bikku and Dhruva will compete in the INRC 2 category, while Aditya will spearhead the challenge in INRC 3 class. All will drive Volkswagen Polos on MRF Rally Tyres. Good sign “It is indeed a great sign for INRC as well as for the overall motorsports scene of the country that apart from car and tyre companies, others have started showing interest in the sport and are investing their time and money into it,” said INRC promoter Vamsi Merla. “We had promised to take INRC to a different level and are certainly on the move. We are in talks with other big companies and will soon announce new partners and teams. “We express our gratitude to Mr. [Nutulapati] Mallikharjuna Rao [owner] and his team for supporting our vision,” added Merla. Very excited “We are very excited with this new venture as this is the first time that we are involved in sports in a big way. When we were presented with the opportunity to own a team, we were sceptical. But, after proper due diligence, we have decided to go ahead. “ With the kind of drivers in the line-up, we are confident of our chances this season,” said Mallikharjuna Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-nutulapati-to-take-part-in-inrc/article33007594.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Purpose of avataras||Lord Narayana’s avataras are a matter of wonder. The Supreme One can achieve anything He wants, just through His thoughts. His weapons too are ready to obey His instructions, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. In an episode in the Ramayana, we see How powerful even an arrow picked up by the Lord was. Rama had to cross the ocean to get to Lanka. Rama paid His respects to the ocean, but the king of the ocean did not appear before Him. Angered, Rama shot arrows into the ocean. Samudra raja then appeared before Him, and paid his respects to the Lord. Rama who always protected anyone who surrendered to Him, decided not to harm Samudra raja. Samudra raja pointed to a mountain and said, “My enemies are there. Destroy them.” The Lord directed an arrow towards the mountain. The place which was many thousands of miles away, was easily reached by His arrow. Kooratazhvan asks why He did not use this arrow to kill Ravana. The answer is that He did not want to kill Ravana, for He hoped to reform Ravana and save Him. In the Krishna avatara, He killed all those sent by Kamsa to kill Him. He did not kill Kamsa right away, for He hoped that if Kamsa became aware of His power, He would give up his evil intentions. In his Gita Bhashya, Ramanujacharya says the purpose of His avataras was not to kill the wicked, but to be with devotees. This was possible only if He came to the earth. Suppose there is a rich man, whose business keeps him away from home for most of the year. One day he asks his family if there is anything they want, and they say that they want to be with him, to talk to him, to shower their affection on him. Likewise, the Lord may do any number of things for His devotees, but can anything equal their joy when He is with them?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/purpose-of-avataras/article33007529.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fresh-start/article33008073.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A day to remember||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-day-to-remember/article33007864.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||AITA plans camps for elite players||The national tennis federation has decided to invite country’s top players for a training camp at the DLTA with an aim to provide a platform for their return to competitive action from next year. The All India Tennis Association (AITA) has laid out a plan for top-20 elite men’s and women’s players for the camp, which may culminate with a national championship in the singles format among the assembled players in a bio-secure environment. The 21-day camp will first begin for the men’s players from November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aita-plans-camps-for-elite-players/article33007578.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Christ College wins football tournament||Christ College (Sriperumbudur) won the seven-a-side football tournament, organised by Vels University (Pallavaram) and Supermachans (official fan club of Chennaiyin FC) recently. Nearly 32 teams from across Tamil Nadu participated in the tournament. MNM FC was second and FC Baga third. Christ College received Rs. 25,000.   M.Ct.M beat IOC by seven wickets and PUC defeated Theagaraya CC by a similar margin in the semifinals of the TTK T20 corporate cricket tournament held at the Wahe Guru Uniworld ground recently.  The scores: IOC 97/7 in 20 overs (Vikrananth 31, Ananath 3/19) lost to M.Ct.M 101/3 in 14.3 overs (Rithick 33, Sam 31 n.o.).   Theagaraya CC 114/6 in 20 overs (Hari Krishnan 3/20) lost to PUC 116/3 in 13.2 overs (H. Varun 46).    The Chennai leg of the Red Bull Speedster, a competition to find India’s best upcoming fast bowler will be held on November 12 at at the SPIC ground. For details, visit redbull.in/speedster    Fynsea Logistics is conducting an under-13 cricket tournament from Nov. 7 to 14 at the Asan Arts and Science College, Pallikaranai. Call 98411 52106 / 98409 42068 for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/christ-college-wins-football-tournament/article33008098.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi:,||Swastik hits triple ton, century by Vivek||Swastik Chhikara scored an unbeaten triple century off just 140 balls, studded with 30 fours and 23 sixes, to add 408 runs for the third wicket with Vivek Yadav (107 n.o., 92b) as Haryana Academy thrashed Uttaranchal Boys Academy by 255 runs in the Manoj Soni cricket tournament.  The scores:   HCA 439/2 in 40 overs (Swastik Chhikara 301 n.o., Vivek Yadav 107 n.o.) bt UBA 184 in 34.3 overs (Rajdeep Jain 60; Kabir Bishnoi 4/20, Sahil Dhull 3/22).       Ayush Badoni top-scored with 74 as Sahgal and Chaudhary beat Rann Star Club by six wickets to enter the semifinals of the YS Sports T20 tournament.  The scores: RSC 171/5 in 20 overs (Milind Kumar 93 n.o.; Vishal Chaudhary 2/29) lost to S&C 172/4 in 19. 3 overs (Ayush Badoni 74).    Delhi under-19 player Sumit Chhikara’s 45 and Shubham Bisht’s 34 helped LB Shastri Club beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana by 13 runs in the fifth Naresh Memorial under-19 tournament.  The scores: LB Shastri Club 185 in 39.4 overs (Sumit Chhikara 45, Shubham Bisht 34) bt RRG 172/8 in 40 overs (Varun Pahadiya 45 n.o.; Siddarth Kumar 3/27).    Vaibhav Sood’s fighting 92 went in vain as half-centuries by Yuvraj Singh and Sachin Sharma helped Gross Sporting edge past Royal Challenge Cricket Academy by four runs in the B.R. Sharma Memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: Gross Sporting 208 in 39.5 overs (Yuraj Singh 55, Sachin Sharma 52) bt RCC Academy 204/9 in 40 overs (Vaibhav Sood 92).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swastik-hits-triple-ton-century-by-vivek/article33008152.ece
03 November 2020||CHENNAI,||National table tennis camp begins today||All the players having undergone the mandatory six-day quarantine, the National table tennis camp begins at the Delhi Public School (Sonepat, Haryana) on November 3 (Tuesday). “All the players are here. The facilities are good. I took the COVID-19 Test today and it returned negative. All the SOPs are being followed,” Sharath Kamal, India’s top paddler, told The Hindu on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-table-tennis-camp-begins-today/article33007584.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 07:46 IST,||Sudoku - November 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-2-2020/article33000575.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 07:48 IST,||Sudoku - November 3, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-3-2020/article33008529.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Traffic cops of space||“In space, we always talk about firsts,” space technologist Stewart Bain muses. “Skylark would be the first dedicated satellite constellation looking at managing the situation in space such as congestion, threats of collisions, and addressing space traffic management.” Stewart is the CEO of Canada-based space company NorthStar Earth & Space that made headlines for its efforts to address the threat of space debris, which has increased over the recent years. NorthStar plans to provide safe and sustainable solutions through its Skylark satellite constellation designed specifically for Space Situational Awareness (SSA). Sputnik 1 was the first human-made object to orbit the Earth. Its launch created new opportunities in space. However, 63 years later, it has also added 29,000 objects as debris (larger than 10 centimetres in diameter) in addition to the 2,500-plus active satellites in space.    As space organisations around the globe explore opportunities in commercial space industry, artificial space objects are only expected to grow and this is where SSA comes in. SSA tracks natural and artificial objects in the orbit around the Earth, and predicts where the objects are going to be at any given time. The space-tech company is collaborating with Thales Alenia Space, to build satellites for the Skylark constellation, while LeoStella, will oversee the final assembly, and Telespazio, will help in the implementation of the ground stations in Europe and Canada. The constellation of 12 satellites would be equipped with optical sensors to monitor space objects including active and inactive satellites and debris that could pose a threat. “We put up street signs 70 years ago to manage traffic. On similar lines, we need to start thinking about how we are going to manage our interaction with what is in space in a safe and sustainable way,” Bain explains over video call from Canada. The Canadian company has announced signing the contract for the first three satellites to build the constellation. It plans to launch them by mid-2022 and the rest by 2024. Each satellite weighs about 200 kilograms and is equipped with a 60-centimetre long sensor. The set of three satellites form a spiral, so the constellation will have four spirals with different orbits, all of which will be circular and polar at about 575 kilometres from the Earth’s surface in the low Earth orbit (LEO).    Other companies such as SpaceX and House Space Force Caucus have been vocal about the problem of debris.Since Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin’s first human spaceflight in 1961, numerous space missions have contributed to the build-up of debris. Most ‘space junk’ can reach a speed of nearly 29,000 kilometres per hour. Because of the amount of debris in LEO and the speed at which they are moving, current and future space-based services, explorations, and operations pose a safety risk to people and property in space and on Earth, according to NASA. A space-based satellite system has certain advantages over ground-based systems, including having multiple points of view for an object; not reliant on weather changes and atmospheric interferences; and the ability to make frequent revisits. Stewart adds, “It picks up changes quickly, if two objects collide and create debris. You want to know what is happening and don’t want to wait long for a new map of all this new debris. So, in space and from space, those things are more achievable.” The system works on NorthStar’s algorithms to provide space traffic data and collision avoidance navigation services, and the satellites are needed to get the data from the right perspective.    “We’ve been thinking about this at NorthStar for eight years. Now, I think more people talk about it. But being able to see the evolution is important to be ready to face problems in future,” says Stewart. “It is like having a vaccine before the pandemic, so you have a good way to address the issue.” NorthStar would offer subscription-based services, which will be available to organisations to address their specific needs. The announcement is a step towards becoming a revenue-generating enterprise.  Expanding space environment  According to European Space Agency, the number of space debris objects in Earth’s orbit is 6.7 lakh (larger than 1 cm) and over 17 crore (larger than 1 mm).  Mega-constellations from companies such as SpaceX, and Amazon will add thousands of satellites in the low Earth orbit.  It presents a serious challenge to operators, regulators, insurance companies, and investors.  NorthStar plans to provide the information to prevent accidents as the number of satellites exponentially increase.   The company’s team of 40 people comprises individuals experienced in flight dynamics, interplanetary navigation, and mathematical modelling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/traffic-cops-of-space/article33007776.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||London calling||Ubisoft has a very predictable formula to its games, which sometimes works for them, and feels like it has been done before on other occasions. Almost as if the games were created out of a fill-in-the-blanks questionnaire, like: ‘take back ____ from ____ by playing as an _____ using ____ .’ The new Watch Dogs: Legion may seem like it is cut from the same questionnaire. But its unique ‘play as anyone’ hero system is a bold move and so is the dystopian technology-infused storyline that gives strong Black Mirror vibes. It gives a fresh take on the Grand Theft Auto open world game. Straight into it Welcome to London, but this time as a futuristic supercity filled with wonder, such as AI automation to driverless cars to drones everywhere to take care of your ‘well-being’. Dystopian governments are controlled by corporations complete with policing by a paramilitary outfit. Large tech companies not only mine your data but prove mass surveillance is commonplace. In this world, you, as a member of hacktivist group, DedSec, have to develop the resistance and take down Albion. For my starting character, I picked a lady whose only attribute was that she owned a car... I was not impressed. My interest in the game grew as soon as I started recruiting. Repetition was inevitable with a ‘play as anyone’ system. Yet, there is a surprising variation in characters: construction workers, football fans and the elderly, even those with unique abilities like a James Bond-like spy or a magician. Walking around the beautifully-recreated London streets as I profiled people, it was fun staking out locations for elite recruits, and the game has a way of surprising you. Spot someone interesting, complete their recruitment mission and they are part of your team. With such a large cast of characters, Ubisoft has implemented permadeath to its roguish hero mechanic. This works effectively, as it hurts losing a treasured hero. Though you can recruit more, it still smarts and that feeling raises the stakes. The missions are designed to permit experimentation with your characters’ abilities; you can approach objectives from different angles, hack drones, sneak and set traps using the hacking mechanics or go point-blank guns blazing — this freedom is refreshing for you and your A-Team. Driving is core in this GTA-like game, and cruising through London is fun. The iffy frame rates seem to have been patched, but the cars still feel like they lack weight. There is a nice variation in cars: autonomous futuristic cars, and Watch Dogs versions of classic cars, to name a couple. There is a handy autodrive function to get you where you want to go. Pleasing aspects of being on the road include the hilarious radio stations, and the voice of Bagley, DedSec’s deadpan yet hilarious AI assistant. Pure sandbox fun Annoying gameplay bugs aside, dystopian London looks crisp and clear, especially if you have raytracing, and see the scenes at night with dynamic lighting and reflections. No doubt this game would shine on next-gen consoles, assuming you get your hands on one. The open world is fantastic, and like any sandbox game there is a lot to do. Building your team is an obvious one, but the number of side missions will keep you busy for over 40 hours. Watch Dogs: Legion takes what made Watch Dogs 2 great and adds many bold features. The ‘play as anyone’ is undoubtedly memorable, and so is the Black Mirror- like storyline and setting. If it is looks you are going for, it is wise to wait a bit and play it on a new PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X or on a fast computer with an RTX card. The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel  Watch Dogs: Legion  Developer:Ubisoft Toronto  Publisher:Ubisoft Price:Rs. 3,999 on Playstation 4, Xbox One and PC; coming soon on PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/london-calling/article33007773.ece
03 November 2020||Lucknow,||BSP chief does U-turn on support to BJP, says ideologies opposite||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said on Monday that she would rather take sanyas (retire) from politics than ally with the BJP or contest elections with it. The BSP will never ally or contest any election at any cost with “parochial and communal forces like the BJP,” Ms. Mayawati said in a statement that seemed aimed at the Muslim community. The ideologies of the BSP and BJP were polar opposites, she added. The BSP chief’s clarification was issued to reassure the minority community days after she had stated that she would ensure the defeat of the SP candidate in the upcoming MLC election even if it meant voting for the BJP. The SP was quick to seize on her comments, saying her claim was an open admission of her links with the ruling BJP. Blames opponents In an apparent damage control effort on the eve of voting for the bypolls in U.P. and M.P., and second phase of the Bihar Assembly election, Ms. Mayawati’s statement said her opponents were spreading “false propaganda” about her remarks as part of a “conspiracy” to wean Muslim voters away from her. “I will take sanyas from politics but I cannot contest election with the BJP,” the former Chief Minister said, stressing that she had no plans of retirement yet. Ms. Mayawati claimed that despite forming a government with the BJP thrice in U.P., the BSP did not allow any oppression against any person or religion. There was not a single “Hindu-Muslim” riot in U.P. during her tenure, she claimed. Stating that she had always provided adequate representation to Muslims, Ms. Mayawati pointed out that in the U.P. bypoll for seven seats, she had fielded two Muslims candidates. SP president Akhilesh Yadav meanwhile reiterated his allegation of the BSP having a tacit understanding with the BJP. “Both BJP and BSP say they want the SP to lose. I want to understand how their desires aligned,” Mr. Yadav told reporters.  Test for opposition The by-election will not only measure any anti-incumbency against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath but also test the strength of the opposition parties as they fight to claim the position of the main challenger in 2022. While the SP under Akhilesh Yadav, with a larger presence in the Assembly, has emerged as the frontrunner, the Congress has also staked a claim through the frequent visits to the State by its general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Ms. Mayawati, however, has been relegated from ground politics especially since the 2019 Lok Sabha election which she contested along with the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bsp-chief-does-u-turn-on-support-to-bjp-says-ideologies-opposite/article33007789.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital seeing third surge in virus cases, government tells Union Home Secretary||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Delhi on Monday. The city government stated that 57% of the 15,789 dedicated COVID-19 beds in the Capital are vacant and that Delhi was witnessing a “third surge” in cases. The meeting was also attended by V.K. Paul, Member of NITI Aayog; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; Director General, ICMR; Chief Secretary, Delhi government; and the Commissioner of Delhi Police. “While new COVID cases and total active cases are going up, the administration is focusing on testing, contact tracing and treatment. The recent surge in active cases is attributed to the festival season, which has witnessed greater movement of people, accompanied by laxity in adhering to the basic principles of safe COVID behaviour. The hospital bed situation was reported to be comfortable with 57% of the 15,789, dedicated beds being vacant,” read a Ministry statement. It added that the strategy to contain spread of COVID-19 in Delhi was discussed at length, keeping in view the festival season and decreasing temperatures accompanied by rising pollution. “It was decided that efforts need to be concentrated in key areas such as targeted RT-PCR testing in sensitive and critical zones such as restaurants, market places, barber shops, salons, etc.; bolster availability of medical resources, including beds, ICUs, and ventilators as a pre-emptive measure; ensure high degree of contact tracing and monitoring of quarantined contacts so as to suppress and break the chain of transmission,” the statement added. Metro travel It was also emphasised that metro travel should be carefully regulated, strictly in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure that has been issued in this regard. The situation in Delhi will be reviewed again in the coming week, along with other districts of the National Capital Region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-seeing-third-surge-in-virus-cases-government-tells-union-home-secretary/article33007801.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tally nears 4-lakh mark in Delhi||The Capital on Monday reported 4,001 new cases of COVID-19 of the 36,665 tests it conducted, taking the positivity rate to 10.91%. The heath bulletin released by the Delhi government added that in the same 24-hour period, 42 deaths and 4,824 recoveries were reported. Currently, there are 33,308 actives cases in the city. The cumulative figures now stand at 3,96,371 positive cases, 6,604 deaths and 3,56,459 recoveries. The cumulative positivity rate is 8.32% and the case fatality rate is 1.67%. Currently, the city has 3,416 containment zones and 21,364 people are in home isolation. The bulletin said that out of the 15,789 hospital beds available for Covid patients, 9,113 are vacant. Dedicated Covid care centres have 6,385 of the 7,887 available beds vacant and dedicated Covid health centres have 209 of 527 beds vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tally-nears-4-lakh-mark-in-delhi/article33007805.ece
03 November 2020||New Delhi,||Couple kills niece with iron rod, held||A man and his wife have been arrested for allegedly killing their 17-year-old niece in north-east Delhi’s Nandnagri, the police said on Monday. The accused — Vakeel Podar (51) and his 45-year-old wife — hid the body in a bed box in their house. The girl was living with the couple as she was studying in Delhi. Reported missing The girl was reported missing on October 23 afternoon. Her aunt’s statement was recorded. The police started suspecting the couple after Vakeel went missing around the same time. During probe, the victim’s aunt told police that on October 23, she left home for begging at 5.30 a.m. and when she returned at 12.30 p.m., she could not find the victim. Her husband told her that he had left their niece in an orphanage in Ghaziabad. During probe, it came to notice that Vakeel was seen in the locality since October 23, said DCP (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya. On making an enquiry at the said orphanage, it came to light that no girl of the said name was brought there on October 23, he said. “During investigation, it was revealed that Vakeel had tried to molest the victim on September 28, which the latter told one of their neighbours. His wife too was aware of the incident,” the DCP said. On the basis of analysis of call detail records of Vakeel, a team traced him to Bihar and nabbed him from there. He was then brought to Delhi on transit remand and produced before the court. “During interrogation, he told the police that he had tried to establish physical relationship with the minor one month ago but she objected. When his wife came to know about the incident, she confronted him and they had a quarrel. Although Vakeel wanted the girl to stay with them, it was decided that she should be sent to the village to which the victim refused since she wanted to complete her studies from Delhi,” he said. On October 23, Vakeel’s wife asked her husband to kill the girl. While she stayed outside the house to keep a watch on passers-by, Vakeel hit his neice with an iron rod. They had planned to dispose of the body and were waiting for an opportunity but failed to do so. Then to mislead everyone, his wife told Vakeel to go to his village in Bihar. She thought no one would suspect them as Vakeel would be outstation and she was handicapped so she will get sympathy, the officer said. The iron rod has been recovered. Vakeel is a rickshaw puller while his wife is a beggar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/couple-kills-niece-with-iron-rod-held/article33007806.ece
03 November 2020||Gurugram,||6% rise in seropositivity among Delhi’s neighbours||Seropositivity for COVID-19 in Gurugram, Faridabad and Jhajjar — three of the four districts bordering Delhi — has increased by 5%-6%, according to the second serological survey conducted in Haryana last month. Sonipat, however, registered a marginal dip of 0.1%. A serological survey is conducted to assess the prevalence of a disease in a population and ascertain how many have developed antibodies against the illness. The result of the latest survey showed seroprevalence (antibodies) in 14.8% of Haryana’s population — an overall jump of 6% compared to the first one. Eight districts recorded seropositivity higher than the State average this time. Faridabad registered the highest at 31.2%, followed by Yamunanagar (28.6%), Jind (26.6%), Panipat (23%), Karnal (20.7%), Ambala (19.5%), Nuh (17.6%) and Gurugram (16.5%). Bhiwani recorded seropositivity of 3.1%, Sonipat (13.2%) and Jhajjar (12.8%).  Over 16,000 samples Of the total 16,477 samples collected during the two-day survey conducted in the third week of October, 14,022 were found negative and 2,432 positive. The rest (23) were inconclusive. In each district, a total of 720 samples were taken and divided into rural and urban strata by considering 60:40 ratio. A total of 432 rural and 288 urban participants were selected from each district. In terms of deviation in seropositivity compared with the first round, Yamunanagar saw an increase of 20.3%, from 8.3% earlier. Similarly, Jind and Panipat registered a significant increase of 15.6% each. Gurugram and Faridabad witnessed an increase of 5.7% and 5.4%, respectively. Jhajjar saw a jump of 6.9%. Nuh saw a dip of 2.7%. Bhiwani, Sonipat, Charkhi Dadri and Palwal also saw a dip. Seropositivity was highest for the 88-97 age group at 20% and the lowest for the 78-87 age bracket at 13.1%. Seropositivity was a little above 15% for those in the age group of 38-57, it was 13.9% for the 18-27 age bracket. Participants in the survey not in the habit of wearing masks outnumbered those wearing masks in Kaithal, Faridabad, Nuh and Fatehabad. Similarly, those not adhering to the norms of social distancing outnumbered those adhering to it in Faridabad, Nuh and Fatehabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/6-rise-in-seropositivity-among-delhis-neighbours/article33007808.ece
03 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||War of words over suspension of goods trains to Punjab||With the continued suspension of goods trains to Punjab, political parties were engaged in verbal spat surrounding the issue, a day after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged BJP national president J.P. Nadda for collective will and statesmanship to resolve the situation. All Cabinet Ministers of the Congress government on Monday hit out at the BJP, accusing the State BJP leadership of misleading farmers after being cornered on the draconian farm laws. Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma had accused the Chief Minister of “instigating farmers by misinforming them to gain political mileage”. The Punjab Ministers, in a joint statement, said, “not only was the BJP in Punjab trying desperately to fool the farmers with regard to the agricultural laws of the Central government but their leaders and workers were actively indulging in brazen falsehoods in a bid to exploit the sensitive issue to promote their political interests.” ‘Farmers hurt’ “The farmers don’t need any instigation. They are hurt at the treatment meted out to them by the BJP-led Central government. They are fighting to save their livelihood. But clearly, Mr. Sharma, like other BJP leaders, has no realisation of this,” added the Ministers. The Ministers also dismissed the allegation that the Congress government was responsible for the continued farmer protests and suspension of goods trains. Pointing out that the security and safety of trains was the responsibility of the Railway Protection Force, with the State government having no say in the matter, the Ministers asked what the State government had to do with the safe movement of trains. AAP’s charge However, the Opposition Aam Aadmi Party accused the Chief Minister of indulging in theatrics. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said Capt. Singh’s letter to Mr. Nadda was nothing more than mere theatrics with a ploy to mislead the people of Punjab, especially the struggling farmers. “Until and unless the farmers of the State get a legal guarantee to procure all their crops at MSP, the interest of the farmers could not be safeguarded. The State government should guarantee to the farmers to purchase the crop at the MSP on all crops, including wheat and paddy,” said Mr. Cheema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/war-of-words-over-suspension-of-goods-trains-to-punjab/article33007794.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police bans entry of unauthorised vendors in city’s busy Sadar Bazar||After reports of violation of COVID-19 guidelines were highlighted in Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area, the police banned the entry of unauthorised vendors in the market to create space for pedestrian movement. The Delhi government has provided 140 civil defence volunteers to manage the crowd. On Saturday, The Hindu had highlighted that no social distancing was being followed in Sadar Bazar. After videos and pictures of the crowded market went viral on social media, a joint meeting with the market associations were held. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said they held a meeting with various market welfare associations (MWAs) in Sadar Bazar to control the situation. “All out preventive measures have been initiated in Sadar Bazar to contain spread of the virus. Focus is not only on prosecution of violators but also on awareness campaign.” There are about 40,000 shopkeepers and three market associations in the bazaar — all were requested to ensure that owners and employees parks their vehicles in four identified parking areas. “Regular foot patrolling is being done in the crowded market and violators are being prosecuted. A total of 4,780 challans have been issued till now in these markets. Around 1,597 COVID-19 precautionary posters have been pasted in public places and 4,768 masks distributed till October 27,” said the DCP. He added that total 495 cases under IPC Section 283 have been registered against encroachers and 638 have been fine under the DP act. A total of 54,277 persons have been detained under Section 65 of the DP Act. Apart from this, the police are also taking anti-terrorist measures. An office-bearer of one of the market association said there was a lot of negative publicity about Sadar Bazar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-bans-entry-of-unauthorised-vendors-in-citys-busy-sadar-bazar/article33007797.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man found dead in Hauz Qazi after killing relative||A 25-year-old man allegedly killed his relative before taking his own life in Central Delhi’s Hauz Qazi on Sunday night, the police said on Monday. A senior officer said the accused, Sahil*, was upset over strained relationship with his wife and was often violent. The police said they received information regarding the incident at 12 a.m. Inquiry revealed that Sahil killed a relative, Afroz*, after a quarrel broke out between them. Sahil suspected that his wife and Afroz were in an illicit relationship. Further probe revealed that Sahil’s wife was living in her parental house for over a month with their two children. The couple often quarreled because of Sahil’s suspicion. On Sunday, Sahil had gone to meet the wife and kids in Matia Mahal. He then brought Afroz — who stays in his wife’s parental house — along with him to his residence. The police found two empty glasses at the crime spot and suspected that the duo was drinking. A fight is suspected to have broken out between them after which Sahil strangulated Afroz. On hearing the commotion, Sahil’s mother and brother rushed to the room and tried to intervene but Sahil hit them both as well, leaving them injured. Sahil also told them that he had killed Afroz. His family members sought their neighbours’ help but they allegedly refused because they were aware of Sahil’s violent behaviour. Subsequently, he took his own life. Sahil worked as a photographer and videographer and Afroz worked at a salon.  (*All names have been changed)   Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-found-dead-in-hauz-qazi-after-killing-relative/article33007802.ece
03 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Satellites to detect drug cultivation in Odisha||With illicit cannabis cultivation continuing to flourish in remote areas of the State, the Odisha Space Application Centre (OSAC) has proposed to help law enforcement agencies detect the activity using remote sensing and artificial intelligence technologies. The proposal submitted to the State Excise Department says high resolution satellite imagery can be used for detecting cultivation of hemp, a variety of cannabis. Apart from developing mobile-based applications for field level officials, OSAC has proposed to create a mechanism for citizen reporting by which people can take images and video of any illegal hemp cultivation and report through application. Odisha is one of the leading cannabis producing States in India. Though law enforcement agencies have intensified their raids, it is difficult to trace the cultivation on a real-time basis. “Considering the increasing availability of both spatial and temporal resolution satellite images and advanced algorithms for image processing and spatial modelling, the system will be able to produce reliable geographic information for law enforcement agencies and public policy planning authorities to monitor the illegal plantation of cannabis,” OSAC said. Cannabis is widely grown in forested regions of Malkangiri, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Kandhamal, Boudh, Rayagada, Gajapati, Angul and Nayagarh districts. As many as 1,822 persons have been arrested and close to 50,000 kg of ganja seized in the past five years.  ‘4 cr. plants destroyed’ Officially more than 4 crore hemp plants, whose market value is estimated at approximately Rs. 4,000 crore, have been destroyed in the past five years. Every year, the authorities destroy nearly about 3,400 acres of cannabis. The Odisha police claimed to have tracked movement of cannabis consignments weighing over 1,000 quintal this year alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/satellites-to-detect-drug-cultivation-in-odisha/article33007791.ece
03 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Flurry of post-retirement appointments flagged||At a time when Odisha is facing growing unemployment, the State government is re-engaging officers and other employees after their retirement without a clear reappointment policy, alleged a Right to Information (RTI) activist. “Officers of the Indian Administrative Service and the Odisha Administrative Service were found being appointed to various positions immediately after retirement and there is a long list of such officers,” said Pradip Pradhan, who had obtained a list of reappointments under the RTI Act.  ‘Reappointed 8 times’ Mr. Pradhan alleged that the appointments were arbitrary in nature. “Deepak Kumar Mohanty, an Indian Forest Service officer, has been reappointed eight times since his retirement in 2018,” he pointed out. “Similarly, Dillip Kumar Mohanty, an IAS, who was working in the Chief Minister’s Office, has been given one-year extension four times since 2016,” said Mr. Pradhan quoting RTI replies furnished by the General Administration Department. He said R. Balakrishnan, a top IAS officer, had been appointed adviser to the State government after his retirement in 2019 for an unknown period. Long list There is long list of IAS and OAS officers and engineers in different departments. As many as 20 Class-I officers were given reappointment as consultants in the Water Resource Department. “It seems the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation has not found any skills in the job market. The corporation has absorbed 96 retired employees, including officers and office assistants,” charged Mr. Pradhan. Mr. Pradhan said, “We are not totally averse to reappointments. Some officers with their skill level are considered indispensable. But, they cannot be offered post-retirement appointments for umpteen times.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flurry-of-post-retirement-appointments-flagged/article33007792.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inter-State bus travel to resume today||Ahead of the reopening of the three Interstate Bus Terminals (ISBTs) at Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar on November 3, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot reviewed the preparation at the depots to ensure the safety of passengers as well as employees. This will be the first time interstate bus travel will be allowed in the Capital since the COVID-19 lockdown was announced. Mr. Gahlot said, “We have been monitoring patterns of travelling since we resumed bus services and even though interstate travel is a challenge, we are ensuring sanitisation at every point. Apart from this, regular announcements and sensitisation of passengers about COVID-19 precautions through audio messages, visual communication is also being undertaken. He added that there will be a strict ban on use of gutka, tobacco products, etc. in the premises of ISBTs. Thermal checking The Minster said that detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) have been put in place and thermal checking of both passengers and bus crew, at boarding and at the point of entry to ISBTs, will be mandatory. The government said that all passengers will have to wear masks and no standing will be allowed in the buses. Social distancing will be ensured on ground station, at the time of boarding of passengers and inside the bus as per government guidelines. It added that testing camps for rapid antigen/ RT-PCR tests have also been set up at all three depots in case any passenger shows signs of illness post thermal screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/inter-state-bus-travel-to-resume-today/article33007795.ece
03 November 2020||November 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Our pride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/our-pride/article33007799.ece
03 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SI found dead||A 26-year-old Delhi Police Sub-Inspector was found dead at his residence in Mohan Garden here on Monday, said officials. The SI was posted in Paschim Vihar (West) in Outer district. “A call was received in Ranhola police station at 5.15 a.m. The caller informed that his brother was found dead,” the officer said. No note was recovered from the spot but probe suggests he took the extreme step due to financial crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/si-found-dead/article33007803.ece
03 November 2020||Guwahati,||Schools in Assam reopen||Educational institutions, barring primary schools, reopened in Assam on Monday with all COVID-19 regulations in place after remaining closed for seven months due to the pandemic, officials said. Classes remained suspended for students till Class V but resumed for those from Class VI onward, they said. Colleges, engineering colleges and universities reopened as per the government order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-in-assam-reopen/article33007787.ece
03 November 2020||Lucknow,||Ex-Unnao MP joins SP after quitting Cong.||Days after resigning from the Congress, former Unnao MP Annu Tandon on Monday joined the Samajwadi Party in the presence of party president Akhilesh Yadav. Ms. Tandon said she wanted to see Mr. Yadav as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2022. She said it was necessary to unite if “we have to push back communal forces.” Explaining her decision to join Mr. Yadav, Ms. Tandon said, “Uttar Pradesh needs a progressive, visionary, young and educated leader.” Ms. Tandon was elected MP from Unnao, adjoining Lucknow, in 2009. However, she lost in both the 2014 and 2019 elections. Last Thursday she submitted her resignation to the Congress stating that there was a “misalignment” between her and its Uttar Pradesh unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-unnao-mp-joins-sp-after-quitting-cong/article33007790.ece
03 November 2020||Guwahati,||Ex-CM Gogoi hospitalised||Former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi was on Monday admitted to the intensive care unit of the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). He had been discharged from the hospital on October 25 after undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications. A Congress spokesperson said the 85-year-old Mr. Gogoi was rushed to the GMCH after he complained of breathing problems. “He is under observation by a team of specialists,” a doctor at the hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-cm-gogoi-hospitalised/article33007793.ece
