01-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Finally, she’s living the time of her life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 30She is 70, but her enthusiasm to nurse the yard is still the same from her childhood days. Around ten years ago after retiring from a convent school here, Surinderjit, had all the time in the world to follow her gardening hobby. From maintaining the quality of soil to applying the suitable manure, she makes conscious efforts to reap the plants.A resident of Radio Colony, she has wisely reused kitchen utensils, including broken coffee mugs, mixer jars, tubs, soup bowls, jugs, paint cans to plant small decorative plants. Giving new life to a pair of discarded gumboots that were used by his son; an army officer, in Siachen, she has adequately utilised them to plant foliage plants. “Before dumping any used item, I contemplate how it can be reused,” Surinderjit chuckles.Apart from the sprawling green cover at the entrance of her main door, she has used every corner, staircase, car parking area and walls to grow more and more plants. A rack of small and colourful flowerpots to pants, different varieties of cactus and succulents and other decorative plants is a sight to behold. “It needs a lot of efforts before watching the seedlings pushing their tiny head from the pots. As I have bought some of the plants from hill stations, I have to keep a special check on the climatic condition they require to grow. Depending on the amount of sunlight required for growth, I shift the location of my plants accordingly,” she says.Actively involved in the gardening from past 10 years, she earlier used trial and error method to check what weather conditions are suitable for different plants, but now with the advent of technology and internet everything she wants to know is at her fingertips. “I watch YouTube videos to do more research on plants. I developed the proclivity for gardening from my mother at a very young age and I had decided that once I’ll be free from my responsibilities, I would pursue it for a calmer atmosphere,” her husband, a retired Colonel also engages with her at times.”Keeping over a hundred decorative and flowering plants aside, her garden is an amazing abode to oranges, lemon, mosambi and pomegranate trees as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/finally-shes-living-the-time-of-her-life-178362
01-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Now, 3 CDPO supervisors test positive for Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 30After two assistants tested positive at the CDPO office and eventually lost their battle against the virus, three Supervisors have also tested positive for the contagion.They were tested soon after they started showing Covid symptoms. Besides, a lady attendant at the Children’s Home for Girls at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram also tested positive.While the entire staff at the DPO office as well as the Gandhi Vanita Ashram had been tested for Covid after two assistants’ death, all remaining staff members on the two premises tested positive.As many as 150 children housed in the Children’s Home, Children’s Home for Girls and Observation Home on the Gandhi Vanita Ashram premises have tested negative. The women residents of the Widow’s Home tested negative as well.District Programme Officer, Gurvinder Singh Randhawa said: “The three supervisors had tested positive soon after the two assistants’ reports came. The staff members at the DPO and CDPO offices housed in the district headquarters were tested for Covid. Barring the three supervisors, all staff members at the DPO and CDPO offices tested negative. Tests of all children, staff and inmates on the Gandhi Vanita premises also came out negative. Only a lady attendant tested positive and she is in home quarantine. The three supervisors are also presently in home quarantine. The office was sealed for three days as per protocol after the employees tested positive. The respective offices opened only after the reports of all employees came out negative.”While the Deputy Commissioner had assured that all inmates at Gandhi Vanita Ashram shelter home shall be tested, the meticulous exercise was carried out a day after the staff was tested.The DPO said the employees of the other CDPO offices across the district were also being checked and as per protocol, the inmates of Children Home for Girls (whose lady attendant was presently under home quarantine) shall be tested again after some days.7th employee at Lambra school tests +veAfter five teachers and an employee of Government Senior Secondary School Lambra tested positive, and one of them succumbed, another teacher of the government school tested positive for Covid on Monday. Notably, seven persons from a single school have tested positive for Covid. Five teachers from various schools at Phillaur had also previously tested positive in the city.6 die, 76 new infections in Jalandhar districtJalandhar: With 76 new cases, the district Covid tally reached 17,945 on Monday. Six deaths were also reported from Covid, taking the number of deceased persons to 561. The active cases in the district stand at 1,331. So far, 16,053 people have been discharged, while as many as 859 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, six people tested positive for Covid-19. TNS36 positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With the arrival of 36 new positive patients in Hoshiarpur district, the tally increased to 6,971. The toll remains 255, as no death due to Covid was reported on Monday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said with 764 new samples taken on Monday, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 1,94,806. According to the reports received from the lab, 1,88,039 were negative, while 1,134 reports were still awaited and 133 were invalid. The number of active cases is 163, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,553. Out of today’s 36 positive cases, seven were from Hoshiarpur city, while 29 were from the remaining health blocks of the district. There was no death due to Covid-19 in district for two days. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-3-cdpo-supervisors-test-positive-for-covid-178363
01-12-2020||---||These teachers are simply a class apart||Jalandhar, November 30Ever since the pandemic began, online sessions have become an inseparable part of the students. But, for teachers in rural areas, visiting the students’ homes and making announcements from gurdwaras to ensure that students were not having any problems has now become a routine thing.Teacher Kulwinder Singh from Government Middle School in Mundi Cholian has seen many instances through. He said students who come from far-off villages like Dhakka Basti, where people hardly have any access to technology, taking exams online was not a cakewalk.When he had gone the first day, he called the students at one place, made them sit making sure they maintained a certain distance, and then monitored them while they answered the question paper. “They were having trouble using technology and we helped them,” he informed.Deepak Prakash, a teacher from a school in Madala Channa village in Lohian block makes announcements from gurdwaras to inform the students regarding various works. A total of 84 students study there and 40 per cent of them don’t have smartphones. Prakash said he had visited every student’s house so that all of them could take the exam. “It’s a painstaking task at this point, but still, I understand my duty and work for the students.” He, along with two other teachers, had been visiting their homes and helping each of them to login in order to take the exam.Meanwhile, Sarabjit Singh, a teacher from government primary school in Dhakka Basti village, said whenever he goes to school, he has a brief stopover at the homes of the students and checks their notebooks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/these-teachers-are-simply-a-class-apart-178364
01-12-2020||---||He penned 2 books during lockdown, is working on third||Jalandhar, November 30 AK Goswami, who will be turning 81 on December 1, is an inspiration for people of almost every age group because of his resilience and attitude towards life.  Retired as Additional GM from Indian Ordnance Factories Services, Goswami wrote two books — ‘Ignite a spark of life’ and ‘Happiness nector of life’ — since the pandemic hit and these have been released as well.  He had earlier written ‘Graceful ageing’ and ‘Relationships are art and science of life’. Born on December 1, 1940, in Lahore, Goswami is a postgraduate in industrial system engineering. He wrote his first book 10 years ago. The cheerful Goswami shares, “When I retired, I didn’t want to sit idle. So, I started teaching management and industrial training at various institutes. I always focused on practical training. I have an experience of life, which I used to share with others.” “I wanted to keep myself busy and thus started my second innings, otherwise, I would have suffered the complications of old age. Today, I am 81, but I still walk for around 10 km daily. You must have heard the saying ‘Savaari apne samaan ki khud zimmevaar hai’, and I apply it on myself. I am responsible for my own body, nobody else is going to take care of it other than me. If I suffer, my kin are there to help me, but it will be solely me, who will suffer the pain, so, we all must pay attention to our health, and I strongly believe in keeping health a priority,” he said. Even at 80, there’s no stopping him. He is now planning to write another book. “I am now thinking of writing another book on 2020. I would say it came as a blessing for me, as I did several constructive works during this time,” he said. He was also awarded the consultancy of Valves and Cock cluster at Jalandhar in lean manufacturing. So, Goswami, who has already been entrusted with various works, says this is the reason behind being happy in life even at this age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-penned-2-books-during-lockdown-is-working-on-third-178365
01-12-2020||---||3 women officers who took charge of Gurpurb celebrations||Sultanpur Lodhi, November 30Three women officers, who occupy key posts in the district administration on Monday took charge of the conduct of 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev at the holy town of Sultanpur Lodhi.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur and SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Charumita along with a team of officers had done all the planning of security, traffic, crowd management, drinking water facilities, washroom and other basic amenities for more than 4 lakh devotees during the event.For the last 10 days, they were in the field constantly monitoring the arrangements in the pandemic days. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, a 2011-batch IAS officer, said, “This time, we are facing an unprecedented health crisis in the form of Covid. There was an uphill challenge to ensure strict adherence to protocols during the massive congregation here.”She said 50,000 masks were distributed during the event and 50 hand-wash kiosks and sanitisation points were set up to prevent the spread. Besides, testing was also carried out vigorously.SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, a 2013-batch IPS officer, who recently joined Kapurthala, said that more than 2,000 cops were deployed to keep round the clock vigil. Also, CCTV cameras were installed as special checking teams were also formed. She said that for the traffic management, six parking lots were set up on all the roads leading to Sultanpur Lodhi for devotees.SDM Charumita, a 2013-batch PCS officer, who was a key member of the team constituted for the events, said ensuring cleanliness was one of the biggest task amid heavy footfall and task was managed with the help of more than 550 safai sewaks from adjoining Municipal Councils like Adampur, Bhogpur, Shahkot, Nakodar, Tanda, Dasuya, Nadala and others. She said that 20 swimmers were also deployed around holy Bein to avert any mishap.Projects completed & dueMeanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday laid foundation stones of six projects to be completed at a cost of nearly Rs40.75 crore. Listing some other projects that had been announced and completed at Sultanpur Lodhi, the CM said the beautification of the holy Bein was done at a cost of Rs10.8 crore, while Guru Nanak Dev Centre for Invention, Innovation, Incubation & Training had been set up at a cost of Rs319 crore. “The Bebe Nanki College (girls) had been established in the area in this period and the widening and construction of six roads had been completed at Rs30.7 crore, along with upgradation of the railway station to facilitate followers and other travelers,” he added.For easy movement towards gurdwara Ber Sahib, three high-level bridges have been constructed on Bein at a cost of Rs9.30 crore, in addition to two overbridges at Rs1.4 crore and two pontoon bridges at Rs2 crore. The rest house had also been raised at a cost of Rs2.4 crore, while Rs6 crore was spent on upgradation of the bus stand, apart from setting up of 66 KV sub-station at a cost of Rs11 crore.He also asked MLA Navtej Singh Cheema to submit a proposal regarding new development projects, if needed, in the region. Cheema urged the CM to grant funds for strengthening of basic amenities and infrastructure development in colonies adjoining the rail coach factory, where more than 25,000 people were residing.Farmers’ issues raisedThe CM stressed on disseminating the ideology and message of ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’ as envisioned by Guru Nanak Dev. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, Sunil Jakhar, and Khadoor Sahib MP, Jasbir Dimpa, took the opportunity to eulogise a strong stand of the CM on farmers’ issues.Head of Namdhari Sect Satguru Uday Singh said Punjabis had always been at forefront for the welfare of all sections of the society, which they had proven even during the pandemic crisis by extending all possible help to the needy besides continuing the langar to feed the hapless people. He also appreciated efforts of the state government to help the migrant labour by providing them timely transportation.At gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib at Sultanpur Lodhi, the CM was presented siropa by SGPC members Jathedar Sarwan Singh Kular and Bibi Gurpreet Kaur Ruhi. The CM also honoured head Budha Dal Baba Balbir Singh, Sant Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal, former Jathedar Takht Patna Sahib Giani Iqbal Singh and other religious personalities.Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, MLAs Rana Gurjit Singh, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, Harminder Singh Gill, Pargat Singh, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, Sukhwinder Singh Danny and BS Dhaliwal, former president PPCC HS Hanspa were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-women-officers-who-took-charge-of-gurpurb-celebrations-178368
01-12-2020||---||Farmers’ kids stay back home, lend support on social media||Jalandhar, November 30While scores of farmers from across the region have moved to the national capital to seek the withdrawal of the agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September this year, children (teenagers) of farmers back home are virtually lending support to the protesting farmers. Observing a series of episodes on the Delhi-Haryana border, the youngsters are busy creating numerous posts on social media to make the voices of farmers heard louder.As per the social media trend, the farmers’ “Delhi chalo andolan” topped the chart among the widely discussed topics on social media. Following which, meme pages depicting farmers braving the water cannons and tear gas to go on until the Central Government takes back the contentious farm laws took the public eye.@farmers_protest,@farmersprotestchallenge,supportfarmers,@delhichalowithfarmers,@farmersprotestawareness,@punjabprotestfarmers are some of the Instagram pages that have been created in the past three days to lend support to thousands of farmers fighting for their rights on the Delhi-Haryana border. Besides the agitators, local residents are also proudly flaunting T-shirts and bands with images and quotes of Bhagat Singh.Damanvir Singh, a young farmer from Phillaur, said, “Even if we can’t join the protest physically, we are fighting the same battle digitally. As various new features have been launched on various social media sites, it has become easier for us to spread our reach. Even Punjabis settled abroad are supporting us in our drive by sharing our posts and making appeals to revoke the farm laws.”Likewise, Shreya Pandey, a resident, who shared the viral picture of farmers serving langar to policemen, said, “The stiff opposition by farm bodies indicates that all is not well with the agriculture policies. Farmers should be in the fields not on roads to decide a better future for their crops. The lathi-charge and use of tear gas by the police was highly condemnable. The government should immediately come to a conclusion before things turn worse.”Vishal Bhanot said, “The growing resentment among farmers against the agriculture laws has united people across the country. Earlier, we didn’t know much about the farm laws but after understanding them, we are standing in support of the farming community. The movement is gaining support on social media every day. The government needs to ensure that the farmers are not exploited at the hands of corporate houses. Besides, they must be given MSP for all their crops.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-kids-stay-back-home-lend-support-on-social-media-178369
01-12-2020||---||Rakshak offers 50 pc discount to budding hockey players||Jalandhar, November 30 Another sports firm ‘Rakshak’ has come forward to offer 50 per cent discount on all types of hockey equipment and sportswear. Iqbal Singh Sandhu, joint secretary, Surjit Hockey Society (Jalandhar), said, “Rakshak is the second sports firm to provide 50 per cent discount to Surjit Hockey campers. Earlier, Alpha Hockey had announced similar discount for campers.” He said Sanjay Kohli of RK Sports, Jalandhar, has also announced to provide 21 carbon hockey sticks to budding players in the age group of 14 to 19 participating in the coaching camp. Surinder Singh Bapa, coaching camp director, Surjit Hockey Society, informed that to revive the game in the state and to regain the lost glory of the national game, they had urged Olympians and international players to be a part of the Surjit hockey coaching camp and should take initiative to start similar types of camps in their respective cities or villages. He appealed parents to send their children to the camp as no fee would be charged for training. In addition to hockey sticks and fruits, soaked almonds provided by Tut Brothers, USA, were being served daily to all players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rakshak-offers-50-pc-discount-to-budding-hockey-players-178370
01-12-2020||---||Sukhpal Khaira urges all non-BJP leaders to support farmers||Jalandhar, November 30Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira on Monday called upon all non-BJP MLAs and MPs to come forward and support the agitating farmers, who are being severely victimised by the Central Government.Khaira said he was aware of the fact that the farmer organisations had stopped political leaders from interfering in their agitation but that did not mean that the elected representatives of Punjab should remain mute spectators to the gross exploitation of farmers. Khaira said it was their moral duty to support and sustain the protests in Delhi for the genuine legitimate demands of the farmers.Khaira said the way both the BJP governments at the Centre and in Haryana used harsh methods like water cannons, tear gas shells, heavy barricading etc, it only showed their undemocratic attitude and hatred for the farmers and Punjab. Khaira applauded the brave farmers and the youth of Punjab who by sheer will-power had managed to defy all impediments and reach Delhi and that too peacefully.Khaira said the BJP government was treating the farmers with contempt as if they were enemies of the country despite the fact that the Punjabis have immensely contributed towards the inclusive development of the country since Independence. They have not only made India self-sufficient in food grain production but also defended the borders by laying down their lives. Unfortunately instead of rewarding the brave farmers, the BJP has turned revengeful and is inflicting cruelty upon them, said Khaira.Khaira said it was the need of the hour for all elected representatives of Punjab, including MLAs and MPs, to come to the rescue of the rotesting farmers. He urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to convene an urgent all-party meeting to plan an indefinite protest in Delhi by elected representatives, in order to build pressure on the Central Government to accept the legitimate demands of the farmers. Khaira said it was the moral duty of all elected representatives of Punjab not only to safeguard interests of farmers but also oppose the undeclared emergency imposed by the BJP government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhpal-khaira-urges-all-non-bjp-leaders-to-support-farmers-178371
01-12-2020||Jalandhar||Shopkeepers back farmers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shopkeepers-back-farmers-178373
