02-12-2020||Jalandhar||House passes agenda amid BJP councillors’ boycott||The MC General House meeting took place at the Red Cross Bhawan here on Tuesday. At the beginning of the meeting, Mayor Jagdish Raja insisted on first clearing the agendas while some councillors pursued him to hold zero hour first. In the middle of the zero hour, the agenda branch officials started passing the agendas, an enraged Jaspal Kaur, councillor from Ward Number 45, came on stage and stopped the official to continue speaking and even snatched the agenda documents from him. This created a drama and she said that she would first want answers to the problems of her ward from the Mayor. The latter calmed her down and said that he would listen to her afterwards. BJP councillors also walked out of the hall by boycotting the meeting. When Viresh Kumar, BJP councillor, kept on asking questions from the Mayor, the latter told him that he was crossing the limit. After that Viresh left the hall.During the meeting, it was also suggested that an elevated road from PAP Chowk to Workshop Chowk via Kapurthala Chowk will be constructed in the city which will resolve the decades old traffic problem. The project will be carried out under the Smart City Project.Officials present during zero hourZero hour went for nearly three hours. Interestingly, almost every official was present during the meeting. Notably, in the last meeting, the Mayor had said strictly that every officer must be present during the meeting and no one should remain absent.Councillor Des Raj Jassal was the first one to raise the issue regarding a private hospital which he had been raising for long. He said that replies given by the officials on the same were not satisfactory and there was nothing concrete. Des Raj asked how much property tax was recovered from the hospital.A senior official of the MC replied that the notice had been served and 15 days were given to submit the documents. “When the documents come, the exact property tax will be calculated,” the officer said.But Jassal said that the answer was not proper. “It is the fourth time that I have asked this, that too without any proper answer,” he said. He also questioned Tehbazari Department officials saying that they were recovering Rs 1,000 from poor vendors every month but they cannot recover the remaining due from the private hospital.The Mayor said that a committee would be formed to look into the matter of private hospital dues.Neerja Jain, chairman of advertisement ad hoc committee, targeted the advertisement department official. She said, “He has removed 80-100 poles from the city, did he ask us? I have been raising the issue of illegal poles in the city. And they act without even asking us.”Resignation from ad hoc committeesCouncillor Anjali Bhagat, also a member of two ad hoc committees (landscape and property tax ad hoc committee) also resigned as a member from both the committees saying that being a member, she wasn’t ever invited to the meetings and there was no use of such committees.Safai karamcharis’ issues raisedIssues related to contaminated water, sewerage problems were also raised.Councillor from ward number 5 said that since the last three years, she did not even have a single safai karamchari in the ward.Jaspal Kaur, councilor, ward number 45 and wife of former deputy mayor Kamaljit Singh Bhatia, said four safai karamcharis who used to work in her ward had died and no new appointment had come in their place.Illegal coloniesVicky Kalia, councilor, ward number 64 and member of buildings and roads ad hoc committee, said, “ As many as 19 new colonies are being carved out but no action is being taken”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/house-passes-agenda-amid-bjp-councillors-boycott-178795
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||Rs 1,000 penalty for not wearing mask not fair, say Jalandhar residents||The police intensified the challan drive following the directions of the state government to hike the penalty from Rs500 to Rs1000 for not wearing masks.Total Rs73,000 was collected as fine from 73 violators by the city police on Tuesday.While the state has been struggling to contain the surge in Covid cases, the decision to raise the penalty amount has not gone down well with residents it seems. After the announcement by the Chief Minister to double the penalty amount for not wearing masks, and imposition of night curfew, last week, locals have already started voicing their opinion on social media citing various reasons.Roshandeep Singh, a shopkeeper at sports market, said: “How can the government expect residents to pay Rs1,000 for not wearing masks and following social distancing? In several rallies and protests, even political leaders forget to wear masks and maintain a 5-metre distance. Increasing the fine will only lead to unnecessary confusion among residents. It’s better to raise awareness and sensitise people for Covid threat by adopting other means.”Likewise, Akash, a student said, most people are not in a position to pay the heavy fine and the government move would lead to corruption as violators would be let off by officials after taking bribes.Meanwhile, ACP headquarters Bimal Kant said: “The police appeals to residents to always wear a mask before entering any public space, as it will not only save them from paying the fine, but also limit their chances of contacting the virus. Rs73,000 was collected as fine till 5 pm on Tuesday.”As per the official data, as many as 47,496 people were fined Rs2.30 crore till mid of October for not wearing masks since the lockdown was imposed. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Tuesday ordered field officers to take strict action against those violating the night curfew imposed by the state government to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Bhullar issued stringent instructions for all field officers to ensure that there must not be any movement of individuals and non-essential activities between 10 pm and 5 am on roads. He said all hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces and other hospitality units must close by 9:30 pm.However, it has also created confusion among people, who had booked hotels and marriage palaces prior to the night curfew was announced. Finding themselves at the receiving end, the affected individuals said it was difficult to shift marriage dates, considering it was the peak marriage season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-1-000-penalty-for-not-wearing-mask-not-fair-say-jalandhar-residents-178796
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||3,906 healthcare workers to get first dose of Covid vaccine||To ensure an effective roadmap for the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine and all frontline health workers of the district receive the first shot of the vaccine whenever it is available, the district administration has started making a strategy for the distribution of the vaccine.4 die, 89 test +ve in districtWith 89 new cases, the district Covid tally reached 18,034 on Tuesday. Four deaths were also reported from Covid, taking the number of deceased persons to 565. The active cases in the district stands at 1,271. So far, 16,198 people have been discharged, while 793 people were under home isolation in the district. Presiding over a meeting of the task force set up to prepare the plan and oversee the operations, health officers and IMA officer-bearers, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal, who is also in-charge of tertiary hospitals of level-III, on Tuesday said as per the directions of the government, the first dose of the vaccine would be administered to all frontline health workers, including doctors, nursing and lab staff, ward attendants and all anganwari workers along with helpers.District round-upSamples collected 3,79,357Positive 18,034Negative 3,44,188Active cases 1,271Discharged 16,198Deaths 565He said the Health Department had 3,906 healthcare workers in all government health institutions and anganwari centres. Sarangal said as per the records, Jalandhar had 156 private health institutions under the jurisdiction of the city and these hospitals have a large workforce. Besides, the city has a huge number of private clinics/nursing homes.He urged all hospitals, private clinics and nursing homes to submit the data of the health staff employed in their institutes by December 2. He also directed the Health Department to lay a special focus on the required infrastructure for the storage of vaccines in Jalandhar.The ADC further asked all Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) and Senior Medical Officers (SMOs) to ensure that the data of healthcare employees in private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics falling in their areas, must reach by tomorrow (on Wednesday) evening. He solicited the support of the IMA and other associations so that the entire data could be sent to the state government timely.Calling the doctors, nursing and lab staff, ward attendants and other health workers as ‘soldiers without uniform’, the Additional Deputy Commissioner said the administration would leave no stone unturned to give topmost priority to the immunisation of frontline workers who had been fighting the pandemic for the last eight months. Prominent among those present included Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema, DMC, and Dr Jyoti Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-906-healthcare-workers-to-get-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-178797
02-12-2020||As the contagion hit the academic field||‘Students not ready for regular classes, parents also unwilling’||As the state government has allowed colleges to open, do you intend to start regular classes?No, we only have online classes. The previous offline mode of classes will be started only when the situation improves or the vaccination against Covid-19 is rolled out. Our students are coming only if they have doubts to be cleared or their teachers call them in batches for conducting practical classes.But several colleges have begun regular classes for the PG students or final year graduates, even opening up hostels. Why is GNA University not following the pattern?Our deans and faculty has taken the feedback from the students and their parents. The students are not yet ready to come. The parents apprehend the safety of their children in the hostels. Flights and rail services have also not resumed properly. We have our buses offering pick and drop facilities to the students from Ludhiana, Dasuya, Mukerian and nearby towns but parents do not want their children to use any such common facilities owing to safety reasons. So, we have also not insisted from our side.Is the teaching faculty regularly coming to the campus?We have 100-plus teaching staff. The staff from nearby towns is coming to campus almost daily and we have provided them bus service too. There is little relaxation for those coming from far-off areas.Has Covid affected the admissions this time?No, we are maintaining student strength of 2,500 at the campus. Our admissions have remained the same. The only change is that we have more students from nearby towns this time. Earlier, we also had many students from far-off states like Andhra Pradesh. This time there is a slight fall in their numbers.Has the virus altered session timings? If yes, do you think you will be able to set it right in the coming months?Yes, of course our session timings have got affected. We had some students who took admission in August in the first year and immediately started classes for them. We had to keep our admissions open till November 15. So, there is a separate plan for the late admissions. For those who joined early, our mid-semester examination is set to begin but we cannot do for others. We need to first finish their syllabus by holding extra classes and weekend classes before they can take examination. Yes, we will set the session timing provided the situation improves. There will be no long winter or summer vacations for the first year students. So, we expect that they will be able to cover up their first year by July or August.Has the preference of students for courses changed this year?No, the overall preference pattern of the students for various courses remains the same. The most preferred in our campus is BTech mechanical with automation. We have an expertise in this course and hence more students approach us for this, getting to know about the industrial background of the university. Our computer science and hotel management courses have also remained a top priority as was the trend earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-not-ready-for-regular-classes-parents-also-unwilling-178798
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||Schools, colleges celebrate Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak virtually||Amid Covid-19 pandemic and closing of educational institutes, various authorities on Monday made it sure to teach the values of Guru Nanak Dev by celebrating the 551st Parkash Purb virtually.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School celebrated the Parkash Purb with devotion. Principal, students and teachers sought the blessings with prayers while at home. Highlighting the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev, the school held series of home activities for the students. Online release of ‘Shabad gayan’ by school music department was made tying all in one thread of obeisance. Principal Rachna Monga, in her message to the students, mentioned Guru Nanak’s valuable teachings and its need in today’s social environment. She mentioned that tolerance, patience, sharing and honesty in the youth can only lead them to be true human beings. Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shiksha Mandal, in his message expressed strong prayers for the nourishment of young and old. On the activity platform, students presented their thoughts in the form of ‘Shabad gayan’, poetical recitation, slogan writing, declamation, poster and collage-making and shared with the teachers through online mode.CT Group of InstitutionsCT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur, marked the 551st Parkash Purb by organising a ceremony in which staff members recited Sukhmani Sahib Path. The majority of them were donned in saffron coloured turbans and dupattas. CT Group co-chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi, Tanika Singh graced the occasion along with managing director Manbir Singh and vice-chairman Harpreet Singh. Recalling the last year’s celebration, Manbir Singh said: “Last year, we contributed our bit by organising various events dedicated to 550th Parkash Purp of Guru Nanak Dev like turban tying, plantation drive, Limca Book of Records of making 550 vegetarian sandwiches and a 12-day long ‘Virasat-e-Pradarshni’ at Sultanpur Lodhi. Baba Nanak has blessed us always and we wish best for everyone in future as well.”Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeDr Gurpinder Singh Samra, principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, also congratulated the teaching and non teaching staff, students and alumni and the management on the occasion of 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev. Dr Samra in his message said Guru Nanak’s teachings could guide modern man in living his life peacefully and meaningfully. He said the teachings of the great Guru were relevant even after five centuries and could guide human beings to maintain this planet as a worth living place. He said Guru Nanak Dev in his teachings gave the message of universal brotherhood, simple and honest life. He said the college, following the teachings of the Guru, always tried to instill the sense of logical thinking, and peaceful coexistence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-colleges-celebrate-parkash-purb-of-guru-nanak-virtually-178799
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||Contests, film screening mark World AIDS Day||World AIDS Day was observed in colleges of the city by organising competitions for slogan writing, poster making and video presentations. The students were also shown videos for spreading awareness against the spread of disease.Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaThe zoology department along with Red Cross Society of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised various competitions on World AIDS Day. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the staff of zoology department for taking the initiative for spreading awareness amongst the community. Dr Seema Marwaha, Head of Zoology Department, enlightened them about the dreadful disease and its current scenario in our country. Meenakshi Sayal, school coordinator, told students that Red Ribbon is the symbol of awareness and one must provide support for those living with HIV. She further stressed upon the need to create awareness regarding AIDS and motivate the students to follow healthy practices in life. Dr Deepshikha, Incharge of Red Cross Society, also appreciated the efforts of the students.Online competitive events such as slogan writing, poster making and PowerPoint presentation were organised. Around 50 students from all streams participated in the event.In slogan writing: Nishtha, got the first prize, Naina got the second prize and Purwashi bagged the third prize. Appreciation prize went to Manjot.In poster making: Jessica, Ambreen and Chetna got the first, second and third prize respectively . Appreciation prize went to Prerna, Tanya Anand and Harpreet.In PowerPoint presentation: Lisha Juneja pocketed the first prize and Khushi got the second prize. Avantika Randev was convenor of the event and guided students for participation in all activities. Dr Sakshi Verma hosted the event and announced the prize winners and showed the PowerPoint presentation. Ravi Kumar showed a film regarding HIV virus and posters made by all participants. The function was concluded with vote of thanks.Innocent Hearts College of EducationThe NSS unit of Innocent Hearts College of Education observed World AIDS Day to spread awareness regarding AIDS and show support for people living with HIV. The theme for the 2020 observance was ‘Ending the HIV/AIDS Epidemic: Resilience and Impact’. All the student-teachers and faculty members wore red ribbons to raise awareness about AIDS.Due to Covid- 19 pandemic, the programme was conducted through online mode in which the NSS volunteers shared facts and medically accurate information about HIV and AIDS to help stop HIV stigma and myths. Some NSS volunteers created AIDS awareness posters with slogans like ‘Let’s Stop HIV Together’ and ‘Open your eyes before AIDS closes them’. They prepared videos explaining their posters and shared them through online WhatsApp groups to highlight ways to reduce HIV stigma and promote prevention.Principal Dr Arjinder Singh highlighted the fact that the world is facing new diseases each day and Covid-19 is the latest in this category. He further said, “We all should take constructive steps to eliminate chronic diseases for making our planet safe and spreading awareness about AIDS in communities is must, which our NSS unit volunteers are doing to a great extent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contests-film-screening-mark-world-aids-day-178800
02-12-2020||Kapurthala||RCF inks pact with RITES Ltd||As a step towards transparency and ease of doing business, Rail Coach Factory (RCF) has outsourced the activity of capacity-cum-capability assessment of new manufacturing firms to specialised inspecting agency of Indian Railways, RITES Ltd.During the Covid-19 period restriction and as precautionary measures, the physical capacity-cum-capability assessment of the new manufacturing firms was halted. So, considering it as opportunity the RCF has entered into a MoU with RITES Ltd, which is a specialised agencyunder the Ministry of Railways and has Pan India network of inspection engineers.RCF PRO said, “The step will bring more transparency and it will ease the physical inspection part of the activity. It will promote ease of doing business as the new firms will get registration with RCF in much lesser time. This will also reduce the workload of RCF”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-inks-pact-with-rites-ltd-178801
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||56th BSF Raising Day celebrated||The headquarters of Punjab Frontier of Border Security Force celebrated its 56th Raising Day here on Tuesday.Parade was held by jawans and a cake-cutting ceremony was held under the supervision of IG Mahipal Yadav. The BSF which guards 553 km of the country’s borders came into existence on December 1, 1965.On the occasion, the officials highlighted the fact that 481 kg of heroin was recovered from 100 persons arrested by the force. Six Pakistani intruders were killed and six of Pakistanis who unintentionally crossed the borders were sent back to their native country. As many as 36 weapons, 58 magazines and 639 rounds of ammunition were seized from the intruders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/56th-bsf-raising-day-celebrated-178806
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||Virtual get-togethers held to hone English speaking skills||The Education Department’s new initiative — English Booster Club (EBC) — at government schools has evinced a good response. To lend a new dimension to EBCs, the department is mulling to hold district-level ‘Virtual Get-Together of Teachers’ to hone communication skills in English language.All district mentors (English) have been asked to organise virtual get-together of teachers in their respective districts by December 4.The District Education Officers (Secondary and Primary) would preside over the meet. The deputy DEOs, DMs, DIET principals, block mentors, media coordinators would also be invited as guests.As per information, about 35 to 40 teachers, both primary and secondary, as well as belonging to different subjects would participate under the aegis of English Booster Club. The participants would deliver short speeches of 45 to 90 seconds duration on different topics, which includes, ‘Mission Cent per cent’, ‘Views regarding EBC’, ‘Self-Confidence’, ‘English as an international language’, ‘Use of Classroom instructions to improve language skills’, ‘Views regarding Online teaching’, ‘ The importance of mother tongue-Punjabi’ , ‘I love my national language’, ‘How to motivate students to join EBC?’, ‘How to motivate teachers to join EBC ?’, ‘How to promote EBC in society?’, ‘Suggestions to improve EBCs’.These get-togethers would be a regular feature of EBCs for building conducive environment in government schools to mobilise teachers to develop communication skill in English language, but would also help them to share the good practices for further boosting students in their respective schools to make it a routine to have conversation in English among themselves.Earlier, as part of the EBC activities, the audio and video clippings of students and teachers are being shared on social media groups formed from the school, block, district and state level. Competitions are also being organised. Students excelling in English speaking are also being honoured as “Star of the Day” and appreciation letter by the District Education Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-get-togethers-held-to-hone-english-speaking-skills-178817
02-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Thieves strike at 3 gurdwaras||Woman alleges rape, 2 bookedAmritsar: A married woman accused two persons for allegedly raping her in Gillwali village under Ramdass police station area here. Though the incident occurred on November 23, a complaint was lodged yesterday. The police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC against Hardev Singh of Teda Rajputa village and Rana Singh of Gilwali village. No arrest has been made so far. The victim said she was alone at home and her husband had gone outside. She said the accused had a motor repairing shop near her residence. She alleged Rana Singh caught her arms and dragged her in a room and raped her. She said when she tried to raise an alarm, the accused stuffed a cloth in her mouth. She said later Hardev Singh also raped her. Raids were on to nab the suspects who were on run. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thieves-strike-at-3-gurdwaras-178830
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||Only 14 register at Punjab's lone rehab centre for women||Roshni (35) needs to get on ART as she has been diagnosed with HIV. Muskaan, another HIV patient, needs to get an Aadhaar card to be able to seek benefits of various health and job schemes started by the state government. But while one refuses to get treatment, the other refuses an Aadhaar card.The (Anti-Retro Viral Therapy) ART Centre, opened in Kapurthala in August, has come as a boon for HIV positive men and women, who had to earlier travel to Jalandhar to get treatment. While ART has opened ways to a better living for the registered women, many of whom also found jobs via district services, however, the stigma associated with the disease result in women largely shying away from showing up.There are over 10,000 registered drug users at the De-Addiction Centre for Men at Kapurthala while at the De-Addiction Centre for Women (the only centre for women in the state) there are mere 226 users. At the ART Centre, there are 172 registered men and only 14 women.Of 226 women drug users in Kapurthala, 47 are HCV positive and 16 are HIV positive. Of these 16, two haven’t turned up. As a result, the health workers are bringing women from their homes in their own vehicles to ensure their treatment.Dr Sandeep Bhola, Nodal Officer, Mental Health and De-Addiction, Kapurthala, said: “The ART Centre has come as a huge relief for patients. But women, as compared to men, are still wary of coming for treatment. The taboo begins with society.”Sarabjit, Project Manager, Alliance AIDS, said: “There are several women who don’t want their relatives to know. Most of them became drug users due to social pressures and peer group influence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-14-register-at-punjabs-lone-rehab-centre-for-women-178665
