06-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||This 57-year-old hockey player is still pursuing his love for the sport||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5Iqbal Singh Sandhu is a renowned name in Indian hockey from the days of yore. Having witnessed a remarkable glory of Indian hockey during the ’80s and ’90s, Sandhu only aspires to relive those long gone moments.After taking retirement from his services this year in the month of May, he is at present pursuing his love for hockey. With the help of like-minded people, he is providing free training to budding hockey players at Surjit Singh Hockey Stadium.The 58-year-old former hockey player started playing the sport when he was 14. His introduction to the national sport was a mere accident, but one can consider it to be a fortunate one.“When I was in Class X at Layallpur Khalsa School, there was an inter-school level match. Teams from girls’ school, who had already carved a niche for themselves were participating in the match. Players from our school didn’t want to lose. However, our goalkeeper was missing. My friends in the team and the coach insisted me to slip in. To my surprise, in fact everyone’s, the opposite team couldn’t secure even a single goal. Since then, there was no looking back and I remained associated with hockey. Our coach trained me and sharpened my skills,” said Iqbal.In the nearly 10 years of his active sports career, he has played several district, state, national and international championships. He was also among the probable players for 1985 Junior Hockey World Championship and got trained in the World Cup camp.Later, when he was 24, he was appointed as Naib Tehsildar in Ludhiana. In his area of eminence (administration and governance), he was also awarded silver medal and certificate of appreciation for outstanding work during the Census 1991 by the then President of India. After serving for 32 years, he retired as Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Ludhiana.For the past 37 years, he is associated with Surjit Hockey Stadium here and is serving as its secretary for the last 20 years. He also participated in the International Youth Festival, 2014, in Pakistan as the manager of Punjab Hockey Team that won the gold medal.A resident of Guru Govind Singh Nagar, Sandhu, along with fellow hockey players Ravinder Singh, Davinder Singh and other coaches of sports department, reaches the stadium early in the morning to train budding players. The camp that had only five players in the beginning, has now over 100 children. Apart from free training, hockey sticks and balls, nutrition is also provided to the Under-14 and Under-19 players.Apart from children from Jalandhar, a large number of players are from Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur, who reach the stadium at 6.30 am. He wants parents to send their wards to the training camp, as it is completely free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-57-year-old-hockey-player-is-still-pursuing-his-love-for-the-sport-180602
06-12-2020||---||Four die, 80 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 5The district reported four more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 575, while 80 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 18,388. The active cases in the district are 1,118, while 16,695 patients have been discharged and as many as 689 people are under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala, 14 persons tested positive for Covid-19, while a 54-year-old man died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Two succumb, 44 new cases in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported 44 new positive cases in the district on Saturday. With this the total number of Covid patients has increased to 7,137. The authorities reported two more death and as a result, the toll reached 263 today. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken were 2,02,589. He said reports of 1,94,399 persons tested negative while reports of 2,440 samples were awaited.He said there were 213 active cases and 6,661 patients recovered. Out of 44 new positive cases reported today, 21 cases were from the city while the rest were from other health blocks in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-die-80-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-180603
06-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Farm protest: Legendary players leave for Delhi to return awards||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 5As many as 20 international players of the state left for Delhi this morning to return their respective awards in solidarity with farm protests. While over 41 players gave the consent for returning awards, in all 20 players left for the Singhu border from here. Many others sent in their awards to be returned by the congregation in Delhi.Their cavalcade was flagged off by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal on the Jalandhar-Chandigarh highway this morning. The acclaimed sportspersons headed to the Singhu border via Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib eventually to participate in the farmers’ protests this evening.Carrying trophies and medals, players, including Padma Shri wrestler Kartar Singh, Olympain Gurmail Singh, Asian Games goldmedallist Rajbir Kaur, kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, among others, headed to the Singhu border. Sajjan Singh Cheema who could not join the players also sent his award to be returned.Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh, walking with the help of a walker, specially came to send his award in solidarity with farmers. He came specially from Phagwara.The congregation included Padma Shri, Arjuna, Dhyan Chand, Dronacharya awardees.Padma Shri awardee Kartar Singh Pehlwan said, “Thirtyseven sportspersons have decided to return their awards. Those unable to accompany them have sent in their awards to us. While we shall be visiting farmers in solidarity at the Singhu border today, tomorrow we shall be heading to Delhi to return all the awards. More players from Punjab shall be joining us from Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Chandigarh and Patiala and Haryana players will also join us from Sonipat. We are deeply pained by the water cannons rained on farmers in this biting chill. We are with the farmers.”Asian Games goldmedallist and hockey legend Rajbir Kaur said, “We are taking this step to honour farmers. As long as their protests are on, we feel we should not keep these awards with ourselves.That is why we are returning them.” Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “The farmers have spent their lives feeding generations. Their demand to the government is that either it withdraws the ordinances or satisfies them. This is a huge protest. These players have also started the campaign to place pressure on the government and are returning their awards. Their collective fight is to seek withdrawal of laws.”Arjuna awardee Tara Singh backs sportspersonsTo express solidarity with the protesting farmers, 66-year-old Arjuna awardee wrestler Tara Singh came from Phagwara, especially to back the sportspersons’ initiative and to return his award. Tara Singh who was the first Indian to win two medals in the Asian Games in 1982 (weightlifting), said, “I have raised the Indian flag 12 times. I have had three surgeries due to sports. Both my knees have had replacement surgeries and two of my discs have damaged. I get Rs 600 as pension today. In the twilight of my life, my land and farm have sustained me. I eat my daily bread because of the dividends from farming. And now my only means of livelihood is also being threatened by the farm laws.”More to follow suitBesides, Kartar Singh (wrestling), other Padma Shri awardees Pargat Singh (hockey), Kaur Singh (boxing) and Prem Chand Dhingra (body building), 22 Arjuna awardees, six Dhyan Chand awardees, one Dronacharya awardee and a host of other international players have consented to return their awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-protest-legendary-players-leave-for-delhi-to-return-awards-180604
06-12-2020||Jalandhar||Doctor booked for conducting gender tests||Barely a month after a case was registered against a doctor for conducting sex determination tests, a case has been registered against another city-based doctor for conducting sex determination tests.Dr Harjit Singh Kang of Bagha Hospital and Maternity Home (near Pathankot Chowk in Jalandhar) was on Friday booked under Section 420 of the IPC and Sections 3, 6, and 21 of the PCPNDT Act, for conducting sex determination tests. Earlier also, the same doctor was booked twice for conducting sex determination tests.A Mission Discovery agency team, along with officials of the Health Department, raided the hospital following a sting operation conducted by a decoy patient. The team also recovered Rs 16,000 (of the total Rs 20,000) paid to the doctor by the decoy patient.Dr SP Singh, District Family Welfare Officer, Ludhiana, who accompanied the team, said, “Sex determination test was found being conducted and the money (currency notes worth Rs16,000) that our decoy patient and an attendant paid was also recovered from the premises. As soon as our decoy patient came out, we raided the premises and found the room near the ultrasound room locked. Some of our men opened it with force and found that the doctor had fled through the stairs at the back of the room. The nurse, who had accompanied the doctor, admitted that our decoy patient was the same person on whom the test had been conducted. An old machine was being used by the doctor which does not automatically record all scans. But the nurse’s admission and recovery of the currency notes prove that such tests were being conducted here.”Dr Raman Gupta, District Family Welfare Officer, said, “The machine of the hospital has been sealed and records handed over to the police. As the currency notes have been recovered, further investigation will be done by the police. There is no video record of the entire process and the doctor fled from the spot.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctor-booked-for-conducting-gender-tests-180605
06-12-2020||---||DAV College wins Red Bull cricket c’ship||Jalandhar, December 5 DAV College, Jalandhar, defeated SSJSC College, Jaipur, by 8 runs in the final match of the Red Bull Campus Cricket College tournament. Now, DAV College will lead India in international series of this championship. Dr Manu Sood, Head, Department of Physical Education, said, “The Red Bull Campus Cricket series is an international T20 tournament for colleges, which provides a platform to the youth to showcase their skills. Teams from different cities of India play through city qualifiers to reach the national finals. The winners of the national finals then go on to play against the national champions of other countries.” He said it was a proud moment as their college team will lead India at the international level. He said DAV College, Jalandhar, won the toss and decided to bat and scored 120 runs. In response, the SSJSC College could score only 112 runs, he said.  DAV College’s captain Prerit Dutta scored 23 runs, took three wickets and was declared man of the match. Dr Sood informed that thir team remained undefeated throughout the tournament. He expressed gratitude to cricket coach Ankur for selecting an excellent team and Prof Saurabh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-college-wins-red-bull-cricket-cship-180606
06-12-2020|| ---||Cyber fraud: Man duped of Rs1.48L||Jalandhar, December 5 A 33-year-old man was duped of Rs1.48 lakh in a phishing attack after the caller claimed to allegedly activate his SBI credit card.   Victim Jatin Dhiman said that he received a call from the fraudster who posed as a customer service executive and called him from two unknown numbers (09639085793 and 07582070675) on Wednesday around 6 pm. The caller claimed that the activation of a credit card with high credit limit was done through back hand system.  “To gain my trust, the cyber scammers read out my details that I had submitted while applying for the credit at the main branch of SBI, near Skylark Chowk. From the 16-digit account number to my father’s name, the caller had all my personal details that were enough to convince me. The caller also asked me if I wanted to activate some domestic and international services to which I refused. Later, he asked me the card digits and the OTP received by me. I followed the instructions and afterwards I got a message on my registered phone number that I have exhausted 80 per cent of my credit limit. I dialled both the number to enquire, but to no avail. Consequently, I called SBI customer care to register my complaint,” said Dhiman, a resident of Old Jawahar Nagar, Ladowali road. He today approached the Commissioner of Police and registered a written complaint. The complaint has been forwarded to the cyber cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyber-fraud-man-duped-of-rs1-48l-180607
06-12-2020||Jalandhar||Journalist Kewal Wig remembered||A literary and musical programme was organised in the auditorium of Virsa Vihar on the occasion of the 28th death anniversary of renowned journalist and litterateur Kewal Wig  here today.  Prominent singers Teji Sandhu, Dalwinder Dayalpuri, Surinder Gulshan, Sachin Batra, Balwinder Dildar, Ranjit Singh, Jagdish Kataria, among others attended the programme.  Comedian Deputy Raja sneered to warn the people about the Covid-19 pandemic. Jatinder Mohan Wig, Head of Wig Foundation, supervised the programme and welcomed all the guests. Arun Saini, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, paid homage to Kewal Wig and said that he provided the right direction and thinking to the society through his pen.  Rashpal Singh Pal, popularly known as Rafi of Punjab, said that Wig’s services in the field of journalism could not be forgotten and that he was a pioneer of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat. Former ambassador Ramesh Chandra, who was presiding over the function, said in his inaugural address that Wig was an organisation in himself. He recalled his activities as a prominent social worker, describing Wig as a far-sighted man. Congress leader Shivkanwar Singh Sandhu and Prof Sarita Tewari paid homage to Wig, calling him a great personality whose anniversaries are important to be celebrated. Press Council of India member Om Prakash Khemkarni strongly supported the farmers’ movement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/journalist-kewal-wig-remembered-180608
06-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Spreading wings to take the flight of her dreams||Hoshiarpur, December 5Merely making announcements for welfare won’t help. Concrete things need to be done — both by the government and society. The government needs to improve infrastructure mandating both public and private sector to raise Persons with Disability (PwD) friendly infrastructure and more importantly make policies to empower and facilitate them. Society needs a complete change of attitude towards PwDs and people should understand that in PwD the P for Person comes before the D of Disability, says 22-year-old Pratishtha Deveshwar, who is the first wheelchair-bound person from India to have made it to the prestigious Oxford University, while talking to The Tribune over phone from the UK. She is pursuing Masters in Public Policy.Pratishtha, whose father was a DSP and mother a teacher, met with an accident at the age of 13. She broke her spinal cord and was paralyzed below the chest.“For a while everything came to a halt. For around six years, I had to stay at home. I wanted to see and enjoy life like my friends, but there were no places, where I could go on my own as there was almost no place which was accessible for wheelchair-bound people. Hoshiarpur was a small town and no shops, restaurants, roads, streets or even pavements were wheelchair friendly. So, I thought of shifting to Delhi, as in big cities, the infrastructure is somehow better, but even then, staring eyes were everywhere watching me pushing myself on my wheelchair. I decided not to stop but spread my wings to take the flight of my dreams,” she said. “People say several kinds of things, they pass comments after seeing PwDs. You have to be thick-skinned to keep your aspirations alive and fulfil those by ignoring what people say,” says Pratishtha.She feels the government and the administration has to be more sensitive towards PwDs and make infrastructural changes to make cities PwD-friendly.“When I compare it with Oxford, I find a complete new world. All roads, streets, pavements, shops and each and every building is wheelchair accessible. I can go anywhere anytime on my own. This needs to be done in India, too! Government should make it mandatory for every building, every road and street and all shops to have ramps, braille signboards for visually impaired etc. More importantly, government policies should be made considering PwDs. As during the lockdown, staying in Delhi, I had to face the brunt of it as the attendants of PwDs were not listed among essential services and I was among several PwDs who had to suffer a lot due to it. Even after raising a strong voice for it, it took two months for things to improve,” said Pratishtha.People should leave the mindset in which PwDs are considered as helpless people deprived of happiness, who have nothing to enjoy. Society needs to understand that a person with disability is no way less than any other person. They have their joys of life, dreams and they, too, want to fulfil their dreams,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spreading-wings-to-take-the-flight-of-her-dreams-180609
06-12-2020||---||103 youth get offer letters||Jalandhar, December 5Under the Ghar-Ghar Rozgar programme of the Punjab Government, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) organised a job fair at its office on Friday. Total 127 youths took part in the job fair, of which 103 got placements.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal, who is also the CEO of DBEE, said three companies including ICICI Foundation, A-One International and Pyramid e-Services participated in the fair.He said the selection of the youth for jobs was being done purely on merit through a proper system set by the companies. He called upon the youth to register on www.pgrkam.com for more jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/103-youth-get-offer-letters-180612
06-12-2020||Jalandhar||Virtual alumni meet||Reading Activity organisedIVY World School organised ‘Reading Activity’ to inculcate reading habit amongst students. The school is making efforts to help reflect the light of goodness in the young and energetic souls. Principal S Chauhan appreciated the educators of the school for putting in tireless efforts to make school life for the little angels as lively as possible. President of Vasal education Society K KVasal and Chairman Sanjeev Kumar Vasal acclaimed the efforts of the school staff to make the children enjoy the festivals.Int’l Volunteer Day observedEklavya School observed International Volunteer Day. International Volunteer Day (IVD) mandated by the UN General Assembly promotes volunteerism, encourages governments to support volunteer efforts and recognise volunteer at local, national and international levels. An online yoga workshop was organised in which the students of primary classes participated actively. The students of middle and senior school participated in a virtual debate competition on the ‘Importance of sustainable environment’. JK Gupta (chairman of the school), Seema Handa (director) and Arvinder Kaur (principal) said such days should be observed to create more awareness and with respect to fulfillment of human duties. Dimple Malhotra (administrator) threw light on the relevance of ‘Sustainable Development Goals’.College inks pact with AmazonLyallpur Khalsa College, Technical Campus, has entered into an agreement with Amazon AWS Web Services under ‘AWS Academy Programme Agreement’ to train faculty and students with an aim to advance literacy and cloud computing skills among the budding engineers. This agreement is a joint effort of Amazon’s cloud wing to offer skills in cloud computing technology. The synergy will help in greater creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship skills for the budding IT and cloud professionals. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, (director, academic affairs, KCL Group of Institutes) said such industry tie-ups would help students to sharpen their skills and better prepared to maximise their value. Dr DS Rao, director (LKCE) opined that such industry linkages fill the students with confidence.Best Educator titleSmarajit Kumar Sen of the department of music instrumental of Apeejay College of Fine Arts felicitated with the title ‘Best Educator’ for contributing the special efforts in ‘Sitar Vadan’ and ‘Best Rhythmite Maestro’ for the special magic he creates on sitar by SCL Rhythms Research Centre, Mumbai. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated him for this achievement and wished him good luck for the future endeavours.Webinar on Enhancing communicationInnocent Hearts College of Education, Jalandhar, organised a webinar on the theme of ‘Enhancing Communication Skills’. The resource person for the event was Asst Prof Tarunjyoti Kaur. There were participants from DIPS College of Education, Dhilwan, and Innocent Hearts College of Education. In the interactive session, a video clipping was shown which depicted the reasons of miscommunication, the participants discussed the obstacles in communicating efficiently and ways to remove these obstacles were enlisted. In the informative session, the skills required for effective communication were explained in detail by the resource person. These skills included firstly the proper usage of language, secondly the four basic skills of language – listening, speaking, reading and writing, thirdly personality traits like confidence, empathy, positivity etc and fourthly ethical communication skills.Students get jobsTwo students from DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology were selected for the Juspay and Emicon Advisory Services LLP at a pay package of Rs 8 lakh and Rs 3 lakh. The companies selected the students after rigorous rounds comprising of online test, coding test, technical and HR interview. While Arun Kumar got selected in Juspay Gurjeet Singh was picked in Emicon. They shared that to suit the needs of the company a special effort was done to learn networking and coding skills. Dr Manoj Kumar, principal DAVIET, congratulated the students on their success.Webinar on Woman HealthCareThe Red Ribbon Club and Red Cross society of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, organised a webinar on ‘Woman Healthcare’. Coordinator Red Ribbon Club Kuljit Kaur and Coordinator Red Cross Society Deepshikha jointly organised the webinar in which Dr Vimal Trikha was the resource person. Principal Dr Sareen welcomed her and said that women should be made aware about their health. She said that young generation girls were eating lack of nutritious food which was a matter of concern. She encouraged all the students to follow the rules and take precautions during Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Trikha advised the girls to be physically, mentally and emotionally strong. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-alumni-meet-180614
06-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Bail of 2 murder accused rejected||4 nabbed with heroin, liquorHoshiarpur: The district police nabbed four smugglers, including three women, and seized narcotics and liquor from them. According to information, the Mehtiana police stopped a woman riding scooter at Harta village and during search 150 gm of heroin was found from her possession. The accused has been identified as Neeta Kumari, a resident of Harta, while the Chabbewal police arrested a woman, Jindra, a resident of Nangal Kalan. The Garhdiwala police arrested Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Khurda, and seized three cases of liquor during a raid at cattle shed in Khurda village. Meanwhile, the Mukerian police also seized 16,500 ml of liquor from Krishna, a resident of Ghasitpur village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bail-of-2-murder-accused-rejected-180615
06-12-2020||Jalandhar Congress MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary (74)||All well, all fine for MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary now||In the first week of November, he had travelled three times to Delhi, each time taking a flight from Amritsar. “I had to attend urgent meetings with the Union Ministers including Amit Shah and Piyush Goel which I could not miss. I returned on November 9 and the following day, I was to accompany AICC Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat for a tractor rally to Nakodar. When I reached home, I felt feverish and presumed that it could be because of tiredness,” he said.He took a good rest but next day had a high fever again. His typhoid test had come positive. Having flown thrice, he suspected it could be the dreaded virus and hence went for RT-PCR test on November 11. “Two days later I got Covid positive report and immediately went got admitted at a hospital. I remained there for 10 days. As my fever persisted for some more days, I was put on injectibles for four days after which I was better. I had a complete loss of taste and smell for 7-8 days,” the MP told.“I am very conscious about my diet and hence got home-cooked meals at the hospital. My daily diet is two boiled eggs for the breakfast, dal and roti in the lunch and boiled vegetables in dinner. I maintained the same diet even during my hospitalisation. As my family used to deliver meals, they used to stand at the door of the room for a few minutes and would inquire about my health. These small meetings with the family daily kept my morale up,” he said.To ensure he had a proper rest, I switched off my regular mobile phone and used only the phone number provided to me as the parliamentarian. Since very few people had this number, he got only limited calls, those too from the ministries or the top political circles.While at hospital, he had no issues with killing time. “I had taken along my i-pad and used it to watch web series on Netflix like ‘The Crown’ -- although, I have little interest in films. I also used to walk around in the limited area of the hospital in mornings and evenings. Thankfully my oxygen saturation level and pulse remained fine and did not have to use any steamers.”After being discharged, he remained isolated for next 10 days at home. There, he would enjoy reading some books and taking short strolls. “After 21 days, I have today tested negative and now feel completely relaxed. I will be back to serve my people. I am grateful to the team of doctors who treated me, and my family who provided immense support during this time. I also wish to thank everyone who sent messages and prayed for my good health,” he signed off.(As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-well-all-fine-for-mp-santokh-singh-chaudhary-now-180617
