11-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||4 years on, work on Minar-e-Begampura yet to begin||Tribune News ServiceGarhshankar, December 10It has been more than four years since the work on the construction of 151-foot-long Minar-e-Begampura had started at Khuralgarh Sahib, the meditation site of Guru Ravidas here. But the work on raising the minar is yet to begin.The project started on April 3, 2016, during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government, but only the raw peripheral structure has got partly readied so far. The contractors have been ruing delay in the payments as the reason for the project work on 12-acre site getting stagnated. The site falls just adjoining the historical Sri Guru Ravidas Dharam Asthan in Garhshankar tehsil of Hoshiarpur. Former CM Parkash Singh Badal, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and ex-tourism minister Sohan Singh Thandal had inaugurated the project.Delay in payment stalls workBesides the minar, a congregation hall of capacity of 10,000 devotees, 500-seat auditorium with audio-visual aids to showcase life of Guru Ravidas and double basement parking lot were announced to come up for Rs 110 crore.Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora had in February last year announced that the minar work would be completed in a year’s time. Two years ago, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal too had visited the site and announced that the work of the project would be expedited but local followers shared that there had been no headway ever since.Bhai Kewal Singh, president of Sri Guru Ravidas Dharam Asthan, alleged that the present government had failed to keep the promise of completing the project within the timeframe. “They have been too slow with the payments, which is why the contractor seems to be just lingering on the work. Ideally, there should have been 500 men at the site to complete the work, but there are just about 50-odd men. The work remained completely stalled for months. The initial cost of Rs 110 crore too has fallen down to just Rs 86.39 crore”, he shared.The caretakers said this work was being done from donations received from the devotees. They showed the site where Guru Ravidas had meditated here for four years, two months and 11 days. The site has the stone grinder which Guru Ravidas had been asked to run on the order of Raja Bain. It also has the stones used for weighing grains used in those times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-years-on-work-on-minar-e-begampura-yet-to-begin-182511
11-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||6 child labourers rescued from factory||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 10As many as six child labourers, including a girl, were rescued by the district administration from a hand tools unit in Wariana on Jalandhar-Kapurthala road today.Acting on a tip-off by the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), a team headed by SDM-II Rahul Sindhu, reached HK Forging around 3 pm. In total, nine children were rescued from the factory. Of these, six were minors while three were above 18 years.Those resuced were moved to the Hoshiarpur Juvenile Home while the girl has been shifted to the Gandhi Vanita Ashram. A formal complaint against the owner of the factory had been submitted by the BBA to the Commissioner of Police.NGO Bachpan Bachao comes to the rescueDinesh Kumar of the BBA said, “The factory was raided around 3 pm. For 10 to 15 minutes, nobody opened the gate. After receiving access to the factory, nine children were rescued. The factory makes hand tools and it is a hazardous occupation. The children were covered with black residue. They told us that they had been employed for the last four months. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, children are being employed at hazardous units.”Kumar said majority of the children were natives of UP and Bihar. He said parents of some kids stay in Jalandhar while others reside in UP and Bihar.The SDM said, “A total of six children were rescued from the unit. Three are 18-years-old. The rescued children have been taken to the Gandhi Vanita Ashram and will be produced before the Child Welfare Committee. The owners of the factory have clearly violated the Child Labour Act as well as the JJ Act. An FIR is being filed against the owners.”When asked whether the children had been trafficked, the SDM said, “Parents of most of the children reside here. Prima facie it does not seem the case of child trafficking.” He said a team of doctors has been set up to examine the children.Tehsildar Shish Pal Singla, Inspector Sukhjinder Singh, DPO GS Randhawa, Child Protection Officers Amneet Kaur and Harneet Kaur, among others were present during the raid.It is pertinent to mention that the Jalandhar Commissionerate had rescued 47 child labourers, including 13 girls in August, from JK Rubbers Industry Private Limited and JK Polymer Industry in Wariana leather complex on Jalandhar-Kapurthala road.The factory owners had employed these children even during the pandemic that too without following any norms. While the factory during first inspection was found to be empty, 37 children were found hidden on the roof. Ten more children were found from another block in the same factory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-child-labourers-rescued-from-factory-182512
11-12-2020||Jalandhar||Reopen courts,  demand lawyers||Citing that cinema halls, gyms and shopping malls had been opened, members of the District Bar Association submitted a memorandum to chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking permission to restart courts with physical appearance. “The court complex has been shut for physical hearings and routine work from the last eight months, which has affected the working widely. The government has reopened public offices and institutions, including cinema halls, shopping complexes, schools and gyms,” said, Advocate RK Bhalla.Another member, Subodh Sharma, said along with lawyers, general public was also suffering due to the shutdown of the court complex. “Officers are working regularly in their offices, but only the courts are not working. The young lawyers are also facing financial crisis and a number of them are searching for jobs now,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reopen-courts-demand-lawyers-182513
11-12-2020||---||Three more lose life, 134 new cases logged in dist||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 10The district reported 134 new cases of Covid-19, pushing the count to 18,812 on Thursday. Besides, the district also reported three more deaths due to the virus taking the toll to 594.The total number of active cases stood at 873. While at present 17,345 persons have been discharged, as many as 517 people are under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala, six persons tested positive for the virus.4 deaths, 16 new cases reported in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district health authorities reported 16 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. With this the total number of cases increased to 7,277. With death of 4 more patients, the toll reached 276.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said with 1,573 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms collected, the total number of samples taken so far in the district has reached 2,09,307. As per the reports, 2,00,894 samples tested negative while 2,573 reports were awaited. The number of active cases was 203 and 6,798 patient recovered in the district.The Civil Surgeon said out of 16 cases reported in Hoshiarpur district, seven were related to Hoshiarpur city while nine patients were from rest of the health blocks.The deceased have been identified as a 62-year-old resident of Saroya village, 77-year-old resident of Passi Kandi, 62-year-old of Gautam Nagar, Hoshiarpur, and 65-year-old resident of Talwandi Daddian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-more-lose-life-134-new-cases-logged-in-dist-182783
11-12-2020||---||Talks deadlocked, more farmers head to Delhi||Jalandhar, December 10A day after the Centre refused to alter the contentious farm laws, a wave of discontentment seems to have erupted among the farm bodies. While the agitators at Singhu and Tikri borders have already announced to ‘block’ Jaipur-Delhi and Delhi-Agra expressways, farmers from the region today left in large numbers to provide more manpower at the protest site.The farmers from across the villages today gathered at the Ladhowal toll plaza and chalked up the plans for the next 10 days. More such jathas (groups) of farmers are also likely to leave for Delhi-Haryana borders for the next four-five days. From bikes and tractors to lavish cars, the youngsters in the villages are making arrangements for more and more vehicles to ferry all farmers.Tirath Singh (62), a farmer from Phillaur, has been deployed at the toll plaza for the past 10 days by the Bhartiya Kisan Union to lift the spirits of farmers leaving for the protest site. He says, he arrives at the toll plaza everyday and puts flags and posters on vehicles of the farmers’ convoy. “With slogans such as, ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ and others, I try to keep their morale high. Today, around 50 vehicles left from the district in the morning and 30 in the evening. Though the union leaders have already stocked the ration, we also send some essential supplies to them,” added Tirath, who does farming on nearly 20 fields in Phillaur.Similarly, Harpreet Singh (40), a Lohian-based farmer, today decked up his tractor with tarpaulin and mattresses. Associated with the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, he said, he would leave for the border early in the morning on Friday. Along with him, 20 other farmers from his village will also join him. We are heading to the protest site leaving our fields behind and are also not aware that for how long we might have to stay there. We will ensure that our voices do get heard,” he added.Terming the meetings between the farmers and the government ‘unfruitful’, Shahkot president of the committee, Gurmail Singh said, “Apart from ration and snacks, pinnis and sweets, dry fruits are being contributed from all the households. To brave the cold weather, blankets and beds have been collected and the farmers will leave tomorrow for Singhu border. Our members, who have already been staying put at the border, have asked us to come fully prepared as we might have to spend at least a month here.”Nearly, 150 tractor-trailers will leave for Delhi tomorrow. The locals are coming forward with their share of wheat grains to be used for protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talks-deadlocked-more-farmers-head-to-delhi-182784
11-12-2020||Jalandhar||Sportspersons to march to Rashtrapati Bhavan again to return awards||Upset over the treatment being meted out to farmers by the government, nation’s renowned sportspersons, who have won prestigious awards such as Padma Shri, have announced to return their awards. They had also gone to Delhi for the same but were stopped by the police.They have written a letter to the President for the third time to return their award and have announced to march again to the Rashtrapati Bhavan on December 12. They have written that they are anguished by what is happening with the farmers and wanted to hear from the President of the country.“We marched towards Rashtrapati Bhavan on December 7 and were stopped by the Delhi Police,” the letter reads. Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh said, “I belong to a family of farmers too, so, I stand by them in these testing times. “The farmers provide food to us while water cannons and teargas is what they deserve in return?” he asked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sportspersons-to-march-to-rashtrapati-bhavan-again-to-return-awards-182786
11-12-2020||---||Goods worth lakhs perish in plywood unit fire||Jalandhar, December 10A fire broke out in a plywood factory at Gadaipur here this morning. It took personnel of the Fire Brigade more than three hours to extinguish the fire, which was reportedly caused due to a short-circuit. Luckily, all the workers and labourers escaped unhurt.The factory owner is expected to have suffered a loss worth lakhs of rupees as the fire reduced everything, including machinery, raw material and finished goods, to ashes. Moreover, the terrace of the factory constructed with tin also got damaged in the fire.The factory owner and the police reached the spot as soon as they got the news. Jaswant Singh, a Fire Brigade official, stated that the fire might have erupted early in the morning as the alarm was raised at around 6.30 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/goods-worth-lakhs-perish-in-plywood-unit-fire-182787
11-12-2020||Jalandhar||Bodies of 2 kids found floating||DC reviews infra worksJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori reviewed the progress of projects worth Rs 126 crore under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme (PUEIP) in Jalandhar on Thursday. Presiding over a meet, the Deputy Commissioner said under the phase-II of the PUEIP, Rs 95 crore has been allocated for developmental works under the jurisdiction of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation and Rs 31 crore for the Municipal Councils. The Deputy Commissioner asked the sub-divisional magistrates/MC officials to ensure that projects get completed within the stipulated time frame. He said it was the need of the hour for giving a fillip to overall development of the district. Thori directed the officials to adhere to the timelines for completion of the ongoing projects under the PUEIP scheme. He said these funds would give a major impetus to development of urban areas in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bodies-of-2-kids-found-floating-182792
11-12-2020||Tucked away in Jalandhar||Mecca of hockey||IT is a village with a population of 5,000; and lush history. Sansarpur, near Jalandhar Cantonment, is the one village of Punjab that strikes the right chord when it comes to being a contender for title ‘the cradle of Indian hockey’. The list of suitors for the moniker, however, is not a lengthy one. With each having the backing of numbers, only Coorg of Karnataka and Odisha’s Sundergarh come closest to match the tiny hamlet, widely known by many as ‘Mecca of hockey’, if not the ‘cradle’, but only a handful know that all 14 Olympians it has churned out, hailed from just one street.The first Indian team to visit foreign lands in 1926 fielded Thakur Singh from Sansarpur. And in the days to come, the instance was harbinger of what the village, known as powerhouse of producing electrifying players, would have many more in its belly ready to burst forth onto the international landscape.Giving it leverage, the most endearing fact about those 14-strong has been that in 1968 Mexico Games seven were from Sansarpur. While five of them, Balbir Singh (Pb), Balbir (Services), Jagjit Singh, Tarsem and Ajit Pal had represented India, the other two – Hardial and Jagjit – represented Kenya. India won a bronze that year.Prior to this, at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, four from the village were part of the gold-winning Indian squad. Needless to say, at the height of success, often termed as golden days of the Indian hockey, the team had won 11 medals, including six golds on the bounce, in 12 Olympics between 1928 and 1980.Returning to Sansarpur, the hockey boys are also bearers of 12 Asian Games medals. As a record, 11 boys from the village were part of the gold medallist team that won in Bangkok at the 1966 Asian Games. It included A Frank, Harbinder, Balbir (Railways), Balbir (Services), Balbir (Pb), Inder, Tarsem, Gurbax, S Laxman, Prithipal and Jagjit.All in all, it has birthed more than 306 international and national level hockey players for the country, of which more than 200 belong to ‘Kular’ sub-caste alone.Beginnings & recurring gloryIt was Subedar Major Thakur Singh Kular (in pic) who is credited with bringing the game to Sansarpur. A part of the Army XI contingent, he had toured New Zealand for an international match as early as 1926. But the first Olympian from this village was Col Gurmit S Kular, in 1932.Many players from the village were part of the Olympics contingent for more than once. Sample this: IPS officer Udham S Kular represented India at the Olympics in 1952, 1956, 1960 and 1964, bringing a medal each time. Ajit Pal Singh Kular voyaged three times ie 1968, 1972 and 1976. The last Sansarpurian to headline Olympics was Bindi Kular, who represented Canada in 2000.Stamping its mark, there have been five Arjuna awardees from this village. These are Udham Singh, Jagjit S Kular, Col Balbir S Kular, Ajit Pal S Kular and Balbir S Kular (IPS), while Ajit Pal and Hardial S Kular are recipients of Padma Shri.Whetting the curiosity, an extremely proud Col Balbir Singh, who was part of the 1968 Olympics team and 1966 Asian Games gold-winning squad, outlines the beginnings, “Since the cantonment came up just adjoining our village in the British era, their players used the Sansarpur’s grounds for sporting activities. This is how the villagers got an early brush with the hockey even as they used cloth balls made at home and club-shaped tree branches for hockey sticks. The boys used to play barefoot.”His younger brother Popinder Singh Kular, a retired professor from Jamia Milia Islamia, chimes in, “Sansarpur is home to 306 hockey players. Our village did not just brew 14 Olympians but also 19 internationals, which represented India and other countries, and 110 national level players who played for 20 states and another 132 who represented various military teams.” Having penned a book on his village in Punjabi titled ‘Hockey Da Ghar Sansarpur’, he bemoans, “Our village could not produce any Olympian after 1980.”Losing grip? recently, village’s progress has been sliding downhillEven as the village still has hockey grounds, one six-a-side astroturf (which needs to be replaced), a government coach to train nearly 60 boys and 20 girls and funds coming from NRIs to purchase top-notch quality hockey kits and equipment, the progress made to translate the old times is riding on fleeting moments.The fact that the young boys from the village tend to move abroad upon completion of their studies has also affected the bigger prospects. The status of ‘Mecca’ is coming off gradually; the flower has stopped exuding fragrance. The ‘hockey nursery’ title is beginning to find roots in the adjoining Mithapur village, which belongs to Congress MLA and hockey Olympian Pargat Singh. The present Captain of Indian team Manpreet Singh hails from this village, so does his teammate Varun Kumar. Kulars all the way: The ‘sweet 14’Represented IndiaCol Gurmit S Kular 1932Udham Singh Kular (BSF) 1952, 56, 60, 64Gurdev Singh Kular 1956Darshan Singh Kular 1964Balbir Singh Kular (Punjab Police) 1964, 68Jagjit Singh Kular 1964, 68Col Balbir Singh Kular 1968Tarsem Singh Kular (BSF) 1968Ajit Pal Singh Kular 1968, 1972, 1976Represented KenyaHardial S Kular 1964, 68Hardev S Kular 1956, 60Jagjit S Kular 1968Harvinder S Kular 1984Represented CanadaBindi Kular 2000||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mecca-of-hockey-182807
