15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Angry peasants protest outside DC’s office||“A farmer is a magician who produces money from mud,” reads a poster held by Gursharan Kaur, which grabbed everyone’s eyeball at the protest called by various farm unions outside the district administration’s office on Monday.Expressing resentment against the three contentious agricultural legislations, Gursharan said, as the protest is expanding every day, it’s disheartening to see our brothers and sisters, braving cold nights on the outskirts of Delhi to preserve our rights.“Even as we are forced to hit roads, we won’t lose hope until the ‘kala kanoon’ (black laws) are repealed,” Kaur said.Along with her, hundreds of farmers from around the region, including women and children, gathered to express solidarity with farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. A tractor rally was also carried out by the young generation of farmers in front of the DC office to draw support from locals. With heavy deployment of cops, farmers made sure that their presence was felt on the city roads. Sloganeering against the Modi-led-BJP government, farmers threatened to intensify their agitation regionally in the days to come.Jarnail Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Kadian, said different farm outfits, including BKU-Kadian, Doaba, Lakhowal, Jamhuru, Rajewal, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and Punjab Kisan Union among others, were also present.Apart from that, members of Punjab Arhtiya Association, Jalandhar, Potato Growers’ Association, Anganwadi Workers’ Union and other Contractual Workers’ Union also lent support to farmers.Citing the Supreme Court’s statements, that laws are not beneficial for farmers, Harnam Singh, senior vice-president of the District Arhtiya Association said: “Disorganising the existing Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), system will only privatise mandis and the monopoly will remain in the hands of private dealers. Hence, to offer a better price to farmers for their crops, laws should be revoked. Mere announcing amendments or written notifications won’t be enough to contest the laws, therefore, they need to be revoked in the parliament.”Similarly, supporting the farmers’ agitation from Day 1, Vish Karampal Singh Dhiman, district Congress vice-president, who was present at the protest, said: “After months of protest, the Centre still sits unwaveringly in its decision to implement farm laws, which has clearly hurt the sentiments of farmers across the country. It’s high time laws be withdrawn to end protests. Punjab is among the largest markets for agricultural produces and their absence from fields is only making a hole in its economy.Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a BKU member, who returned from Singhu border on Monday, said: “The situation was only getting intense at the Delhi border. It’s been over four months since farmers are protesting against the farm laws, but the government was still unmoved. Now, we don’t want any middle ground, either the government should revoke the laws or continue to witness the historic Kisan Andolan”.Protesters also burnt the effigy of PM Narendra Modi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/angry-peasants-protest-outside-dcs-office-184541
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Now, Agriculture Department comes out in support of farmers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-agriculture-department-comes-out-in-support-of-farmers-184542
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Massive tractor rally taken out by farmers||Farmers and activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Lakhowal, on Monday took out a massive tractor rally through the city protesting against the Centre over not heeding their demands to roll back the three farm laws.Led by district president of the union Jaswant Singh Singhpur, the farmers launched protest from Nakodar and entered the city via Lambra. Hundreds of tractors were part of the rally that had first stopover at the residence of BJP MP Hans Raj Hans. Raising slogans outside his residence and flaying him for not standing with the farmers, the agitators moved towards the BSF Chowk and took Ladowali Road before having their next halt outside the place of ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia.The farmers braved cold winds as they moved on before raising slogans against him for not standing with them. Then, they returned to Nakodar and surrounding rural areas, their starting point this morning.Meanwhile, All India Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association Punjab also participated in the agitation to support farmers against the implementation of agri laws. Led by president Col Balbir Singh, they also joined the farmers in front of the DC office. Several government offices also expressed their solidarity with the agitating farming community.Protests outside DACHoshiarpur: Laying a siege, the farmers staged a massive district-level protest outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC), Hoshiarpur, demanding repeal of the three agricultural laws and Electricity Amendment Bill. A large number of farmers from different villages of the district riding tractor-trolleys, buses, cars and other vehicles participated in the rally that went out in the city before the dharna.The farmers first gathered at Roshan ground in morning, from where the rally was taken out, passing through various bazaars and roads and reached the DAC. During the rally, farmers raised slogans against the central government and held banners depicting their demands. Gurdeep Singh Khun Khun of Environment Struggle Committee, Harpal Singh Sangha and Ranjit Singh of Azad Kisan Committee Doaba, Parminder Singh, Om Singh Satiana and other spokespersons said the struggle will continue till the laws are repealed. The protests will continue and every decision taken by the ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’ will be implemented. They alleged that the Union ministers and BJP leaders of the Modi government are trying to discredit and divide the struggle, but they will not succeed. “There is no point in ending this struggle without repealing the law and that the decision of the leaders of the agitating farmers’ organisations in Delhi on the next course of action would be taken into consideration and if the government persists, the struggle would be intensified,” they said. Members of various labour, employees, religious and social organisations and others were part of the dharna.Also, a massive gate rally was held at Hoshiarpur depot at the call of the Joint Action Committee of Punjab Roadways / PUNBUS employees after which they joined the protest in front of the Mini Secretariat. They raised slogans against the Union government and voiced similar sentiments, cessation of globalisation, privatisation and exploitation of the common man, abolition of contract system and sought regular recruitment in government agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/massive-tractor-rally-taken-out-by-farmers-184543
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||In biting cold, ‘langar of socks’ comes handy||Members of the SSA/RMSA Non-Teaching Employees’ Union, Punjab, expressed solidarity with protesting farmers by distributing socks to farmers to save them from biting cold at Singhu and Tikri borders.After spending two days at the protest site and organising a ‘langar of socks’, they returned last night.Ashish Julaha, a union member, said: “The weather is cruel these days. So, we decided to go and offer socks to farmers. We went from tractor to tractor and offered socks to the elderly farmers and women at the protest sites.”He said now every weekend, members of the union would go and support farmers at the borders.The employee union members also stood at the border by holding placards with several slogans. Slogans such as ‘Je burger pizze ni khaane, te kisaan painge bachane’; ‘Shehar vaale vi jaag jaao, kisan de sangharsh vich aao’; ‘Kisan te kisani sada gehna, ede bina Punjab nahee rehna’; ‘Roti khanda har ek insan, is layi zaruri hai saade kisan’; ‘Ugaave kanak, chawal te makka, kisan naal saada saath hai pakka’ resonated at the borders.Julaha, while sharing his experience, said: “We have been protesting for our rights for the past 10 years. In these years, our own employees don’t come to the protests, but at farmer’s protest, people from all walks of life are coming. This is surreal.” He said he believed that people can survive without everything but not food, so, it was important to save farmers.Recently, a local level protest was also held by the union members. He said: “I want to sensitise urban people that whatever they eat, comes from farmers.The union members also came up with masks on which support farmers was written.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-biting-cold-langar-of-socks-comes-handy-184544
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Illegal bus operators thrive in city, mint money||Taking advantage of the on and off railway services, certain illegal private bus operators have been raking in the moolah by running a parallel service from outside the bus stand.Double-decker buses run by private companies have been daily ferrying 50-60 passengers from a parking lot on old GT Road near BMC Chowk. The buses have been mainly catering to the migrants from UP. From loading their baggage of clothes to pedestal fans, drums, sacks full of grains, cycles, crates and cots, tying up the stuff with carriers on the roofs, the operators have been allowing them to take along everything and anything.Most buses ply from this parking lot in the afternoon and reach the destinations in a day or so. Radhe Sham, a migrant from Behraich, said, “This is the most convenient mode of travel these days. We just have to arrive here around 11 am and load our stuff. The bus moves around noon and next day I will be in my hometown.”Not paying a penny as ADDA fee and not giving any taxes to the state, the bus operators have been charging anything from Rs1000 to Rs1200 for the trip to UP, depending on location. The bus operators are also telling migrants that Delhi does not fall in their routes and hence their journey is not affected. “We turn towards Uttarakhand from Karnal itself,” said an operator.Such illegal buses to Rajasthan and other states also ply from Mota Singh Nagar market and near Skylark Chowk. However, the state transport authorities have turned a blind eye to the problem.A question on this illegal transport system flourishing in the city posed to Vinni Mahajan, Chief Secretary Punjab, on Saturday did not usher any response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-bus-operators-thrive-in-city-mint-money-184545
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||2 succumb to virus, 89 +ve in Jalandhar||With 89 new cases of Covid, the Jalandhar district tally reached 19,153 on Monday. Two Covid deaths were also reported in Jalandhar, taking the number of deceased persons to 605. The active cases in the district are 777 so far and 17,771 people have been discharged, while as many as 505 people are under home isolation. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw six people testing positive for Covid-19 in the district on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-succumb-to-virus-89-ve-in-jalandhar-184546
15-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Two fall prey to Covid-19, 20 new infections in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-fall-prey-to-covid-19-20-new-infections-in-hoshiarpur-184547
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Last day for revision of electoral rolls today||As tomorrow (Tuesday) is the last date for filing claims and objections for the special summary revision of the electoral rolls, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Ghanshyam Thori has exhorted people to come forward and register themselves as voters, besides availing themselves of other services.Participating in a videoconference chaired by Chief Electoral Officer Karuna Raju here on Monday, the Jalandhar DC said a total of 86,605 forms (47,420 form-6, 22,205 form-7, 15,328 form-8, 1,645 form-8a, and 11 form-6a) were received by the electoral registration officers to date. The Deputy Commissioner said as many as 50,614 forms had been digitised by the respective EROs of the Assembly constituencies.The Deputy Commissioner said the electoral registration officers (EROs) had been directed to ensure timely disposal of these forms so that the mammoth exercise to publish the final electoral rolls could be completed within the stipulated timeframe. He said people could submit their claims and objections by December 15 to their respective electoral officers.Giving more information about the designated EROs, the Deputy Commissioner said the Election Commission had appointed EROs for each Assembly constituency. Phillaur SDM Vineet Kumar (office contact number 01826-222600) was the ERO for the Phillaur constituency followed by SDM Gautam Jain (0181220042) for Nakodar; SDM Dr Sanjiv Sharma (0181260991) Shahkot; SDM-2 Rahul Sindhu (01812235115) Kartarpur; Estate Officer, Jalandhar Development Authority, Navneet Bal (01815040752) for Jalandhar west; SDM-1 Jai Inder Singh (01812225007) for Jalandhar Central; Additional Chief Administrator Daljit Kaur (01815040732) for Jalandhar North; Regional Transport Authority Secretary Barjinder Singh (01812225887) for Jalandhar Cantt; and Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Shayri Malhotra (01812227015) for the Adampur Assembly constituency.The Deputy Commissioner further directed all the officials entrusted with the task of revision of electoral rolls to adhere to the various timelines fixed by the Election Commission of India as no laxity in this task would be tolerated. He asked the officials to finish the task of the digitisation of various forms within the given timeframe and keep submitting reports to their in-charges on the daily progress. He said the final publication of electoral rolls would be done on January 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/last-day-for-revision-of-electoral-rolls-today-184548
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Aroma of flowers emanates positivity at Colonel’s abode||Imagine a place where every nook and corner is vibrant, colourful, bright and emanates a lot of positivity. Colonel Santokh Singh’s (retd) abode at Kabir Avenue is a perfect example of this. The entrance, stairs, lawn, rooms and everything else is surrounded with flowers, which spread aroma all over.In the lawn, there are deer and swans that roam around the flowers and trees! Shocked? Well, this is how Colonel Santokh has made it look like. These are sculptures of animals, which make everything feel alive and real.Colonel Santokh shared that love for greenery is in their genes. With the help of his wife Harjeet Kaur, he looks after his green babies. Sharing an interesting fact of his immense love for gardening, he said, “When I was looking for a girl for my son, I wanted one of her ‘Gunn’ (quality) to be matched with ours and that was the ‘love for gardening’ and that is what has happened now. My would-be daughter in law is also an ardent lover of nature and is into gardening.”“This is my garden at home. I also have a farmhouse where I have been growing flowers and trees,” he said.He has around 57 variety of flowers and 26 various variety of fruit trees at home, including guava, kinnow, various varieties of mangoes, papaya and plum.In the lawn, a swing has been installed where the couple sit and chat for hours and relax.“With wonderful flowers, trees and vegetable plants around, I don’t feel like I am living in the city. I feel as if I am in my village. Scent of raat ki rani (jasmine) and murraya keeps us energetic all day,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aroma-of-flowers-emanates-positivity-at-colonels-abode-184549
15-12-2020||---||24-year-old man ends life||Jalandhar, December 14A 24-year-old man reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his residence in Salempur Masanda village here on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Ramandeep Singh, a resident of Sarhala Ranua village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. He had been living with his maternal grandmother in Salempur Masanda and used to do farming. At present, his grandmother had gone abroad.His mother Kulvinder Kaur reached Salempur Masanda village soon after receiving the information about her son’s death. She said she was shocked and disturbed by the extreme step taken by her son.Soon after the incident was reported, ASI Mohinder Singh, in-charge, Dakoha police station, reached the spot. He said no suicide note was recovered. After registering a case under Section 174 of the CrPC, the body was sent for the post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24-year-old-man-ends-life-184550
15-12-2020||Kapurthala||Science city to set up 500 kWp solar plant||Pushpa Gujral Science City organised a webinar jointly with the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) to celebrate the National Energy Conservation Day. More than 250 students and teachers participated in this webinar. Online project display and declamation contests were organised for the students on this occasion.In a model display competition, Anshpreet Singh from Government Senior Secondary School, Kartarpur, won the first prize (Rs 3,000), Harnoor Kaur from YS Public School, Barnala, bagged second prize (Rs 2,000) and Sorav Chadha from Kamala Nehru Public School, Phagwara, received third prize (Rs 1,000).Similarly, in the declamation competition, Abza Dorbala from Kamala Nehru Public School, Phagwara, Mahavir Singh from Sainik School, Kapurthala, and Piaa Khurana from Satpaul Mittal School, Ludhiana, stood first, second and third, respectively.Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Pushpa Gujral Science City, said “A solar photovoltaic system was set up in 2012. An energy audit was conducted in 2012-13 and we adopted several conservation measures. It enabled us second rank in the institutional category in 2013. Now, Pushpa Gujral Science City is in a process of setting up of 500 kWp solar plant at its premises in association with the PEDA.”Stressing on the importance of renewable energy resources, she said sustainable development was possible by use of sustainable energy and by ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for citizens.Project manager Mani Khana and Sharad Sharma from the PEDA delivered a lecture. They said the the National Energy Conservation Day highlights the importance of energy in our day-to-day life, its scarcity, efforts required for its conservation and its impact on sustainability of global eco systems.“Role of the PEDA as state designated agency is to create general awareness among masses about the importance and benefits of energy conservation and also to institutionalise energy efficiency project implementation in the industry, government and commercial buildings,” they said.They emphasised on the need to improve energy efficiency by adopting energy conservation measures. They shared numerous steps taken by the PEDA in the field of energy conservation, including implementation of the recommendations of the energy audits, promotion and implementation of energy efficient LED lights, creating awareness and dissemination of information by conducting seminars and workshops and preparation of the Energy Conservation Building Code.Dr Rajesh Grover, director, Science City, said there’s enormous potential of renewable energy and India can become a global leader in clean and green energy through implementation of the ‘Renewable Energy Mission’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-city-to-set-up-500-kwp-solar-plant-184551
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Bhagat is new  CWC chairman||Engineer Rajesh Kumar Bhagat, who has served in the Central and the state government departments, on Monday took over as the chairman of Child Welfare Committee, Hoshiarpur.Though he hails from Jalandhar, he has worked as member District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum at Ludhiana. He also worked as permanent member of Lok Adalat at Kapurthala apart from rendering his services to Juvenile Justice Board in Kapurthala. Bhagat has received state award in social services from Punjab CM on August 15 last. He did BSc from DAV College, Jalandhar, and pursued BSc engineering from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhagat-is-new-cwc-chairman-184552
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar on Punjabi plays organised||International Tea Day observedInternational Tea Day was observed at Eklavya School, Jalandhar, to spread awareness about the tea trade and importance of consuming tea in our day to day life. The benefits of tea and also disadvantages of its excess intake were explained to students. They were also told that certain herbal teas are known for their medicinal value, including soothing the digestive system. Speech was written by the students in which they highlighted the importance of the day. Drawing was made by the primary students on different types of tea leaves through which they came to understand about the benefits and production of tea. Students of middle school made drawing on different types of tea packets. Director Seema Handa asked the students to avoid drinking black tea in huge quantity. Principal Arvinder Kaur appreciated the activities done by the students to celebrate the day. Administrator Dimple Sharma encouraged the students to drink tea with tulsi leaves in these days of pandemic.Session on physics in real lifeTo encourage students to apply physics in their own surroundings and develop the critical analysis skills in them, HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School organised a webinar on ‘Explore Physics through Real Life Experiences’. The event commenced with traditional lighting of lamp ceremony followed by ‘Gayatri mantra’. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen accorded formal welcome to resource person Prof HC Verma, Padma Shree Awardee, ex-prof of Physics IIT, Kanpur. Prof Verma laid emphasis on the idea that instead of rote learning, students should focus on thinking first then understanding and learning. Prof Verma also gave original and some interesting examples that were extremely catchy and attracted students’ attention. Prof Verma is actively involved in social activities by establishing initiatives like “Shiksha Sopan” and project “National Anveshika Network of India” that encourages school and colleges for participation in National Anveshika Experimental Skills Test. School coordinator Meenakshi Sayal gave the vote of thanks. More than 600 students and faculty members from all over the country participated in the webinar. The moderator of the event was Jaspreet Kaur.Webinar on building brandsGNA University organised a webinar on ‘Building Brands in the Automobile Segment’ for the students of GNA Business School. The resource person for the webinar was Vishwas Kapoor, Lead-sales planning at Renault India Pvt Ltd. The webinar commenced with the welcome address of Dr Jagdeep Singh, Deputy Dean GNA Business School. The main objective of the webinar was to acquaint the students with process of building phenomenal brands in the marketplace. The resource touched upon the concepts on marketing, sales and brand building with examples from Renault India on how they launched products like the Duster, Kwid and Triber. He also threw light upon The Kiger, the next product offering from Renault India, scheduled to be launched in Q1 of 2021. Dr Monika Hanspal, Dean Academics, GNA University, said, “I am firm believer that the consistent conduct of such valuable webinars will surely enhance the capabilities and skills of the management students”.Poster-making competitionThe students of Innocent Hearts School participated in poster-making competition on the theme National Energy Conservation. The students were told to switch off the lights and fans when you are not using them and leaving the rooms. The usage of light emitting diodes (LED) should be promoted. The message was spread through the poster making of national conservation among the masses. The students were told to use fewer mobiles as harmful rays deteriorate the health. The students stressed “The future policymakers have to take the onus of conserving our mother planet and need to conserve the mother earth” and asked, “If not this planet, then where?” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-punjabi-plays-organised-184553
15-12-2020||Jalandhar||After ration, clothes, free turbans for protesters||Amid distribution of ration, blankets, clothes and other supplies at Singhu and Tikri borders, Sikh youth are making a unique contribution to the stir by distributing free turbans among protesters.Doaba and Mansa-based members of “Turban Bank” (a free turban service) are not only distributing the turbans but are also organising a turban-tying camp. The group has already distributed over 2,000 turbans. Tejinder Singh (36), founder of the bank said, “For Sikhs, turban is an identity, a symbol of spirituality, pride and honour. A Sikh can give up his life for his turban. It is a symbol of unity and integrity for the community. Hence, we are receiving an overwhelming response.”Harwinder Singh and Satwant Singh, Jalandhar-based turban bank members, are also in demand at the borders for their turban-tying skills. Harwinder said: “Besides easy methods, we teach how to tie Patiala Sahi, Amritsar Sahi, Morni and Parna turbans.” Interestingly, farmers from Haryana, UP and Rajasthan at the protest sites are equally taking interest in proudly flaunting a turban around their head.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-ration-clothes-free-turbans-for-protesters-184422
