16-12-2020||Jalandhar||Hockey captain Manpreet Singh marries Illi Siddique in Jalandhar||Hockey team captain Manpreet Singh tied the knot with Illi Siddique of Malaysia at GTB Nagar gurdwara on Wednesday, here.The couple have been going around for the past eight years.Earlier, they had revealed that they would get married before the Tokyo Olympics next year.Manpreet hails from Mithapur village in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-captain-manpreet-singh-marries-illi-siddique-in-jalandhar-185130
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||Youth murdered on 1st wedding anniversary||Celebration turned into tragedy for a family at Sultanpur Lodhi here late last night.As the family was planning to celebrate the first marriage anniversary of their son Ravinder Kumar Rikki, a minor brawl took place on the preceding night, which led to his murder.The deceased, who is a resident of Mohalla Lalriyan, was having dinner with his brother and friend at Canadian Dhaba on Lord Krishna Road. Accused Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, his brother Jaspal Singh and brother-in-law Onkar Singh, too, were reportedly having dinner at the same dhaba with his brother and friend. A minor argument between the two groups took place at the eatery.Amandeep, brother of the deceased, said: “As Harpreet and his group also came out. He was in an inebriated condition and began hurling abuses. He immediately opened his Tata Nexon (PB-09-A-5555) and took out a sword. He came towards my brother, began slapping him and threatened to eliminate him. In a matter of seconds, he again went inside his car, started it, took it forward and then again brought it in reverse crushing my brother and hitting his friend.” Harpreet died on way to the hospital.The Sultanpur Lodhi police claimed to have arrested the accused brothers Harpreet and Jaspal Singh of Mohalla Pandori and recovered their car used in the crime. SHO Sultanpur Lodhi said the accused fled after the crime, but were arrested within 20 hours. Third accused Onkar Singh of Saiflabad is still at large.Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended at the house of the victim. DSP Sultanpur Lodhi Sarwan Singh Bal and SHO Harjeet Singh said there were three-four more youth involved in the murder and their identity was yet to be known.“The victim had an outlet of tyre repair and puncture. The accused ran his computer-related work. Both accused and victim had got into an altercation a few days back as well. As a new eatery had opened in town, the accused reportedly followed the victim with an intention to murder him as he was carrying a sword in his car,” the DSP said. The body of the accused has been kept in mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-murdered-on-1st-wedding-anniversary-185003
16-12-2020||---||Close shave for family as truck rams into car||Jalandhar, December 15It was nothing less than a miracle when a family of five escaped unhurt after it met with a horrifying accident on the busy Pathankot-Jalandhar highway. The car was completely damaged in the accident, while the two minors got minor injuries. The video of the miraculous escape, released by the police and the residents, has now gone viral on social media.Satnam Singh, a resident of Haryana, said he along with his wife, mother and two children was returning home after attending a religious function in Semi Kandora.However, when they crossed the Pathankot bypass, a speeding truck hit their Maruti 800 (DL9CF7583) from the rear. The car flipped over multiple turns before resting on the road. Surprisingly everyone came out unhurt from the car, while the vehicle was completely damaged. Satnam’s wife Baljit Kaur was taken to a private hospital for first-aid.Kamaljit Singh, SHO, police division 8, said, the truck driver managed to escape from the spot but the vehicle had been recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/close-shave-for-family-as-truck-rams-into-car-185004
16-12-2020||Kapurthala||2 held with 250-kg poppy husk||The district police have arrested two persons and recovered 250 kg of poppy husk from them during a drive held here on Monday.Sharing details, Senior Superintendent of Police, Kapurthala, Kanwardeep Kaur and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Bholath, Ajay Gandhi said a special drive was launched against drug smuggling in the area.On Monday, a police party led by Station House Officer Amanpreet Kaur and Sub-Inspector Baldev Singh during nakabandi at the bridge on Bein, got a tip-off that a consignment of poppy husk was being smuggled into the state from J&K in a truck (JK-18-4520).The police party intercepted the truck and apprehended two members of the gang — the truck driver and his accomplice. The accused have been identified as Sohail Ahmed Baade of Mandojan Shopian and Sukha of Bhadas village in Bholath.The team recovered 250 kg of poppy husk stored in 10 plastic bags and impounded their truck. An FIR under Sections 15C-61-85 of the NDPS Act was registered at Bholath police station. Efforts are on to arrest the third accomplice as revealed in the interrogations of the accused. Further investigation is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-250-kg-poppy-husk-185005
16-12-2020||A day in the life of an environmentalist||‘Boota’ Singh’s love for gardening is a blooming rose||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 15Day before was the birthday of this septuagenarian environmentalist. As Parduman Singh Thukral (popularly known as ‘Boota Singh’) turned 77, he made sure that the day was special. He chose the occasion to distribute free saplings, readied by him, to the residents. He also distributed free cloth handbags to more than 500 people of Jalandhar.A resident of Shaheed Udham Singh (SUS) Nagar here, Thukral says he dedicates at least four hours a day to the two public parks around his place daily. Even though there are gardeners employed by the mohalla societies, he spends two hours apiece planting flowers and ayurvedic bushes and maintains also them.Having retired as SDO from Public Works Department (PWD), Thukral developed this passion around 10 years ago. “Carrying saplings in a crate on my bicycle, I have personally planted about 35,000 trees along roadsides. I have learnt the art of propagating new plants and have distributed over 5,000 saplings of hibiscus, jamun, harsingar and raat ki rani to the residents of Udham Singh Nagar, Shakti Nagar and other localities.”After retiring, he had no gardening space within his house. So he would take a spade and plant some bushes and seasonal flowers in the park facing his place. In 2013, he lost his wife to cancer and thereon began devoting more time to environment. “Even though it is cold these days, I am out of bed at 7 am. I work in the SUS Nagar park for two hours, go home for breakfast and quickly move to the other park in Shakti Nagar that I am maintaining,” he tells.In both the parks, he has made corners leaving some space for propagating more plants. I use these areas for nursery work. “I ready tree saplings, put them in my cycle and plant them on roadsides wherever I find spaces as I have done in Bashirpura ground, Lions Club, Rock Garden and around other buildings.”Thukral adds, "Twice I have been the elected president of my colony.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/boota-singhs-love-for-gardening-is-a-blooming-rose-185007
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||Stars are aligning for holidaymakers||While relaxations in the lockdown enabled people to travel, the concept of ‘holiday homes’, apparently on the verge of extinction beforehand, has resurrected amid the pandemic. Further inflaming it is the traction of ‘work from home’ in past eight months, and the working class also preferred to spend quality time with their families at these vacation rentals. But a new mantra has come into play ie ‘go-local’. Among holidaymakers seeking both safety from the contagion and privacy coupled with ban on international travel during summers has pushed people to explore local locations.Aditya Kushwaha, CEO and director, Axis Ecorp, one of fastest-growing real estate companies in the country, focused on premium developments in holiday homes, said, “Call it the pandemic treat or restricted foreign travel, the concept of a holiday home or a second home has gained widespread acceptance. With most of the corporate professionals working from home, geography is no longer a constraint. The need for a perfect balance between work and personal life has fuelled the concept of a weekend retreat. From the investment perspective, second homes in non-metro cities are a relatively safe investment option. As consumers are keenly taking interests in spending their recreational time in holiday homes, the NRI belt, particularly from the state has also shown inclination towards making investments.”These properties can either be rented out to home stays or for tourism businesses. The investors are salivating over the booming market promising an assured and a stable source of income. As per the present statistics nearly 30 per cent Punjabis are not only showing interest in investing in but are also consuming them actively.Nitin Kumar (31), a resident, who works in an MNC, moved back to his hometown in last week of March when the nationwide lockdown happened, said, “As the job continuation became the new normal, the location didn’t act as a constraint, hence after the announcement of Unlock-1, I decided to go out and spend a few weeks in hills. Himachal being the closest hill station, I booked a holiday home there to spend some time with my family. Contrary to the hotels that could be the riskier places amid Covid threat, holiday homes provide a safer environment.”An operator at A-Z tour and travel agency in the city also stated that in past two months more queries were received for outstation travel, with the ‘special mention of private shelters’. The industry is slowly coming back on track with the assurance of safety measures to the travellers.Considering situations like home quarantine, distancing, health, hygiene, safety and comfort in one space, people have also realised the importance of larger and self-sustained communities, added Lalit Khanna, a city-based investor.Meanwhile, Kushwaha explained that realising the trend of the vacation homes, Axis Ecorp, besides hill stations has also introduced new project for contribution to create, construct and manage world-class lifestyle like Axis Blues, Axis Yog Villas and Axis Lake City in Goa territory and Axis KNCJ in Darjeeling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stars-are-aligning-for-holidaymakers-185008
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||Come show some warmth at ‘Neki ki Deewar’||To encourage people to donate generously for the poor in cold weather, a ‘Neki ki Deewar’ was inaugurated by Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry and activist Mohinder Singh Gullu.Prof Ajay Sareen accorded a warm welcome to guests by presenting planters and said the wall was an initiative undertaken under the canopy of Mahatma Hans Raj Samvedna Samiti. She appealed to all to donate things which remain unused at home, but could help those who are in need of them. She also thanked the MLA for being a constant support.Henry lauded the efforts of the institution and said: “Such efforts make our living worthwhile. It is the biggest service to mankind, as it is selfless and the path is already shown to us by our gurus.”He also urged to sustain and maintain this project, so that it keeps on running continuously and set an example for others to follow. The project will be maintained under the guidance of Dr Baljinder Singh, in charge, Mahatma Hans Raj Samvedna Samiti.Principal Sareen expressed special thanks to Dean academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur for her motivation. The stage was hosted by Dr Anjana Bhatia. The members of teaching, non-teaching staff and students of NSS were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-show-some-warmth-at-neki-ki-deewar-185009
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||‘Unipoles installed in violation of norms’||Advertisement ad hoc committee chairman Neerja Jain has again raised the issue of illegal unipoles installed in the city. Mayor Jagdish Raja asked Joint Commissioner Harcharan Singh and superintendent of Advertisement Department Mandeep Singh to accompany Neerja to check unipoles.Jain in a recently held meeting with the mayor had pointed out major flaws like dereliction of duty by staff members. She also talked about the contractor responsible for utter failure of the advertisement tender. Neerja Jain urged the mayor to find anomalies.Jain in a statement issued to the media on Monday said during the inspection it was observed that all 33 unipoles that were installed at various locations were in violation of advertisement bylaws and policy formulated by the state government.While highlighting some of the rules she mentioned that no unipole or hoarding can be installed within 30 meters i.e. 90-ft of any chowk, road intersection, but many unipoles were installed at intersections like PAP Chowk, Amardass Chowk etc.She said the distance between two unipoles must be 75 meters i.e. 210 feet, but on many locations unipoles were installed parallel to each other with no distance in between thus violating bylaws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unipoles-installed-in-violation-of-norms-185010
16-12-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Employment bureau all set for exclusive job fair for PwDs||Under the district administration’s UDAAN project as a part of ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’ and the ‘Karobar Mission’, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), will be organising a job fair for persons with disabilities (PwDs) on December 17. In this job fair, 40 industrial units will interview candidates for the 197 vacancies.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) would organise the fair in the multi-skill development centre in which the PwD candidates (speech, hearing and orthopaedically impaired) between the age group of 18-42, having passed Classes VIII, X and XII, besides having basic computer knowledge, can participate. This special job fair will commence from 10 am onwards, she added.She said the 40 private industrial units of Hoshiarpur would select PwDs for various kinds of vacancies, including helper, computer operator, packers, tele-callers, chemist supervisor, carpenter. Those who want to run their own gram Suwidha Centre in their villages must participate in the job fair. Riyait exhorted the PwDs to take full advantage of the fair so that they become self-reliant.District Employment Officer Karam Singh said the job fair would start at 10 am and will conclude at 3 pm and the said persons can visit the Facebook page of the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises, Hoshiarpur, to get more information about the fair. He appealed to the visually-impaired and the candidates, who can’t move without assistance, not to participate in the fair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/employment-bureau-all-set-for-exclusive-job-fair-for-pwds-185011
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||DDLG reviews working of municipal councils||Deputy Director Local Government (DDLG) Darbara Singh took stock of the pace and progress in the work of ongoing developmental projects and also reviewed the functioning of the municipal councils on Tuesday.Presiding over a meeting at Circuit House, Singh said the work of replacing street lights with LED lights has been completed in four Municipal Councils.The Deputy Director also said that the sterilisation of stray dogs’ was running only in Jalandhar region and 5,902 dogs have already been sterilised in 16 towns falling under Jalandhar region. He also issued directions to the councils concerned to complete the project in their areas as soon as possible.He assessed the programme of disbursing loans to street vendors and directed the councils to ensure that all applications of street vendors can be made online in the next three days.Darbara Singh also informed that towns of Jalandhar region have already been declared open defecation free. He also took the stock of the recovery of property tax, building fee, water supply and sewage bills among other things.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ddlg-reviews-working-of-municipal-councils-185012
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||DC urges youth to join NCC||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday exhorted the youth to join the National Cadet Corps (NCC) for challenging careers in the defence forces.The DC said the NCC was a premier organisation that was channelising the productive energy of the youth in a positive direction. He said the NCC makes the youth more disciplined and patriotic citizens.The DC said to motivate the youth’s participation in the NCC, the government has also announced to give bonus marks to the NCC certificate holders in the direct recruitment examinations of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs).He said that as per the guidelines, NCC’s ‘C’ certificate holders would get 5 per cent of maximum marks as bonus marks, ‘B’ certificate holders will get 3 per cent of maximum marks as bonus marks and ‘A’ certificate holders will get 2 per cent of maximum marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-urges-youth-to-join-ncc-185013
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||Candlelight march to pay tribute to farmers||Youngsters in the town on Tuesday carried out a candlelight march to pay tribute to farmers who lost their lives during protests on Delhi-Haryana borders against farm laws. Hundreds of district youth Congress members under the leadership of Bob Malhotra and Raj Jaiswal organised the march from Model House Chowk to Mata Rani Chowk. Angad Dutta, a youth Congress leader, said, “The farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws has entered the 18th day and at least 15 farmers have died since November 26 due to various reasons at Singhu and Tikri borders. Not just men, even women have lost their lives during the ongoing stir as farmer organisations claimed that so far, two women protesters have died due to cardiac arrest”.Dutta said it was the duty of the government to resolve the issue raised by the farmer organisations. He further stated that the deaths of farmers in protecting their rights were disheartening. The ongoing protest which started by the state farmers has now become a pan-India movement. Though farm laws are concerned with farmers, but almost all sections of the society, including farm labourers, commission agents, artisans, mechanics and small traders will equally be affected by the farm laws.Meanwhile, Bob Malhotra said despite the untimely casualties, the Modi government is not showing any concern on the demands of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/candlelight-march-to-pay-tribute-to-farmers-185014
16-12-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Kiran Bedi releases Nazam Riar’s collection of poems online||‘The Quirky Wallflower and the Silent Bumblebee’, a collection of poems and prose by Nazam Riar, was relased by Dr Kiran Bedi, Lt Governor, Puducherry, during an online event.She appreciated Nazam’s work and encouraged her by appreciating the book’s content and style while reading out two short poems in her charismatic style titled To be continued and Standing alone. This is Nazam’s second book, the first being Confessions of a Happy Woman, released in 2017.According to Nazam, for her, the book’s release was a bigger achievement than the book itself and she considers herself fortunate to have it launched by none other than the iconic Kiran Bedi. The book explores the hidden caverns of the human mind and also implores us to enjoy the sunshine. A computer professional and a postgraduate in management, she finds her true calling in poetry. She said, “Writing comes to me naturally and I can’t stop myself from penning down my thoughts.”Nazam, who loves to travel, is content with how her book has been labelled as highly intriguing and philosophical by the literati and laymen alike. It has sections on love, pain, happiness and most importantly unapologetic women which encourages women to traverse their own paths rather than the one limited by societal boundaries. She wants to be a voice for women who are forced to lead anonymous lives.“This potpourri of poetry and prose also has poems describing love and loss in the time of Covid-19 and endeavour to look at the silver lining in the otherwise dark cloud. The section titled coffee beans for the soul which delivers short poems to bring about instant cheer in lives,” said Nazam. Nazam is a bilingual poet and a middle writer with many national and international publications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kiran-bedi-releases-nazam-riars-collection-of-poems-online-185015
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||List of 14 illegal colonies given to Commissioner||Building and Roads (B&R) ad hoc committee member Vicky Kalia along with others visited various areas of the city and identified 14 new illegal colonies coming up in the city.The colonies fall in Jalandhar Central and Jalandhar Cantt constituency. He had recently showed the list of 18 illegal colonies that were carved out by a single coloniser on 105 acre.Notably, Kalia has been raising the issue for long and in the recently held General House meeting, he had also questioned the Mayor as to what action he was taking against defaulters.Today, Kalia went to meet Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma and handed the list of 14 illegal colonies to him asking him to ask officers of the Town Planning Department and other higher officials to accompany them to these sites, where illegal colonies have been built or are getting constructed.“I don’t understand one thing. Even after highlighting several times that illegal colonies are coming up in the city, why isn’t there any kind of action? There is no seriousness. But we have also decided that we don’t want to sit quietly and let the guilty walk freely. MC can recover high amount of money from colonisers, but nobody is doing anything,” he said,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/list-of-14-illegal-colonies-given-to-commissioner-185016
16-12-2020||Jalandhar||Workshop on safety rules on road||Course on textiles, polymersProf Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NIT, Jalandhar,on Tuesday inaugurated a five-day online ‘Short term course on Characterisation Techniques in Textiles and Polymers’. The event is being organised by the Department of Textile Technology. Dr Vinay Midha and Dr Lalit Jajpura, the coordinators of the course, said that there would be of 21 sessions which would be conducted by eminent speakers from different institutions/industry of the country and abroad, including Thermetrics Seattle, USA, IIT Delhi, ICT Mumbai, Bruker India, Thermofisher, SASMIRA, SITRA Coimbatore, LabIndia, Malvern Panalytical and NIT Jalandhar. The keynote lecture was delivered by Prof Ashwani Kumar Aggarwal, IIT Delhi, who highlighted on the use of NMR Spectroscopy in the textiles. Prof Awasthi, during his inaugural speech informed the participants about the central characterisation facility, which has been recently created at NIT, Jalandhar, with X-Ray diffraction technique and shortly it will be upgraded with new characterisation techniques. Dr Ghanshyam, coordinator of the course said, more than 120 participants from different textile institution, including faculty and students are participating in the programme online.Business plan, declamation contestThe department of management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus (LKCTC) organised ‘Business plan and declamation contest’ with the objective to enhance communication skills and raise confidence level of students. Literary Club of School of Management organised this literary club activity over the Zoom platform. The activities conducted in the event were declamation and business plan competition. The topic for the competition was ‘Online Schooling: Can it be a future of education?’ Taniya (M Com, GNDU) and Kirandeep (MBA I, LKCTC) bagged the first position in declamation competition, Priyanka (B Com, GNDU) and Narinder Singh (MBA I, LKCTC) remained second while Priya (MBA I, LKCTC) and Harshita (B Com I, LKCTC) got the third position. Consolation prize was awarded to Chetna (BBA III, LKCTC). Rakesh Kumar (MBA I, LKCTC) bagged the first position in business plan competition while Akash Soni (MBA I, LKCTC) got the second position, and RohanYadav (MBA I, LKCTC) bagged the third position. Consolation was awarded to Sunita Rajput (MBA I, LKCTC). The event was coordinated by Jaskamal Kaur and Mohneet Bedi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-safety-rules-on-road-185017
16-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||18 test positive in Hoshiarpur dist||Couple among 6 held with drugsHoshiarpur: The district police have seized a huge quantity of narcotics from different places and arrested six persons, including a couple, in this connection. According to information, the Garhdiwala police station had laid a naka near Daffar village. On suspicion the police stopped a couple and during checking 158 gm of intoxicating powder was seized from them. The accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh and his wife Hardeep Kaur of Jalota village. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act. The Mahilpur police seized 35 gm of heroin from Jorawar Singh, alias Jora, during a naka in the area. Similarly, 63 gm of heroin was seized from Satvinder Singh, alias Satti, and Raju Sagar, both residents of Nasra village. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. The police arrested Harpreet Singh, alias Peda, a resident of Langeri village, and during search seized 55 gm of heroin from his possession. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-dist-185018
