18-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Approvals for establishing new industrial units in sight||Hoshiarpur, December 17 The entrepreneurs/industrialists can get in-principal approvals for setting up their new units in the districts within 3 to 15 days under the Right to Business Act introduced by the state government, said Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Thursday, adding that the status of new industries to be set up in the district shall be reviewed in the meeting of District Scrutiny Committee (DSC).  She also informed that under the Right to Business Act (RTB Act), the entrepreneurs and industrialists need not visit different offices like Forests Department, PWD, Punjab Pollution Control Board, Rural Development and Panchayats Department, District Fire Office, etc for getting the requisite approvals and NoCs as the RTB Act facilitates all clearances under one roof of investing in Punjab. Those units, which are willing to start their ventures, can also apply through the web portal pbindustries.gov.in after the DSC would provide the necessary approval within 3 to 15 days. These units will have to get the mandatory regulatory clearances from the departments concerned within three and a half years once these get the in-principle approval at the commencement of their ventures.  The DC also reviewed the progress of under process applications in the district besides directing the DSC to provide the necessary approvals within stipulated time frame. Those present in the meeting included general manager Industry Centre Amarjit Singh, DRO Aman Pal Singh, Naib Tehsildar Gurpreet Singh, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/approvals-for-establishing-new-industrial-units-in-sight-185995
18-12-2020||---||Mumbai-bound flight to remain suspended||Jalandhar, December 17The first domestic flight connecting Mumbai and the Doaba region couldn’t take off from Adampur airport on Thursday due to bad weather conditions. Now, it is up to the passengers to deal with inconvenience as it remains for next five days.As per reports, the only Mumbai-bound SpiceJet flight from Adampur has been suspended for six days. Sources at the Adampur airport stated that the flight will not take off on December 21, 23, 25, 28 and 30. Owing to the reduced visibility the flight also couldn’t reach here on Wednesday as per scheduled time and was diverted from Chandigarh. The visibility has been reduced to 50m.As per the schedule, the flight leaves Mumbai airport at 6.40 am but on Wednesday it left Mumbai with half an hour delay.Due to dense fog, it was diverted to Chandigarh and landed here at Adampur airport at 3.44 pm. It was delayed by nearly six hours, causing inconvenience to the passengers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mumbai-bound-flight-to-remain-suspended-185996
18-12-2020||Sanjiv Bakshi||3 held with 4,500 fake gold coins||Hoshiarpur, December 17The police have busted a gang of three fraudsters, including a couple, who used to cheat people on the pretext of selling gold coins and ornaments at lesser price. As many as 4,500 fake gold coins and a gold necklace have been recovered from the trio.The accused have been identified as Raju, Biru and his wife Dani Devi, alias Geeta, all residents of Rohini, New Delhi.Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said they received a tip-off that the accused had ventured out on the pretext of polishing gold ornaments.He said the accused targeted a gullible person and asked the owner to put jewellery in a pot for boiling. After some time, they took out the jewellery and wrapped it in a cloth and asked the owner not to uncover the ornaments for an hour.Later, the owner found his jewellery missing and some other ornaments in its place, which turned out to be fake.After getting information, a special team was formed under the supervision of Superintendent of Police (D) Ravindrapal Singh Sandhu, which was led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (D) Rakesh Kumar and CIA Inspector Shiv Kumar.The police found out that the gang was trying to cheat people by pretending to sell them gold at lesser rate. Cops arrested a gang member who was waiting for a customer at Singriwala bypass.The Senior Superintendent of Police said the gang used to trap people by offering to sell them gold coins at lesser price. He said the accused claimed that they had found gold coins during excavation in Rajasthan.Mahal said the accused had absconded with jewellery between Rs10 to Rs15 lakh.Sandhu said they presented the accused before the court, which sent them to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-held-with-4-500-fake-gold-coins-185997
18-12-2020||---||Industry status sought for hospitality sector in Punjab||Jalandhar, December 17 In line with Maharashtra, the hoteliers of Punjab have demanded ‘industry status’ for the hospitality sector. The industrialists have said that the ongoing pandemic has hit them very hard and while the transport sector and other businesses have been getting concessions from the government, they also deserve some relief. The hoteliers feel that it will help them avail benefits like cheaper power and water bills, slashed property tax, relief in licence fee and simpler approvals process for hotel-related projects. The Hotel Association of India (HAI) has also launched its Punjab chapter to assist in the much-needed resurgence. The association has nominated top hoteliers including Gautam Kapoor, owner of Radisson Hotel, Jalandhar, GS Virk, owner, Park Plaza, Zirakpur, Rajan Gill, owner, Radisson Blu Hotel, Amritsar and Park Inn by Radisson, Amritsar, Abhimanyu Lodha, general manager, The Oberoi Sukhvilas, Chandigarh, Sumeet Taneja, general manager, Taj Swarna, Amritsar, and Mohit Gurnani, general manager, Taj Chandigarh, to set off the Punjab chapter. Discussing the idea behind its launch, Gautam Kapoor said, “We will focus on issues and challenges our industry is facing. More than 50 per cent of the hoteliers are on the verge of closure. Some big chains have also got sold off. This is the time we need stakeholders, greater collaborations and partnerships.” He added, “We have urged the CM to help us sail through a revenue slump in the state. The high fixed charges of power, license fee, lease rentals, property taxes, etc have been very heavy, especially at a time when there is no business. The survival of the sector is under grave threat.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industry-status-sought-for-hospitality-sector-in-punjab-185998
18-12-2020||---||Mass mobilisation campaign from December 24 to 31||Jalandhar, December 17The Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) will organise a statewide campaign from December 24 to 31 “to expose the misleading propaganda” against the farmers’ stir being organised by the peasants at Delhi border. This was declared at a press conference jointly addressed by Comrade Mangat Ram Pasla, general secretary, RMPI, Harkanwal Singh SCM, Harkanwal Singh Randhawa, president state committee, Gurnam Singh Daud CCM and prof Jaipal Singh. The party has decided to publish 10 lakh pamphlets for the campaign.They also announced that in implementation of the resolution adopted by the ‘sanyukt kisan morcha’ comprising all farmer organisations in India, mass meetings at village-mohalla level on December 20 will be earnestly held to pay revolutionary homage to martyrs of the ongoing struggle against the three farm laws, Electricity Bill 2020 and undemocratic attitude of the Centre towards it.They said it is the steadfastness of this justified peaceful struggle as well as the supreme sacrifice of the marytrs which has forced the central government to shun its adamant approach and open doors for dialogue. Speaking on the occasion, leaders said, “The RMPI strongly condemns the government for the shameful divisive tactics it has adopted by raising false organisations in support of disputed ‘black laws’. Such a stubborn approach of the government is detrimental for harmony, unity and integrity of the country.”They said farmers were fighting for well-being of all sections of the society as the laws were bound to wrack the employment for crores of agrcutural labourers, arthiyas and small shopmen and will also provide further fillip to the price rise of all food articles. The leaders further said they were beneficial only for the corporate sector. Party leaders exhorted all people cadres and party sympathisers to participate and extend all type of support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mass-mobilisation-campaign-from-december-24-to-31-185999
18-12-2020||---||Jalandhar district Covid tally reaches 19,330||Jalandhar, December 17With 62 new cases of Covid surfacing in the district on Thursday, the tally of positive cases reached 19,330. With two more Covid deaths reported, the number of deceased persons is now 611. The active cases are 705 to date. Exactly 18,014 people have been discharged, while as many as 506 people are under home isolation currently. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, two succumbed to the virus and nine people tested positive. The deceased include a 54-year-old and a 57-year-old man, hailing from Phagwara, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.3 die, 22 new infections in Hoshiarpur districtThe district reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 287, while 22 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 7,428. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said on Thursday 1,349 samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken. Hence, total samples taken so far in the district is 2,18,434, of which 2,10,391are negative and results of 2,107 samples are awaited. Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 22 infections reported today, seven cases related to the city while remaining cases are from various other health blocks of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-covid-tally-reaches-19-330-186000
18-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||7 peddlers arrested with drugs, liquor||Hoshiarpur, December 17 The police have recovered large amount of intoxicants and arrested seven peddlers in separate cases. The police conducted a raid at Paddi Sura Singh village and recovered 60 bottles of illicit liquor. The accused have been identified as Rajinder Singh, alias Kala, while Gurvinder, alias Goldie, escaped by dodging the police. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against the duo. In another incident, cops arrested Balveer Singh, alias Beera, and seized 14 bottles of illegal liquor. The Garhdiwala police have arrested Sandeep Kumar, alias Ladi, a resident of Hans Nagar and seized 5 gm of heroin and huge amount of intoxicating pills from him. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. The Hariana police recovered 36 bottles of illegal liquor from Tilakraj, a resident of Khudde. The Model Model Town police have arrested Sukhdev Lal, alias Bhairon, a resident of Rahimpur, and recovered 7 gm of heroin from him. He has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS)Act. The Hajipur police recovered 35 gm of intoxicating powder from Lal Chand, alias Lalu, a resident of Mukerian, and Raj Kumar, a resident of Nangal Bihala. The duo was booked under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-peddlers-arrested-with-drugs-liquor-186001
18-12-2020||Jalandhar||Health Department committed towards TB-free district: Civil Surgeon||Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla flagged off 15 Tuberculosis (TB) teams to detect, supervise and create awareness about the disease under the Active Case Finding Screening Scheme. Dr Chawla said these teams would visit door-to-door in Qazi Mandi, Bhargo Camp, Lamba Pind, Garha, Arya Nagar, Santokhpura, Mithapur, Rama Mandi, Dakoha, Bhoor Mandi, Bashirpura, Ravidas Pura and other areas to screen suspected cases till January 14, 2021. She said each team will ensure coverage of 40 houses in a day and submit the report with the department daily. Dr Chawla said teams will make people aware of TB, how it spreads, how it is diagnosed and treated so that the disease can be eliminated from the country by 2025.  She said the Health Department was committed to making Jalandhar TB free. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-department-committed-towards-tb-free-district-civil-surgeon-186002
18-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||4 arrested with liquor, drugs||Traders seek one time settlementJalandhar: Members of the Khel Udyog Sangh protested against the government for not providing one-time settlement policy. Ravinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh, said they observed December 15 as a black day by wearing black masks. He said the Excise and Taxation Department has issued ex-parte notices to industrialists for the VAT assessment for the year 2013-2014. Industrialists bearing the brunt of the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak said they were being harassed mentally. Members of the sangh said the state government first promised the one-time settlement and was now not fulfilling the promise. Recently, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the policy would be launched and issues of industrialists would be addressed. Industrialists had expressed their disappointment while holding a meet with the Finance Minister and the latter had called them to Chandigarh. The industrialists had asked the Finance Minister about the status of the one-time settlement policy that the government was set to unveil for resolving the issue of C-forms. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-arrested-with-liquor-drugs-186006
