22-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Working for the poorest of poor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21Piles of discarded clothes, denims, shoes, books, old audio tapes and one-side used papers reach the house of philanthropist Neena Sondhi at Football Chowk every day. A guard directs the visitor to keep the pile in the open for some hours; it is then sanitised and kept in a shed for 24 hours before it goes for sorting and packaging for being transported to NGO Goonj’s office in Sarita Vihar, New Delhi.One of the directors of leading sports goods manufacturing company FC Sondhi & Co, Neena has set up a dropping centre for Goonj at her house. Every two months or so, she gets the items dispatched via a truck to the NGO headquarters from where it is further sorted. The good, wearable clothes make way to the poorest of poor across India.The not-so-good stuff including the audio tapes are recycled and designed as rugs, school bags, hand bags, pouches, wall hangings and key chains and then sold off with a brandname ‘Greens by Goonj’. This stuff reaches back as well to cater to the buyers in the urban areas and use the money for the NGO work. The soft cotton T-shirts are used for making sanitary pads. Some clothes are also sent for use of digging wells, cleaning water bodies, etc. The second hand books are made to reach the children who cannot afford them. The one-side used papers come handy for recycling or printing literature and other material on the other side.“I am a big fan of Anshu Gupta, Goonj founder and Ramon Magsaysay Award winner. He founded it 19 years ago. I met him when he had been running it for two years or so and was totally impressed with how and what he does. He does not even waste the staples that usually come in the postage. He gets them all collected and sells them as scrap,” the septuagenarian shared.Neena added, “We ask all those offering discarded stuff to pay Rs100 as transportation charges for we have to bear the carriage cost as well. But only 2 per cent people do that but we don’t mind bearing some cost from our side.”She also showed how she had engaged about eight women in knitting for making new, designer pullovers for women and children to be distributed through Goonj. “This is my personal project and contribution for the NGO I am really fond of. We pay Rs100 to every woman for knitting 100 gms of woollen stuff. We give them wool by weight,” said the businesswoman-turned-social activist, who settled in England in the earlier years of her life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/working-for-the-poorest-of-poor-187703
22-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Hike in raw material prices irks traders||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21An unexpected increase in the prices of raw materials has troubled manufacturers, traders and industrialists in the state. Manufacturers say that they have not witnessed such a scenario in the last few years.Members of the Tools Exporters and Manufacturers’ Association on Monday met Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash in Phagwara and apprised him of the problems being faced by the industry.They said the skyrocketing prices of raw materials such as steel would result in the closure of several units. The minister listened to the problems and assured the members that he would talk to the Central Government to get their problems resolved.The steep rise in the prices of all inputs like pig iron, steel scrap, zinc, foundry additives and packaging material has disturbed the working of the industry, which is already facing several challenges. The industry, which is labour-intensive, is already suffering due to the pandemic and a rise in labour costs by 10-15 percent.Such is the situation that industrialists have decided to shut their units for two days a week. Ravinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh, said the government must take the responsibility of this situation. “Neither the state nor the Central Government is listening to us,” he said.A meeting of The Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF), Chandigarh, that represents more than 300 foundries (mainly MSME category of Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and some parts of Haryana), was also held online on Saturday. It discussed that how the rates were increased by 40 per cent.Balwant Kapur, chairman of the Autoparts Manufacturing Association, said multiple reasons for price escalation were discussed. “Hoarding by raw material suppliers and an unjustified increase in the prices of raw materials remained the centre of discussion,” Kapur said. Various associations under the IIF have already written to the government regarding this grave situation and have sought government’s intervention in price monitoring of commodities by forming a board and an industry representative on the price monitoring board as well.But contrary to what some are suggesting that the farmers’ protest is the reason behind this steep hike in price, industrialists have refuted this. “How can the farmers’ protest be the reason behind the price rise. This is just an excuse. The government must look into this matter,” said Suba Singh, president of the Industrial Estate Extension Welfare Society. Ravinder Dhir said the farmers’ protest was not the reason behind any increase in the prices of raw materials. “There is an anarchy-like situation in the countrycontinued on page 2Aakanksha N BhardwajTribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21An unexpected increase in the prices of raw materials has troubled manufacturers, traders and industrialists in the state. Manufacturers say that they have not witnessed such a scenario in the last few years.Members of the Tools Exporters and Manufacturers’ Association on Monday met Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash in Phagwara and apprised him of the problems being faced by the industry.They said the skyrocketing prices of raw materials such as steel would result in the closure of several units. The minister listened to the problems and assured the members that he would talk to the Central Government to get their problems resolved.The steep rise in the prices of all inputs like pig iron, steel scrap, zinc, foundry additives and packaging material has disturbed the working of the industry, which is already facing several challenges. The industry, which is labour-intensive, is already suffering due to the pandemic and a rise in labour costs by 10-15 percent.Such is the situation that industrialists have decided to shut their units for two days a week. Ravinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh, said the government must take the responsibility of this situation. “Neither the state nor the Central Government is listening to us,” he said.A meeting of The Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF), Chandigarh, that represents more than 300 foundries (mainly MSME category of Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and some parts of Haryana), was also held online on Saturday. It discussed that how the rates were increased by 40 per cent.Balwant Kapur, chairman of the Autoparts Manufacturing Association, said multiple reasons for price escalation were discussed. “Hoarding by raw material suppliers and an unjustified increase in the prices of raw materials remained the centre of discussion,” Kapur said. Various associations under the IIF have already written to the government regarding this grave situation and have sought government’s intervention in price monitoring of commodities by forming a board and an industry representative on the price monitoring board as well.But contrary to what some are suggesting that the farmers’ protest is the reason behind this steep hike in price, industrialists have refuted this. “How can the farmers’ protest be the reason behind the price rise. This is just an excuse. The government must look into this matter,” said Suba Singh, president of the Industrial Estate Extension Welfare Society. Ravinder Dhir said the farmers’ protest was not the reason behind any increase in the prices of raw materials. “There is an anarchy-like situation in the country and the government was doing nothing for the industry,” he said. Industrialist Narinder Saggu said the step hike in price was not acceptable. “Earlier, such an increase was witnessed in 2004-5. Now, stainless steel, rods, zinc, etc, have become costlier,” he said.Minister cancels meeting in hotelUnion Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash was scheduled to hold a meeting with hand tools industrialists at Hotel Country Inn on Monday afternoon, but he had to cancel it as intelligence sleuths informed him that farmers had decided to gherao his car at BSF Chowk. The minister chose to cancel it and called the industrialists to his place at Phagwara in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hike-in-raw-material-prices-irks-traders-187704
22-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Three bikers killed in two road accidents||Hoshiarpur, December 21Three people were killed in two separate road accidents in the district.In an accident that occurred in the city, two bikers died after being crushed under a tractor-trailer. The Sadar police have arrested the accused driver. According to the information, Mohit Sharma of Ravidas Nagar, Adamwal, told the police that his brother Rohit Sharma (22) and his friend Pawan Kumar Saleran (30) were going towards the city on a scooter, when a tracter-trailer ferrying material from the ply factory near Banjarbagh hit them. Both died on the spot. The police registered a case against accused driver identified as Raj Kumar, a resident of Tuto Mazara and arrested him.The victimsLate this evening, a motorcycle rider died on the spot after being hit by an unidentified vehicle at SDM Chowk, Dasuya. According to the information, Avtar Singh, son of Channan Singh, was going from Jhingad Kalan village to Dasuya on his bike. When he reached SDM Chowk, Dasuya, he was hit by an unidentified vehicle, due to which he died on the spot. The Dasuya police were informed about the accident by the onlookers. Receiving the information, the police reached the spot and placed body in the mortuary of the Dasuya Civil Hospital and informed the relatives of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-bikers-killed-in-two-road-accidents-187705
22-12-2020||Jalandhar||Free Urdu classes from January 4||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-urdu-classes-from-january-4-187707
22-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||None missing an opportunity to express solidarity with farmers||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, December 21  There’s unconditional love and support pouring for farmers sitting and protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders for the past 26 days against the three farm laws passed by the Central Government.  Nobody wants to miss out an opportunity to express solidarity with farmers. People from all walks of life have been reaching at the Singhu and Tikri borders. Some are going there with essential items, others are there to lend emotional support.  Youngsters, teachers, sportspersons and everyone else is looking for an opportunity to be with the farmers.  People are going in groups from various parts of Doaba. Announcements are being made from gurdwaras in remote areas. “Whenever a group of people plans to go to the borders, announcements are made from the gurdwaras to ask others if they want to contribute anything,” Kirpal Singh from Shahkot said.  “This is a routine in remote areas. People who go there often ask those who cannot go because of one reason or another. Everyone wants to help farmers and even NRIs have been sending help to farmers,” he said.  Even teachers have been going to New Delhi, while some are going under the banner of their respective unions, some are going on their own. Harpinder Singh, a government school teacher from Lohian block also reached the border earlier this week. He held a board that read ‘Kaale kanoon vaapis lao’.  “This is a movement that has shook everyone. Not only farmers, but everyone has become a part of this movement, everyone is emotionally attached with the sentiments of farmers, that is why I have come here,” Harpinder said. A teacher added that he has been seeing several unusual things. “People have provided washing machines for farmers. Locals have been coming here with milk and food, medical camps have been organised, the elderly and children can be seen everywhere in the protest. This is something which I have never seen in my entire life,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/none-missing-an-opportunity-to-express-solidarity-with-farmers-187708
22-12-2020||---||‘Complete ongoing works by Jan 15’||Jalandhar, December 21 To ensure strict compliance of timelines of the developmental works started under phase-1 of Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme and Smart Village Campaign, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori set the target for the officials to complete 183 ongoing projects by January 15. Chairing a meeting with all five SDMs, DDLG, and MC officials, the Deputy Commissioner accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Vishesh Sarangal, warned that any kind of laxity would not be tolerated. He said 964 developmental works worth Rs43.16 crore and 303 projects worth Rs27.22 crore were started under phase-I of Smart Village Campaign and Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme of which work on 923 and 161 projects have been finished, respectively. He asked the officers to review the progress of the 183 ongoing works daily and make field visits giving a top priority to the completion of works by January 15 and further told them to report him about the status by evening every day. The DC said most of these ongoing works were regarding laying of sewage pipes and carpeting of roads in various areas of the district.  Moreover, he directed them to pay due attention towards pushing works under phase-II of both programmes to the execution level. Thori said there was a need to have an elaborate mechanism for the efficient execution and timely completion of development projects under these schemes for the wellbeing of people. He said the execution of works would be monitored constantly by him and reports would be sent to higher officials accordingly. Sub-Divisional Magistrates Rahul Sindhu, Gautam Jain, Dr Jai Inder Singh, Sanjiv Kumar Sharma, Vineet Kumar, Deputy Director Local Government Darbara Singh, District Development and Panchayat Officer Iqbaljit Singh Sahota and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/complete-ongoing-works-by-jan-15-187709
22-12-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Mandis to remain shut for four days||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, December 21 Post the Income Tax (IT) raids against some arthiyas in the state, the District Arhtiya Association has announced to halt work at grain markets here.  Around 79 grain markets in Jalandhar will remain closed for the next four days.  Harnam Singh, district senior vice-president of Punjab Arthiya Association, said following the call by the Federation of Arthiyas Punjab the grain markets would be closed from Tuesday to Friday to express resentment against the raids.  While Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday criticised the Centre for its intimidating tactics against arthiyas supporting the agitating farmers, and warned that such draconian measures will further aggravate the anger of people against the BJP-led Central Government, the commission agents here, stated that the IT raids were not only unjustified, but also an insult on the fair income of arthiyas across the state.  “Do not label us as ‘bicholiye’ or middlemen, we are the service providers to farmers and the government. How can the Income Tax Department even consider conducting a raid when all our transactions are made online on government accounts? After putting TDS, we get only 2.5 commission, hence making all transactions transparent. Therefore, the IT raids are unfair. The government is only trying to pressurise us not to lend their support to farmers in their ongoing protest,” Haraman Singh said.  Around 16 arthiyas were served notices by the IT Department and raids were conducted on six arthiyas who have state-level designations in the arthiya unions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mandis-to-remain-shut-for-four-days-187710
22-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||One succumbs, 45 new cases in Hoshiarpur||Samples of 1,412 persons with suspected symptoms of coronavirus and exposure to positive patients were taken in the district on Monday. The total number of patients in the district is now 7,563 with 45 testing positive, while with the death of another patient the toll has risen to 297. The deceased has been identified as a 67-year-old patient from Sukhdev Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who died at a private hospital in Ludhiana.The total number of samples taken so far since the onset of the pandemic has risen to 2,22,673. Out of 45 infected, 15 are related to Hoshiarpur while remaining 30 cases are related to various health blocks of the district.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-succumbs-45-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-187711
22-12-2020||Kapurthala||Now, a playroom for kids at DAC||To provide a safe space to the children for recreational activities, the Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Monday inaugurated ‘Kilkariyan’, a playroom for kids at District Administration Complex (DAC). The idea to open a playroom in the complex for the kids of employees and others, who visit along with their parents, was floated by the DC and District Programme Officer Sneh Lata.  After inauguration, the DC said that interacting and playing with their peers is vital for growth and development of any child. She said that there was a growing need of employees with children to provide a place for them to play together.  “This would cater to not only the children of the employees and but also to any kid,” she said, before stressing upon the positives, “the attention of children is diverted by ushering them in the playroom after they enter the administrative complex.”  The DC told the kids would feel a homely environment in the playroom which has a lot of toys for playing. Uppal also told that two caretakers have been appointed to look after the kids from 10 am to 5 pm. “The playway has a variety of learning games, puzzles, music, piano, alphabets, learning charts, building blocks and other types of educational games to engage the kids under supervision,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-a-playroom-for-kids-at-dac-187712
22-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Nine nabbed with drugs||The district police arrested nine smugglers, including two women, and recovered drugs from them from different places in the district in the past 24 hours. The Chabbewal police arrested Paramjit Singh, alias Madha, a resident of Sarhalan Kalan village and recovered 316 grams of charas from him. Sandeep Kumar of Mannahana was arrested with 26-gm heroin. The Mehtiana police held Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Todarpur village, and recovered 500-gm poppy husk from him. The Bullowal police held Sandeep Kumar, alias Deepa, and recovered narcotic pills from him. The Garhdiwala police recovered 50-gm of intoxicating powder from Parveen Kumar, alias Kaku. The Garhshankar police arrested Gautam Kumar, a resident of Barwan village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district and recovered a large number of narcotic pills from him. The Mahilpur police arrested Manjit Kaur, a resident of Langeri Road, Mahilpur, and seized 40-gm heroin from her. The Sadar police arrested Pushwinder, a resident of Ajjowal, and seized pills from him. The Tanda police arrested Bholi and recovered 50 grams of intoxicating powder from her. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nine-nabbed-with-drugs-187713
22-12-2020||Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya under the initiative of industry-academia interface started a one-week web series under community college. First day of the webinar was started with a webinar on the ‘Working of export house in apparel sector’ under the community college course of fashion designing||Webinar on apparel exports||Distance learning programmeJalandhar: Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions has got the approval of Study Centre and Logistic Learning Support Centre by IKG Punjab Technical University, chairman of the group Dr Anup Bowry announced. Dr Shailesh Tripathi, Group Director, Innocent Hearts Group, stated that the courses being offered under Distance Learning Education in session 2020 are Diploma in Computer Applications, BCA, BCA-LEA, BBA, BCom, Bachelor of Journalism and Mass Communication and MCom. These courses will begin from January 2021.There will be two sessions of admission sessions January and July in distance learning mode. The coordinator of the courses will be Dr Gagandeep Kaur Dhanju, which will provide all kind of information to the students regarding the courses.Virtual talk on interpersonal skillsThe department of management of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Technical Campus, organised a virtual expert talk on ‘Interpersonal Skills: A new-age mantra to enhance employability’ with the objective to enhance soft skills and raise confidence level of students for placements and future endeavours. Training and placement committee of School of Management organised the talk over the Zoom platform. The resource person for the same was Dr Renu Kalra, Faculty Department of Commerce, Dev Samaj College for Women, Chandigarh. She emphasised on developing emotional quotient along with intelligence quotient, taking ownership and pride in your work, using right brain (for critical thinking, emotional connect with people) along with the left brain. She also talked about showing empathy while dealing with people in professional and personal life. The event was coordinated by Dr Tarunjit Singh and Dr Ritu Rana. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director Academic Affairs) and Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC) said that interpersonal skills play an important role in getting a job. Dr Inderpal Singh (HOD, Management), presented the vote of thanks.National Mathematics Day celebratedNational Mathematics Day was celebrated at Eklavya School to commemorate the birthday of Srinivasa Ramanujan, the Indian mathematician. Various online programmes and activities were organised. The basic aim to celebrate such a day was to foster scientific temperament among the students and encourage them in the world of mathematics. Primary school students participated online in various mathematics activities such as making paper plate clock, pizza fractions. Middle and senior school participated online in poster-making competition. Quiz competition and objective test competition were also organised. Director of the school Seema Handa applauded the efforts of the students and gave the message that such events should be organised in future so that the young generation should not forget their responsibilities towards their society and country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-apparel-exports-187718
22-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Couple nurtures passion, brings alive their terrace||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 21In this era of a dwindling green cover, retired army couple from Jalandhar is working to retain green space. Lt Col Paramjeet Kaur (retd) and Col Resham Singh Sandhu (retd) of Keval Vihar, near GTB gurdwara, turned terrace of their house into a flower bed.Once you reach terrace, fragrance of flowers takes you to another world. “Looking after the garden has become our full-time job,” said the duo.Lt Col Paramjeet, who works at the ECHS polyclinic, spends two hours daily with her flowers. On their terrace, the couple grows around 100 varieties of seasonal flowers in 500 flower pots. “When you like a flower, you pluck it. When you love it, you water it daily and let it flourish,” said the couple.The duo’s passion for growing plants, consistent efforts, and dedication helped them to raise their entire house into a nursery.Lt Col Paramjeet said it’s a rewarding job. Even at the entrance of their house, blooming marigold and imported plants create a delightful sight.For the last 10 years, Lt Colonel Paramjeet had been following her passion for gardening and during her stint in the Army, she received prize for the best garden several times.“I came across very exotic flowers. After looking it up online, I learnt that it was a white-exotic lily. By this time, I had an entire list of flowers I wanted to grow daffodils, Asiatic lily, gladiola and frangipani. I purchased a few saplings from local nurseries and ordered a few online. I buy 30-40 new plants every year and grow many on many own though cutting and stemming methods”, said Lt Col Paramjeet.As flower bed needs a lot of care, she keeps on reading about climate and caution needed to cultivate a particular variety of plants.“Autumn and spring are the only two seasons when flowers boom and I place them accordingly. After every two months, I change the position of pots and check which plants are sun loving and need moisture,” she said.Hyacinth, gazania, daisy dahlia, ashwagandha, chrysanthemum, ranunculus, freezia, marigold, nearly 10 varieties of roses, eight types of cactus can be found at the couple’s residence. Besides, Lt Col Paramjeet grows vegetables and seasonal fruits as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couple-nurtures-passion-brings-alive-their-terrace-187719
