25-12-2020||Jalandhar||Farmer leaders lathi charged during protest outside BJP leader’s residence in Jalandhar||Several farmers of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) received minor injuries during a standoff between the police and farmers outside the residence of former Cabinet minister and BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia here on Friday.In a bid to prevent farmers from attempting to break through the barricades, the police indulged in use of force which resulted in some leaders receiving minor injuries.Some farmer leaders were chased away, manhandled and lathi charged while during the commotion the turbans of some leaders also came off. While farmers today gheraod a palace at Cantt protesting against a programme being held to commemorate former BJP leader Atal Behari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary, farmers later gheraod the residence of BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia. It was here while attempting to break through the barricades put by police outside Kalia’s house that a standoff ensued.Angry leaders pressed against the line of barricades with the police attempting to stop them.When the barricades were breached, police and farm leaders came face to face. In the ensuing commotion some farmers received minor injuries on hands and arms and the turbans of some also came off.Leaders later headed to the BJP office where they held a peaceful protest surrounded by heavy police deployment.      Amarjit Singh, a youth leader of the BKU (Rajewal) said, “We held a peaceful protest but despite that police put up barricades to prevent us from getting near the minister’s home. When we tried getting through barricades, they lathi charged us and our turbans were also taken off. We have also received injuries in the process. While farmers are dying at Delhi, the BJP leaders are putting up screens to hold gatherings. And when we oppose this, the police beat us. We condemn the party’s celebratory meets and gatherings at a time when the farmers are losing lives. We shall gherao BJP leaders’ house tomorrow and shall hold protest against the prime minister’s Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday.”Farm leader Deepa, whose turban was taken off during the protest, said, “We were peacefully protesting against the ordinances when the police put up barricades to stop us. They first beat me with a lathi and then took off my turban. They lathi charged us. We were only getting through the barricades.”DCP, Jalandhar, Gurmeet Singh, said, “The farmers broke through the barricades and the police was just trying to prevent them. We were just trying to prevent them from entering the house because a function was on at the leader’s house. The police didn’t take off the turbans of any leaders. The turbans came off during the struggle which ensued while we were trying to stop them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-leaders-lathi-charged-during-protest-outside-bjp-leaders-residence-in-jalandhar-189260
25-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Raj Kumar’s wife, 3 children stare at bleak future||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24December 12 was the scariest day for Anju (38), as it was this day that she lost her husband Raj Kumar, who was actively offering his services to the ‘Kisan Andolan’ from the day it began.While farmers’ stir is still on, miserable Anju believes her three children stare at a bleak future now.A resident of Kahma village in Nawanshahr, Raj Kumar breathed his last after suffering a brain stroke on the night of December 12. A taxi driver by profession, the 41-year-old was making his contribution to the protest by catering to those who were facing difficulty in reaching the Delhi-Haryana borders to participate in the protest. He took the initiative to offer free taxi service to farmers in his village to reach Singhu and Tikri borders since November 28.Unfortunately, while he was entering Haryana, he struggled to breathe and stopped responding. However, before losing consciousness, he managed to stop his car, ferrying 10 villagers, and died later.The deceased was the sole bread winner in his family. It had been only three months since he purchased his own car. He had reportedly borrowed money to operate his own taxi service, but everything’s gone believes his teary-eyed wife.Kashmiri Lal, the elder brother of the deceased, said it was the first time when Raj received any such attack. “He had no other illness and was healthy from the day he joined the protest. We were also told that he might have suffered a stroke due to unbearable cold. His death has shocked all of us. A happy go lucky person, Raj was a great support system for his family. He was into driving for the past 15 years. Now, the future of his three children, all below six years, is at stake. Though we don’t have farming background, my brother was glad to be involved in the protest,” Lal said.Though Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhary visited the family of the deceased on Tuesday and offered a help of Rs5 lakh, the family members want educational funding for Raj Kumar’s three children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raj-kumars-wife-3-children-stare-at-bleak-future-189182
25-12-2020|| ---||AAP appoints 680 new office-bearers||Jalandhar, December 24  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has started the work of strengthening its organisation on a large scale.  As many as 680 circle in-charge were appointed here on Thursday during a state-level function organised by the party in Jalandhar.  Leader of Opposition (LoP) in Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Harpal Singh Cheema, MLA Jai Kishan Rodi, state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat, Harminder Bakshi, district in-charge (urban) Rajwinder Kaur and district in-charge (rural) and principal Prem Kumar, handed over the responsibilities to the newly appointed office-bearers.  Before the commencement of the function, tributes were paid to farmers, who died in the ongoing struggle to repeal agricultural laws.  Cheema said to strengthen the party, 22 state office-bearers, 168 district-level office-bearers, 468 block-level office-bearers and 4,500 circle-level office-bearers have been appointed so far. He said the party had appointed one circle president for five villages and wards and work would be done to strengthen the party by making over two lakh people join the party in the next two months. MLA Jai Kishan Rodi said the party would be stronger with the hard work of leaders. He said the future of Punjab was looking bleak due to the mistakes of the Centre and Punjab governments.  Rodi said: “While today the Centre wants to destroy farmers and agriculture, Capt Amarinder Singh is looting Punjab at the hands of all kinds of mafias.”  Harchand Singh Barsat and Harminder Bakshi said illicit drugs and liquor trade was mushrooming under the patronage of Capt Amarinder Singh and other Congress leaders in his district. On the occasion, Mohan Lal district president Hoshiarpur, Karamjit Kaur district secretary Hoshiarpur, Gurpal Singh, district president Kapurthala, Nirmal Singh district secretary Kapurthala, Shiv Charan Chechi district in charge Nawanshahr, Manohar Lal Gaba, general secretary Nawanshahr, Subhash Sharma, general secretary, Jalandhar, treasurer Mangal Singh, Media in charge Tarandeep Sunny, Sanjeev Bhagat, Santokh Bhagat, Harcharan Sandhu, Navjot Mehta Hoshiarpur, Lalit Madan, Kulwinder Singh, Harpal Dhillon, Gurmeet Singh Pannu, Ranbir Rana and Amardeep Banga were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-appoints-680-new-office-bearers-189183
25-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Farmer Harpreet Singh sends notice to BJP for misusing his photo||Hoshiarpur, December 24BJP’s post in support of agri laws to counter the social media support to farmers’ agitation, has cost dear to the party, as a farmer, Harpreet Singh (in pic), whose photo was used by the BJP, has slapped a legal notice for illegally using his photograph in the post without his consent.In the notice, his advocate Hakam Singh has mentioned that Harpreet, alias ‘Harp Farmer’, of Hoshiarpur’s Nadalon village, is a photographer, actor and director, whose picture the BJP used in its pro-farm laws post over social media. Now, he has sought an apology for ‘committing theft of photograph, misusing it without his consent,’ within a week, else he would be filing criminal and defamation case.The notice was sent to the president/in-charge of the BJP national headquarters, central office of the BJP in Delhi, president/ in-charge of the BJP Punjab state and president/ in-charge of the BJP office in Chandigarh.It has been alleged that Harpreet’s photograph was illegally procured by the BJP and it has been used in favour of farm laws, whereas on the contrary, he was against the said laws right from the beginning and was actively participating in the protests in Delhi since November 26.It has been alleged that the photograph was not provided by Harpreet and its use in support of farm laws has hurt his feeling as he does not support these laws. Also, this has made him a subject of ‘mockery’, while farmers and other people were doubting his integrity.Harpreet, through the notice, has sought from the BJP to delete his photo in the said post within a week and tender an apology on social media and clarify that the photo has not been uploaded with his consent and permission and it was uploaded by them (BJP) and it was a mistake committed by them. A clarification has also been sought through the notice, ‘from where they (BJP) procured the photo illegally and as to why it was misused’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-harpreet-singh-sends-notice-to-bjp-for-misusing-his-photo-189184
25-12-2020||---||8 pc hike in power tariff proposal condemned||Jalandhar, December 24 Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma on Thursday attacked the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government for its proposal to hike power tariff by eight per cent saying that during the economic slowdown period it would be a cruel blow to people.  He said it would result in serious sufferings to the common man as well as for trade and industry which was reeling from the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Demanding the government to rollback its decision immediately, Sharma said Punjab State Power Corporation Limited’s proposal for an eight per cent hike in power tariff for the 2021-22 fiscal amounted to shifting the burden of its functional inefficiencies to the consumers. He demanded the state government to immediately drop the proposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-pc-hike-in-power-tariff-proposal-condemned-189185
25-12-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers doing everything to boycott Jio||Farmers have been holding meetings at village level asking people to boycott Jio and shift to other networks. On Thursday, various tower connections of Jio were targeted in Nawanshahr. As many as 11 connections were cut off in Nawanshahr. Villages, where farmers targeted Jio towers include Majra Kalan, Skohpur, Mallpur Arkan, Sawajpur, Asmaan Pur, Kariha, Khankhana, Sall Kalan, Sall Khurd, Bajeed Dudhala and Katarian. While scores of farmers are already fighting for the cause by staying at Singhu and Tikri borders for the past more than 25 days, farmers who are here have also held the baton of making people shun Jio and Reliance group. Bhupinder Singh from Kirti Kisan Union said: “People are agreeing with us. We have seen that everyone is supporting the movement and many have also shifted towards other networks. This is something which should be appreciated,” he said. “Such is the response of people that they invite us to their villages and hold meetings and give us assurances that they will do anything to support us and the farmer movement,” Singh said. Farmers are advising people not to buy anything from reliance stores. They even forced shut several stores of Reliance and Easy Day. The move was led by Kirti Kisan Union leaders, Surinder Singh Bains, Bhupinder Singh, Tarsem Singh Bains and Paramjit Singh Shahabpur.— Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-doing-everything-to-boycott-jio-189194
25-12-2020||Jalandhar||3 die of Covid in Jalandhar||One more death in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With the arrival of 16 new positive patients in Hoshiarpur district, the tally reached 7,617. With the death of one more patient, the toll also increased to 303. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said so far 2,26,870 samples have been taken with 1,371 new samples of the people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken today. Today, out of 16 positive cases found in Hoshiarpur district, five are from Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 11 are from other health blocks in the district. An 80-year-old woman resident of Vadda Begowal village died of Covid at a private hospital in Jalandhar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-die-of-covid-in-jalandhar-189195
