28-12-2020||---||Infertility affecting most couples: Medical experts||Jalandhar, December 27In vitro fertilisation (I4VF) and intrauterine insemination (IUI) are the most common forms of assisted reproductive technology (ART) known to people. But over the years the medical science has developed more specific techniques, including pre-implantation genetic screening (PGS), pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) and embryoscope to check prevention of transmission of any genetic disease.Medical experts said, “Infertility is a generic disease affecting most couples falling in the age group of 30-40 years. Sometimes it becomes more complex due to the interrelation of parents’ gamete with critical genetic diseases. It is estimated that prevalence rate of birth defects in India is 64.4 per 1,000 live births.”Experts said, “Scarcity of proper technological infrastructure to pre-screen for any genetic abnormality and lack of national newborn screening programme until recently has led to a distending proportion of the Indian population ailing with genetic diseases, including sickle cell anaemia and thalassemia. These conditions pose a significant burden in India, and are known to be predominant in specific sub-regions of north and west India. Down syndrome is another genetic disorder, which is the major cause of mental retardation, with a frequency of approximately 1 in 1,000 births.”Dr Jasmine Kaur, infertility expert, said, “Technological advancements, including the PGS and PGD in assisted reproduction play a crucial role in helping couples reach their parenthood goal by pre-curing any genetic disorders in newborn babies. The PGS is a definitive screening process used to determine any abnormality in chromosomal number of an embryo for couples, recurrent abortions, recurrent implantation failure or severe male factor infertility.”She said, “The PGD helps assess embryos for any genetic disorder and reduces the risk of passing on any genetic condition of parents to the baby. After this diagnosis, only the unaffected embryos are implanted during the IVF cycle for a safe and assured pregnancy.”Dr Jasmine said, “Genetic disorders in newborn babies are critical to cure. Here, parents can be the carriers of any genetic disease and it can therefore get passed on to their children - affecting them directly or being a carrier or not effecting at all. Therefore, there is no particular way to detect any genetic abnormality through normal conception. However, we can pre-diagnose this with the PGD and PGS and assure a healthy child without any criticality after checking for chromosomal abnormalities in the DNA of the embryo cells. These identified embryos without any chromosomal abnormalities are picked to be placed in the womb of the mother to ensure a successful conception.”Sharing a unique case study done at Nova IVF Fertility, Dr Jasmine said, “Here, we have witnessed wonders where a thalassemia-affected child from Gujarat was cured by creating a ‘Saviour sibling’ through IVF using pre-implantation genetic testing (PGT) technology to detect and remove the genetic disorder. Earlier, the PGS was used to screen for Down Syndrome and the PGD was used to screen for any other genetic disease. Now, both these tests fall under the larger umbrella of the PGT.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/infertility-affecting-most-couples-medical-experts-190486
28-12-2020||---||Rafters create a record of sorts||Jalandhar, December 27A team of the National Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (NIMAS) successfully completed a month long Arunachal River Rafting Exploration Expedition 2020. The 25-member team was led by city-based Colonel Sarfraz Singh. The aim of the expedition was to explore Arunachal Pradesh through the major tributaries of Brahmaputra and promote adventure tourism in the state.With this, the rafters’ team has set a new national record by covering a total distance of 720 km on seven rivers in a month. The last record was 220 km.The expedition began on November 22 and concluded on December 23. The team comprised local youths from Arunachal, NIMAS instructors and Army personnel from 22 Mahar and 23 Maratha Light Infantry units.The event was also in the line with Central Government’s Fit India Movement.Colonel Sarfaraz (44), who has already tried his hands on several adventurous sports, said, “The seven rivers included, Kameng, Dibang, Nao-dihing, Lohit, Subhansri, Siyom and Siyang. Most of these rivers flow from Eastern Himalayas into Arunachal and then join the mighty Brahmaputra.”Seven rafters — Sarfraz Singh, Laxman Yadav, Labongo, Darshan, Himmat, Suraj Patil and Tosap Rimme — completed 720 km of seven rivers.“It is for the first time in the history of rafting that seven rivers were tackled by a single team in a month-long expedition,” he said.Earlier this year, Colonel Sarfraz Singh with three of his friends had completed a 40-day, four-nation and 4,000-km cycling expedition from Manipur to Singapore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rafters-create-a-record-of-sorts-190487
28-12-2020|| ---||District administration conferred Skoch Award||Jalandhar, December 27 The district administration has been awarded the precious Skoch Silver Award for improving service delivery through zero-pendency approach. This award is the highest and national-level honour in the country conferred by an independent organisation. Due to the Covid pandemic, all six rounds of the competition were held virtually and Jalandhar district gave presentations in all rounds.  During the final round, the award was conferred on the administration. Lauding the entire administration team, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said: “The Skoch award is a recognition for each officer/officials, who made sincere and exemplary efforts to ensure delivery of services to people within a stipulated time frame.” He said the administration had adopted Jalandhar’s ‘zero pendency’ approach for which nodal officers were appointed at the tehsil or sub-tehsil level to analyse all dealing hands’ performance processing a citizen application before the final approval. He said every office’s performance in processing applications was monitored daily through a management information system (MIS). Thori said if an application is found pending, it gets immediately mapped to the official concerned. The nodal officers get alerted, who subsequently ensures that the application gets processed without any delay. The DC said the zero pendency approach was designed to encourage a two-way flow of information between line-department functionaries and the district administration. He said with this, the administration identifies and alerts for pendency and shares and records the root cause of any such pendency with district heads of departments that ensure that structural bottlenecks get addressed by the departments to prevent any future pendency arising out of the same causes. The officers/officials were honoured who ensures zero pendency, he said, adding that the step further motivated others to follow them. The DC said a mechanism was evolved to get citizens’ grievance on the Facebook page of the administration, emails and helpline number and to resolve the issues within 24 hours of these being recorded. The administration is also personally calling citizens who have used the Sewa Kendra facilities within the last seven days for their valuable suggestions and feedback, he said. Jalandhar is a leading district in Punjab having 0.01 per cent pendency of applications in the Sewa Kendras and ensuring expeditious delivery of citizen-centric services to people. Earlier, the district was the first and the only district from the state to emerge as a finalist for the Prime Minister’s awards to improve public service delivery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-administration-conferred-skoch-award-190488
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan: Classical maestros regale city audiences||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 27An evening of cozy renditions at the compact Shri Ram Hall of the Shri Devi Talab Mandir marked the 145th Shri Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan which was held on Sunday.While the world’s oldest Hindustani classical music festival’s 145th edition remained a comparatively small affair this year in the wake of the pandemic, a limited gathering coupled with choicest music from classical maestros made the evening a quaint outing for music lovers.Started with ‘Mangal Dhwani’ from Sanjeev Shankar and Ashwini Shankar, the evening saw ‘Dhrupad Gayan’ from Prashant Mallick and Nishant Mallick, followed by a recital by three Jalandhar stalwarts – a sitar recital by Pandit Manu Seen, who was accompanied by Ustad Kale Ram on tabla and Pandit Ramakant.Pandit Lachman Singh Seen’s son weaved sitar magic into chilly evening. Tabla from veteran Pandit Ramakant and Ustad Kale Ram provided a stirring rhythmic high to the soothing recital.The festival ended with mellifluous strains of ‘Raga Madhuwanti’ crooned by Mishra brothers—Ritesh and Rajnish—with their Benares Gharana magic. Regulars at the festival, the younger Benares Bandhu dressed in traditional blues provided a tinge of much-needed nostalgia to the well acquainted Harivallabh audience. As they joked, they chose ‘Raga Madhuwanti’ for their first recital.Their rousing voices and seasoned vocals brought the festival to a high as it came to a close. The evening regaled the audiences, which had been lookingforward to a concert of refined art for a long time amid the restrictions.The warmth of the music provided a balm to the souls starved of fine arts in winter season.Despite the small gathering and seating as per social distancing protocol – the disciplined audiences seated at equal distances proves a very successful experiment. This example could perhaps be repeated with larger crowd in the coming years. The cozy cushioned gathering in the midst of the winter brought a stirring close to the one-day festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harivallabh-sangeet-sammelan-classical-maestros-regale-city-audiences-190506
28-12-2020||---||Jalandhar residents bang thalis in solidarity with farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 27Two days ahead of the next round of talks of protesting farmers with the Centre over the three contentious farm laws, the farming community on Sunday held ‘Thali Bajao’and ‘Boycott Ambani-Adani’ protest.Following the call by the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha, a large number of residents came out on the roads with utensils to show solidaritity with agitating farmers.The farm union leaders and residents assembled outside Reliance Trends, near Guru Nanak Mission Chowk and at Nikku Park. A protester said, “It’s been over a month now and farmers are still sitting on the outskirts of Delhi to safeguard their rights. However, the Centre is still unmoved.”Residents were urged to avoid products and services of Reliance and Adani group. They shouldn’t accept them untill farmers, braving the cold on the Singhu and Tikri borders return home. Locals formed a human chain outside the Model Town gurdwara. Later, videos of ‘Thali Bajao’ protest were widely shared on social media by protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-bang-thalis-in-solidarity-with-farmers-190507
28-12-2020||---||Two deaths reported in Jalandhar district, 25 +ve||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 27With 25 new cases of Covid, the tally reached 19,755 in the district on Sunday. With two more Covid deaths, the toll increased to 636. So far, there are 377 active cases in the district and 18,742 persons have been discharged, while as many as 228 people are under home isolation. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw two people testing positive for the disease on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-deaths-reported-in-jalandhar-district-25-ve-190508
28-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Idle for months, hope springs eternal for him this Basant Panchami||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 27Basant Panchami is just round the corner and it has brought smiles on the faces of idol makers. After grappling with low demand and almost negligible business this year due to the pandemic, idol makers are hoping to make some profit during Basant Panchami.Manoj Kumar (55), a native or West Bengal, who lives near DAV College here, said: “While we almost lost our business this year, we are hopeful to get orders next month.”During Basant Panchami, the festival of kites, Hindus worship Maa Saraswati, the goddess of wisdom, knowledge, music, art and culture. Hence, Manoj and other artisans are making Saraswati idols these days. “Idols of different shapes and sizes are sold between Rs3,000 and Rs6,000. Demands usually come from residential colonies and temples,” adds Manoj. An idol takes 15-20 days to get complete.Owing to the lack of orders during Dasehra and Durga Puja, artisans have not stocked any idols this time and are taking up orders only for customers who are demanding it. In addition, lack of clarity on the expected demand is adding to the woes of idol makers, as they aren’t sure if they should go ahead and stock up or just make idols as per the demand.Manoj has been in the business for decades now. He said: “Our families are making huge idols of goddess Lakshmi, Saraswati and Kali for generations now. I never took any special training in making these idols. I just learnt the art by watching my parents and other family members carve out the idols. With a little amount of dry grass, used to give posture to the idol, we mostly use sand and water. I am selling idols in the city for quite some time now and the special sand used to make these is brought from Beas. It has a perfect texture and colour for shaping the idols.”While his family, including five children and wife, lives back in his village in West Bengal, he comes here during the season to earn a few bucks. Durga Puja, Dasehra and Basant Panchami are the only three occasions in the year, when he earns money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/idle-for-months-hope-springs-eternal-for-him-this-basant-panchami-190509
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Meet the women feeding farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 27For the past over 11 days, several women are following a 7.30 am to 11 pm schedule. They cook, laugh and share stories at the Singhu border.Cooking langar for hundreds of people, a group of women from Chabbewal village busy themselves with a gruelling 16-17 hours’ schedule to feed the sangat at the Singhu border.The women said they came here to express solidarity with the farmers. Themselves from farming background, they said this was their way of pooling in for the struggle.Simranjit Kaur from Chabbewal says: “We came here about a fortnight ago. While a jatha from Hoshiarpur had originally come in, we have been joined by many more people now. More women keep chipping in, offering their services. Now, it’s not just us. Everyone is keen on helping and doing their bit for farmers. We ourselves are from farming families. This is our way of expressing solidarity with farmers.”With many people to cook for, these women are busy working throughout the day.Manjinder Kaur says: “We get up at 7 am and keep working throughout the day. We take breaks to rest or sleep, but since long hours of prep are needed for the langar, we are mostly cooking throughout the day. Hours go by in cooking, talking and we don’t even come to know how time flies.” Manjit Kaur from Chandigarh joined these women for the langar sewa soon after their arrival.While Manjit’s husband is an ASI, her entire family has come to Singhu border to express solidarity with farmers. Manjit sits with her daughter Sneh Lata Kaur and both mother and daughter prepare chapatis for the sangat.Manjit says: “My son is in Brampton, he couldn’t come. But the rest of us are here. My husband took special leave to come here. He also cooks in between and sometimes sweeps the langar spot. My daughter is also keen on helping. She pursues graduation. Our kids joined us as they were keen on helping farmers. They are all fighting for us. This is the least we can do.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-the-women-feeding-farmers-at-singhu-border-190510
28-12-2020||What steps should be taken to minimise fatal accidents due to stray cattle during fog?||It takes two to tango, fixing responsibility must||Many lives are on the lineThe issue of stray animals must be taken seriously as many accidents can be prevented if these are taken off the road. Animals roaming freely not only put lives in jeopardy – of theirs and others – but also give a bad impression of the city. Frequent road accidents, major or minor, unsafe travelling, especially during the night when visibility dims due to fog, occurs because of these animals. The risk of mishaps increases; it becomes difficult for the driver to spot any animal, vehicles while travelling at high speed on the highways, posing more risk to the occupants and animals. Most of the animals wandering freely in search of fodder must belong to some owner. The MC should net the cattles and levy heavy fine and keep them at shelter homes. The menace of stray cattle is a very serious issue. It cannot be ignored and take serious action against the owner and ensure that cattle are kept in sheds and not to be a nuisance to others. Sometimes you keep on honking but they don’t move an inch and the traffic comes to a halt. We should also take precautions and limit the speed of vehicles, and if possible, the government should ensure to tie some reflective neon belts so that the commuters can be wary of them.Shashi KiranDrivers must take precautionsOur municipal bodies are still grappling with the menace of stray cattle without any imminent breakthrough, even in near future. The citizens, however, are required to take necessary precautions while driving on city roads, especially during the winter season, when the fog eruption is frequent and drivers face visibility problems and driving without adequate safety measures can be fatal. First and foremost precaution is speed control, which can help stop the vehicle abruptly in case of emergency. Second is to ensure that windscreens are clean and not fogged out. Third is to keep emergency lights on under extreme foggy conditions while maintaining a constant low speed. Fourth is to always keep yellow fog lights on while driving. Fifth is to keep the vehicle fully serviced and in good condition before the onset of winter season. Finally, the drivers need to remain extra cautious while strictly complying with all traffic rules in vogue.Jagdish ChanderCivic bodies need to pull its socks upIf India has earned an enviable reputation for having the largest livestock population, highest production of milk and the third largest bovine meat export in the world, it is confronted with a formidable challenge as well. Residents across the country are deeply concerned over an alarming increase in the number of stray cattle gallivanting around freely. Along with the growth of dairy industry, the ban on cow slaughter, crackdown on illegal slaughter houses, restrictions on cattle movement to Bangladesh, Myanmar and the Northeast, and unprecedented vigilantism besides mob lynching by ‘gau rakshaks’ in the past few years are the major reasons. These abandoned animals not only spoil city roads and posh colonies, and destroy lush green parks and standing crops, but also cause traffic snarls and serious road accidents. The problem becomes more vexed in Punjab at night, particularly during the winter season, when visibility reduces due to fog, smog and atmospheric haze. Despite imposing cow cess on various items, the successive state dispensations have failed to resolve the menace, courtesy lackadaisical attitude of the civic authorities. Moreover, the MCs face financial and infrastructural constraints such as trained manpower and adequate transport facilities for netting the animals. Unfortunately, most of these cattle either starve to death or feed on garbage only to fall sick. The existing ‘gaushalas’ lack proper space, fodder, hygienic conditions and veterinary care. We should revise our livestock policies to serve the country’s interests without hurting the popular sentiments and perpetrating violence against a particular community. The Centre is adopting new techniques to improve the breed of cows and eliminate male bovine before conception. The state government should release substantial funds for opening and maintaining proper cow shelters, spread public awareness against the prevailing nuisance and impose hefty fines on those who abandon unproductive animals. Otherwise, how long can we stoically accept the issue as incurable?DS KangCarelessness is the biggest factorI must congratulate The Tribune team on bringing this serious subject to the fore. In this wintry and foggy weather, causing poor visibility, the number of accidents rises sharply. The administration, police and the people are all responsible for this tragedy and sorry state of affairs. The police should be very strict in challaning the violators. The people should keep the headlights of their vehicles on while driving. But in addition to these, there are many other factors, too, such as overspeeding, wrong parking, not using dipper at night, wrong overtakes and irresponsible ways the driving licence authorities are doing their work. All these factors are responsible for the mayhem on the roads. Stray cattle and dogs roam around freely on the main roads as well as sidewalks. The municipal committees and corporations take no measures to tame these beasts, and claim all kinds of taxes from the public. Even as ‘gaushalas’ are there in many cities, still many non-milking cows and bulls have a free run of the roads and streets. Research and statistics show that the number of road accidents worldwide is 1 per cent but out of that the number in India is 10 per cent – how ironic and unfortunate! Many young and precious lives are lost prematurely in such road accidents. The rules of driving should be taught to the school children, so that at least they know about proper driving.Dr JS WadhwaQUESTIONWhat steps should be taken by the Health Department for administering Covid vaccine smoothly?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 31).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-takes-two-to-tango-fixing-responsibility-must-190511
28-12-2020||Jalandhar||Jio’s cables ‘catch’ fire, FIR lodged||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jios-cables-catch-fire-fir-lodged-190512
