01-08-2021||World||Pak says it wields ‘modest leverage’ on Taliban; refuses to take in refugees||Pakistan’s national security advisor Moeed Yusuf on Saturday said that Pakistan is not ready to accept more refugees from Afghanistan. He also appealed to the international community that a secure area in Afghanistan must be created to keep the displaced people inside the war-torn nation instead of pushing them into Pakistan.Yusuf who was addressing a news conference at the Pakistan embassy also highlighted that Pakistan was working to ensure that tensions in Afghanistan do not lead to more bloodshed. He along with director-general of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Faiz Hameed also met US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan at the White House to discuss the issues concerning the situation in Afghanistan.“If a situation arises, it is the responsibility of the international community to create a secure area inside Afghanistan. Why make them dar-ba-dar (homeless)? Make arrangements for them inside their country. Pakistan does not have the capacity to take more refugees,” Yusuf said, according to news agency PTI. Yusuf and the ISI director-general arrived in the US on July 27 to meet security officials which, as Yusuf said, is not a high-level political visit. Pakistan needed ‘direct technical input', he said.Pakistan NSA also said that the talks were directed at getting results and were not ‘mere optics’. “These are structure-built, high-level talks, using multiple channels,” said Yusuf. The talks would continue towards rebuilding ties, he said, adding, but “you may not get the same feeling as you did in the past of big meetings, big pictures and headlines. These talks are now result-oriented. The focus is on substance, not optics,” Yusuf said.Pakistan distances itself from TalibanYusuf also said that Pakistan does not wield considerable influence over the Taliban but said that Pakistan may have ‘modest or minimal’ leverage. “We have modest, minimal leverage, but if we had the influence some say we do, we would have stopped them from destroying the Bamiyan Buddha in the 1990s. We could have at least persuaded them to force out the TTP,” Yusuf said. He also rejected the reports that Pakistan was accepting travel documents issued by the Taliban as legal documents.Yusuf also said that the US understands that Pakistan can help in making a political arrangement in Afghanistan and said that he saw a desire in the US to work together.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-says-it-wields-modest-leverage-on-taliban-refuses-to-take-in-refugees-101627837712367.html
01-08-2021||World||‘Sindh’s Covid-19 lockdown a correct decision but…’: Pakistan PM Imran Khan weighs in||Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan on Sunday criticised the provincial Sindh government's decision to impose a partial week-long lockdown to curb a fresh outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. In a live question-and-answer session, Khan, while admitting that lockdown is a "correct" decision, questioned how the poor section of the society will make their ends meet while the restrictions are on.Also Read | Delta variant spread forces partial lockdown on Karachi, Pakistan's largest city"There was a small problem between the federal and Sindh governments. Sindh wanted to impose a lockdown which is the correct decision and will help in curbing the spread of the virus," Khan said. The Pakistani premier, however, added, "On the other hand, what we need to see is whether we will be able to save the economy from the lockdown. There is the issue of hunger as well. How will the daily wage earners and poor section of the society be able to make ends meet during the lockdown"The chairman of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) further said vaccination is the only way out of this pandemic.Also Read | Epsilon strain of Covid virus found in Pakistan amid '4th wave'The Sindh government had earlier requested the federal government to not politicise the issue. Speaking at a press conference, Murtaza Wahab, an advisor to chief minister Murad Ali Shah, had pointed that the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC), the agency responsible for Pakistan's response to Covid-19, had not said anywhere the lockdown "should not be imposed." Besides Khan, Fawad Chaudhry, the federal minister for information, also expressed the PTI government's "concern" over Sindh's decisions. Calling the lockdown "inappropriate," Chaudhry had said the provincial government "cannot take decisions unilaterally."Also Read | Pakistan says Covid vaccination must for air travel; announces new restrictionsIn recent days, Pakistan has seen a fresh uptick in its daily Covid-19 infections in what has been described as its fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic. According to experts, the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has led to this fourth wave. On Sunday, the NCOC said more than 5000 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, in what is the highest single-day rise in cases since April 29, when the daily caseload stood at 5112.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sindhs-covid-19-lockdown-a-correct-decision-but-pak-pm-imran-weighs-in-101627833166533.html
01-08-2021||World||Will US see more lockdowns in future? Dr Anthony Fauci says no but warns ‘things are going to get worse’||US President Joe Biden’s top medical advisor Dr Anthony Fauci on Sunday said that while the US is not likely to see more lockdowns, “some pain and suffering” still lie ahead for the country due to the growing number of infections in the country. The remarks from Dr Fauci came even as the risk of infections due to the Delta variant remains higher in the country.“I dont think we are going to see lockdowns. I think we have enough of the percentage of people in the country, not enough to crush the outbreak, but I believe enough to not allow us to get into the situation we were in last winter,” Fauci said during an interview on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday.Also read | Worse impact of Delta variant on pregnant women: Health experts | 10 pointsHowever, he further said that the number of infections was increasing in the country, especially among people who were yet to be vaccinated against the disease. Further, the expert also stressed the high number of people who are eligible for vaccination but are not yet immunised.“But things are going to get worse. If you look at the acceleration of the number of cases, the seven-day average has gone up substantially,” Fauci said. “We say it over and over again and it's the truth, we have 100 million people in this country who are eligible to be vaccinated who are not getting vaccinated. We are seeing an outbreak of the unvaccinated,” he added. While there have been cases of breakthrough infection, he said that they were mostly mild illness or asymptomatic. “There are some breakthrough infections among the vaccinated. You would expect that because no vaccine is 100% effective. But in the breakthrough infections they are mostly mild or without symptoms whereas the unvaccinated who have a much much much greater chance of getting infected in the first place are the ones that are vulnerable to getting severe illness that might lead to hospitalisation and in some cases death,” he further said.Dr Fauci emphasised again that vaccination is the solution to the issue of increasing infections. “So we are looking not, I believe, to lockdown but we are looking to some pain and suffering in the future because we are seeing the cases go up. Which is the reason why we keep saying over and over again the solution to this is get vaccinated and this would not be happening,” he added.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC) too had said that vaccination reduces the chances of hospitalisation or deaths due to Covid-19. However, it also warned that vaccinated people could still spread the Delta variant and recommended a face mask in public indoor settings to everyone in areas where the spread of the disease is higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-us-see-more-lockdowns-in-future-dr-anthony-fauci-says-no-but-warns-things-are-going-to-get-worse-101627829378447.html
01-08-2021||World||‘Vouchers for vaccines’: UK offers discounts on shopping, pizza to increase youth vaccinations against Covid-19||In a bid to encourage young people to get inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine, several incentives such as discounts on shopping, pizza and Uber reminders are being offered in the United Kingdom. The “vouchers for vaccines” scheme, introduced to increase vaccinations among the young people, is being backed up by restaurants, food delivery services and ride-hailing applications in the country, several news reports showed.The UK’s Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) on Sunday announced the programme targeted to woo people under the age of 30 years as the country rushes to immunise as many people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) before the winter sets in, news agency PTI reported. The details of how the scheme would work are still being finalised, however, people can submit a photograph (“selfie”) of themselves at a vaccine centre as a proof to qualify for the sops, PTI further reported, citing UK media.Companies like Uber, Bolt, Deliveroo and Pizza Pilgrims are among the brands that are offering discounts under the government’s new scheme. The DHSC confirmed that the companies involved in the scheme will not ask or record any of the health data for the incentives.Also read | US Delta surge prolongs Indian travellers' wait for entry. All you need to knowWhile over 90% of the adult population in the UK have been administered with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the coverage rate for people in the 18 to 30 age group is nearly 60%, the government’s data showed.The announcement came even as estimates by the Public Health England (PHE) showed that unvaccinated people contributed about 60% of all hospital admissions. Data from the PHE and Cambridge University showed that close to 60,000 deaths, 22 million Covid-19 infections and 52,600 cases of hospital admissions were prevented by the vaccines up to July 23, the PTI report showed.Meanwhile, the UK’s health secretary Sajid Javid and the minister for Covid-19 vaccine deployment Nadhim Zahawi urged more people to get vaccinated. Javid asked beneficiaries to “take advantage of the discounts” and also thanked the businesses involved with the government for “stepping up.” “Please get your jabs as soon as you can and grab a bargain,” PTI quoted Zahawi as saying.As of Saturday (July 31), 84,938,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the UK that includes 46,811,298 first doses and 38,126,702 second doses, according to the DHSC’s latest update. “Almost 85,000,000 vaccine doses U.K. Come on, let's do this. Get protected and protect your family & community,” Zahawi tweeted earlier on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vouchers-for-vaccines-uk-offers-discounts-on-shopping-pizza-to-increase-youth-vaccinations-against-covid19-101627824945674.html
01-08-2021||World||New Covid cases found in 18 provinces, 27 cities in China||China on Sunday reported 75 new cases of Covid-19 for July 31 including at least 53 locally transmitted cases with infections related to the fast-spreading Nanjing-linked outbreak found in 18 provinces and 27 cities.More than 300 cases, the majority said to be of the Delta variant, have been reported since the third week of July; more than 200 local infections have been reported from the eastern Chinese city of Nanjing, the capital of Jiangsu province, state media reported on Sunday.Beijing on Sunday restricted the entry of people from regions where cases have been found after two more infections were reported in the city in the past 24 hours.Authorities said flights and passenger trains from affected areas to Beijing will be suspended.The province of Jiangsu recorded 30 new locally transmitted cases for Saturday, up from 19 a day earlier.There were also 12 new cases reported in central China’s Henan province where the flood-stricken city of Zhengzhou reported 11 new cases as of Saturday.The city also recorded 16 asymptomatic cases, which China does not include in official figures, as per a statement by the national health commission (NHC).“The number of medium- and high-risk regions across the country rose to 95 on Sunday, of which 91 are medium-risk regions and four are high-risk regions including the Dehong prefecture of Yunnan, Nanjing of Jiangsu and Zhengzhou of Henan,” the report said.Officials had earlier said that the first cases of the Nanjing outbreak were linked to workers at the Nanjing Lukou International Airport, who cleaned an aircraft after it arrived from Russia carrying an infected passenger.Zhangjiajie, a popular tourist destination in central China’s Hunan province - which is said to have inspired the setting of the forests in James Cameron’s movie, Avatar - has reported at least eight confirmed cases as of Sunday.Cases in at least seven cities in five provinces including Sichuan and Liaoning and in Beijing have been linked to the tourist destination with tourists returning to their hometowns from the city at the end of their holidays.Estimates say thousands of tourists had visited Zhangjiajie in July and have subsequently returned home across the country.“The confirmation of a tourist agent in Zhangjiajie on Friday marked at least nine confirmed cases across the country that had links with Meili Xiangxi Grand Theatre in Zhangjiajie. One performance of the show was attended by at least 2,000 people (late last month),” reported the state-run Global Times.Incidentally, the first confirmed case in the scenic city was linked to a person who had come from Nanjing.Considered China’s top respiratory specialist, Zhong Nanshan, expressed concern over the latest outbreak in Zhangjiajie, saying that while Nanjing as a big city is doing a good job in epidemic prevention and control, it is unknown whether the epidemic in Zhangjiajie will further spread within the smaller city.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland reached 93,005 by Saturday, including 1,022 patients still receiving treatment, 25 of whom were in severe condition.A total of 87,347 patients had been discharged from hospitals following recovery on the mainland, and 4,636 had died as a result of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-covid-cases-found-in-18-provinces-27-cities-in-china-101627819941637.html
01-08-2021||World||Sri Lanka lifts inter-provincial travel ban as Covid-19 vaccination accelerates||The Sri Lankan government lifted the three-month-long inter-provincial travel ban across the country on Sunday as the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) picked up pace, news agency PTI reported. However, the inter-provincial travel at present is only given to government employees on official duty, senior health official Asela Gunawardena said.The government also allowed the resumption of public bus services from Sunday while train services would resume from Monday. Officials told PTI that crowding in these transport services is not allowed. “We will allow buses to take passengers strictly limited to their seating capacity,” state public transport minister Dilum Amunugama.This will be the first time that public transport will be operational across Sri Lanka since late April when the government imposed tough travel curbs due to a massive spike in Covid-19 cases following the Sinhalese New Year.The lifting of the travel bans and resumption of public transport in the country comes days after the government said on July 30 that it was ending work-from-home for all government employees despite no improvement in the ongoing pandemic situation. PB Jayasundera, the current secretary to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, said there was no need for government employees to work from home as the majority of them had been vaccinated.Sri Lanka is reaching the 10 million milestone for its ongoing vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease and more than 84 per cent of the population above 30 years has been given at least one dose of the vaccine, according to a report by the Lankaxpress. The country has received over 13.8 million vaccines, the report added. And on Saturday, Sri Lanka received 728,460 doses of AstraZeneca from the COVAX programme.Meanwhile, a total of 308,812 people were infected with Covid-19, while 277,118 patients have recovered and 4,436 died so far. The daily cases in Sri Lanka have been over the 2,000-mark daily during the last week.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-lifts-inter-provincial-travel-ban-as-covid-19-vaccination-accelerates-101627816728744.html
