15-08-2021||World||Albania, Iran offer temporary refuge as thousands of Afghans flee Taliban siege||With the Taliban taking over the reins in Afghanistan, some countries have started offering temporary refuge to people fleeing the borders of the war-torn nation. Earlier on Sunday, President Ashraf Ghani fled the country along with thousands of other citizens and foreigners as the militant Islamic outfit entered Kabul.The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said more than 550,000 people in Afghanistan have fled their homes due to the conflict since the beginning of 2021 and about 1,26,000 people have been displaced since July until August 9, the Associated Press reported. The agency however said that the displacement was largely internal.Here is a look at the some countries that have offered temporary refuge to Afghan citizens as the Taliban move close to assuming power.AlbaniaAlbania’s Prime Minister Edi Rama on Sunday said the country is ready to temporarily host hundreds of refugees bound for the United States. “NATO member Albania is ready to shoulder its share of the burden,” he said on his Facebook page. “Washington has already asked Albania to consider the possibility of serving as a transit country for a number of Afghan political immigrants whose final destination would be the United States,” he added.IranIran, which shares a border with Afghanistan, has set up camps in three provinces along the border to provide temporary refuge to fleeing Afghans. “Camps have been built in border areas in three provinces,” Reuters reported, citing an interview by interior ministry official Hossein Qasemi.CanadaOn Sunday, Canada suspended diplomatic operations in Afghanistan citing the security situation. It also said it would reopen its embassy if the situation allowed its staff to be safe. On Friday, the country had announced that it would take in 20,000 vulnerable people, who face direct threat from the Taliban.QatarThe US government is in talks with Qatar to draft an agreement to temporarily house thousands of Afghan refugees who worked with the US troops, ANI reported.TurkeyPresident Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey would work with Pakistan to help stabilise the situation in Afghanistan to prevent a new flood of refugees. “Turkey is facing a growing migratory wave of Afghans transiting through Iran. We will continue efforts to enable the return of stability in the region, beginning with Afghanistan,” AFP quoted Erdogan as saying, alongside his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/albania-iran-offer-temporary-refuge-as-thousands-of-afghans-flee-taliban-siege-101629049060517.html
15-08-2021||World||US ready to work with Taliban if people’s rights are respected: Blinken||The United States is willing to work with the Taliban if they respect “basic rights” of its people - of women and girls, specifically - and do not harbour terrorists, secretary of state Antony Blinken said in an interview to CNN on Sunday.Missing from the list is the insistence on a peaceful, negotiated settlement after the Taliban’s swift return to power.“A future Afghan government that upholds the basic rights of its people and that doesn’t harbour terrorists is a government we can work with and, and recognise,” Blinken said in response to a question if the Biden administration would ever consider recognising the Taliban-led government.“Conversely, a government that doesn’t do that, that doesn’t uphold the basic rights of its people, including women and girls... that harbours terrorist groups... that have designs on the United States... that’s not going to happen,” he said.When and if in government, they might need assistance from the international community and support of the international community, the secretary said, adding, “none of that will be forthcoming, sanctions won’t be lifted, their ability to travel won’t happen” if they are not sustaining the basic rights of the Afghan people and if they revert to supporting or harbouring terrorists who might strike the US.A negotiated, peaceful and political settlement has been a key part of the world’s wishlist - certainly for the US, India and the UN Security Council - for recognising and working with the Taliban, along with respect to basic rights and severing all ties with terrorists.During a visit to India in July, Blinken said at a news conference, “There’s only one path (for the Taliban to seek international recognition), and that’s at the negotiating table to resolve the conflict peacefully and to have an Afghanistan emerge that is governed in a genuinely inclusive way and that’s representative of all its people.”A US representative to the UN Security Council was more forthright during a briefing of the body on August 6. “We will not accept a military takeover of Afghanistan,” said Ambassador Jeffrey DeLaurentis of the US permanent mission to the UN. He added that the Taliban will become an international pariah should it choose that path. It did pick that path though.Envoys of the United States, China, European Union, India, Pakistan and other countries conveyed a similar to the Taliban and Afghanistan government representatives in Doha on Thursday that any country will not recognise any government “imposed through the use of military force”, according to report by Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ready-to-work-with-taliban-if-people-s-rights-respected-blinken-101629048741139.html
15-08-2021||World||Nepal calls for evacuation of at least 1,500 Nepalis in Afghanistan||Nepal's government on Sunday called for the evacuation of an estimated 1,500 Nepalis working as security staff with embassies and with international aid groups in Afghanistan amid Taliban taking control of Kabul on Sunday."We have formally written to embassies requesting them for the evacuation," Nepal foreign ministry spokesperson Sewa Lamsal told Reuters in Kathmandu.Lamsal said the government has also set up a panel to determine the exact number of Nepalis working in Kabul and elsewhere in Afghanistan."The government will make arrangements for their evacuation also," she said.Nepal does not have a diplomatic presence in Afghanistan but thousands of Nepali men work as security guards in diplomatic districts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-calls-for-evacuation-of-at-least-1-500-nepalis-in-afghanistan-101629047821194.html
15-08-2021||World||Why Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan's best academic, failed||Ashraf Ghani, who left Afghanistan on Sunday following the Taliban's rapid advance through the country and into Kabul, was twice elected Afghan president, as well as being one of the country's best-known academics.President Ghani left the country hours after the Taliban entered the capital, government officials said. It was not yet clear where he was headed, or how power would be transferred.First elected president in 2014, Ghani took over from Hamid Karzai, who led Afghanistan after the US-led invasion in 2001, and oversaw the conclusion of the US combat mission, the near-complete withdrawal of foreign forces from the country, as well as a fractious peace process with the insurgent Taliban.He made the effort to end decades of war his top priority, despite continuing attacks on his government and security forces by the Taliban, and began peace talks with the insurgents in the Qatari capital of Doha in 2020.However, Ghani, known for his quick temper alongside his deep thinking, was never accepted by the Taliban and peace talks made little headway.Foreign governments were frustrated by the slow progress of talks, and calls grew for an interim government to replace his administration.During his presidency, he managed to appoint a new generation of young, educated Afghans into leadership positions at a time the country's power corridors were occupied by a handful of elite figures and patronage networks.He promised to fight rampant corruption, fix a crippled economy and transform the country into a regional trade hub between Central and South Asia - but was unable to deliver on most of these promises.LONG ROADA US-trained anthropologist, Ghani holds a doctorate from New York City's Columbia University and was named one of the "World's Top 100 Global Thinkers" by Foreign Policy magazine in 2010.His road to the presidency was hard-fought.He spent almost a quarter of century outside Afghanistan during the tumultuous decades of Soviet rule, civil war and the Taliban years in power.During that period, he worked as an academic in the United States and later with the World Bank and the United Nations across East and South Asia.Within months of the events of the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan, he resigned from his international posts and returned to Kabul to become a senior advisor to newly-appointed President Karzai.He served as Afghan finance minister in 2002, but fell out with Karzai, and, in 2004, was appointed chancellor of Kabul University, where he was seen as an effective reformer as well as forming a Washington-based thinktank that worked on policies to empower some of the world's most impoverished people.In 2009, Ghani, who belongs to Afghanistan's majority Pashtun ethnicity like Karzai, ran for president but came in fourth, securing about 4% of the national vote.He continued to work in important roles in Afghanistan, including as Afghanistan's "transition czar", chairing a body overseeing security transition from NATO to Afghans.With Karzai barred by the Afghan constitution from standing for a third time, Ghani mounted a successful second campaign in 2014. He was re-elected in 2019.His relationship with Washington and other Western capitals was uneasy.He was a vocal critic of what he termed wasted international aid in Afghanistan and often did not see eye to eye with the West's Afghan strategy, particularly as they looked to fast-track a slow and painful peace process with the Taliban.In an interview with the BBC, Ghani said: "the future will be determined by the people of Afghanistan, not by somebody sitting behind the desk, dreaming".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-ashraf-ghani-afghanistan-s-best-academic-failed-101629046983826.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban entered Kabul to 'prevent looting' as cops flee, says spokesperson||Hours after Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani left the country, the Taliban ordered their fighters on Sunday to enter capital Kabul to “prevent looting” after local police deserted their posts. The militant group's spokesperson Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the troops would prevent looting amid the panic that prevailed following the Islamic militant outfit’s takeover of the capital.Earlier, Mujahid had said, “Taliban fighters are to be on standby on all entrances of Kabul until a peaceful and satisfactory transfer of power is agreed," said spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid.The insurgents later said they were seeking complete power and there would be no transitional government following their lightning sweep across Afghanistan that led back to the capital two decades after the Taliban was overthrown by US-led forces.Taliban fighters entered the presidential palace and took control of it, two senior Taliban commanders in Kabul said. The Afghan government did not confirm this.American diplomats were evacuated from their embassy by helicopter to the airport as local Afghan forces, trained for years and equipped by the United States and others for billions of dollars, melted away.Ghani's destination was uncertain: a senior Interior Ministry official said he had left for Tajikistan, while a Foreign Ministry official said his location was unknown and the Taliban said it was checking his whereabouts. Some local social media users branded him a "coward" for leaving them in chaos.Also Read: 'Will not bow to Taliban', says Afghanistan vice president as Ashraf Ghani fleesTaliban fighters reached Kabul "from all sides", the senior Interior Ministry official told Reuters and there were some reports of sporadic gunfire around the city.A Kabul hospital said more than 40 people wounded in clashes on the outskirts were being treated, but there did not appear to be major fighting. It was not clear yet how power would be transferred.The Taliban said it was waiting for the Western-backed government to surrender peacefully.The government's acting interior minister, Abdul Sattar Mirzakawal, said power would be handed over to a transitional administration."There won't be an attack on the city, it is agreed that there will be a peaceful handover," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-entered-kabul-to-prevent-looting-as-cops-flee-says-spokesperson-101629040249679.html
15-08-2021||World||What lies ahead for Afghanistan as top leadership flees Kabul? 10 points||The top leadership of Afghanistan, including President Ashraf Ghani and people close to him, fled the country on Sunday a day after promising remobilisation of the army to save Kabul from the Taliban. After major provinces of the country fell in front of the insurgent group like a pack of cards, the Taliban on Sunday reached Kabul and by the night, the presidential palace was under Taliban authorities.What lies ahead for Afghanistan1. An interim setup is being negotiated. Reports said former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali may head the interim government.2. But according to another report, the Taliban do not want any power-sharing after this unopposed sweep.3. A Taliban official said they will soon declare the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan from the presidential palace in Kabul.4. Reports said Ashraf Ghani has handed the authority of solving the crisis to political leaders. A delegation of Younus Qanooni, Ahmad Wali Massoud, Mohammad Mohaqiq will travel to Doha on Monday for talks.'Will not bow to Taliban', says Afghanistan vice president as Ashraf Ghani flees5. After the negotiating parties reach an agreement, Ashraf Ghani will resign handing over the power to the transitional government. Many reports, however, claimed Ghani already resigned.6. Kabul on Sunday was the centrestage of the major political power shift as foreign missions in the country pressed into action to evacuate their officials, citizens.7. Several Afghan leaders arrived in Pakistan for a conference in the future of their nation. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has been pitching for a compromise government having representatives of both the present Afghan government and the Taliban.8. 'The world abandoned Afghans', is the emotion that echoed on social media as Kabul fought the crisis. Kabul was occupied by the Taliban when I left the city. I think there will be a new govt...Whatever has happened has happened because of Ashraf Ghani. He betrayed Afghanistan. People will not forgive him: Jamil Karzai, former MP and second cousin to former Afghan President Hamid Karzai said after reaching Delhi.9. US Secretary of state Blinken said the US mission in Afghanistan has been successful. "The fact of the matter is this: We went to Afghanistan 20 years ago with one mission in mind. That was to deal with the people that attacked us on 9/11. That mission has been successful," he told ABC.10. Pakistan, accused of supporting the Taliban, said it is closely following the unfolding situation in Afghanistan. "We hope all Afghan sides will work together to resolve this internal political crisis," the Foreign Office said in a statement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-lies-ahead-for-afghanistan-as-top-leadership-flees-kabul-10-points-101629046213909.html
15-08-2021||World||Malala Yousafzai says shocked, deeply worried for women as Taliban seize Kabul||Activist and Nobel Laureate Malala Yousafzai on Sunday expressed her shock and horror at the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban. Stating that she was deeply worried about women, minorities and human rights advocates living in the war-torn country, Yousafzai urged global, regional and local powers to call for an immediate ceasefire. The rights activist further called for urgent humanitarian aid and protection of refugees and civilians as the militant Islamist outfit entered the panic-gripped capital city of Kabul signalling an end of a 20-year Western experiment aimed at remaking Afghanistan.Earlier in the day, the Taliban said they respected women's rights. Women will be “allowed” to leave homes alone and they will have access to education and work, but they will have to wear the hijab, a Taliban spokesperson told Reuters.Born in Pakistan in 1997, Yousafzai was shot in the head by a Taliban gunman at the age of 15 on her way back home from school in the Swat District. She was targeted for speaking out about the plight of girls in her region, who were banned from going to school by the Taliban.We watch in complete shock as Taliban takes control of Afghanistan. I am deeply worried about women, minorities and human rights advocates. Global, regional and local powers must call for an immediate ceasefire, provide urgent humanitarian aid and protect refugees and civilians.Thousands of Afghans, fearing the Taliban could reimpose the kind of brutal rule that all but eliminated women’s rights, rushed to leave the country, lining up at cash machines to withdraw their life savings. The desperately poor — who had left homes in the countryside for the presumed safety of the capital — remained in their thousands in parks and open spaces throughout the city.Also read | Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staffThe country’s embattled president, Ashraf Ghani, also left the country, joining his fellow citizens and foreigners in a stampede even as the Islamic outfit called for peaceful transition of power and tried to calm residents of the capital, insisting their fighters would not enter people’s homes or interfere with businesses. They also said they would offer an “amnesty” to those who worked with the Afghan government or foreign forces.“No one’s life, property and dignity will be harmed and the lives of the citizens of Kabul will not be at risk,” the insurgents said in a statement.Also read | Afghan filmmaker Sahraa Karimi's video of running on Kabul street goes viralBut there have been reports of revenge killings and other brutal tactics in areas of the country the Taliban have seized in recent days. One female journalist, weeping, sent voice messages to colleagues after armed men entered her apartment building and banged on her door.“What should I do? Should I call the police or Taliban?” Getee Azami cried. It was not clear what happened to her after that.Many chose to flee, rushing to the Kabul airport, the last route out of the country as the Taliban now hold every border crossing. NATO said it was “helping to maintain operations at Kabul airport to keep Afghanistan connected with the world.”The US. Embassy in Kabul later suspended all operations and told Americans to shelter in place, saying it has received reports of gunfire at the international airport.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malala-yousafzai-says-deeply-worried-for-women-as-taliban-takes-over-kabul-101629045557108.html
15-08-2021||World||US Embassy in Kabul tells Americans to shelter in place after receiving reports of gunfire at the international airport||The US Embassy in Kabul has suspended all operations and told Americans to shelter in place, saying it has received reports of gunfire at the international airport.The US is racing to airlift diplomats and citizens out of Afghanistan after the Taliban overran most of the country and entered the capital early Sunday.“The security situation in Kabul is changing quickly and the situation at the airport is deteriorating rapidly," the embassy said in a statement."There are reports of the airport taking fire and we are instructing US citizens to shelter in place. The US Embassy in Afghanistan has suspended consular operations effective immediately. Do not come to the Embassy or airport at this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-embassy-in-kabul-tells-americans-to-shelter-in-place-after-receiving-reports-of-gunfire-at-the-international-airport-101629044686658.html
15-08-2021||World||'Will not bow to Taliban', says Afghanistan vice president as Ashraf Ghani flees||As the Taliban claimed to have taken control of the presidential palace in Kabul on Sunday, vice president Amrullah Saleh announced on social media that he will never bow to the Taliban, not under any circumstances. "I will bever betray the soul and legacy of my hero Ahmad Shah Masoud, the commander, the legend and the guide. I won't disappoint millions who listened to me. I will never be under one ceiling with the Taliban. NEVER," the vice president wrote on Twitter as negotiation for an interim setup was going on. Reports said Saleh left Kabul and might have gone to Panhshiri Valley.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani was evacuated by the United States and was taken to Dushanbe in Tajikistan, sources said. It is not yet confirmed whether he has resigned from the post or not.What lies ahead for Afghanistan as top leadership flees Kabul? 10 pointsReports said Ashraf Ghani has handed the authority of solving the crisis to political leaders of the country. Acting defence minister Bismillah Mohammadi said a delegation, comprising Younus Qanooni, Ahmad Wali Massoud, Mohammad Mohaqiq, will travel to Doha on Monday for talks.After entering Kabul, the Taliban announced that the fighters have been ordered to exercise restraint. There was no attack, no celebratory gunfire as the insurgent group after decimating the Afghan army in major parts of the country, sees the opportunity of a bloodless coup. A smooth transition of power within a few days.To much surprise of the global leaders, the Taliban swept through Afghanistan in a matter of weeks as soon as the withdrawal of the US and NATO forces began. In many cases, the militants faced little resistance from Afghan’s US-trained military, raising questions over Ashraf Ghani's leadership. Elected in 2014, Ghani took over from Hamid Karzai, who led Afghanistan after the US-led invasion in 2001 and oversaw the conclusion of the US mission. Ghani was never accepted by the Taliban and "peace talks" made little headway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-not-bow-to-taliban-says-afghanistan-vice-president-as-ashraf-ghani-flees-101629043780752.html
15-08-2021||World||Canada’s parliament dissolved, snap polls on Sept 20||Canada will have snap polls on September 20 over two years before the tenure of the ruling Liberal Party government was to end. Canada’s governor-general Mary Simon agreed to dissolve parliament following a request from the country’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Trudeau announced about the decision outside the governor-general’s residence at Rideau Hall in Ottawa following a nearly hour-long meeting with her.As Trudeau announced the forthcoming election, he focused on the Covid-19 pandemic and his government’s efforts in meeting that challenge and that of vaccinations, a sign of how significant that issue may be in helping him secure a majority when the next House of Commons is constituted.The process of starting the campaign, called dropping the writ in Canadian electoral parlance, commenced with the governor-general’s decision. The campaign period will be for the shortest permitted length - 36 days.Trudeau arrived at Rideau Hall on Sunday morning, with his wife Sophie Gregoire and their three children.The snap polls will proceed despite the country being at the beginning of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with all other major Federal parties opposing national polls under such circumstances. However, with Trudeau’s holding a lead in opinion surveys, he will seek to convert the present minority for his ruling Liberal Party into a majority.The final results of the election, though, may not be available the same night as the date of voting, as Elections Canada expects mail-in ballots to surge, from 50,000 in 2019 to 5 million this year. It has already warned that the counting may take between two to five days beyond election day.The Trudeau-led Liberal Party government is in a minority in the House of Commons, with 155 MPs, as against 119 for the principal opposition party, the Conservatives. When the last Federal elections were held in October 2019, the Liberals captured 157 seats, short of the 170 majority mark and also trailed the Conservatives in vote share, with 31.1% against 34.3%.The election call will come as the coronavirus situation in the country worsens. On Friday, Canada’s chief public Health officer Dr Theresa Tam cautioned that the latest national seven-day moving average of 1,609 new cases reported daily, between August 6 and 12), marked an increase of 70% over the previous week. “Following the recent rise in cases, we are now seeing early signs of increases in severity trends,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-parliament-dissolved-snap-polls-on-sept-20-101629043040618.html
15-08-2021||World||Afghan filmmaker Sahraa Karimi's video of running on Kabul street goes viral||Afghan filmmaker Sahraa Karimi, who was the first woman to be appointed as the director-general of state-run Afghan Film, on Sunday posted a video of what happened in the city as the Taliban entered the capital. The video went viral on social media along with the message that the filmmaker posted a few days ago appealing to all the film communities in the world.Later she took to Twitter and said when she shot the video she went to a bank to get some money, but the bank was closed and was being evacuated. "I still cannot believe this happened, who did happen. Please pray for us, I am calling again. Hey ppl of this big world, please do not be silent, they are coming to kill us," she wrote. Taliban surrounded Kabul, I were to bank to get some money, they closed and evacuated; I still cannot believe this happened, who did happen.Please pray for us, I am calling again:Hey ppl of the this big world, please do not be silent , they are coming to kill us. pic.twitter.com/wIytLL3ZNuIn the video that she shared on Instagram on Sunday, she could be seen running amid a heightened activity on the street. "This is not a clip from a scary movie, This is the reality in Kabul. Last week the city hosted a film festival & now they running away for their lives. Heartbreaking to watch but the world is do nothing," Iranian journalist Masih Alinejad wrote sharing the video on Twitter. A post shared by Sahraa Karimi صحرا كريمي (@sahraakarimi)"We need your voice. The media, governments and the world humanitarian organisations are conveniently silent as if this 'peace deal' with the Taliban was ever legitimate. It was never legitimate. Recognising them gave them the confidence to come back to power. The Taliban have been brutalising our people throughout the entire process of the talks. Everything that I have worked so hard to build as a filmmaker in my country is at the risk of falling. If the Taliban take over they will ban all art. I and other filmmakers could be next on their hit list...this war is not a civil war, this is a proxy war, this is an imposed war and it is the result of the US deal with the Taliban," Sahraa Karimi wrote two days ago.
15-08-2021||World||Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staff||A little more than a month ago, US President Joe Biden was telling reporters there was “zero” chance of a parallel between the chaotic American withdrawal from Saigon at the end of the Vietnam War in 1975 and the drawdown in Kabul as part of a deal with the Taliban. “The Taliban is not the...North Vietnamese army. They’re not remotely comparable in terms of capability. There’s going to be no circumstance where you see people being lifted off the roof of [the US] embassy in...Afghanistan. It is not at all comparable,” Biden said during a media interaction on July 8. The chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen Mark Milley, too had rejected comparisons to the exit from Saigon. Milley said he didn’t “see Saigon 1975 in Afghanistan”, and that the “Taliban just aren’t the North Vietnamese Army”. But as video footage emerged on Saturday of US military helicopters flying sortie after sortie from the roof of the US embassy in Kabul, ferrying diplomats and officials to the city’s airport as the sound of sporadic gunfire reverberated across the capital, the images were eerily similar to the desperate flights by military helicopters that carried American officials and South Vietnamese citizens from the roof of the US mission in Saigon to naval vessels close to Vietnam’s shore. Even more eerily, the same helicopter was involved in both airlifts – the Chinook, though the ones currently being used in Kabul are a more modern version. In 1975, the US embassy had become the last refuge for scores of South Vietnamese citizens who feared persecution at the hands of the victorious North Vietnamese forces. In Kabul, there was no such safe haven for thousands of Afghans who have worked with US forces as translators, guides and aides and now fear being targeted by the Taliban. The Biden administration has already faced criticism from US lawmakers for the manner of its exit from Afghanistan, with some drawing parallels to the scenes witnessed in Saigon more than four decades ago after Washington announced it would deploy 3,000 troops to provide security for the withdrawal from Kabul. “President Biden’s decisions have us hurtling toward an even worse sequel to the humiliating fall of Saigon in 1975,” leading Republican Senator Mitch McConnell was quoted as saying by AFP. Mike Rogers, the Republican ranking member of the US House Armed Services Committee, said in a statement on August 12 that the American people are “are watching President Biden’s Saigon moment unfold before us”. He added: “Our allies are watching as Afghanistan rapidly deteriorates and President Biden still claims he does not regret his unconditional withdrawal. Make no mistake, the consequences of President Biden’s haphazard withdrawal will be felt for decades.” The speed of the Taliban advance – capturing close to 20 out of Afghanistan’s 34 provincial capitals over the past week, many of them without a fight – and the march to the capital this weekend went against assessments by most countries. According to an Indian assessment made last month, the Taliban was expected to change its strategy only by the end of August, when all the US forces would have pulled out, and move towards key urban centres after taking over vast swathes of rural areas. The Indian side has prepared for all contingencies and eventualities, and authorities in New Delhi were scrambling on Saturday to finalise plans for evacuating Indian diplomats and citizens from Kabul. The government had recently informed Parliament that there were 1,500 Indians in Afghanistan but officials said this figure had come down to a few hundreds as many people working on development projects had already been sent back or had returned on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/speed-of-taliban-advance-stuns-countries-as-us-scrambles-to-airlift-embassy-staff-101629040940833.html
15-08-2021||World||President Ashraf Ghani leaves Afghanistan as Taliban take over Kabul||Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani left the war-torn country on Sunday as the Taliban entered the capital Kabul and said they were seeking complete power. Earlier, the insurgents had ordered their troops to remain outside the Afghan capital ahead of talks on a peaceful transition of power. The Western-backed Ghani is said to have left after resigning as the President. Ghani's destination was uncertain. While a senior interior ministry official said he had left for Tajikistan, a foreign ministry official said his location was unknown and the Taliban said it was checking his whereabouts. Some local social media users branded him a "coward" for leaving them in chaos.Two officials from the militant Islamist group told Reuters there would be no transitional government following their lightning sweep across Afghanistan, two decades after they were overthrown by US-led forces.There were reports of sporadic gunfire around the city, but there was no significant fighting and the Taliban said they were waiting for the Western-backed government to surrender peacefully.According to the Reuters report, Taliban commanders said they have taken control of Afghan presidential palace, but the Afghan government was yet to confirm this.The United States is evacuating its embassy in Kabul, said secretary of state Antony Blinken, while maintaining the “Afghan mission” has been successful. Television images showed a stream of helicopter flights, ferrying passengers from the US embassy to the airport as local Afghan forces, trained for years and equipped by the United States and others for billions of dollars, melted away.Also read | Women will have freedom, foreigners can leave: Taliban on possible new regime“We’re relocating the men and women of our embassy to a location at the airport,” Blinken said on ABC’s “This Week.” “That’s why the president sent in a number of forces to make sure that, as we continue to draw down our diplomatic presence, we do it in a safe and orderly fashion and at the same time maintain a core diplomatic presence in Kabul.”The US will completely pull out all embassy personnel within three days, CNN reported earlier, citing people familiar with the situation, leaving a small core of staff to operate at the airport.Taliban fighters reached the outskirts of Kabul earlier on Sunday in culmination of a three-week offensive in which the Islamic militant group seized large portions of the country with very little resistance. Taliban forces now hold all of Afghanistan’s border crossings, the Associated Press said.“The Islamic Emirate instructs all its forces to stand at the gates of Kabul, not to try to enter the city,” the Taliban said in a statement on Sunday, using the group’s formal name. “Negotiations are under way to ensure that the transition process is completed safely and securely, without putting the lives, property and honor of anyone in danger.”It was unclear exactly how the talks would take place, or where. The AP reported that Taliban negotiators were heading to the presidential palace in Kabul to prepare for a transfer of power. Yet Bismillah Mohammadi, Afghanistan’s acting defense minister, said Ghani had extended authority to a delegation headed to Doha for talks with the Taliban on Monday.The militant group has sought to reassure the country and the world that it will act responsibly as it prepares to resume power, following the swift collapse of a US-trained Afghan army after President Joe Biden ordered American troops to withdraw by August 31.On Sunday, Ghani’s office said on social media that national forces have Kabul “under control and there’s no need for the people to worry”. However, some key Afghan officials had suggested it was just a matter of time before the Taliban took power.“Until the transfer of power, the security of Kabul is our responsibility,” Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal, Afghanistan’s acting interior minister, said in a video message posted on the ministry’s Facebook page.On Saturday, Biden boosted the US troop deployment in an attempt to ensure an “orderly and safe drawdown.” The authorisation adds about 1,000 US personnel to the deployment of 3,000 Marines and soldiers announced this week and 1,000 troops already at the airport and the embassy, according to a defence official.Defending his decision to withdraw the troops from Afghanistan after 20 years -- America’s longest war, Biden said, “I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan -- two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth.”Meanwhile, thousands of Afghans fled to Kabul in the face of the Taliban advance as the crisis threatened to spill outside the country’s borders and send waves of refugees as far as Europe. People also flocked to Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport hoping to catch a flight out. “We’re expecting to be evacuated -- I hope we’ll be out in a few days,” Emir Sayit, a Turkish civil engineer, said by phone on Sunday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-ashraf-ghani-leaves-afghanistan-as-taliban-enter-kabul-101629035678464.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban demand peaceful transfer of power after reaching Kabul: Top developments today||With a Taliban regime in Afghanistan imminent, the militants belonging to the group have entered the capital city of Kabul and have been asked to wait after the government had conceded that it was preparing for a transfer of power.Several countries have shut their embassies in the country, following the rapid takeover by Taliban after the US had started pulling back its troops. Also, the return of the Taliban to power after two decades have sparked fears that the group would resort to its hardline, ultra-conservative form of government.Here is all you need to know about the top developments in the country on Sunday -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-demand-peaceful-transfer-of-power-after-reaching-kabul-top-developments-today-101629035469758.html
15-08-2021||World||Popular Chinese actor faces boycott for visiting Yasukuni Shrine in Japan||The China Association of Performing Arts (CAPA) on Sunday called for the boycott of a popular Chinese actor after photos surfaced online showing him visiting the controversial Yasukuni Shrine in Japan in 2018.The shrine in Tokyo is seen in neighbouring countries including China and South Korea as a symbol of Japan’s past militarism and right-wing politics.The shrine honours Japan’s war dead among them 14 World War II leaders convicted by an Allied tribunal as war criminals.The Chinese actor Zhang Zhehan’s - a heartthrob among young Chinese known for acting in movies and period dramas - visit to the shrine sparked outrage among the public after photos were circulated online of him posing there.CAPA was quoted as saying in a notice published on Sunday that actors should understand history. “Ignorance should not be an excuse…Yasukuni Shrine is the spiritual tool and symbol of Japanese militarism in launching its war of aggression and a place where right-wing Japanese forces deny history and beautify the war,” the Global Times said, quoting CAPA.“As a public figure, he has been deficient in historical knowledge, and completely unaware of the nation’s trauma, which is totally unreasonable,” the state-run People’s Daily said.“The misbehaviour of actor Zhang Zhehan severely harms national feeling and brings baneful influence to his young age-group audience. Hence, we demand members not to engage him in any employment,” said the association.An apology from the 30-year-old where he said he was ashamed of his ignorance hasn’t worked.According to Reuters, more than 25 companies in China, beverage maker Coca-Cola Co and Danish jeweller Pandora have announced the termination of partnerships with Zhang.Separately, China and South Korea have blasted Japanese defence minister Nobuo Kishi’s visit to the shrine last week.China expressed its strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition to the visit, Chinese defence ministry spokesperson, Wu Qian said.The shrine is “a spiritual tool and symbol of Japanese militarism and its invasion of foreign countries”, the statement said.Kishi’s act reflects “Japan’s wrong attitude towards its history of aggression and its sinister intention to challenge the postwar international order”, the statement added.In Seoul, Lee Sang-ryol, the South Korean foreign ministry’s director-general for Asian and Pacific affairs, summoned Naoki Kumagai, deputy chief of mission at the Japanese embassy to lodge a protest against the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/popular-chinese-actor-faces-boycott-for-visiting-yasukuni-shrine-in-japan-101629033680510.html
15-08-2021||World||Women will have freedom, foreigners can leave: Taliban on possible new regime||Ahead of the imminent fall of the Afghanistan government making way for an interim set up, the Taliban which had set an example of a horrifying reign between 1996 and 2001, on Saturday said they respect women's rights. Women will be allowed to leave homes alone and they will have access to education and work, but they will have to wear the hijab, a Taliban spokesperson told Reuters. Whipping, stoning were common forms of Taliban punishment in the earlier regime, but as Reuters reported, the spokesperson said that policy on punishments will depend on courts. Media will be allowed to criticise anyone, but they should not indulge in character assassination, the spokesperson said.The return of the Taliban is a nightmare for Afghan women, and as apprehended, the Taliban insurgents in Kandahar have walked into the offices of Azizi Bank and ordered nine women working there to leave, Reuters reported. Male relatives can take their place, the Taliban said.Former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali may head interim Afghan govt: ReportsThe insurgent group told Reuters that n Taliban fighter was allowed to conduct celebratory gunfire right now as the negotiation for peaceful power transfer is still going on. Foreigners in the city can leave if they wish, the Taliban said. But if they continue to stay, then they will have to register their presence with Taliban administrators, the spokesperson said.Watch: Taliban surround Kabul, in talks with Ashraf Ghani govt for power transitionAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani is expected to step down within the next few hours, Russian news agency Sputnik reported. With Afghanistan's former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali likely to be roped in to head the interim government, the Taliban are expecting the power transfer peacefully in the next few hours.In just over a week, the Taliban have seized nearly all of Afghanistan raising questions over the monumental failure of the Afghan army. The warlords on whom Ashraf Ghani was banking for remobilising the army surrendered to the Taliban in the last few days apparently leaving no option in front of the Afghan government. The talks in Doha too didn't result in any breakthrough.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-will-have-freedom-foreigners-can-leave-taliban-on-possible-new-regime-101629028568711.html
15-08-2021||World||Former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali may head interim Afghan govt: Reports||Ali Ahmad Jalali, former interior minister of the country, is likely to head the interim government in Afghanistan, reports said as on Sunday the Taliban entered capital Kabul and engaged in a negotiation with the Afghan leadership for a peaceful transition of the government. Citing diplomatic sources, Reuters said Ali Ahmad Jalali, US-Based academic and former Afghan minister is tapped to head the interim afghan administration. He also served as the former Afgan ambassador to Germany.Ali Ahmad Jalali was born in Kabul but was a US citizen since 1987 and resides in Maryland in the US. In 2003, Jalali had returned to Afghanistan and was appointed the minister of interior under the transitional government at that time. In 2004, he was reappointed again as the interior minister and served the post until September 2005.Jalali was a former colonel in the army and was a top advisor at the Afghan Resistance Headquarters in Peshawar during the Soviet invasion."Poor leadership, lack of logistical sustainability, and absence of operational and tactical coordination has taken a heavy toll on the lives and reputation of the dedicated Afghan soldiers. The rapid fall of one-third of Afghanistan provincial capitals within one week belies the much-hyped claims of tenacity of the Afghan National Defense and security forces as they fast crumbled in the face of advancing insurgent fighters. This brings to mind an old military adage saying, “Those who governed well did not arm; those who were armed well did not draw battle lines; those who drew battle lines well did not fight; those who fought well did not lose; those who lost well did not perish," Ali Ahmad Jalali recently tweeted commenting on the recent escalation. The Taliban fighters reached Kabul on Sunday and said they do not want to take over Kabul by force. Negotiation for a peaceful transfer of the government was what they demanded. Afghanistan interior ministry said Kabul won't be attacked and people of Kabul will remain safe as they are working towards a peaceful transfer of power to a new interim government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-minister-ali-ahmad-jalali-may-head-interim-afghan-govt-reports-101629023299621.html
15-08-2021||World||Peaceful takeover of Kabul, assurance to citizens: What Taliban said as they prepared to come back to power after 20 yrs||On Sunday the Islamist insurgent force Taliban came closest to assuming power in Afghanistan after being ousted 20 years ago by the United States. The collapse of the Afghan government happened at a breakneck speed which left most allies stunned as they scrambled to evacuate their officials and citizens from the country.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the group is in talks with the Afghan government "for a peaceful surrender" of Kabul, after insurgents entered the capital's outskirts. "The Islamic Emirate instructs all its forces to stand at the gates of Kabul, not to try to enter the city," a spokesman for the Taliban tweeted.The Taliban asked Afghan civilians to remain in their country and not leave out of fear. The order came as Kabul residents reported seeing insurgents peacefully enter some of Kabul's outer suburbs, triggering panic and fear in the population. “No one's life, property and dignity will be harmed and the lives of the citizens of Kabul will not be at risk," the Taliban said, reported Reuters. The Afghan Presidential Palace tweeted on Sunday that Afghan security forces had control of Kabul even though firing occurred at a number of places in the capital.Reuters reported that the streets of Kabul were choked with traffic as people were rushing to either get home or reach the airport. "Some people have left their keys in the car and have started walking to the airport," one resident told Reuters by phone. Another said: “People are all going home in fear of fighting,”Also Read: Kabul won't be attacked, assures Afghan minister as Taliban inches closerThe Taliban spokesperson also assured those who have served the Afghan government and the military that they will be forgiven, as the group does not intend to take revenge. However, 84 Afghan servicemen crossed the border to Uzbekistan and asked for assistance, the ministry said.
15-08-2021||World||Chinese pharma company to set up Covid-19 vaccine plant in Sri Lanka||China and Sri Lanka are set to deepen their bilateral “vaccine diplomacy” with a leading Chinese pharma company preparing to set up a manufacturing plant to make anti-Covid jabs in President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s home district, Hambantota.The new plant will be set up under an agreement that will allow Colombo to source nine million Covid-19 vaccine doses from the Chinese pharma company that sets it up, Sri Lankan ambassador to China, Palitha Kohona, told HT.A deal between Sri Lanka’s State Pharmaceutical Corporation (SPC), a state-owned enterprise, and China’s Sinovac Biotech is “fairly close to completion,” Kohana said.“It will be set up in the dedicated pharmaceutical manufacturing zone [in Hambantota],” the Sri Lankan envoy said.The Sinovac vaccine is one of the two Chinese jabs approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) under its “emergency-use listing”; the other being from state-owned Sinopharm.The development comes months after India gifted 500,000 doses of the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine to Colombo, which kicked off Sri Lanka’s vaccine roll-out in late January.But in the first week of April, Sri Lanka had to temporarily suspend its vaccination programme because of the delay in the supply of AZ jabs from India.The Sino-Lanka vaccine arrangement was subsequently hastened after India stopped supplying vaccines to neighbouring countries to meet its domestic need for jabs following the devastating surge in local Covid-19 cases March onwards.Kohona said it was originally India that was supposed to supply vaccines to Sri Lanka, but the plan fell through because of the Covid-19 crisis. The SPC had approached the Chinese government to set up a vaccine plant in the zone earlier this year, given the rising demand for Covid-19 vaccines in Sri Lanka, Kohona said.The SPC and Sinovac then finalised the deal and the specifics of the plant are currently being worked out.The Sri Lankan government has earmarked some 400 acres of land in the Hambantota-Arabokka area and announced tax exemptions for foreign companies ready to set up manufacturing units.“The need for vaccines in Sri Lanka will last a long while. People will need [vaccines in the future as well],” Kohona said.The new plant will be located in the same district where the lease of the China-built Hambantota port for 99 years to Beijing has raised strategic and military concerns for India.Over the years, China has pumped billions in Sri Lanka in critical infrastructure projects including in the Colombo Port City project, roads, highways, and power plants.Beijing is now also leading in its supply of vaccines to Sri Lanka.China has so far donated some 2.7 million vaccine doses to the island nation, a mix of the two Chinese jabs. Colombo has additionally purchased more than 12 million doses from China as well.Majority of Lankan citizens have so far received the Sinopharm vaccine, Chinese state media reported.Besides the Indian and Chinese vaccines, Colombo has procured vaccines from Japan (Pfizer) and Russia (Sputnik).In July, it also received more than 1.5 million doses of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine from the US under the Covax mechanism.Until Friday, over 11 million first dose Covid-19 vaccines had been administered across Sri Lanka under the ongoing mass vaccination programme for citizens above 30 years of age.According to official figures, the leading vaccine being administered across the country is the Sinopharm vaccine from China with 9,246,429 first doses administered and 3,116,114 second doses administered as of last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-pharma-company-to-set-up-covid-19-vaccine-plant-in-sri-lanka-101629022579455.html
15-08-2021||World||Kabul won't be attacked, assures Afghan minister as Taliban inches closer||Afghanistan's acting interior minister Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal said on Sunday that Kabul won't be attacked and that the transition would happen peacefully, Afghan TV network Tolo News reported.Mirzakwal's televised statement to Tolo News follows claims by Taliban leadership that they won't take the Afghan capital "by force" and that negotiations were on the government for a “peaceful surrender” of Kabul.Acting Interior Minister Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal said Kabul will not be attacked and that the transition will happen peacefully. He assures Kabul residents that security forces will ensure the security of the city. pic.twitter.com/uim9LVqn9qAccording to multiple news agencies, Taliban asked its fighters to stand at the gates of Kabul and not try to enter the city. It also assured that the security of Kabul must be maintained till the completion of the transition process. Taliban negotiators headed to the presidential palace on Sunday to discuss the transfer, said an Afghan official who spoke on condition of anonymity even though it remained unclear when that transfer would take place, according to Associated Press.“We do not intend to take revenge on anyone. All those who have served in military and civilian sectors in the Kabul administration are forgiven and safe. All should stay in their own place and home and not try to leave the country,” Taliban said in a statement, accessed by various news agencies, and urged the Afghan civilians to not leave the country.Despite the pledges, many rushed to leave the country through the Kabul airport, the last route out of the country as the Taliban laid siege on every border crossing.ALSO READ | As Taliban knocks at Kabul's doors, here's what to look out forAs Taliban fighters inched closer towards Kabul, top Afghan officials, including Lower House speaker Wolesi Jirga, Mir Rahman Rehmani and other leaders reportedly left the warn-torn country on a Pakistan International Airlines flight. On Saturday, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani told the nation that the defence forces were being remobilised, even as he highlighted  he added that “extensive consultations" were being held at "home and abroad”.Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden ordered deployment of 5,000 troops to Afghanistan with aim for orderly and safe drawdown of American personnel from the troubled country. ALSO READ | Taliban lock Indian consulates for ‘security' in Kandahar, Herat: SourcesBiden, however, ruled out any change in his plans for pullout of US troops  from Afghnistan before September 11. US secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke to Ghani and assured him of support in defending Kabul.As of Sunday, Taliban took over the control of 23 of Afghhan 34 provinces, including Zaranj, Shebergahn, Kunduz, Faizabad, Ghazni, Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad and Lashkar Gah.In a related development, Russia's foreign ministry official Zamir Kabulov told news agency Ria Novosti on Sunday that Moscow does not plan to evacuate its embassy in Kabul, after assurances from the Taliban that their embassies would be safe. Russia is working with other countries to hold an emergency UN Security Council meeting on Afghanistan, the Associated Press reported.The US and other countries rushed to evacuate their citizens from the capital on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aghanistan-taliban-takeover-kabul-seige-us-troops-pullout-afghanistan-crisis-101629019184238.html
15-08-2021||World||'Peaceful transition': Taliban leaders head to presidential palace in Kabul||After announcing that the Taliban won't take over Afghan capital Kabul by force, Taliban negotiators on Sunday afternoon headed to the presidential palace for a 'peaceful transition of power', news agency Associated Press reported. The official, who spoke to the news agency on condition of anonymity “because of fear of reprisals”, said the goal was a peaceful handing over of the government to the Taliban. Acting interior minister Abdul Satar Mirzakwal said the transition will take place peacefully, Tolo news reported.The Taliban leadership on Sunday said they don't intend to take over the capital by force and also asked Kabul citizens to not panic and leave the city. Lives and properties will not be harmed and the insurgent group does not intend to take any revenge, Taliban leaders told news agencies.Also Read: No forceful takeover of Kabul, people are safe, say Taliban; demand peaceful surrender of capitalAfter the fall of Jalalabad, Afghanistan's last major city apart from Kabul which was not held by the Taliban, the insurgent group advanced towards the capital and around noon, the presidential palace confirmed firing in Kabul. The presidential palace, however, downplayed the firing and said the security situation is under control.Soon after it entered Kabul, the Taliban said they will not use force as they demand a peaceful surrender of the capital. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen told Al-Jazeera English satellite news channel that the insurgents are “awaiting a peaceful transfer of Kabul city.”On Saturday, President Ashraf Ghani addressed the people of the war-torn country and said the situation will not be allowed to escalate any further. However, the situation changed as the warlords with whom he negotiated a few days ago surrendered to the Taliban or fled, leaving Ghani without a military option.On Saturday, the President consulted leaders and it was decided that negotiation for a ceasefire and an interim set-up will be pursued. Whether the ‘peaceful transition’ that the interior ministry has indicated is an interim government is not known as the details of the negotiations are yet to be made public. The international leadership has reacted to the Taliban advancement in Kabul and Russia said it is working with other countries to hold an emergency UN Security Council meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peaceful-transition-taliban-leaders-head-to-presidential-palace-in-kabul-101629019684945.html
15-08-2021||World||No forceful takeover of Kabul, people are safe, say Taliban; demand peaceful surrender of capital||As Taliban fighters entered the outskirts of the Afghan capital on Sunday, the Taliban leadership claimed that the lives of the citizens of Kabul are safe as the insurgent group will not take the Afghan capital by force and negotiation with the government is on for a peaceful surrender of  Kabul. A Taliban spokesperson has told Reuters that they are in talks with the Afghan government for a "peaceful surrender" of Kabul.This comes a day after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani addressed Afghan nationals and said the Afghan leadership is mobilising the army and the situation won't be allowed to escalate anymore. He said he was in talks with international leaders and after having back-to-back meetings on Saturday, it was decided that an authoritative team will negotiate a ceasefire and an interim set up with the Taliban leadership. Also Read: Taliban launch final assault on Kabul, enters capital's outskirtsTaliban leaders engaged in talks with the government in Doha said fighters have been asked to stand at the entry points at Kabul. Afghan forces must stop gunfire and allow passage to all civilians and foreigners now, while the Taliban have not used force in Kabul, the Taliban leader told Reuters."We do not intend to take revenge on anyone. All those who have served the government and military will be forgiven," a spokesperson told Reuters. Citizens of Kabul do not need to panic, the Taliban spokesman said urging Afghan civilians to not leave the country due to fear.The Taliban advancement in the capital was only a matter of time as the insurgent group reached near the capital on Saturday. Early on Sunday, Jalalabad, Afghanistan's last major city besides the capital not held by the militants, fell to the Taliban and militants posted photos online showing them in the governor’s office in Jalalabad. At around noon, the Afghan Presidential palace on Sunday said firing was heard at a number of points around Kabul, but the security forces were in control of the city. US officials said they were ferrying their diplomats from the embassy to the airport and more and more troops were being sent to aid the evacuation process.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-one-killed-in-kabul-taliban-say-they-won-t-take-afghan-capital-by-force-101629016806538.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban launches final assault on Kabul, enters capital's outskirts||Taliban fighters entered the outskirts of Kabul on Sunday as panicked workers fled government offices and helicopters began landing at the U.S. Embassy in the Afghan capital, further tightening the militants' grip on the country.Three Afghan officials told The Associated Press that the fighters were in the districts of Kalakan, Qarabagh, and Paghman in the capital. The militants themselves didn't acknowledge the advance, though they earlier took Jalalabad, near a major border crossing with Pakistan, the last major city other than Kabul not under their control.Also Read | Has Kabul fallen to the Taliban? Here's what we know so far in 10 pointsIn a nationwide offensive that has taken just over a week, the Taliban has defeated, co-opted, or sent Afghan security forces fleeing from wide swathes of the country, even with some air support by the U.S. military.The rapid shuttle-run flights near the embassy began a few hours later as diplomatic armored SUVs could be seen leaving the area around the post. The US State Department did not immediately respond to questions about the movements. However, wisps of smoke could be seen near the embassy's roof as diplomats urgently destroyed sensitive documents, according to two American military officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation.The Czech Republic also approved a plan to begin withdrawing their Afghan staff from their embassy after earlier taking their diplomats to Kabul International Airport.President Ashraf Ghani, who spoke to the nation Saturday for the first time since the offensive began, appears increasingly isolated as well. Warlords he negotiated with just days earlier have surrendered to the Taliban or fled, leaving Ghani without a military option. Ongoing negotiations in Qatar, the site of a Taliban office, also have failed to stop the insurgents' advance.Thousands of civilians now live in parks and open spaces in Kabul itself, fearing the future. While Kabul appeared calm Sunday, some ATMs stopped distributing cash as hundreds gathered in front of private banks, trying to withdraw their life savings.Militants posted photos online early Sunday showing them in the governor's office in Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar province.Abrarullah Murad, a lawmaker from the province told The Associated Press that the insurgents seized Jalalabad after elders negotiated the fall of the government there. Murad said there was no fighting as the city surrendered.The militants took also Maidan Shar, the capital of Maidan Wardak, on Sunday, only some 90 kilometers (55 miles) from Kabul, Afghan lawmaker Hamida Akbari and the Taliban said. Another provincial capital in Khost fell later Sunday to the Taliban, said a provincial council member who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals.The fall Saturday of Mazar-e-Sharif, the country’s fourth-largest city, which Afghan forces and two powerful former warlords had pledged to defend, handed the insurgents control over all of northern Afghanistan.Atta Mohammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, two of the warlords Ghani tried to rally to his side days earlier, fled over the border into Uzbekistan on Saturday, said officials close to Dostum. They spoke on condition of anonymity as they weren't authorized to publicly speak about his movements.Writing on Twitter, Noor alleged a “conspiracy” aided the fall of the north to the Taliban, without elaborating.“Despite our firm resistance, sadly, all the government and the Afghan security forces equipment were handed over to the Taliban as a result of a big organized and cowardly plot,” Noor wrote. “They had orchestrated the plot to trap Marshal Dostum and myself too, but they didn’t succeed.”In his speech Saturday, Ghani vowed not to give up the “achievements” of the 20 years since the U.S.-led invasion toppled the Taliban after the 9/11 attacks.The U.S. has continued holding peace talks between the government and the Taliban in Qatar this week, and the international community has warned that a Taliban government brought about by force would be shunned. But the insurgents appear to have little interest in making concessions as they rack up victories on the battlefield.“We have started consultations, inside the government with elders and political leaders, representatives of different levels of the community as well as our international allies,” Ghani said. “Soon the results will be shared with you,” he added, without elaborating further.Many Afghans fear a return to the Taliban’s oppressive rule. The group had previously governed Afghanistan under a harsh version of Islamic law in which women were forbidden to work or attend school, and could not leave their homes without a male relative accompanying them.Salima Mazari, one of the few female district governors in the country, expressed fears about a Taliban takeover Saturday in an interview from Mazar-e-Sharif before it fell.“There will be no place for women,” said Mazari, who governs a district of 36,000 people near the northern city. “In the provinces controlled by the Taliban, no women exist there anymore, not even in the cities. They are all imprisoned in their homes.”In a statement late Saturday, however, the Taliban insisted their fighters wouldn't enter people's homes or interfere with businesses. They also said they'd offer an “amnesty” to those who worked with the Afghan government or foreign forces.“The Islamic Emirate once again assures all its citizens that it will, as always, protect their life, property, and honor and create a peaceful and secure environment for its beloved nation,” the militants said. “In this regard, no one should worry about their life.”Despite the pledge, those who can afford a ticket have been flocking to Kabul International Airport, the only way out of the country as the Taliban took the last border crossing still held by the government Sunday at Torkham. Pakistan’s Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told local broadcaster Geo TV that Pakistan halted cross-border traffic there after the militants seized it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-launches-final-assault-on-kabul-enter-capital-s-outskirts-report-101629013667790.html
15-08-2021||World||As Taliban knocks at Kabul's doors, here's what to look out for||The insurgent Taliban have captured almost all of Afghanistan, leaving the government in control of little more than the capital Kabul and its immediate surroundings.Here are some facts about the city and previous assaults:Current situationThe city's population of 5 million people has been swollen with thousands fleeing other parts of the country. Thousands of troops from the United States and Britain are flying in to secure the airport and their embassies as foreign missions start evacuating personnel.The Afghan army has vowed to defend the capital.Kabul covers an area of about 1,000 square km (400 sq miles) and is ringed by mountains. There are four main roads into the city: from Maidan Shahr in the southwest, Pul-e-Alam in the south, Surobi in the east and Bagram in the north.The Taliban took Pul-e-Alam on Saturday without much resistance, a local provincial council member said.The Taliban say they are close to capturing Maidan Shahr.They have already taken Ghazni, down the road from Maidan Shahr, and have a strong presence in surrounding areas.On Sunday, the Taliban took the eastern city of Jalalabad without a fight. The main highway from there to Kabul passes through Surobi.Past assaults on KabulIn 1996, the Taliban conquered Kabul from the Mujahedin alliance with an assault through Surobi. After winning a battle at Surobi, the Taliban marched unchecked into Kabul.In 2001, U.S.-backed forces re-took Kabul with an attack from the north, entering the city via Bagram after a barrage of air strikes killed hundreds of entrenched Taliban fighters who had formed a defensive ring.Bagram airbase, 64 km (40 miles) north of Kabul, is the country's most significant military asset and was the seat of the U.S. military during the 20-year-long Afghan war before they vacated it just a month ago. The base is now in the hands of the Afghan military.Power and talksThe Taliban have no air power and have used artillery and rockets followed by ground assaults while capturing several cities and provincial capitals in recent weeks. Some areas have fallen without a fight as provincial leaders sought to avoid bloodshed and surrendered.A bloody battle for Kabul could be avoided if a political solution is struck between the government and the Taliban.The insurgents have insisted they will not negotiate with a government headed by President Ashraf Ghani.Ghani has shown no inclination to move. On Saturday, he said he was in urgent talks with local leaders and international partners and that "re-integration of the security and defence forces is our priority".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-taliban-knocks-at-kabul-s-doors-here-s-what-to-look-out-for-101629010672257.html
15-08-2021||World||Japan marks 76th anniversary of WWII defeat; no Suga apology||Japan marked the 76th anniversary of its World War II surrender on Sunday with a somber ceremony in which Prime Minister Yosihide Suga pledged for the tragedy of war to never be repeated but avoided apologizing for his country's aggression.Suga said Japan never forgets the peace that the country enjoys today is built on the sacrifices of those who died in the war.“We will commit to our pledge to never repeat the tragedy of the war,” he said in his first speech at the event since becoming prime minister.Suga did not offer an apology to the Asian victims of Japanese aggression across the region in the first half of the 20th century — a precedence set by his predecessor Shinzo Abe, who was frequently accused of trying to whitewash his country's brutal past.In a largely domestic-focused speech, Suga listed damage inflicted on Japan and its people, including the U.S. atomic attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the firebombing of Tokyo and other cities and the fierce battle of Okinawa, and mourned for them.Emperor Naruhito, in contrast, expressed “deep remorse” over his country’s wartime actions in a carefully nuanced speech that followed the footsteps of his father, who devoted his 30-year career to making amends for a war fought in the name of Hirohito, the current emperor’s grandfather. Naruhito also said he hoped that people can put their hearts together to overcome the difficulty of the pandemic while seeking happiness and peace for all.Amid Tokyo’s surging coronavirus infections, about 200 participants, reduced from about 6,000 before the pandemic, mourned for the dead with a minute of silence. Masks were required, and there was no singing of the national anthem.Suga vowed to cooperate with the international community in tackling global issues under “proactive pacifism,” a vision that Abe promoted to allow Japan to play a greater military role in international conflicts.Beginning 2013, Abe stopped acknowledging Japan’s wartime hostilities or apologize in his Aug. 15 speeches, scrapping a nearly 20-year tradition that began with the 1995 apology of Socialist leader Tomiichi Murayama.On Sunday, before attending the ceremony at Tokyo’s Budokan hall, Suga laid flowers at a nearby national cemetery for unknown soldiers. While Suga stayed away from controversial Yasukuni shrine, he did send a religious offering to the shrine, Japanese media reported.Victims of Japanese actions during the first half of the 20th century, especially the Koreas and China, see the shrine as a symbol of Japanese militarism because it honors convicted war criminals among about 2.5 million war dead.Abe, who stepped down as prime minister last year, prayed at the shrine Sunday, and so did three other members of Suga’s Cabinet. Two other ministers visited the shrine Friday.The visits sparked criticism from China and South Korea.On Sunday, South Korea’s Foreign Ministry in a statement urged Japanese officials to show “sincere remorse through action” so that the countries could develop “future-oriented ties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-marks-76th-anniversary-of-wwii-defeat-no-suga-apology-101629009871174.html
15-08-2021||World||Canadian ex-diplomat calls for Pak to be sanctioned over its role in Afghanistan||As the Taliban are running amok in Afghanistan sparking a humanitarian crisis, a former Canadian ambassador to the country has called for sanctioning Pakistan, claiming that it is allegedly invading its neighbouring country using hardline proxies.Chris Alexander, who was the first resident Canadian ambassador to Afghanistan from 2003-2009 and also served as the UN secretary general’s deputy special representative for Afghanistan, is among the key voices behind the viral hashtag #SanctionPakistan, which calls for Islamabad to be held accountable for its alleged role in the Afghan crisis. The Conservative Party member stressed that “strong and decisive” action is required from the UN to ensure the capital city of Kabul doesn’t fall to the Taliban.Alexander, also former cabinet minister for citizenship and Immigration, tweeted, “Anyone denying or omitting to condemn the fact of Pakistan’s invasion is now complicit.”He also claimed that there was an emerging nexus between China, Pakistan and the Taliban. Alexander told HT that the “world should worry a great deal” about this development and its implications. “Apart from being Pakistan’s mercenaries, the Taliban are UN-listed terrorists. Anyone cozying up to them is playing a dangerous game,” he added.He has come under repeated attack from Islamabad for his claims that Pakistan has played a role in destablising Afghanistan and enabling the Taliban to expand its footprint. Last week, Pakistan’s consul general in Toronto complained to Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole to take action against Alexander.Alexander described that complaint as “unbelievable” and a “journey to the heart of Pakistani psychology and its understanding of how democracies work”.“If they’re writing to Erin and making ridiculous statements, it shows they’re a bit desperate,” Alexander said. He asserted that Pakistan needs to be “held to account” for the “threat to international peace and stability that it’s been underwriting”. In this regard, he said, India had the “deepest experience, but the whole world has been a victim of their ploy”.While the #SanctionPakistan hashtag is a recent trend, the position is not a new one taken by Alexander. In a report he authored titled “Ending Pakistan’s Proxy War in Afghanistan”, released in March by the Ottawa-based Macdonald Laurier Institute (MLI), he claimed that “Pakistan’s aim was to break Afghanistan’s post-2001 constitutional order by installing a Taliban-led coalition to replace the current government, which [Pakistan’s] ISI sees as a stalking horse for India”. He added, “Without ISI support, the Taliban-led proxy war would end quickly.”He also wrote that “every serious partner of Afghanistan now has a duty to enact far-reaching sanctions against those individuals and agencies in Pakistan responsible for this covert proxy war in Afghanistan”. Among his recommendations was listing Pakistan as a state sponsor of terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-ex-diplomat-calls-for-pak-to-be-sanctioned-over-its-role-in-afghanistan-101629008358225.html
15-08-2021||World||Has Kabul fallen to the Taliban? Here's what we know so far in 10 points||The Taliban has entered the outskirts of Afghanistan’s capital of Kabul, the Associated Press reported on Sunday citing Afghan officials. The AP reported that the officials said there hadn't been any fighting yet. The Taliban fighters were in the districts of Kalakan, Qarabagh and Paghman, it added.AP also reported that the Taliban did not immediately acknowledge their presence in the capital. However, government offices suddenly began sending workers home early Sunday as military helicopters buzzed overhead.Also Read | Taliban at Kabul's doorstep, US embassy asks staff to wipe sensitive documentsHere's what we know so far in 10 brief points:1 . Taliban entered the outskirts of Kabul on Sunday as the United States and other nations rushed to evacuate the city. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s office said national forces “have the city under control and there’s no need for the people to worry.”2 . Taliban said in a statement they don't plan to take Kabul 'by force' as sporadic gunfire echoes in the Afghan capital, reported The Associated Press. “The Islamic Emirate instructs all its forces to stand at the gates of Kabul, not to try to enter the city,” the Taliban said in a statement, referring to the group’s formal name. “Negotiations are underway to ensure that the transition process is completed safely and securely, without putting the lives, property, and honor of anyone in danger.3. The Taliban also seized the provincial capital of Maidan Wardak on Sunday, which is about 90 kilometres from Kabul.4. Jalalabad, the last major city outside of Kabul, fell to the Taliban on Sunday, cutting off the capital to the east and tightening their grip on the nation as tens of thousands fled the rapid advance of the insurgents.5. In merely a week, the Taliban has managed to defeat, co-opt or send Afghan security forces fleeing from wide swathes of the country. The development comes despite the US military providing some air support to the Afghan forces.6. Quoting two officials, news agency Reuters reported that the United States has already started evacuating diplomats from its embassy in Kabul. "We have a small batch of people leaving now as we speak, a majority of the staff are ready to leave...the embassy continues to function," one of the officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said.7. ATM machines in Kabul stopped distributing cash on Sunday as hundreds gathered in front of private banks, trying to withdraw their life savings. News agencies noted that thousands of civilians now live in parks and open spaces in Kabul itself, fearing the future.8. Mazar-e-Sharif, the fourth-largest city in Afghanistan, fell to the Taliban on Saturday, thus handing the insurgents control over all of northern Afghanistan. Mazar-e-Sharif is the very city that Afghan forces and two powerful former warlords had pledged to defend. Atta Mohammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, two of the warlords Ghani tried to rally to his side days earlier, fled over the border into Uzbekistan on Saturday, said officials to the AP agency on condition of anonymity.9. The United States was sending more troops to the encircled capital of Kabul to help evacuate its civilians, Reuters reports. The fall of Jalalabad has also given the Taliban control of a road leading to the Pakistan city of Peshawar, one of the main highways into landlocked Afghanistan.10. All the provincial capitals now under Taliban control, according to the latest updates, are Zaranj, Sheberghan, Sar-e-Pul, Kunduz, Taloqan, Aybak, Pul-e-Khumri, Faizabad, Ghazni, Firus Koh, Qala-e-Naw, Kandahar, Lashkar Gah, Herat, Pul-e-Alam, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad, and Maidan Wardak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/has-kabul-fallen-to-the-taliban-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-in-10-points-101629003739961.html
15-08-2021||World||China's Huawei spied, installed data ‘back door’ in Pakistan: Report||China’s Huawei Technologies Co stole trade secrets and spied on Pakistan, a small US-based contractor has alleged and filed a federal court, according to a report. Business Efficiency Solutions LLC (BES) has said in the lawsuit filed on Wednesday in California district court that Huawei asked it to set up a system in China that gave the company access to sensitive information about citizens and government officials from a safe-cities surveillance project in Lahore, the Wall Street Journal has claimed.BES has said in the lawsuit that Huawei’s alleged back door was located in a database that consolidated sensitive information, including national ID card records, foreigner registrations, tax records and criminal records, for law enforcement. “Huawei-China uses the proprietary DES (Data Exchange System) system as a back door from China into Lahore to gain access, manipulate, and extract sensitive data important to Pakistan’s national security,” the BES lawsuit alleges, according to WSJ.The California-based software company has said after it installed the DES in Lahore, Huawei demanded in 2017 that it install a duplicate DES in China’s Suzhou. BES said it would give Huawei direct access to the data being gathered in Pakistan. The company said in the lawsuit it asked Huawei to obtain approval from Pakistani authorities before building the Suzhou system.Also read | India likely to block China's Huawei over security fears: OfficialsMuhammad Kamran Khan, chief operating officer of the Punjab Safe Cities Authority, which oversees the Lahore project, said they have begun looking into BES’s allegations. “Our team is examining the accusations and sought an explanation from Huawei. We have also put a data security check on Huawei after this issue. So far, there has been no evidence of any data-stealing by Huawei,” Khan told WSJ.A Huawei spokesperson said the company doesn’t comment on ongoing legal cases, according to WSJ. “Huawei respects the intellectual property of others, and there is no evidence Huawei ever implanted any back door in our products,” she said.Also read | Chinese court convicts Canadian Michael Spavor on charge of espionageHuawei has been under scrutiny for allegedly installing "backdoor" vulnerabilities to spy for China and the US has also said that the company’s equipment could enable Chinese espionage in the countries that install it. Huawei has repeatedly said it would never spy on behalf of any government.According to several reports, China last week hacked multiple public and private sector groups in Israel in an attempt to gain business interests. The Chinese have been conducting similar cyberattacks in Iran, Saudi Arabia and other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-huawei-spied-installed-data-back-door-in-pakistan-report-101629004305415.html
15-08-2021||World||PM Trudeau to meet Canada’s governor general seeking call for snap polls||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is scheduled to meet the country’s governor general Mary Simon on Sunday evening, India time, which is likely to lead to the announcement of snap polls. Those elections are likely to be held on September 20.Trudeau holds a lead in the latest opinion surveys, and is pushing for snap elections in a bid to convert his minority Liberal Party government into a majority one.At the scheduled meeting at Rideau Hall, the governor general’s official residence, Simon is expected to accept Trudeau’s recommendation to dissolve the House of Commons and call for fresh elections, a process called “dropping the writ” in Canadian electoral parlance.The snap polls will take place despite Canada seeing the start of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with major parties opposing national polls under such circumstances. The final results may not be available on night of the polling as Elections Canada is expecting the voting to involve as many as five million mail-in ballots due to the pandemic situation – up from 50,000 during the last general elections in 2019. Elections Canada has already warned that the counting may take between two to five days.The Trudeau-led Liberal Party government is in a minority in the House of Commons with 155 MPs as against 119 for the principal opposition party, the Conservatives. At the 2019 national elections, the Liberals had captured 157 seats, short of the 170 majority mark, and also trailed the Conservatives in vote share, with 31.1% against 34.3%.With Covid-19 cases on the rise, Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam cautioned that the latest national seven-day moving average of 1,609 new infections reported between August 6 and 12 marked an increase of 70% over the previous week. “Following the recent rise in cases, we are now seeing early signs of increases in severity trends,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-trudeau-to-meet-canada-s-governor-general-seeking-call-for-snap-polls-101629003617727.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban seizes Afghanistan's Jalalabad, Kabul remains only major stronghold||The Taliban raced closer to a complete military takeover of Afghanistan on Sunday after capturing more major cities, leaving only the isolated capital Kabul for them to conquer.The insurgents took control of the key eastern city of Jalalabad on Sunday, just hours after the seizing of the northern anti-Taliban bastion of Mazar-i-Sharif -- furthering an astonishing rout of government forces and warlord militias achieved in just 10 days."We woke up this morning to the Taliban white flags all over the city. They entered without fighting," said Jalalabad resident Ahmad Wali, confirming a claim on social media made by the Taliban.President Ashraf Ghani's government appeared to be left with few options as the Taliban effectively surrounded Kabul -- either prepare for a bloody fight for the capital or capitulate.On Saturday Ghani sought to project a semblance of authority with a national address in which he spoke of "re-mobilising" the military while seeking a "political solution" to the crisis.But the loss of Mazar-i-Sharif and Jalalabad are huge back-to-back blows for Ghani and his government.It left the Taliban -- who have fighters less than an hour's drive from Kabul -- holding all the cards in any negotiated surrender of the capital.President Joe Biden ordered the deployment of an additional 1,000 US troops to help secure the emergency evacuation from Kabul of embassy employees and thousands of Afghans who worked for American forces and now fear Taliban reprisals.That was on top of the 3,000 American soldiers deployed in recent days, and 1,000 left in-country after Biden announced in May that the final withdrawal of the 20-year military presence in Afghanistan would be completed by September 11.That decision has come under increased scrutiny given the collapse of the Afghan armed forces, but he insisted Saturday there was no choice."I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan -- two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth," Biden said.Heavy fightingIn Mazar-i-Sharif, Taliban fighters quickly took charge."They are parading on their vehicles and motorbikes, firing into the air in celebration," said Atiqullah Ghayor, who lives near the city's famed blue mosque.Warlords Abdul Rashid Dostum and Atta Mohammad Noor, who had led a militia resistance in the city to support government forces, had fled to Uzbekistan, about 30 kilometres to the north, an aide to Noor said.Noor later tweeted that they had been betrayed by the military and were in a "safe place", adding: "I have a lot of untold stories that I will share in due course."As the Taliban closed in on the capital, panicked residents formed long lines outside banks, hoping to withdraw their savings. Some branches appeared to have already run of cash.Residents near Pul-e-Charkhi prison outside Kabul told AFP they heard gunfire coming from the facility -- possibly the result of an inmate uprising.In his first address to the nation since the Taliban launched their sweeping offensive, which was recorded, Ghani said he wanted to stop the violence."I will not let the imposed war on people cause more deaths," he said, appearing sombre and sitting before an Afghan flag.Ghani said the armed forces could be "remobilized" and consultations were taking place to try to help end the fighting, but offered few specifics on what his administration was planning.The presidential palace later said: "A delegation with authority should soon be appointed by the government and be ready for negotiation."Further details were not immediately available.'Crying night and day'For Kabul residents and the tens of thousands who have sought refuge there in recent weeks, the overwhelming mood was one of apprehension and fear.Muzhda, 35, a single woman who arrived in the capital with her two sisters after fleeing nearby Parwan, said she was terrified."I am crying day and night," she told AFP. "If the Taliban come and force me to marry, I will commit suicide."The Taliban imposed an ultra-austere brand of Islam on Afghanistan during their 1996-2001 rule.The scale and speed of their advance have shocked Afghans and the US-led alliance that poured billions into the country after toppling the insurgents in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks.Individual Afghan soldiers, units, and even whole divisions have surrendered -- handing the Taliban even more vehicles and military hardware for their lightning advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-seizes-afghanistan-s-jalalabad-kabul-remains-only-major-stronghold-101628999226091.html
15-08-2021||World||Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan's 4th largest city, falls to Taliban||Taliban has captured another major city of Mazar-i-Sharif in northern Afghanistan, leaving only Kabul and Jalalabad, as Afghan forces and militia supporting the government escaped, according to reports. The Taliban said in a statement the Islamic Emirate (Taliban) "will, as always, protect their life, property and honour and create a peaceful and secure environment for its beloved nation," according to Reuters.The Sunni Pashtun group said its rapid gains showed it was popularly accepted by the people and reassured Afghans and foreigners that they would not be harmed."They are parading on their vehicles and motorbikes, firing into the air in celebration," Atiqullah Ghayor, a Mazar-i-Sharif resident, was quoted as saying by AFP.Also read | India likely to grant refuge to AfghansAfghan journalist Bilal Sarwary tweeted that there were chaotic scenes in parts of Mazar-i-Sharif and Afghan soldiers were seen fleeing. "One resident told me, there is panic, fear and chances of clashes inside the city," Sarwary said.Reuters reported citing provincial officials that Taliban fighters entered Mazar-i-Sharif virtually unopposed as security forces escaped up the highway to neighbouring Uzbekistan. Several videos on social media showed Afghan army vehicles and men in uniforms on the iron bridge between Afghanistan's Hairatan and Uzbekistan.Also read | Afghan govt to ‘remobilise’ forces against TalibanWarlords Atta Mohammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, the influential militia leaders supporting the government, also fled, several reports said. Noor said on social media that the Taliban had been handed control of Balkh province, where Mazar-I-Sharif is located, due to a "conspiracy."Before the fall of Mazar-i-Sharif was confirmed, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani addressed the nation and reassured people that his government will prevent further violence and ensure that stability is maintained. Ghani had flown to Mazar-e-Sharif on Wednesday to rally the city's defences and met with several militia commanders, including Dostum and Noor.Ghani also held talks with local leaders and international partners, including US secretary of State Antony Blinken, on Saturday. The US state department said that Ghani and Blinken discussed urgent efforts to bring down violence in Afghanistan.Also read | Biden increases US deployment to Afghanistan, warns TalibanSeveral Western countries are evacuating their embassy staff, citizens and Afghans who had worked for them from Kabul as the hardline Islamist terrorists have swept through the country in recent weeks as US-led forces withdrew. President Joe Biden said on Saturday he was authorising the deployment of 5,000 troops to help evacuate citizens and ensure an "orderly and safe" withdrawal of US military personnel. According to UK media reports, the British ambassador will leave the country by Sunday evening, UK media reported. They said the United Kingdom, which was sending 600 troops, sped up the departure of Britons.Hundreds of thousands of people from across Afghanistan have taken refuge in Kabul and are living in tents or in the open in the city. As the fighting has escalated it has raised fears of a refugee crisis and a rollback of gains in human rights, especially for women. Muzhda, a single woman who fled to Kabul with her two sisters from nearby Parwan, said she was terrified. "I am crying day and night. If the Taliban come and force me to marry, I will commit suicide," she told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mazarisharif-afghanistan-s-4th-largest-city-falls-to-taliban-101628986632533.html
15-08-2021||World||Quake kills hundreds in Haiti, worsening Caribbean nation's plight||At least 304 people died and hundreds were injured after a major earthquake struck southwestern Haiti on Saturday, authorities said, reducing churches, hotels, schools and homes to rubble in the latest tragedy to hit the impoverished Caribbean nation.The 7.2-magnitude quake, which was followed by a series of aftershocks, struck 8 km (5 miles) from the town of Petit Trou de Nippes, about 150 km west of the capital Port-au-Prince, at a depth of 10 km, the United States Geological Survey said.That made the temblor which was felt as far away as Cuba and Jamaica potentially bigger and shallower than the magnitude 7 earthquake 11 years ago that killed tens of thousands on the island.This one - which occurred around 8:30 a.m. local time - hit farther away from the capital, however. In Port-au-Prince, it was strongly felt but did not appear to have caused major damage, according to Reuters witnesses.Still, Haiti's Civil Protection service said the preliminary death toll stood at 304, with at least 1,800 injured and more people unaccounted for. Preliminary rescue operations by emergency teams and ordinary citizens had enabled many people to already be recovered from the debris.At least 949 homes, seven churches, two hotels and three schools had been destroyed, it said. A further 723 homes, one prison, three health centres and seven schools had been damaged although there was no major damage to port, airport or telecoms infrastructure.Prime Minister Ariel Henry, who flew over the region to survey the damage, declared a month-long state of emergency.The nearest big town was Les Cayes, where many buildings collapsed or suffered major damage, according to authorities."I saw bodies being pulled out of the rubble, injured and perhaps dead people," said Les Cayes resident Jean Marie Simon, 38, who was at the market when the earthquake struck and ran home to see if his family was safe. "I heard cries of pain everywhere I passed through."His wife and 2-year-old child had been bathing and rushed out to the street, naked, just before the front of the house crumbled. Simon gave his wife his shirt and they took refuge in the courtyard of a church with other locals. His mother's house had also collapsed."There are a lot of aftershocks and every time there's one, people run and shout," he said. "My legs are still trembling."Videos posted to social media showed citizens pulling others from debris and crowds of people waiting for medical attention at overwhelmed hospitals.USGS said a significant amount of the population was at risk of landslides, with road obstructions likely. Haiti's Civil Protection service said a landslide had blocked the highway between Les Cayes and the town of Jeremie.Likely to complicate relief efforts is the fact Haiti is now in the probable track of Tropical Storm Grace, which could bring heavy rains and winds early next week.Also, access by road to the southern region, where the quake struck, has been restricted by gang control of key areas although Henry said police would accompany any convoys going to the south.'NEVER A BREAK'The earthquake comes just over a month after the assassination of President Jovenel Moise, who had been ruling by decree, which deepened the country's political turmoil.Meanwhile, swaths of Haiti are facing growing hunger and healthcare services are already overwhelmed by Covid-19.That region had only recently recovered from Hurricane Matthew, which struck in 2016, killing hundreds and causing widespread devastation."This country just never finds a break! Each year of mismanagement did not hurt but the cumulative effects made us vulnerable to everything," said Haitian entrepreneur Marc Alain Boucicault on Twitter."It's going to take years to fix things and we have not even started!"In Port-au-Prince, residents traumatized by the 2010 quake rushed, screaming, into the streets and stayed there as the aftershocks rumbled on."In my neighborhood, I heard people screaming. They were flying outside," said resident Sephora Pierre Louis. "At least they know to go outside. In 2010, they didn’t know what to do. People are still outside in the street."The quake sent shock waves as far as Cuba and Jamaica although there were no reports of material damage, deaths or injuries there."Everyone is really afraid. It's been years since such a big earthquake," said Daniel Ross, a resident in the eastern Cuban city of Guantanamo.He said his home stood firm but the furniture shook."I feel it, man. It wake me up. My roof kind of make some noise," said Danny Bailey, 49, in Kingston.US President Joe Biden said he had authorized an immediate US response and named Samantha Power, administrator of the US Agency for International Development, coordinator of the effort.Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador also said he was ordering the government to prepare immediate relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quake-kills-hundreds-in-haiti-worsening-caribbean-nation-s-plight-101628983788843.html
15-08-2021||World||Covid-19: CDC signs off on 3rd dose for some in US||The top US health agency on Friday recommended an additional dose of two-shot mRNA Covid vaccines for people with compromised immune systems such as organ transplant recipients, cancer patients or those with advanced and untreated HIV infection.“At a time when the Delta variant is surging, an additional vaccine dose for some people with weakened immune systems could help prevent serious and possibly life-threatening cases within this population,” said Rachelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).The third dose should be the same mRNA vaccine - Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna - as the primary shots and are to be administered four weeks after completing the primary vaccination. An estimated 3% of the adult population in America is said to be immunocompromised. And studies cited by CDC in support of this new recommendation showed 40-44% of hospitalised breakthrough cases - those contracting Covid-19 despite being fully vaccinated - were immunocompromised.Delta pushes cases upMeanwhile, the seven-day average of Covid-19 deaths in the US reached 645 on Friday, almost doubling in two weeks to reach the highest point since May, as the Delta variant pushes deeper into the country.Meanwhile, daily infections are up about 66% over the same period and are back at levels last seen in early February - the average topping 128,000 as of Friday, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg.Australia’s most-populous city Sydney tightened restrictions as the Delta variant of the coronavirus spreads throughout the country. New South Wales state recorded 466 new cases in the local community on Saturday. Iranian state media says authorities will impose a six-day “general lockdown” in cities across the country in an effort to curb the Delta variant.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cdc-signs-off-on-3rd-dose-for-some-in-us-101628979979441.html
15-08-2021||World||Ahead of 9/11 anniversary, US issues warning on threat from terrorists||The US department of homeland security (DHS) issued a new terrorism threat advisory on Friday ahead of the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks and amid a resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic.The national terrorism advisory system bulletin said the US faces a “heightened threat environment” from both domestic terrorists “and those inspired or motivated by foreign terrorists and other malign foreign influences”.It cited increased use of “online forums to influence and spread extremist narratives and promote violent activity”.The new advisory updated a January alert following the attack on the US Congress by supporters of then-president Donald Trump, when DHS said the country faced “increasingly complex and volatile” threats from anti-government and racially motivated extremists, often stirred up by online influence from abroad.Meanwhile, a military base in the nation’s capital was locked down for about two hours on Friday, after an armed man ran onto the grounds during a local police investigation of gunshots on the streets surrounding the base.A statement from Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling said the man’s firearm was discovered after the intrusion, and the intruder himself was detained around 2.45pm during “a thorough sweep of the installation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-9-11-anniversary-us-issues-warning-on-threat-from-terrorists-101628980181983.html
15-08-2021||World||Afghan govt to ‘remobilise’ forces against Taliban||Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani vowed on Saturday to prevent further bloodshed, as Taliban fighters closed in on Kabul after routing his armed forces over the past 10 days.The Taliban, facing little resistance, captured all of Logar province, just south of the capital and detained local officials, said Hoda Ahmadi, a lawmaker from the province. She said the Taliban have reached the Char Asyab district, just 11km (7 miles) south of Kabul. The capital of the province, Pul-e-Alam, is a staging post for a potential assault on Kabul.The insurgents also captured Mazar-i-Sharif, the northern city that was the Afghan government’s last northern stronghold, with security forces fleeing to the Uzbekistan border, a provincial official said late on Saturday.Also Read| Biden increases US deployment to Afghanistan, warns TalibanIn a recorded address to the nation – his first since the Taliban launched their sweeping offensive – Ghani said he wanted to stop the violence “as a historic mission”. “I will not let the imposed war on people cause more deaths,” he said.A Pentagon spokesperson said on Friday “Kabul is not right now in an imminent threat environment, while acknowledging that Taliban fighters were “trying to isolate” the city.The president gave no hint he would resign or take responsibility for the calamitous military collapse, but said the armed forces could be “remobilised” and consultations were taking place to try to help end the war.He offered few specifics on what his administration was planning, with government control over Afghanistan all but collapsed, but the presidential palace later said in a statement that “a delegation with authority should soon be appointed by the government and be ready for negotiation”.The Taliban have made major advances in recent days, including capturing Herat and Kandahar, the country’s second- and third-largest cities, with less than three weeks left before the United States is set to withdraw its last troops. They now control 19 of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces, leaving the Western-backed government in control of a smattering of provinces in the centre and east. The breakneck offensive has raised fears of a full militant takeover or another Afghan civil war.The US military has estimated that Kabul could come under insurgent pressure within 30 days and that the Taliban could overrun the rest of the country within a few months.Ghani’s speech came as US Marines were sent in to oversee an evacuation of embassy employees and thousands of Afghans and their families, who fear retribution for working for the United States during its 20-year occupation.Also Read| India likely to grant refuge to AfghansWith the country’s second-and third-largest cities having fallen into Taliban hands, Kabul has effectively become the besieged last stand for government forces who have offered little or no resistance elsewhere.As the Taliban closed in on Kabul, panicked residents formed long lines outside banks, hoping to withdraw their savings. Some branches appeared to have already run of cash.Insurgent fighters are now camped just 50km away from Kabul, with the United States and other countries scrambling to airlift their nationals out of the Afghan capital ahead of a feared all-out assault.In Kabul, US embassy staff were ordered to begin shredding and burning sensitive material, as the first American troops started arriving to secure the airport and oversee evacuations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-govt-to-remobilise-forces-against-taliban-101628980345549.html
15-08-2021||World||Prez Joe Biden increases US deployment to Afghanistan, warns Taliban||President Joe Biden on Saturday doubled down on his decision to withdraw US forces from Afghanistan despite the Taliban's rapid advances, but pledged to send more troops to evacuate civilians and warned the insurgents not to threaten that mission.After consultations with his national security team, Biden said a total of "approximately 5,000" US soldiers -- up from 3,000 -- will now help organize evacuations and the end of the US mission after 20 years on the ground.He warned the Taliban that any action "that puts US personnel or our mission at risk there, will be met with a swift and strong US military response."Biden's announcement came after Taliban insurgents captured the main northern holdout city of Mazar-i-Sharif and continued their rapid march towards the capital Kabul.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani pledged Saturday not to let the "imposed war on people cause more deaths," and said consultations were taking place to try to help end the war, without offering details.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who was part of the team that conferred with Biden, spoke by telephone with Ghani on Saturday, his spokesman said."They discussed the urgency of ongoing diplomatic and political efforts to reduce the violence," spokesman Ned Price said.Blinken was also expected to "engage with key regional stakeholders" on the escalating Taliban march on Kabul, Biden said.Earlier, US Central Command said more American military personnel had arrived in Kabul to ensure the safe evacuation of American embassy employees and Afghan civilians who worked for US forces.The Pentagon estimates it will need to evacuate about 30,000 people before it completes its withdrawal from Afghanistan by August 31, a deadline set by Biden.Biden's decision to pull troops out of Afghanistan has come under increased scrutiny given the implosion of the country's armed forces, but he said he had no other choice -- and laid some of the blame at the feet of Donald Trump."When I came to office, I inherited a deal cut by my predecessor... that left the Taliban in the strongest position militarily since 2001 and imposed a May 1, 2021, deadline on US forces," Biden said."I faced a choice -- follow through on the deal, with a brief extension to get our forces and our allies' forces out safely, or ramp up our presence and send more American troops to fight once again in another country's civil conflict," he added."I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan -- two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth," Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-increases-us-deployment-to-afghanistan-warns-taliban-101628974927343.html
