20-08-2021||World||Joe Biden pledges to Americans in Kabul: 'We will get you home'||President Joe Biden is pledging to Americans still trapped in Afghanistan: “We will get you home.”Biden's comments at a White House news conference Friday come as the U.S. government struggles to ramp up a massive airlift clearing Americans and other foreigners and vulnerable Afghans through the Kabul airport, rescuing them from a Taliban takeover of the country.Biden is facing criticism for a chaotic and often violent scene outside the airport as crowds struggle to reach safety inside. He called the past week “heartbreaking," but insisted his administration was working hard to smooth and speed the evacuations.“I don’t think anyone of us can see these pictures and not feel that pain on a human level,” Biden said, but “now I'm focused on getting this job done.”Evacuation flights at the Kabul airport had stopped for several hours on Friday because of a backup at a transit point for the refugees, a U.S. airbase in Qatar, U.S. officials said. However, a resumption was ordered in the afternoon, Washington time.As many as three flights out of Kabul were expected in the next few hours, going to Bahrain and carrying perhaps 1,500 evacuees in all, said an official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss military.In Washington, some veterans in Congress were calling on the Biden administration to extend a security perimeter beyond the Kabul airport so more Afghans can make it to the airport for evacuation. They also want Biden to make clear an Aug. 31 deadline for withdrawing U.S. troops is not a firm one.The deadline "is contributing to the chaos and the panic at the airport because you have Afghans who think that they have 10 days to get out of this country or that door is closing forever,” said Rep. Peter Meijer, R-Mich., who served in Iraq and also worked in Afghanistan to help aid workers provide humanitarian relief.Tens of thousands of people remain to be evacuated ahead of the United States' Aug. 31 deadline to withdraw its troops from the country, although the pace had picked up overnight. A defense official said about 5,700 people, including about 250 Americans, were flown out of Kabul aboard 16 C-17 transport planes. On each of the previous two days, about 2,000 people were airlifted.With desperate crowds thronging Kabul's airport, and Taliban fighters ringing its perimeter, the U.S. government renewed its advisory to Americans and others that it could not guarantee safe passage for any of those desperately seeking seats on the planes inside.The advisory captured some of the pandemonium, and what many Afghans and foreigners see as their life-and-death struggle to get inside. It said: "We are processing people at multiple gates. Due to large crowds and security concerns, gates may open or close without notice. Please use your best judgment and attempt to enter the airport at any gate that is open.”While Biden has previously blamed Afghans for the U.S. failure to get out more allies ahead of this month’s sudden Taliban takeover, U.S. officials told The Associated Press that American diplomats had formally urged weeks ago that the administration ramp up evacuation efforts.In July, more than 20 diplomats at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul registered their concerns that the evacuation of Afghans who had worked for America was not proceeding quickly enough.In a cable sent through the State Department’s dissent channel, a time-honored method for foreign service officers to register opposition to administration policies, the diplomats said the situation on the ground was dire, that the Taliban would likely seize control of the capital within months of the Aug. 31 pullout, and urged the Biden administration to immediately begin a concerted evacuation effort. That's according to officials familiar with the document who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the internal debate.Biden has said that the chaos that unfolded as part of the withdrawal was inevitable as the nearly 20-year war came to an end. He said he was following the advice of Afghanistan's U.S.-backed president, Ashraf Ghani, in not earlier expanding U.S. efforts to fly out translators and other Afghans in danger for the past work with Americans. Ghani fled the country last weekend as the Taliban seized the capital.Biden also said that many at-risk Afghan allies had not wanted to leave the country. But refugee groups point to yearslong backlogs of applications from thousands of those Afghans for visas that would let them take refuge in the United States.The administration has also portrayed its contingency planning as successful after the Afghan government fell much faster than publicly anticipated by administration officials. Yet the White House received clear warnings that the situation was deteriorating rapidly before the current evacuation push.The Kabul airport has been the focus of intense international efforts to get out foreigners, Afghan allies and other Afghans most at risk of reprisal from the Taliban insurgents.White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said that U.S. citizens are able to reach the airport, but face an obstacle in the large crowds at the airport gates.On Thursday, Taliban militants fired into the air to try to control the crowds gathered at the airport’s blast walls. Men, women and children fled. U.S. Navy fighter jets flew overhead, a standard military precaution but also a reminder to the Taliban that the U.S. has firepower to respond to a combat crisis.Sullivan acknowledged that there is the possibility of a hostage situation or terrorist attack, and said the government is working for safe passage for U.S. citizens. The administration has committed to ensuring that all Americans can leave, even if that means staying past the August deadline.“This is a risky operation,” Sullivan told NBC Nightly News Thursday. “We can't count on anything.”There is no firm figure of the number of people — Americans, Afghans or others — who are in need of evacuation as the process is almost entirely self-selecting.The State Department says that when it ordered its nonessential embassy staff to leave Kabul in April after Biden’s withdrawal announcement, fewer than 4,000 Americans had registered for security updates. The actual number, including dual U.S.-Afghan citizens along with family members, is likely much higher, with estimates ranging from 11,000 to 15,000. Refugee advocates estimate about 100,000 Afghan allies and family members also are appealing for seats on the U.S. airlift.Compounding the uncertainty, the U.S. government has no way to track how many registered Americans may have left Afghanistan already. Some may have returned to the United States but others may have gone to third countries.Although Afghanistan had been a hotspot for the coronavirus pandemic, the State Department said Thursday that evacuees are not required to get negative COVID-19 results.However, Afghans and the Americans trying to help them escape say the Biden administration has clung to visa requirements for would-be evacuees that involve more than a dozen steps, and can take years to complete. Those often have included requirements that the Taliban sweep has made dangerous or impossible — such as requiring Afghans to go to a third-country to apply for a U.S. visa, and produce paperwork showing their work with Americans.The head of a U.S. refugee organization working to get Afghans out accused Biden of ignoring repeated earlier warnings to speed up the evacuations while winding down the 20-year U.S. combat mission.“The administration’s failure to heed the call of veterans and advocates months ago has put our nation in this unconscionable position. It cannot let innocent Afghans die by bureaucracy,” Krish O’Mara Vignarajah, president of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, said Friday.Additional American troops continued to arrive at the airport to safeguard and run the U.S. part of the evacuation. As of Thursday there were about 5,200, including Marines who specialize in evacuation coordination and an Air Force unit that specializes in emergency airport operations. Biden has authorized a total deployment of about 6,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-pledges-to-americans-in-kabul-we-will-get-you-home-101629483443318.html
20-08-2021||World||'Responsibility towards Afghanistan for ties with Taliban': NATO on Pakistan||The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on Friday expressed that Pakistan has a special responsibility towards Afghanistan as Islamabad possesses close relations with the Taliban, Pajhwok Afghan News reported.NATO also urged that any future Afghan government must adhere to Afghanistan's international obligations; safeguard the human rights of all Afghans, particularly women, children, and minorities; uphold the rule of law; allow unhindered humanitarian access.Also Read | ‘Tragedy, very difficult, unpredictable’: Nato on situation in Afghanistan, says evacuation of people top priority"Pakistan has close relations with the Taliban and now has a special responsibility towards Afghanistan," Jens Stoltenberg said during a NATO press briefing.Stoltenberg's remarks came after the Taliban entered Kabul on Sunday and took control of the presidential palace. Panic has gripped the Afghan capital as people fear a return to the Taliban's brutal rule and the threat of reprisal killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/responsibility-towards-afghanistan-for-ties-with-taliban-nato-on-pakistan-101629481844170.html
20-08-2021||World||Peak of Greenland’s ice sheet records rain for the first time||In another sign that the climate is changing fast, Greenland, which had been experiencing a heatwave alongside much of the northern hemisphere, recently witnessed rainfall for several hours.According to the Colorado-based National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC), on the highest point of the Greenland ice sheet it rained for hours on August 14 and temperatures remained above freezing point for nine hours. “There is no previous report of rainfall at this location, which reaches 3,216m in elevation,” NSIDC reported.Greenland’s ice sheet seeing rainfall for the first time in recorded history is a worrying sign for climate scientists. “Greenland, like the rest of the world, is changing,” University of Colorado Boulder glaciologist Ted Scambos told The Washington Post. “We now see three melting events in a decade in Greenland, and before 1990, that happened about once every 150 years. And now rainfall, in an area where rain never fell. Like the heatwave in the [US Pacific] northwest, it’s something that’s hard to imagine without the influence of global climate change.”“We are crossing thresholds not seen in millennia... this is not going to change until we adjust what we’re doing to the air,” Scambos told CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peak-of-greenland-s-ice-sheet-records-rain-for-the-first-time-101629482326542.html
20-08-2021||World||Chaos grows, evacuations speed up||Foreign powers sought to increase evacuations from Afghanistan on Friday after reports of growing chaos across the country and Taliban reprisals, including against people who had worked with US-led forces or the previous Western-backed government.Nato foreign ministers on Friday committed to focus on ensuring the safe evacuation from Afghanistan of their citizens and of Afghans deemed at risk after the country’s takeover by the Taliban. They also insisted that the new rulers in Kabul would have to make sure that the nation does not become a centre for terrorism.“Any future Afghan government must adhere to Afghanistan’s international obligations… and ensure that Afghanistan never again serves as a safe haven for terrorists,” a statement from the alliance said.Thousand of people still thronged the airport where gun-toting Taliban members urged people without travel documents to go home. Some have fled gunfire in recent days. “As of today, those who may be in danger have no clear way out,” UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesperson Shabia Mantoo said, urging neighbouring countries to keep borders open.The country’s new rulers are not stopping people leaving the country at Kabul airport, a Taliban official said on Friday. “We are only pushing away those who have no legal papers to travel, but who are adding to the chaos at Kabul airport gate,” he told Reuters.The speed with which the Islamist group conquered Afghanistan as foreign troops were withdrawing surprised even their own leaders and left power vacuums. The Taliban called for unity ahead of Friday prayers, asking imams to persuade people not to leave. Residents in Kabul and four other major cities said prayers appeared to have passed off without incident, though attendance was low.In the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday Britain would work with the Taliban if needed after the militants’ capture of Afghanistan. “What I want to assure people is that our political and diplomatic efforts to find a solution for Afghanistan, working with the Taliban, of course if necessary, will go on,” Johnson told reporters.In the US, officials said they were “laser-focused” on “the potential for a terrorist attack” by a group such as Islamic State during the evacuation, White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said in an interview with NBC News.Germany said on Friday it was sending helicopters to help, while Russian President Vladimir Putin has called on other countries to not impose their own values on Afghanistan and that the reality was that the Taliban had taken control of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chaos-grows-evacuations-speed-up-101629482068825.html
20-08-2021||World||As more people around world get vaccinated against Covid-19, fewer are able to donate blood||From Seoul to Paris, and Moscow to Bangkok, concerned citizens are lining up for vaccine shots as Covid-19 case numbers swell. That may ease pressure on stretched hospitals around the world, but with it comes a hangover - a severe shortage of blood donors.A number of countries don't allow people who have just been vaccinated to give blood, as well as banning those in recovery from coronavirus. With others simply staying home as new infections rise, doctors say donor pools have shrunk to alarmingly low levels, menacing urgent operations.In South Korea, now grappling with record cases, donors can't give blood for seven days after a Covid-19 vaccine shot - and supply is down to just 3.2 days, as of Wednesday, from 6.5 days' worth this time last year, according to the Korean Red Cross.The Korean Medical Association (KMA) has launched a blood drive, starting with doctors themselves, warning that patients in need of urgent surgery or transfusions could face emergency situations, KMA spokeswoman Park Soo-hyun told Reuters."There have been increasing times when hospitals notify us of postponement of surgeries or treatments and crowding due to lack of blood," Park said.Recurrent waves of infections, driven by the highly transmissible Delta variant, and extension of lockdowns have started taking a bigger toll on donations, according to a Reuters review of the situation in different countries.In Thailand, confirmed cases topped 1 million on Friday with authorities reporting record increases in deaths in recent weeks."Due to the COVID situation, not many people are donating blood so there is not enough and some surgeries have to be postponed," said Piya Kiatisewi, a bone cancer surgeon at Lerdsin Hospital in Bangkok.'September worries'Like South Korea, Russia prohibits blood donations from the fully vaccinated - but for a whole month, not just seven days. It also doesn't accept blood from those in the middle of Covid-19 vaccination cycle.The Kommersant business daily reported last week that donor activity in Russia has slumped, hit by the vaccination campaign, with blood service workers in six different regions reporting the problem to the paper.In the United States, supplies of donated blood - already strained by the pandemic - tightened further in the spring as hospitals ramped up surgeries that had been on hold, according to Dr. Claudia Cohn, chief medical officer at AABB, previously known as the American Association of Blood Banks.Under US guidelines, people receiving authorised vaccines do not have to wait before donating blood, but individuals given a different type of vaccine, possibly in another country, need to wait 14 days.To be sure, in western Europe concerns over vaccination-hit donations have been exacerbated by the traditional summer holiday period.France's blood supply agency, the Etablissement Francais du Sang (EFS), said stocks were too tight for comfort. It said there are 85,000 red blood cell bags in reserve, below a comfortable level of 100,000 or more."No sick person will miss out on a transfusion but we are worried for September," an EFS spokesperson told Reuters, when the volume of surgical operations would typically increase.In Italy, the National Blood Centre said there were worrying shortages in a number of regions, including Lazio, centred on the capital Rome, which had led some hospitals to postpone planned operations to conserve stocks for emergencies. It blamed the shortfall mainly on many people being away on holiday and a lack of staff in some collection centres.'Afraid to donate' Across Europe, donation levels have also been plagued by uncertainty over whether people can give blood if they have not been vaccinated, officials in various countries said. Spain's Health Ministry, for instance, issued a call for donations this week, telling people it's safe to donate during the pandemic.In Greece, "People are afraid to go and donate blood to hospitals because of the coronavirus", said Konstantinos Stamoulis, scientific director of Hellenic National Blood Center in Athens. "There are days when there is a reduction of up to 50% in blood donations compared to 2019," he said.Back in Asia, many countries are now facing their most severe outbreak of coronavirus so far amid the Delta variant surge.In Vietnam, the country's National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion said it could meet only 50-70% of demand."We haven't been able to deploy mobile donor centres," said Le Hoang Oanh, head of the blood transfusion centre of Cho Ray Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's coronavirus epicentre."Instead, we have to call for donors to go to our permanent centres, which is a challenge given the movement restrictions in the city."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-more-people-around-world-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-fewer-are-able-to-donate-blood-101629479810899.html
20-08-2021||World||'There is no alternative': Russia says resistance to Taliban would fail in Afghanistan||Russia's ambassador to Afghanistan praised the conduct of the Taliban on Friday in the days since its takeover, saying there was no alternative to the hardline Islamist group and resistance to it would fail.The comments by Ambassador Dmitry Zhirnov reflect efforts by Russia to deepen already well-established ties with the Taliban while stopping short, for now, of recognising them as the legitimate rulers of a country Moscow tried and failed to control before the Soviet Union withdrew its last forces in 1989.Russia wants to ensure that the instability in Afghanistan does not spill over into Central Asia, part of the former Soviet Union it regards as its own backyard, and that the region does not become a launch pad for other extreme Islamist groups.Speaking to Reuters from Kabul by Zoom, Zhirnov said the security situation in the capital was much better than it was before the Taliban took control of it and spoke optimistically about the future."The mood in Kabul can be described as one of cautious hope," said Zhirnov."There was a bad regime which disappeared and people are hopeful. They say it can’t be worse so it should be better. But this is another test for the Taliban to pass. After they restore order, they should start improving the socio-economic situation," he said.Kabul has been largely calm, except in and around the airport where 12 people have been killed since Sunday, NATO and Taliban officials said.Zhirnov's comments contrast sharply with those of some Western politicians and rights activists who are deeply sceptical that the Taliban has moderated its violence towards those they see as incompatible with their nascent emirate governed by strict Islamic law.Zhirnov said the facts on the ground had changed and the Taliban had made a set of encouraging pledges."We can’t wave reality aside. They (the Taliban) are the de-facto authorities. There is no alternative to the Taliban in Afghanistan," said Zhirnov.The son of Ahmad Shah Massoud, one of the main leaders of Afghanistan's anti-Soviet resistance in the 1980s, has pledged to hold out against the Taliban from his stronghold in the Panjshir valley north of Kabul.Afghan First Vice President Amrullah Saleh has also said he is in Afghanistan and the "legitimate caretaker president" after President Ashraf Ghani fled.Zhirnov said Saleh's declaration violated the constitution and that Panjshir-based attempts to resist the Taliban were doomed."They have no military prospects. There are not many people there. As far as we know they have 7,000 armed people. And they already have problems with fuel. They tried to fly a helicopter but they have no petrol and no supplies," he said.Zhirnov also questioned the idea that all of the Afghans trying to flee the country were doing so because of the Taliban."Many people now see this situation now as a possible ticket to a new life (in the West) and this may not be related to the Taliban," he said of the chaotic exodus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/there-is-no-alternative-russia-says-resistance-to-taliban-would-fail-in-afghanistan-101629480165243.html
20-08-2021||World||‘Tragedy, very difficult, unpredictable’: Nato on situation in Afghanistan, says evacuation of people top priority||The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) on Friday said that the evacuation of people, citizens of allied nations and Afghan nationals, from Afghanistan was the “immediate priority” of the group, following a meeting of the foreign ministers of NATO member countries. It said the situation in Afghanistan was “a tragedy for the people” of that country and it remains “very difficult and unpredictable,” a statement from NATO secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said.“Ministers discussed a number of different issues. First, the continuing evacuation of people from Allied and partner countries, and Afghans who worked with us. This is our immediate priority,” Stoltenberg said.Earlier on Thursday (August 19), NATO had announced that Stoltenberg would chair an extraordinary virtual meeting of the North Atlantic Council (NAC) at the level of ministers of foreign affairs via secure teleconference to discuss the developments in Afghanistan.Also read | White House not aware of 'precise number' of Americans in AfghanistanDuring the meeting, alongside the evacuation process, the NATO also discussed its approach to the Taliban militants currently in power in Afghanistan. It called on the Taliban to ensure that the country does not become a safe haven for terrorism.“We expect the Taliban to uphold their commitments, and ensure that Afghanistan does not again become a safe haven for international terrorism. The Taliban must put an end to violence around the country, and uphold the fundamental rights of all Afghan citizens – men, women and children,” the secretary general said.Further, it also warned the Taliban of “international isolation” if it attempted to undo the social, economic and political progress in the country.The foreign ministers also agreed that they would not allow terrorists to threaten them again from Afghanistan. “And no terrorist attacks on Allied soil have been organized from Afghanistan over the last two decades. These gains must be preserved. For our own security,” the statement noted.‘Speed of collapse not anticipated’The Nato acknowledged that the rapid collapse of the Afghan political and military leadership, armed forces was not anticipated.“We were clear-eyed about the risks of withdrawing our troops. But the speed of the collapse of the Afghan political and military leadership, and armed forces was not anticipated. There are many lessons to be learned,” Stoltenberg said.He further said that he intended to conduct a thorough assessment of the NATO’s engagement in Afghanistan.Close to 800 Nato civilian personnel had worked to keep the Kabul international airport running, the statement said, following the militants’ takeover of the capital city. They provided air traffic control, fuel and communications. It also said that the NATO had worked “around the clock” to maintain operations at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tragedy-very-difficult-unpredictable-nato-on-situation-in-afghanistan-says-evacuation-of-people-top-priority-101629480054263.html
20-08-2021||World||‘Not considering to recognise Taliban as Afghanistan’s legitimate govt’: Japan||As Afghanistan experiences complete mayhem in the wake of the Islamist extremist group Taliban regaining control over the country nearly two decades later, Japan has become the latest country to reportedly state that it is “not considering to recognise” the group as the “legitimate government” of the nation.According to a report by Sputnik, Japan’s chief cabinet secretary Katsunobu Kato on Friday, while addressing a press briefing, said that the necessary decision to recognise the Taliban will be made on the basis of national interests and in cooperation with other countries, including the United States (US)."The situation now is too uncertain, so that any forecasts would be untimely," he added at the briefing.Notably, Japan has already evacuated its staff and other citizens from its embassy in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul after the extremist group took over the city on Sunday.Meanwhile, more than 60 nations that include the US, UK, Germany, Canada and Japan too, have urged “all parties” to protect the departure of foreign citizens and Afghan nationals who wish to leave the war-gripped Afghanistan. These countries also insisted on keeping airports, road stretches and border crossings open.Japan’s stand on the new Taliban regime comes soon after Canada made a unanimous decision to not accept the group as the government of Afghanistan. “Canada has no plans to recognise the Taliban as the government of Afghanistan,” Canadian Prime Minister and Liberal Party leader Justin Trudeau said.Also Read | Canada will not recognise Taliban as Afghan govt, says PM Justin TrudeauThis stand was taken by other party leaders of Canada as well namely the Conservative Party and the New Democratic Party. Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole tweeted, “I was asked by a caller if I would recognise the legitimacy of the Taliban in Afghanistan. Let me be clear: never.”Trudeau also noted that the Taliban are a “recognised terrorist organisation under Canadian law” and had replaced the “duly elected, democratic government by force.”However, China has said that the Taliban today is “more clear-headed and rational” as opposed to what it was when in power the last time.Also Read| China can play a very big role in rebuilding Afghanistan: Taliban“When dealing with a problem, we should not only depend on what has happened in the past, but also on what is happening now. This is done not only by listening to what is said, but also by watching what is done,” China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said.She added that although the Afghan situation is not fully clear, China believes that Taliban “will not repeat history.”Taliban, on the other hand, has consistently assured that Afghan citizens under its rule should not feel scared and that women’s rights will be safeguarded as per the ‘Islamic law.’(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-considering-to-recognise-taliban-as-afghanistan-s-legitimate-govt-japan-101629479698125.html
20-08-2021||World||White House not aware of 'precise number' of Americans in Afghanistan||The United States government isn’t aware of the exact numbers of Americans currently stranded in Afghanistan, the White House communications director said on Friday amid fears of reprisal from the Taliban. Kate Bedingfield told CNN that the White House doesn’t have a “precise number” on US citizens, adding that the current count "includes people who may have left the country, who may have left over the course of the last six months.""What we're doing is working to identify how many Americans are there," she said.The statement comes days after US President Joe Biden said he would extend the August 31 deadline for the complete withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan. The US president has been facing criticism over the rushed withdrawal of troops as the situation rapidly deteriorated in Afghanistan and put the Taliban in virtually total control. After the Taliban captured Afghanistan’s national capital in a lightning push, Kabul airport witnessed chaos as hundreds of desperate Afghans tried to board military planes.The Taliban’s control even before the complete withdrawal of US-led foreign forces has jeopardised the evacuation of diplomats, staff, other foreigners and some Afghan nationals who helped the troops. The crisis has prompted Biden to address the nation on the evacuation of Americans, Special Immigrant Visa applicants and "vulnerable Afghans" at 1pm ET (10:30 pm IST).About 10,000 to 15,000 US citizens are in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan, according to The Washington Post report quoting Senate aides."As of a few weeks ago we had already begun reaching out to all American citizens who were in Afghanistan, via email, via text, via messaging app to hear from them, and to understand their plans and work with them to get them out if they want to get out," Bedingfield told CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-not-aware-of-precise-number-of-americans-in-afghanistan-101629474876408.html
20-08-2021||World||Multiple deaths in Pak's Gwadar after blast target vehicle carrying Chinese nationals||Multiple deaths have been reported in Pakistan's port city of Gwadar after a massive explosion targeted Chinese nationals, according to media reports. Police said two children were killed and three got injured in a suicide blast that took place at the East Bay Road in the port of Gwadar around 7 pm, reported news agency Reuters.The Pakistan interior ministry said in a statement that a Chinese national got injured in the attack and was rushed to a nearby hospital.A spokesperson for the provincial government said the blast has claimed the lives of two children and injured three people, including the car's driver."Strongly condemn suicide attack on Chinese nationals Vehicle in #Gwadar. 2 children died who were playing nearby & one Chinese sustained minor injuries," tweeted Liaquat Shahwani, the spokesperson for the Balochistan government.Another report by The Balochistan Post, however, claimed that nine Chinese nationals have been killed in the blast. A convoy of Chinese engineers was reportedly targeted in the blast near the construction site of a road that is part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).Balochistan Liberation Army, a separatist militant organisation has claimed responsibility for the "self-sacrificing" attack on Chinese engineers."BLA carried out a 'self-sacrificing' attack against a convoy of Chinese engineers," the group said in a statement.The explosion has been reported around a month after a bus carrying workers was attacked in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province that resulted in the death of nine Chinese nationals and four more people. Pakistan had initially claimed that the incident was caused by a mechanical failure leading to a gas leak. But the Chinese side said the bus was hit by a blast.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-deaths-in-pak-s-gwadar-after-blast-target-vehicle-carrying-chinese-nationals-101629476001745.html
20-08-2021||World||'Kabul skydiving club' T-shirt faces backlash on social media||The horrifying image of two people falling from a US Air Force jet in Kabul as they attempted to flee Afghanistan made to a t-shirt being sold by a US e-commerce company creating a huge backlash on social media. Following the uproar, the company took it down and said they will monitor for additional listing of the same design, reports said. While Etsy, the US-based company, faced the heat and took it down, the t-shirts were available on several online clothing stores, in a different range of price, colour and size. On some platforms, the t-shirts are still available. "As Afghans are fleeing and clinging to planes out of desperation, someone decided to capitalize on their pain and misery with this repulsive t-shirt. It’s being sold on at least half a dozen t-shirt printing websites right now. Humans can be so cruel," Holly Dagres, an Iranian-American analyst tweeted, with a screenshot of the t-shirts.The description of the product said, "Two people - falling from the sky, out of the airplane, it hurts all of us. The shirt is originally not funny. It does have its own meaning in the political aspect, but in the end, it depends on how you feel about it! For those who love Parachuting, Skydiving, those who love jumping from the airplane and experience the highest mood, this shirt is totally suitable for you to wear."“Featuring the scene of the plane flying in the sky and suddenly, there are two people falling from it, the Kabul Skydiving Club Shirt is officially becoming a phenomenon and goes viral on the Internet after that!" it added.As Afghans are fleeing and clinging to planes out of desperation, someone decided to capitalize on their pain and misery with this repulsive t-shirt. It’s being sold on at least half a dozen t-shirt printing websites right now. Humans can be so cruel. pic.twitter.com/du5cCbD2QAHey @Etsy,Can you remove this **horrible** item (and likes of it) from your website?https://t.co/vKWm1BuPSHI understand it's not you but the sellers who are making these. But you can take action, so please do!#AfganistanHey @Etsy here is another video for your reference, watch it and print it on your t-shirt. Finally, our dead matters to the world Teenagers girl dead inside the Kabul airport with a slight wish to live in peace Rest in peace sister #Afganisthan #kabulskydivingclub pic.twitter.com/CNfh88p73nAfter the Taliban took control of Kabul on August 15, thousands of Afghans flocked to the Kabul airport in a bid to escape the country, the tyranny of the Taliban. Harrowing videos surfaced where hundreds of people were seen running along a US plane, clinging on to it, in their last-ditch attempt to take off from Kabul. Another clip showed two people fell to their deaths from a C-17 aircraft. The US military later confirmed that human remains were later found in the wheel well.Afghanistan footballer Zaki Anwari was one of those who fell to death after trying to cling to a US plane, the General Directorate of Physical Education and Sports of Afghanistan has confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-skydiving-club-t-shirt-faces-backlash-on-social-media-101629474200008.html
20-08-2021||World||US CDC delays review of Covid booster shots as debate swirls over third jab||The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has pushed back by one week a meeting by a group of outside advisers who were set to review Covid booster shots as debate swells about the need for a third dose.The Advisory Committee for Immunization Practices, originally scheduled to meet and possibly make a recommendation about the need for boosters on August 24, is now set to convene over two days starting August 30. The delay was posted on the CDC website and confirmed by multiple committee members.The Biden administration announced on Wednesday that it plans to allow most fully vaccinated adults to get a third shot of vaccines from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. eight months after their second dose, starting Sept. 20. The plan is surrounded by controversy as the medical community remains divided about whether the data support a need for boosters and the World Health Organization has called for richer countries to hold off on distributing third doses until less-vaccinated countries catch up. Now, with a month until the proposed launch date, the Biden administration still needs the CDC’s recommendation and approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to distribute boosters.“The data are coming in rapidly, and we want to make sure we follow our process for review and to ensure we can have a robust deliberation at the next open meeting,” Grace Lee, chair of the committee, wrote in an email. She said she expects that meeting to happen “soon.” Typically the FDA and CDC would give their thumbs-up before the White House would consider announcing such a plan, and the administration’s decision to push forward without such approval has raised concerns among public health officials. Before the ACIP meeting was delayed, committee member Camille Kotton said on Wednesday that the panel has been discussing the potential for boosters for months, and that the data are sufficient for the Biden administration to recommend them.With such a tight deadline before the rollout is set to begin in late September, even a one-week delay adds more pressure on the White House to meet its ambitious goal.The review comes as US health officials are investigating emerging data suggesting that the Moderna vaccine may be associated with a higher risk of heart complications in younger adults than previously believed, according to a Washington Post report published Thursday. The article cited two unidentified people familiar with the review who emphasized that the side effect still probably remains uncommon.Slides presented at an ACIP meeting in June showed Moderna’s vaccine was associated with a numerically higher rate of the side effect, but that the difference was not statistically significant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-delays-review-of-covid-booster-shots-as-debate-swirls-over-third-jab-101629471800785.html
20-08-2021||World||'Well and alive': Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed leaves Kabul for Istanbul after Taliban take over||Aryana Sayeed, one of Afghanistan's most prominent pop stars, confirmed on social media site Instagram that she has escaped from Afghanistan and left for Istanbul after the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15. Sayeed posted a selfie on Wednesday taken on a US military evacuation flight headed to Doha."I am well and alive after a couple of unforgettable nights. I have reached Doha, Qatar and am awaiting my eventual flight back home to Istanbul. My heart, my prayers and my thoughts will always be with you," she wrote.From Doha, Sayeed will be headed to Istanbul where she resides full time with her Afghan husband Hasib Sayed, a music producer, reported news agency ANI. "After I get home and my mind and emotions return back to normal from a world of disbelief and shock, I have many stories to share with you," Sayeed wrote to her followers on August 18.Sayeed has been actively campaigning against the Taliban on her social media handles and had called on President Joe Biden and the United Nations to put pressure on Pakistan to stop “supporting” the Taliban. “Please ask @unitednations, @potus and the rest of the world to put pressure on Pakistan to stop supporting Taliban and Terrorism by commenting with this hashtag sanction Pakistan,” she wrote on Instagram on August 9.Also Read: Afghanistan crisis: Biden to address amid mounting criticismTo help Afghans escape what many fear is going to be a brutal Taliban rule, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) called on neighbouring countries to keep their borders open, insisting that most Afghans are unable to leave the country as there is no clear way out. "The vast majority of Afghans are not able to leave the country through regular channels," Shabia Mantoo, spokesperson of UNHRC told a Geneva news briefing on Friday. "As of today, those who may be in danger have no clear way out," she added.Like Sayeed, many popular Afghan online celebrities too fear retribution for their online activity since the Taliban took control. Ayeda Shadab, a social media star, relocated to Istanbul fearing the Taliban’s return. "If the Taliban take Kabul, people like me will no longer be safe. Women like me who don't wear a veil, who work, they can't accept them," she told reporters.US advocacy group Human Rights First has published guidelines for Afghans on deleting their digital footprints in local languages Pashto and Dari. They had offered similar guidelines to activists in Hong Kong and Myanmar. Social media giant Facebook has also offered Afghans the option of locking their accounts after many activists requested the company.Since capturing Kabul, Taliban leaders have assured the international community that women will be allowed all rights guaranteed under Islamic laws, but Afghan women fear a return to the Afghanistan of 1996-2000 is imminent.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/well-and-alive-afghan-pop-star-aryana-sayeed-leaves-kabul-for-istanbul-after-taliban-take-over-101629469972931.html
20-08-2021||World||Afghanistan crisis: Biden to address amid mounting criticism||US president Joe Biden will make an address on Friday amid massive criticism over his administration's rushed withdrawal of troops, being blamed for the crisis the country has plunged into. The President is expected to provide an update of US evacuation operations. In May, the Biden administration announced that the US and NATO forces would withdraw from Afghanistan unconditionally. As soon as the process began, Afghanistan witnessed an unexpected Taliban offensive which concluded on August 15 as Kabul fell to the insurgent group. Since then, the country has been plunged into an unforeseen crisis.This is not the first time that Biden will be speaking about the crisis. A day after Kabul's fall, the US president made an address in which he blamed the Afghan forces for the catastrophe. "I know that there are concerns about why we did not begin evacuating Afghans — civilians sooner. Part of the answer is some of the Afghans did not want to leave earlier — still hopeful for their country. And part of it was because the Afghan government and its supporters discouraged us from organizing a mass exodus to avoid triggering, as they said, 'a crisis of confidence,'" Biden said.Taliban may not announce new government until August 31 as per 'deal' with US: Report"The events we’re seeing now are sadly proof that no amount of military force would ever deliver a stable, united, and secure Afghanistan — as known in history as the “graveyard of empires.” What is happening now could just as easily have happened 5 years ago or 15 years in the future. We have to be honest: Our mission in Afghanistan has taken many missteps — made many missteps over the past two decades. I’m now the fourth American President to preside over war in Afghanistan — two Democrats and two Republicans. I will not pass this responsibly on — responsibility on to a fifth President," Biden said.Thousands of people are yet to be evacuated ahead of the United States' August 31 deadline to withdraw its troops from the country, although the pace picked up overnight. A defence official said about 5,700 people, including about 250 Americans, were flown out of Kabul aboard 16 C-17 transport planes. On each of the previous two days, about 2,000 people were airlifted.The US president has recently said that US troops may stay past August 31 to ensure that all Americans are evacuated.With the Taliban taking over Kabul, the country is in throes of a major power shift which will not be clear before August 31, reports said. A former Aghan official has said to the Associated Press that according to the deal with the United States, the Taliban won't do anything before August 31, or before the US completes its evacuation process.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-crisis-biden-to-address-amid-mounting-criticism-101629468676477.html
20-08-2021||World||Jaishankar, Blinken discuss Afghanistan developments||US secretary of state Antony Blinken discussed Afghanistan in a phone call with Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar as the top American diplomat called counterparts of allied and partner countries including the G7 and Nato.State department spokesperson Ned Price said that the two officials discussed the Afghanistan situation and “agreed to continue coordination”. No other details were made available by the US side.US President Joe Biden has also been in touch with his counterparts. He spoke to French President Emmanuel Macron and Germany’s Angela Merkel on Thursday and UK’s Boris Johnson earlier. Biden is expected to do a videoconference with G7 leaders next week.Minister Jaishankar told reporters after chairing a meeting of the UN Security Council on Thursday that the safe and secure return of Indian citizens from Afghanistan was discussed in a call with Blinken on Monday. The Thursday call was their second in a week.Jaishankar reiterated the continued focus on the repatriation of Indian citizens from Afghanistan in remarks to reporters after chairing another meeting of the UNSC on Thursday. “We are working with international partners. In this regard, especially, principally the United States because they control the airport,” the minister said.US forces have secured the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul to ensure the safe evacuation of Americans, people of allied countries and partners and Afghans who had worked with Americans forces and diplomats and who now fear retaliatory action from the Taliban.Blinken also spoke on Thursday with counterparts of the G7 countries - the UK, France, Germany, Japan, Canada and Italy - and the EU in a videoconference and separately with the Nato secretary general, foreign minister of Spain and the prime minister of Albania, which has offered to take in some of Afghans being evacuated.“All leaders underscored the imperative of safe passage for those who wish to leave Afghanistan and the need for an inclusive political resolution that protects the fundamental human rights of all Afghans,” the state department said in a readout of Blinken’s videoconference with G7 and EU leaders.“The leaders agreed that the international community’s relationship with the Taliban will depend on their actions, not their words,” it added.Blinken has said the US is prepared to engage with the Taliban if they showed respect for basic rights of Afghan people, and specially women and children, and did not harbour terrorists that target America. The US side is actually in daily communication with the Taliban already, over the ongoing evacuation of people through the Kabul airport. Military commanders on both sides are said to be speaking several times a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jaishankar-blinken-discuss-afghanistan-developments-101629469084848.html
20-08-2021||World||UK foreign minister failed to make a phone call to Afghan counterpart. Now demands of resignation||British foreign secretary Dominic Raab defended his actions after major opposition parties demanded his resignation for failing to make a crucial phone call to his Afghan counterpart Hanif Atmar as the Taliban advanced on Kabul last week. Raab’s office was advised to call Atmar to urge him to help evacuate local translators who had helped British officials and the military.But Raab, who was on holiday in Crete, never reportedly made the phone call, drawing flak from opposition parties and triggering demands of resignation."While the Foreign Secretary lay on a sun lounger, the Taliban advanced," said Labour party's foreign affairs spokesperson Lisa Nandy. "The foreign secretary should be ashamed and the prime minister has serious questions to answer over why he remains in the job."Also Read | Afghans in danger 'have no clear way out,' warns UN refugee agencyRaab, however, hit out at the media reports calling them “inaccurate”. In a statement released on Friday, the UK foreign secretary said the call was delegated to a junior minister since he was “prioritising security and capacity” at the Kabul airport for emergency evacuations. But the Afghan foreign minister was unable to take the call, Raab said, as the situation rapidly deteriorated in Kabul.“The whole of Government has been working tirelessly over the last week to help as many people evacuate from Afghanistan as possible. The UK Government’s overriding priority has been to secure Kabul airport so that flights can leave,” Raab’s statement read.The Conservative leader asserted that the government’s approach to “prioritise security at the airport was the right one.” He said 204 British nationals and their families, along with Afghan staff and citizens from other countries were evacuated on August 16 morning, three days after his office received the advice to make the phone call.“Since then, 1,635 have been evacuated. I pay tribute to the excellent team we have in place, and we continue to prioritise what is required to evacuate people to the UK safely,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-foreign-minister-failed-to-make-a-phone-call-to-afghan-counterpart-now-demands-of-resignation-101629467615333.html
20-08-2021||World||'Horrifying indicator': Taliban massacred nine Hazara men in Ghazni province, reveals new report||Taliban fighters massacred nine members of the ethnic Hazara community after taking control of Ghazni province in Afghanistan last month, Amnesty International said, highlighting the risk faced by thousands of Afghans even as the Islamist fundamentalists are pushing the message of peace and unity through various channels. Citing statements from eyewitnesses, Amnesty International reported six men were shot while three were strangled to death.One of the victims of the Taliban’s brutality was strangled with his own scarf and had his arm muscles sliced off, according to the global human rights organisation. Providing the graphic details of an incident, Amnesty said a 45-year-old man was taken from his home by Taliban fighters “who broke his legs and arms, shot him in the right leg, pulled his hair out, and beat his face with a blunt object.”The report of brutal killings of ethnic minorities raise apprehensions about the Taliban’s promise of peace and inclusivity in the region. Agnes Callamard, the head of Amnesty International, said in a statement that the targeted killings are proof that ethnic and religious minorities remain at particular risk under Taliban rule in Afghanistan.“The cold-blooded brutality of these killings is a reminder of the Taliban’s past record, and a horrifying indicator of what Taliban rule may bring,” Callamard, who has also previously served as a special rapporteur appointed by the UN Human Rights Council, said.Also Read | Afghans in danger 'have no clear way out,' warns UN refugee agencyAmnesty International believes the killings represent a tiny fraction of the total death toll inflicted by the Taliban as they have disrupted mobile phone service in many of the recently captured areas. It called for the protection of thousands of Afghans at serious risk of Taliban reprisals, including academics, journalists, civil society activists and women human rights defenders.US President Joe Biden, who has been facing flak for rushing the troops out of Afghanistan, also said he doesn’t think the Islamist fundamentalists have changed at all. "I think they're going through a sort of existential crisis about: Do they want to be recognized by the international community as being a legitimate government? I'm not sure they do," Biden said in an interview with ABC aired Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/horrifying-indicator-taliban-massacred-nine-hazara-men-in-ghazni-province-reveals-new-report-101629462318833.html
20-08-2021||World||Taliban may not announce new government until August 31 as per 'deal' with US: Report||The Taliban might wait till August 31 when the United States is scheduled to complete the withdrawal of its forces from the country, an Afghan official with talks with the Taliban said to the Associated Press on the condition of anonymity. Taliban lead negotiator Anas Haqqani has told his ex-government interlocutors that the Taliban has a deal with the US “to do nothing” until after the final withdrawal date passes, the Afghan official told the international news agency.The country is in disarray after Ashraf Ghani left on August 15 following the fall of Kabul, a day after Ghani promised safety, security and resistance to the Taliban. Since then, the Taliban are in the power of the country but nothing has been formalised on the governance front. First, it was reported that an interim set-up will be in place which will be headed by former Afghanistan minister Ali Ahmad Jalali, but later it was said that after the massive sweep, the Taliban are now looking for a complete capture of the country, without having to share the power with anyone. Jalali too clarified that he was not considered for such a post and neither will he be interested in such a position.'Afghanistan won't be a democracy because...': Taliban leader on how the country will be governedAt present, there is no government in place while foreign forces are scrambling to evacuate their people from the country. Former vice president Amrullah Saleh who left Kabul on August 15 and is probably at Panjshir Valley has declared himself the caretaker president of the country. The Taliban have addressed a press conference through which it sent across a moderate message to the world that the Taliban want peaceful ties with all countries and there will be no vengeance. Women will have their rights under Sharia law, the group said.On Friday, the scene at mosques was uneventful as no Taliban gunmen were seen guarding the entrance of mosques or enforcing dress codes like past. Reports said the Taliban have urged the imams to use these Friday prayers to appeal for unity and to make sure that people do not flee the country.The Taliban on its official Twitter account have announced the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan on August 19 on the occasion of the 102nd anniversary of Afghanistan's independence from British rule.But how will the Taliban govern the country? Taliban leaders Waheedullah Hashimi told Reuters that the governance structure will not be democracy as "democracy does not have any base in teh country". A council will govern the day-to-day affairs while the Taliban aim to refurbish the army inviting Afghan soldiers and pilots.But the latest revelation makes it clear that the Taliban are in no hurry "to govern" but it has also triggered speculations over what might happen after August 31. "Haqqani’s statement raises concerns about what the religious movement might be planning after August 31, and whether they will keep their promise to include non-Taliban officials in the next government. Until now the Taliban have said nothing of their plans to replace the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, or what a replacement would look like," the Associated Press said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-may-not-announce-new-government-until-august-31-as-per-deal-with-us-report-101629462025110.html
20-08-2021||World||Afghans in danger 'have no clear way out,' warns UN refugee agency after Taliban takeover||Afghans who may be in danger after the Taliban's takeover “have no clear way out”, the United Nations refugee agency said on Friday. Shabia Mantoo, a spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), told a media briefing in Geneva that the agency remains concerned about the risk of human rights violations against civilians, including women and girls after the internationally recognised Afghan government was ousted by the insurgents."The vast majority of Afghans are not able to leave the country through regular channels," said Mantoo. "As of today, those who may be in danger have no clear way out."The UN agency called on the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan to keep their borders open in the wake of the evolving humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country. Hundreds of thousands of Afghans have been internally displaced, according to several reports, and many are trying to flee Afghanistan fearing persecution under the Taliban’s rule.Also Read | 'Bomb the bases, then bring out military': Trump's plan for US troops withdrawalThe UNHCR spokesperson noted that several countries have announced resettlement or evacuation programmes for Afghans at risk but full details of these initiatives have not been announced yet.“While widespread fighting has decreased since the takeover of the country by the Taliban on Sunday, the full impact of the evolving situation is not yet clear. Many Afghans are extremely anxious about what the future holds,” the UN refugee agency said in a statement released after the briefing.The recent footage from Kabul airport showing desperate Afghans trying to board flights shocked the world, which, according to UNHCR, spoke powerfully about the “sense of fear and uncertainty among many Afghans.” Welcoming the efforts of several countries to protect at-risk Afghan nationals through bilateral evacuation programmes, the agency said all states must preserve the right to asylum for Afghans arriving through regular or spontaneous means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghans-in-danger-have-no-clear-way-out-warns-un-refugee-agency-after-taliban-takeover-101629457403895.html
20-08-2021||World||China passes law to curb, regulate collection of private data||China on Friday passed a new legislation to curb and regulate online data collection by private companies, official media reported.The Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL), the first such law in China, was passed by China’s parliament, the National People’s Congress and will be implemented by November 1.The passage of the law comes in the backdrop of increasing scrutiny of tech giants like Alibaba and Tencent and taxi-hailing company, Didi, by the Chinese government.The law prohibits “illegally collecting, using, processing, transmitting, disclosing and trading people’s personal information”, according to the Xinhua news agency.The new law stipulates that individual consent should be obtained when processing sensitive personal information such as biometrics, medical and health, financial accounts, and whereabouts of the individual.“When pushing information and business marketing to individuals through automated decision-making, personal information processors should provide options that don’t target personal characteristics at the same time, or offer ways of rejection,” says the law.The law also requires suspension or termination of services for apps that illegally process personal data, according to Xinhua.It also calls for handlers of personal information to designate an individual in charge of personal information protection and conduct periodic audits to ensure compliance with the law.Along with Cyber Security Law and the Data Security Law, the PIPL will create a “…comprehensive legal framework to regulate businesses’ collection, storage and use of personal data and their handling of key data concerning national security, and strengthen the current protection regime”, the tabloid, Global Times reported.Compared to the West, China lags behind in the regulation of personal data, but has been quickly catching up in recent years, experts told the tabloid.The new law resembles the world’s most robust framework for online privacy protections rolled out by Europe - the General Data Protection Regulation, which came into effect on May 25, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-passes-law-to-curb-regulate-collection-of-private-data-101629457086316.html
20-08-2021||World||It’s official: Couples in China can have up to three children||China on Friday formally revised a law to allow couples to have three children in an attempt to boost falling birth rates.The amendment to the Population and Family Planning Law was passed at a session of the National People’s Congress, China’s parliament, and rolled out measures including tax breaks to encourage couples to have more children.The amendment formally reverses China’s long-time policy of allowing most couples only one child.In 2016, Beijing had scrapped its decades-old one-child policy to replace it with a two-child limit, which, however, had failed to lead to the expected upsurge in births.China introduced the strictly implemented one-child policy in the late 1970s, which, estimates say, resulted in hundreds of millions of fewer births but left Beijing facing the problems of a rapidly greying society.The amended law includes measures to provide affordable nursing services, and also to reduce the cost of births and education of children, such as allowing tax deductions.The measures include cancelling the “social maintenance fee”, which was a financial penalty couples paid for having children beyond the limit.The government will also encourage local governments to offer parental leave, increasing women’s employment rights and improving childcare infrastructure.The decision to permit the third child comes after China’s once-in-a-decade census showed that the country’s population grew at the slowest pace to 1.41 billion until the end of 2020.The new census figures revealed that the demographic crisis China faced was expected to deepen as the population above 60 years grew to 264 million, up by 18.7% last year.The change to the two-child policy did not show the desired growth in population needed to sustain the world’s second largest economy in the long run – a smaller number of young people means lesser demand.Instead, Beijing is now facing tough social and economic questions on how to look after hundreds of millions of elderly citizens as the younger population is set to shrink in the next few decades.China will also be aware of the demographic dividend India has. In 2050, when China’s median population age will be 53, projections say India’s will be 38, a critical difference in the long-term economic race between the two countries.The Chinese government is optimistic. The third-child policy and supporting measures, according to the government, “will help maintain China’s advantage of human resources in the face of the world’s profound shifts unseen in a century”.“By 2025, China will basically establish a policy system that actively supports births with better services and lower costs in child bearing, care and education. The gender ratio of newborns will be more balanced and the population structure will be improved, according to the decision,” a population-related official policy paper said in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/its-official-couples-in-china-can-have-up-to-three-children-101629453124224.html
20-08-2021||World||'Bomb the bases': Trump's plan for US troops withdrawal from Afghanistan leaves social media puzzled||Former US President Donald Trump has intensified his criticism of his successor, Joe Biden, for rushing out the troops out of Afghanistan that led to the Taliban’s takeover, triggering emergency evacuations. In a statement released on Thursday, Trump suggested a chronology for the safe evacuation of US citizens without any chaos, as opposed to the current situation where the Biden administration had to send thousands of troops to Afghanistan for emergency evacuation from Kabul airport.Trump said the US citizens should have been evacuated first, followed by bringing back all “equipment”. He then went on to suggest that the US should have bombed the bases that host foreign troops into smithereens before pulling out the military."First you bring out all of the American citizens. Then you bring out ALL equipment. Then you bomb the bases into smithereens—AND THEN YOU BRING OUT THE MILITARY. You don’t do it in reverse order like Biden and our woke Generals did. No chaos, no death—they wouldn’t even know we left!" the former commander-in-chief said.Also Read | ‘Ashraf Ghani is a total crook, never had full confidence in him’: Donald TrumpBut Trump’s suggestion to bomb the bases before troops withdrawal caused confusion as many on social media platforms said the Republican leader would have bombed some of his own troops.“Wonder who he thinks does all the bringing out and bombing to smithereens if you don’t use the military until afterwards,” wrote a user on Twitter. “Donald Trump ladies and gentlemen. Bomb the military bases THEN withdraw our troops! And no one would know we've left!” tweeted another user.You bomb the bases to smithereens and THEN bring out the military? https://t.co/HMq5tEzPt2Trump has released over a dozen statements since the Taliban’s takeover attacking Biden’s withdrawal plan. On Wednesday, the former president said Biden rushed the troops' withdrawal to “celebrate” on September 11, the 20th anniversary of deadly terror attacks by Al Qaeda targeting twin towers of the original World Trade Center, but it is the Taliban who are celebrating.“Biden did this to celebrate on September 11th when in actuality the celebration is our enemies and the fact that we already have the Taliban flag flying over our Obama-Biden built $1 Billion U.S. Embassy in Kabul,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bomb-the-bases-trump-s-plan-of-us-troops-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-leaves-social-media-puzzled-101629452210510.html
20-08-2021||World||‘Won’t relinquish our rights’: Afghan women protest, say haven’t been allowed to work by Taliban||Afghan women working in government and non-government organisations have said the Taliban will have to take them into account as the hardline Islamist group discuss the formation of a new regime in the country. Several women, including human rights activists, have said they have worked hard for their rights over the past two decades and cannot go back.Taliban leaders made assurances that women would enjoy equal rights in accordance with Islam, including access to education and jobs. In the first press conference on Tuesday since capturing Kabul, spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said women would have rights to education, health and employment and that they would be "happy" within the framework of Sharia. "Taliban are committed to providing women with their rights based on Islam. Women can work in the health sector and other sectors where they are needed. There will be no discrimination against women." Mujahid, specifically referring to women working in media, said it would depend on what laws were introduced by the new government in Kabul.However, several Afghan women journalists have said they were not allowed to work by the Taliban. Shabnam Khan Dawran, an anchor at RTA (Radio Television Afghanistan), said she could not enter her office. "I wanted to return to work, but unfortunately they did not allow me to work. They told me that the regime has changed and you cannot work," Dawran was quoted as saying by Tolo News.Also read | Relative of DW journalist in Afghanistan killed by Taliban: broadcasterAnother journalist Khadija also said she was not allowed by the Taliban to enter her office. Khadija said that the Taliban told them that a decision will be made soon about their work. "We talked with our new director who has been appointed by the Taliban… There has been a change in the programmes. They broadcast their desired programs, there are no female presenters and female journalists," Khadija said, according to Tolo News.Also watch | Kabul airport: US struggles to speed up evacuations amid Taliban chaosAfghan women fought and achieved these rights and these values, Rahima Radmanesh, a women’s rights activist, said. "The people, the government, and any official who is to form a state in the future cannot ignore the women of Afghanistan. We will not relinquish our right to education, the right to work, and our right to political and social participation," Fariha Esar, a human rights activist, was quoted as saying by television channel Tolo News. "We have worked hard for twenty years and will not go back," said human rights activist Shukria Mashaal. “We do not want an imposed government. It must be based on the will of the Afghan citizens,” another human rights activist was quoted as saying by Tolo News. Also read | Al Qaeda hails Taliban for emancipating AfghansSeveral women have said they fear the Taliban will reinforce their strict interpretation of Sharia and would not allow them to work and stop girls from attending school. The Taliban during their first regime in Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001 brutally enforced their diktats and women were beaten up publicly by the group’s religious police if they did not cover their face and stepped out of their homes without being accompanied by a male relative.Also read | Former Afghan leaders warn Taliban non-inclusive government won’t be successfulSeveral reports have said that Taliban fighters walked into a commercial bank branch in Kandahar in July and ordered nine women working there. They were asked to leave because their jobs were deemed inappropriate and were allowed to be replaced by male relatives, according to Reuters.UN chief Antonio Guterres has warned of "chilling" curbs on human rights under the Taliban and mounting violations against women and girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-women-protest-say-haven-t-been-allowed-to-work-by-taliban-101629446860270.html
20-08-2021||World||Afghan nationals in India observe I-Day amid protests against Taliban back home||Afghan nationals in India celebrated their 102nd Independence Day in New Delhi on Thursday as they expressed solidarity with their fellow citizens back home amid the recent takeover of the Taliban. They raised their national flag, which comprises black, red and green stripes, on the day that commemorates the 1919 treaty which ended British rule in Afghanistan. “We are not able to celebrate Independence Day in Afghanistan due to the Taliban,” one of the participants in Delhi told news agency ANI.“Today’s our independence day, but the Taliban are there (in Afghanistan),” another participant in Delhi told ANI, adding that three people died during the celebrations in Afghanistan’s Jalalabad.Also Read| Photo of women in skirts, without headcovers not from AfghanistanOn Thursday, locals in Afghanistan defied the Taliban for the second consecutive day as they waved their national flag at rallies across several provinces, and received violent response from the group. An unverified video from Afghanistan shared on social media showed how Afghans, who were waving the national flag, were fired at. Three more protesters were killed in the Asadabad city of Kunar province, according to the Associated Press.Reports also said that several Afghans tore the Taliban’s flag.Also Watch| Afghans celebrate Independence Day in India amid Taliban takeover back homeThe Taliban have appealed to Afghanistan’s imams to urge unity when they hold their first Friday prayers after the group gained control of the country but protests against them have now expanded to more cities. The Taliban also urged people to not run away from Afghanistan as scores of locals have been desperate to flee.Meanwhile, the Pentagon said on Thursday that as many as 7,000 people have been evacuated from Afghanistan since the beginning of the evacuation operations from August 14 and more than 5,200 US troops are there in Kabul.“Since the start of evacuation operations on August 14, we have airlifted approximately 7,000 total evacuees. This increase is reflective of both a ramp-up of aircraft and airlift capability, faster processing of evacuees, and greater information and fidelity in reporting,” Major General Hank Taylor, the commanding general of the Army Operational Test Command, told reporters at a Pentagon news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-nationals-in-india-observe-i-day-amid-protests-against-taliban-back-home-101629438032499.html
20-08-2021||World||Relative of DW journalist in Afghanistan killed by Taliban: broadcaster||Taliban fighters in Afghanistan have shot and killed a relative of a Deutsche Welle journalist while hunting for him, the German public broadcaster said.The militants were conducting a house-to-house search for the journalist, who now works in Germany, DW said Thursday.A second relative was seriously wounded but others were able to escape, it said, without giving details of the incident.DW director general Peter Limbourg condemned the killing, which he said showed the danger to media workers and their families in Afghanistan."The killing of a close relative of one of our editors by the Taliban yesterday is inconceivably tragic, and testifies to the acute danger in which all our employees and their families in Afghanistan find themselves," he said."It is evident that the Taliban are already carrying out organized searches for journalists, both in Kabul and in the provinces. We are running out of time!"The Taliban had raided the homes of at least three other DW journalists, the broadcaster said.DW and other German media organisations have called on the German government to take swift action to help their Afghan staff.After taking Kabul, the Taliban launched a public relations blitz promising media freedom and a pardon for all their opponents.However, a confidential UN document seen by AFP says they are intensifying their search for people who worked with US and NATO forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/relative-of-dw-journalist-in-afghanistan-killed-by-taliban-broadcaster-101629441598419.html
20-08-2021||World||Sydney extends lockdown until September-end as Covid worsens||Sydney’s two-month long lockdown will be extended until at least the end of September and masks will need to be worn outside as the Covid-19 delta variant outbreak in Australia’s most populous city worsens.New South Wales recorded 642 new cases on Friday, Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters. From Monday, outdoor mask-wearing will be mandatory -- except when exercising -- in all regions throughout the state, she said. A curfew will be placed on areas of western Sydney hardest hit by the outbreak.Another four people had died from the virus, the state government said.“‘We’re asking everybody to go through a bit of pain in order to protect lives until we get those vaccination rates up,” Berejiklian told reporters in Sydney on Friday. “There is no simple answer to delta -- short, sharp lockdowns don’t always work.”Berejiklian’s announcement comes as the outbreak that started in Sydney continues to spread into other areas of the nation, which on Thursday recorded the highest daily tally since the pandemic began. More than half of Australia’s 26 million people are in lockdown, including in Melbourne. Victoria state detected 55 cases of local transmission on Friday.In New Zealand, authorities have linked Sydney’s outbreak to at least 30 local cases. While the country’s three-day nationwide lockdown was due to be lifted on Friday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced it would be extended until at least Tuesday.The outbreaks are placing unprecedented pressure on the so-called Covid Zero strategy pursued by both Australia and New Zealand since the start of the pandemic. By closing borders and eliminating cases of community transmission leaking into their countries through strict lockdown measures, the nations have avoided the waves of deaths seen in most other countries.‘Be Straight With the Public’Now, the highly-infectious nature of the delta variant of the coronavirus is starting to make some authorities’ hopes of maintaining their Covid Zero status in the long term look unfeasible. Focus is instead turning on boosting tardy inoculation rates: Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker shows Australia has provided both shots for just 22% of its population and New Zealand 19%, trailing most other developed nations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison has been under increased pressure to ramp up the vaccination rollout, which has been hampered by supply delays. The message from his ruling coalition, along with Berejiklian’s state government, has now turned to warning Australians that they will have to live with the delta variant indefinitely.“People have to be straight with the public and tell them there are going to be more cases,” Australian Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said in a television interview on Friday. “There are going to be deaths. But we can’t live in lockdown forever. That’s our message.”Other state and territory leaders are warning that New South Wales shouldn’t ease any restrictions while case numbers remain high, regardless of vaccination rates. That’s expected to be a focus of a National Cabinet meeting hosted by Morrison later Friday.Western Australia Premier Premier Mark McGowan -- perhaps the nation’s strictest adherent to the zero-tolerance approach -- has said he’s prepared to keep his state isolated from New South Wales regardless of vaccination rates in a bid to keep delta out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sydney-extends-lockdown-until-september-end-as-covid-worsens-101629431169098.html
20-08-2021||World||Al Qaeda hails Taliban for emancipating Afghans||It is back to square one for Afghanistan with al Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula (AQIP) praising their fellow terrorist group, the Taliban, for capturing Kabul with military force after evicting the US forces and Ashraf Ghani government. The AQIP in a statement has congratulated the Sunni Pashtun group for its victory and emancipation of the country.Several other terrorist groups associated with al Qaeda have also issued statements on the Taliban victory in Afghanistan after the hardline Islamist group seized Kabul on Sunday. The Hayat Tahrir Al-Sham in Syria (HTS), which views the Taliban as an inspiration for steadfastness. The Turkistan Islamic Party (TIP) based in Western China has also issued a statement congratulating the Taliban on their Islamic State in Afghanistan. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan has already bowed in allegiance (Bayat) to the Taliban leadership for getting rid of the US forces but has made it clear that they will continue to target the Pakistan army, which is the mother of the Sunni Pashtun group in Kabul.Also read | Taliban play the Gestapo to consolidate Afghan ruleHTS, which is the most powerful faction in rebel-held parts of northwest Syria, compared the Taliban’s control of much of Afghanistan with the early Muslim conquests. HTS said in a statement released late Wednesday that “no matter how long it takes, righteousness will end up victorious.” “Occupiers don’t last on usurped lands no matter how much they harm its people.”Also watch | Afghans celebrate Independence Day in India amid Taliban takeover back homeHTS said it hopes that insurgents in Syria will be also victorious by learning from the experience of the Taliban to remove the government of President Bashar al-Assad, its adversary in the country’s 10-year conflict. “We congratulate our Taliban brothers and our people in Afghanistan for this clear conquest, and ask God to also grant the Syrian revolution victory," it said in a statement released on its social media channels.Also read | Taliban play the Gestapo to consolidate Afghan ruleHTS has been over the past months working on improving its image by distancing itself from extremist ideology. Some of the founding members of the group, which was once known as the Nusra Front, include Arab commanders who were close to al Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan. Many of them have been killed in US drone attacks in Syria over the past years.HTS formally cut ties with al Qaeda in 2016 and also move closer to Syrian rebel groups in the country's northwest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/al-qaeda-hails-taliban-for-emancipating-afghans-101629439425415.html
20-08-2021||World||‘Ashraf Ghani is a total crook, never had full confidence in him’: Donald Trump||Former United States president Donald Trump, who has emerged as one of the strongest critics of the current US administration over the worsening situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban’s takeover, hit out at former Afghan president Ashraf Ghani.Ghani, who fled Afghanistan on August 15 after the Taliban took over the capital city of Kabul, has been facing global criticism for abandoning the people of his country. A slew of allegations has surfaced against him, including fleeing Kabul with four cars and a helicopter full of cash and stealing $169 million from state coffers.Donald Trump, who was giving an interview to Fox News on Tuesday night, said he “never had full confidence in Ashraf Ghani”. “I said that openly and plainly I thought he was a total crook. He spent all his time wining and dining our senators,” Trump said, adding the senators were always in Ghani’s pockets.The Republican leader accused Ghani of getting away with murder in many, many different ways. However, he didn’t elaborate on what these ways were. Trump also echoed the above allegations against Ghani and said that he suspected that the former Afghan president did leave Kabul on Sunday with cash.Meanwhile, Ashraf Ghani, who is currently in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with his family on ‘humanitarian grounds’, said that he is currently in talks to come back home. Releasing a video statement on Wednesday, Ghani said he was forced to leave Afghanistan “with one set of traditional clothes, a vest and the sandals”, adding he also left the country in an attempt to avoid bloodshed.The former president also dismissed allegations of fleeing Kabul with suitcases full of cash by calling them baseless. “Do not believe whoever tells you that your president sold you out and fled for his own advantage and to save his own life,” he said in the video statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ashraf-ghani-total-is-a-crook-never-had-full-confidence-in-him-donald-trump-101629433565979.html
20-08-2021||World||Taliban play the Gestapo to consolidate Afghan rule||The Taliban are consolidating their hold on Kabul by identifying and eliminating those involved with the security set-up of the previous regime while trying to work out a face-saver transitional government in lieu of recognition from the west. Reports reaching from Kabul are very grim with gun-toting Taliban cadre playing the Gestapo to segregate and eliminate all Afghans who worked with the National Security Directorate (NDS), army or helped US and allied forces as interpreters.While those associated with the past regime are being targeted, the Taliban are neither sparing children nor women through their heavily armed moral police. Beauty parlours have been shut and billboards and ads with women's faces have been blackened in the capital city. On Thursday as the country marked its independence day, several people were killed when Taliban militants fired on a crowd in the eastern city of Asadabad. The Taliban also fired into the air near a rally in Kabul.Also read | Taliban wanted India to retain its diplomatic presence in Afghanistan“Door to door searches are being conducted by heavily armed Haqqani Network cadre in Kabul and Kandahar to exact revenge by publicly shooting those associated with the Ashraf Ghani regime. Particular emphasis is being paid to those associated with former NDA chief Amrullah Saleh, who now leads the resistance against the Taliban from Panjshir Valley along with Ahmad Massoud,” said a source who refused to be identified from Kabul.Also watch | Afghans celebrate Independence Day in India amid Taliban takeover back homeWhile the UN-designated terrorist group is dictating the people with seized US-made M-4 carbine and machine guns, the political face of the Taliban is trying to negotiate a deal with the US at the behest of the UK and Pakistan to install a transitional government in return for recognition. Adversaries of the US like China, Russia and Iran are already taking perverse pleasure at the humiliation of the Biden regime in the fall of Kabul and are expected to recognise the Taliban government when it is installed.Also read | Taliban conduct raids at closed Indian embassies in 2 cities: Intel“A puppet transitional government will give both the Taliban and the West to sell the disastrous top-secret Taliban-US deal to the public and one of the biggest gainers will be Pakistan, who still has the top Taliban religious leader Haibatullah Akhundzada in its custody. Akhundzada, said to be in Karachi, has not been seen in public for the past five months and questions are being asked whether he will be installed as Emir-ul-Momeen or commander of the faithful,” said a Kabul watcher.Even though it is early days, there are signs of nascent resistance building up to the ultra-conservative Sunni Pashtun force in Afghanistan with the ferment in the Panjshir Valley and beyond Mazar-e-Sharif. However, given that neither US nor Russia has an appetite for military conflict and China works through its proxy Pakistan, little support is expected from Central Asian republics or neighbouring Iran. In the 1990s, it was Russia, Iran and the bordering Central Asian Republics which pushed the resistance against the Taliban regime (1996-2001) before the US intervention after 9/11. This time around, the Central Asian Republics are wary of even giving a base for US special forces for a worst-case scenario in Afghanistan.Also read | China can play a very big role in rebuilding Afghanistan: TalibanWith the power of the Taliban only flowing out of assault rifles, there are huge question marks on their governance of Afghanistan as they have the only experience of jihad and exporting terror. The future is very bleak for Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-play-the-gestapo-to-consolidate-afghan-rule-101629435576164.html
20-08-2021||World||‘Almost impossible to evacuate from Afghanistan as many people as we want to’||As Canada’s first rescue aircraft since the arrival of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan headed for the Kabul airport, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau rued that it’s “almost impossible” to evacuate as many people as his government wants to.During a campaign stop in Victoria in British Columbia in the build-up to snap polls in September, Trudeau said the evacuation process is “very difficult”.“We will get some, certainly, but to get many people out, as many as we’d want, is going to be almost impossible in the coming weeks,” the Canadian PM told reporters. Canada is targeting to bring in 20,000 refugees from Afghanistan under a special immigration programme. But those figures don’t appear to be attainable at this time, as Trudeau pointed out.“Unless the Taliban shift their posture significantly, which is something the international community and Canada are working on, it is going to be very, very difficult to get many people out,” he said.Canada has said that its focus is on rescuing vulnerable Afghans, including Hindu and Sikh minorities, women, human rights activists and those from the LGBTQ community. At the outset, however, it is looking at bringing out those considered potential targets of Taliban reprisal, such as interpreters and personnel who supported Canada’s mission in Afghanistan.According to the outlet Globe and Mail, Canada’s first rescue aircraft, a CC-177 Globemaster, left from an airbase in Kuwait for Kabul on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/impossible-to-evacuate-from-afghanistan-as-many-people-as-we-want-to-pm-trudeau-101629435602602.html
20-08-2021||World||Photo of women in skirts, without headcovers not from Afghanistan||A photo of women in short skirts and pants reading while sitting on a bench in an open area has surfaced on social media claiming it to be from 1970s Afghanistan. However, a fact-checking exercise by international news agency Agence France-Presse (AFP) found the image to be from an Iranian history book, captioned as 'Tehran university students in 1971'."#Afghanistan in the past 1970 #Afghanistan #Taliban," read a tweet posted on August 17 that has since been retweeted multiple times.⚠️ This photo spreading on social media doesn't show Afghan women in the '70sWe traced the image to an Iranian history book, where it's captioned 'Tehran university students in 1971' https://t.co/kflnyjFdoM pic.twitter.com/og4F2BXKUTAn AFP report said the photo of the young women was shared earlier with similar claims on countries like Thailand, South Korea, Spain and Hungary. A reverse image search on Google found the same photo published in a foreign policy article from February 6, 2012, titled, "Once Upon a Time in Tehran", it further said.The photo is captioned, "Tehran University students lounge in 1971. Tehran University was opened to women in 1934 when the college was founded. After the revolution, women were still allowed to attend university -- but they now sit in segregated areas." Iran is another Islamic nation where rights of women are restricted.Also read | Afghan women throw babies over wired fence at Kabul airport compound in desperate attempt to flee Afghanistan: ReportThe photo has emerged in the wake of rising concerns over women’s rights in Afghanistan following the return of the Taliban, who had once imposed extremely regressive rules that hurt basic human rights of girls and women.None of the young women in the photo have their head covered, a must under the last Taliban regime that was ousted by US-backed forces 20 years ago. Women had to wear a burqa, covering from head to toe, while going out of the house, mandatorily accompanied by a male relative.Also read | 'No secrecy anymore': Taliban say world will soon see all their leadersSome of the other draconian practices of the Islamic militant group during 1996-2001 regime that have reignited major concerns across the world are stoning to death of girls and women, ban on their education and work that might lead to their coming in contact with other men. Reports and images of panic-gripped citizens taking desperate measures to leave the country that will now be ruled by the insurgent group have flooded the internet.Also read | 'Taliban are coming': Video shows Afghan women pleading with US troops to let them enter Kabul airportWhile the Taliban, in its new avatar, have promised "positively different" regime, "committed to letting women work in accordance with the principles of Islam", without offering specifics, fears remain high.A number of countries, including the US and UK, have also issued a joint statement saying they would closely monitor how any future government in Afghanistan was ensuring the rights that became an integral part of women and girls over the past 20 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/photo-of-women-in-skirts-sans-headcover-not-from-afghanistan-but-iran-101629433935559.html
20-08-2021||World||China can play a very big role in rebuilding Afghanistan: Taliban||China can play a big role in the “rebuilding, rehabilitation, reconstruction of Afghanistan”, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen told Chinese national broadcaster CGTN late on Thursday in an interview.Shaheen’s interview was broadcast within hours of the Chinese foreign ministry saying that the current Taliban appeared more “clear-headed and rational” than they were when they were in power from 1996 to 2001.The Taliban insurgent group seized control of Kabul and much of the country in the past one week in an upheaval that sent thousands of civilians and Afghan military allies fleeing to safety.According to reports emerging from Afghanistan and experts, many fear a return to an austere interpretation of Islamic law imposed during the previous Taliban rule that ended 20 years ago. Beijing seems to think otherwise and has said more than once that it hopes that Taliban will usher in an “inclusive” government that follows moderate Islamic policies.Asked if the group would implement similar hardline laws to those they enforced in the 1990s, Shaheen claimed international reports of violence against women were incorrect. “There is no subjugation of women, the women are allowed to continue their work if they are journalists, they are practically now continuing their work. If they are teachers, they go to school,” Shaheen told CGTN Europe.He said the Muslims in Afghanistan were happy to be governed under strict sharia law, but reiterated that the judicial system allowed for layers of appeal to protect the innocent.Asked about China’s role, Shaheen said the Taliban had kept up relations with Beijing.“China is a big country with a huge economy and capacity. I think it can play a very big role in the rebuilding, rehabilitation, reconstruction of Afghanistan,” Shaheen said.Shaheen claimed the group has the support of the people of Afghanistan.The Taliban’s advance across Afghanistan represented a “popular uprising against an imposed administration”, he said, adding that the speed of the group’s advance across the country legitimises its takeover of the national government.“It is not an election, but it shows the support of the people,” Shaheen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-can-play-a-very-big-role-in-rebuilding-afghanistan-taliban-101629434642969.html
20-08-2021||World||Foreign aid flows in Haiti as death toll soars above 2,000||Foreign aid started reaching parts of Haiti days after a deadly earthquake of 7.2 magnitude killed more than 2,000 people, injured thousands more and flattened hundreds of buildings. The United States on Thursday dispatched the warship USS Arlington to offer humanitarian assistance and the US Coast Guard was transporting the injured from Les Cayes to the capital city of Port-au-Prince.The US government is also coordinating with the Haitian authorities to determine the final death toll and the extent of damage this earthquake caused. As per the US Geological Survey assessment projection, there could be more than 10,000 deaths, news agency AP reported.France has also sent a ship with humanitarian cargo, a helicopter, and 25 soldiers, informed French armed forces minister Florence Parly.On August 14, a strong temblor jolted the country still recovering from the devastating 2010 quake that killed over 200,000 and caused massive infrastructure damage, especially the medical healthcare system. According to a report, 60 per cent of Haiti's healthcare system was destroyed in the 2010 earthquake.The national civil protection agency said late on Wednesday 12,200 people were injured in the latest quake and almost 53,000 homes are completely destroyed. According to local reports, hospitals, schools, offices, and churches are also demolished or badly damaged.Meanwhile, a month-long state of emergency in the four provinces that were most affected by the latest quake.Why Haiti is so prone to earthquakes?Earthquakes occur when tectonic plates in the Earth's crust move. Haiti sits near the intersection of two of them - the North American Plate and the Caribbean plate. The country is also densely populated and its building are not designed to withstand earthquakes, therefore the casualties after the disaster always rise sharply.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/foreign-aid-flows-in-haiti-as-death-toll-soars-above-2000-101629430711592.html
20-08-2021||World||7,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan since August 14, says Pentagon||A total of 7,000 people have been evacuated from Afghanistan since the start of evacuation operations on August 14 and over 5,200 US troops are in Kabul, the Pentagon said on Thursday.Cumulatively, the number of people moved out of Afghanistan is somewhere near 12,000.The Taliban took control of Afghanistan on Sunday. Their sudden victory, which comes as the US withdraws from the country following a 20-year-war, has sparked chaos at Kabul's airport, from where America and allied nations are trying to safely evacuate thousands of citizens and allies."The US military footprint and Kabul now has more than 5,200 total troops on the ground. Kabul airport remains secure and open for flight operations. There are now multiple gates that have access for entry into the airfield, which will help expedite processing in a safe and orderly manner," said Major General Hank Taylor, Commanding General of the Army Operational Test Command.Major General Taylor, who has been given the responsibility to airlift US citizens from Afghanistan amid the Taliban crisis, said in the past 24 hours, 13 C-17s arrived with additional troops and equipment, and 12 C-17 military planes departed.These flights, containing more than 2,000 passengers, left Kabul and arrived at designated safe havens and staging areas in the CENTCOM area of operation, he said."Since the start of evacuation operations on August 14, we have airlifted approximately 7,000 total evacuees. This increase is reflective of both a ramp up of aircraft and airlift capability, faster processing of evacuees, and greater information and fidelity in reporting,” Taylor told reporters at a Pentagon news conference.The US, he said, is ready to increase throughput and have scheduled aircraft departures accordingly."We intend to maximize each plane's capacity. We're prioritising people above all else. And we're focused on doing this as safely as possible with absolute urgency,” he said.At a separate news conference, State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters that there are 6,000 people at the airport right now who've been fully processed by a consular team and will soon board planes."Overnight, we significantly expanded how many American citizens locally employed staff, SIV applicants, and other vulnerable Afghans who are eligible for departure, and we offered to consider transit to the airport. We're aware of congestion around the airport. We are working closely with the Department of Defense to facilitate safe and orderly access for consular processing on the airport compound,” he said.Secretary of State Tony Blinken spoke with the G7 foreign ministers and the high representative of the European Union to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, he said."All leaders underscored the imperative of safe passage for those who wish to leave Afghanistan and the need for an inclusive political resolution that protects the fundamental human rights of all Afghans,” Price said.He said the leaders agreed that the international community's relationship with the Taliban will depend on their actions and not their words."Blinken and the G7 foreign ministers also exchanged views on counterterrorism, humanitarian efforts, refugee migration, and they agreed to remain in close contact on all fronts going forward. Secretary Blinken thanked his foreign counterparts for their steadfast commitment to supporting the Afghan people," Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7000-people-evacuated-from-afghanistan-since-august-14-says-pentagon-101629424504801.html
20-08-2021||World||Taliban ask Afghan imams to counter negative reports, urge people not to try to flee at Friday prayers||The Taliban have asked Afghan imams to try to counter negative reports about the group during the first Friday prayers and also urge people not to try to flee the country as tens of thousands of people are trying to escape since the hardline Islamist group seized Kabul on Sunday. The Taliban said it hoped imams across the country would promote the benefits of the Islamic system and urge unity.In a message on Thursday, the Taliban said the imams should "encourage our compatriots to work for the development of the country, and not to try to leave the country" and answer "the negative propaganda of the enemy". The message came as protesters took to the streets of Kabul and other Afghan cities as popular opposition to the Taliban spread. Several people were killed when Taliban fighters fired on a crowd in the eastern city of Asadabad, reports said.Also watch | 'Taliban will kill us': Afghans plead for asylum outside embassy in IndiaAfghans are trying to leave the nation as the country's government collapsed on Sunday and are rushing to the airport to flee as they are afraid of the Taliban’s brutal atrocities in the past. The Taliban have presented a more moderate face, saying they want peace, will not take revenge against old enemies and will respect the rights of women within the framework of Islamic law. They severely restricted women's rights, staged public executions and blew up ancient Buddhist statues when in power from 1996-2001. They were ousted in a US-led invasion in 2001.A report by a Norwegian intelligence group said the Taliban are rounding up Afghans on a blacklist of people who worked with Afghanistan's previous administration or US-led forces that supported it. Complaints by some Afghan journalists have cast doubt on assurances that independent media would be allowed.Also read | Taliban conduct raids at closed Indian embassies in 2 cities: Intel"Taliban are intensifying the hunt-down of all individuals and collaborators with the former regime, and if unsuccessful, target and arrest the families and punish them according to their own interpretation of Sharia law," the report, compiled by the RHIPTO Norwegian Center for Global Analyses and seen by Reuters, said. "Particularly at risk are individuals in central positions in military, police and investigative units."A US lawmaker also said the Taliban were using files from the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan's intelligence agency, to identify Afghans who worked for the US.Also read | Here’s how Facebook, Twitter are securing Afghan accounts amid Taliban takeover"They are methodically ramping up efforts to round those folks up. I've had people send me pictures of Taliban outside their apartment complexes, searching for them,” Representative Jason Crow said, according to Reuters.Countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom, have been evacuating their citizens as Afghanistan's future is hanging in balance. The US state department on Thursday said that it has airlifted more than 7,000 evacuees since Saturday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-ask-afghan-imams-to-urge-people-not-to-try-to-flee-at-friday-prayers-101629423874260.html
20-08-2021||World||Taliban celebrate Afghanistan’s I-Day as locals intensify protest||The Taliban celebrated the war-ravaged country’s independence day on Thursday by declaring that they defeated the 20-year-old United States led-invasion as they took over the country. The new independence day also commemorates the 1919 treaty which ended British rule in Afghanistan. “Fortunately, today we are celebrating the anniversary of independence from Britain,” the Taliban were quoted as saying by the Associated Press on Thursday, adding they “forced another arrogant power of the world, the United States, to fail and retreat from our holy territory of Afghanistan.”Afghan nationals, who have been desperate to flee their home country, defied the Taliban for a second consecutive day on Thursday as they waved their national flag at scattered rallies across various provinces. The protests are being observed as a strong sign of defiance against the Taliban’s rule.Also Read| Here’s how Facebook, Twitter are securing Afghan accounts amid Taliban takeover“My demand from the international community, the (UN) Security Council, is that they turn their attention to Afghanistan and not allow the achievements of 20 years to be wasted,” a protester told news agency AFP.The Taliban, who said they have become more moderate and progressive than earlier, responded to the protests violently. They killed three protesters on Thursday for carrying the Afghan national flag in the Asadabad city of Kunar province. At another protest in the Nangarhar province, a video posted on the internet showed a demonstrator bleeding due to a gunshot wound as onlookers tried to carry him away. A 24-hour curfew was declared in the Khost province as the Taliban violently broke up another protest, AP further reported.Also Read| Former Afghan leaders warn Taliban non-inclusive government won’t be successfulMeanwhile, a confidential United Nations document seen by AFP shows that the Taliban are intensifying their search for people who worked with the United States and Nato, despite the group promising no revenge against its adversaries. The Taliban have come up with a priority list of individuals and family members who are to be arrested and have been conducting door-to-door visits for the same. The UN document added the Taliban are also screening individuals to the Kabul airport and have set up checkpoints in major cities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-celebrate-afghanistan-s-i-day-as-locals-intensify-protest-101629420524242.html
20-08-2021||World||Here’s how Facebook, Twitter are securing Afghan accounts amid Taliban takeover||Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn have said they are securing the accounts of Afghan citizens to protect them against the Taliban after they took over Afghanistan. Facebook’s security policy head Nathaniel Gleicher tweeted on Thursday that the social media company has temporarily removed the ability for people to view or search the friends' lists of accounts in Afghanistan. Facebook launched a "one-click tool" for users in Afghanistan to lock down their accounts, Gleicher also said. This means that people who are not their Facebook friends would not be able to see their timeline posts or share their profile photos.Twitter Inc said it was in touch with civil society partners to provide support to groups in Afghanistan. It is working with the Internet Archive to expedite direct requests to remove archived tweets, Twitter said. Twitter also said that if users were unable to access their accounts, which have information that could put them at risk, it could temporarily suspend them until people regain access and are able to delete the content. Twitter also said it was proactively monitoring accounts affiliated with government organisations and might temporarily suspend accounts pending additional information to confirm their identity.Also read | Taliban conduct raids at closed Indian embassies in 2 cities: Intel"On Instagram, we’re rolling out pop-up alerts in Afghanistan with specific steps on how to protect your account," Twitter's Gleicher said in a series of tweets.7/ If you’re outside Afghanistan but might have friends in the country, you can help protect them by tightening your own visibility settings by following the instructions here: https://t.co/d8YsTkkSnIAccording to Reuters, a LinkedIn spokesperson said that have temporarily hidden the connections of its users in Afghanistan so other users would not be able to see them.The Taliban, who are on social and regularly post videos, have found ways to evade restrictions on YouTube, Facebook and WhatsApp. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid has been posting regular updates to more than 300,000 followers, including international media, on Twitter.Human rights groups have said that the Taliban could use online platforms to track Afghans' digital histories or social connections. Amnesty International said this week that thousands of Afghans, including academics, journalists and human rights defenders, were at serious risk of Taliban reprisals.Also read | G7 foreign ministers call for ‘shared mission’ to prevent crisis in AfghanistanThe Taliban have promised rights for women and an inclusive government as well as full amnesty for all who worked with the Western-backed elected Afghan government. However, tens of thousands of people are trying to escape the country fearing reprisals and remember the Taliban's ultra-conservative Islamic regime from 199 to 2001, when they handed out brutal punishments.Also read | Desperate Afghan women throw babies over razor wire at Kabul airport compoundAFP cited a confidential United Nations document as saying that the Taliban are intensifying a search for people who worked with US and Nato forces despite saying they won’t take revenge against opponents. The report, which was provided by the UN's threat-assessment consultants and seen by AFP, says the group has "priority lists" of individuals it wants to arrest. According to the report, people who had central roles in the Afghan military, police and intelligence units are those among most at risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heres-how-facebook-twitter-are-securing-afghan-accounts-amid-taliban-takeover-101629418170569.html
20-08-2021||World||US Capitol bomb threat: Man who claimed to have explosives surrenders||A North Carolina man who claimed to have a bomb in a pickup truck near the US Capitol surrendered to law enforcement after an hourslong standoff Thursday that prompted a massive police response and the evacuations of government buildings in the area.Authorities were investigating what led the suspect, identified as 49-year-old Floyd Ray Roseberry, to drive onto the sidewalk outside the Library of Congress, make bomb threats to officers and profess a litany of antigovernment grievances as part of a bizarre episode that he live-streamed for a Facebook audience. Police later searched the vehicle and said they did not find a bomb but did collect possible bomb-making materials.The standoff was resolved peacefully after roughly five hours of negotiations, ending when Roseberry crawled out of the truck and was taken into police custody. But even in a city with a long history of dramatic law enforcement encounters outside federal landmarks, this episode was notable for its timing — Washington remains on edge eight months after the insurrection at the US Capitol — and for the way the suspect harnessed social media to draw attention to his actions in the hours before his arrest.Authorities who spent hours negotiating with Roseberry — he held up handwritten signs through his driver-side window — were continuing to dig into his background Thursday evening. They did not reveal any details about a motive, and no charges were immediately announced.Investigators had been speaking with members of Roseberry’s family and learned that his mother had recently died, Capitol Police Chief J. Thomas Manger said. “There were other issues he was dealing with,” the chief said, without providing specific details.But social media appeared to offer its own clues.As police continued negotiations, video surfaced of Roseberry on Facebook Live inside the truck, which was stuffed with coins and boxes. He threatened explosions, expressed hostility toward President Joe Biden, profanely warned of a “revolution” and laid bare a series of grievances related to US positions on Afghanistan, health care and the military.Roseberry’s ex-wife, Crystal Roseberry, said she had seen images of the man in the standoff at the Capitol and confirmed to The Associated Press that it was her ex-husband. She said she had never known him to have explosives, but he was an avid collector of firearms.Videos posted to Facebook before the page was taken down appear to show Roseberry at a Nov. 14 Washington rally attended by thousands of Trump supporters to protest what they claimed was a stolen election. One video appears to be filmed by Roseberry as he’s marching with a crowd of hundreds of people carrying American flags and Trump flags and shouting “stop the steal.”Thursday's incident began around 9:15 a.m. when a truck drove up the sidewalk outside the library. The driver told the responding officer he had a bomb, and he was holding what the officer believed to be a detonator. The truck had no license plates.Kelsey Campbell, a student at the University of Wisconsin-Madison visiting Washington as part of a class trip, said she and another student encountered Roseberry around 9:20 a.m. outside the nearby Supreme Court building. Campbell said he was with his truck, which was parked next to the sidewalk, and was holding a large stack of dollar bills.“He said, ‘Hey, call the police, tell them to evacuate this street, and I’ll give you all this money,’” Campbell recounted to The AP. “I said, ’No!’ and he threw the money at us and we started running.”Campbell said she and the other student saw some police officers standing nearby. They told the officers what happened, and the officers then went to confront Roseberry.The standoff brought the area surrounding the Capitol to a virtual standstill as police emptied buildings and cordoned off streets as a precaution. Congress is in recess this week, but staffers were seen calmly walking out of the area at the direction of authorities.By Thursday evening, authorities had finished searching the vehicle and determined the area to be safe after not finding an explosive.The nation's capital has been tense since the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol, when thousands of supporters of then-President Donald Trump stormed the building as Congress was gathered to certify the results of the presidential election.A day before the riot at the Capitol, pipe bombs were left at the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee and the Republican National Committee in Washington. No one has been arrested yet for placing the bombs.The RNC, not far from where the truck was parked Thursday, was also evacuated over the threat. A spokesman for the DNC said its headquarters, which is located farther away from the truck’s location, was put under lockdown, but that lockdown has been lifted.Thursday’s incident marked the third time in as many weeks that federal and military law enforcement authorities had to respond to attacks or possible threats in the Washington area. Officials are also jittery over a planned rally in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-bomb-threat-man-who-claimed-to-have-explosives-surrenders-101629416975918.html
20-08-2021||World||Study: Efficacy of Pfizer shot wanes faster than Astra’s||The effectiveness of the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine appears to decline faster than that of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jab, according to a new study involving over 350,000 people in the UK, which was published early on Thursday.The study by researchers of University of Oxford is based on the results of a survey by UK’s Office for National Statistics that carried out RT-PCR tests from December last year to this month on randomly selected households.“Two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech have greater initial effectiveness against new Covid-19 infections, but this declines faster compared with two doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca,” the researchers at Oxford University said. The team is not linked to the group that developed the vaccine. The same vaccine is used as Covishield in India, where it is the mainstay of the inoculation drive.The study found that “the dynamics of immunity following second doses differed significantly” between Pfizer and AstraZeneca, according to the university’s Nuffield Department of Medicine.Pfizer had “greater initial effectiveness” but saw “faster declines in protection against high viral burden and symptomatic infection”, when looking at a period of several months after full vaccination, although rates remained low for both jabs.“Results suggest that after four to five months, effectiveness of these two vaccines would be similar,” the scientists added, while stressing that long-term effects need to be studied.The study’s findings come as Israel is administering booster shots, after giving 58% of the population two shots of the Pfizer jab.The United States is also set to offer booster vaccines to boost antibody levels following concerns over declining effectiveness of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, especially against new variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19.The Oxford research also found that protection was higher among those who had already been infected with the virus. It also confirmed that vaccines are less effective against Delta, which was first seen in India.The researchers added that viral load in vaccinated people appeared to now be similar to those infected with the Delta variant, but unvaccinated. “Peak viral load now appears similar in infected vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals, with potential implications for onward transmission risk, given the strong association between peak Ct (a viral load proxy) and infectivity,” the report said.But, they add, the degree to which this higher viral load in vaccinated people may translate to new infections was unclear, since much of the virus “may be non-viable in those vaccinated, and/or their viral loads may also decline faster as suggested by a recent study of patients hospitalised with Delta”.“Nevertheless, there may be implications for any policies that assume a low risk of onward transmission from vaccinated individuals (for example, relating to self-isolation, travel), despite vaccines both still protecting against infection, thereby still reducing transmission overall,” they said.Evidence of the waning efficacy rates are also likely to be taken into account by Indian experts, who are studying the need for a booster dose and when that should be advised for people. At least a dozen countries have begun or announced plans to give booster doses to their people, including most prominent Western countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/studyefficacy-of-pfizer-shot-wanes-faster-than-astras-101629397725435.html
20-08-2021||World||Over 10% rise in population in border regions of Tibet: China||The population living along the border areas of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), parts of which are disputed with India and Bhutan, has increased by over 10%, the region’s Communist party chief said on Thursday.“The population living at the border regions in Tibet has increased 10.5%,” Wu Yingjie, the Communist Party of China (CPC) chief of TAR was quoted as saying by state media at a ceremony in Lhasa marking the 70th anniversary of what Beijing calls the “peaceful liberation” of the mostly-Buddhist remote Himalayan TAR region.Wu did not elaborate on the numbers but added that 21 border counties in TAR are now under direct supervision and aid of central government departments.Wu’s specific views on the importance of the TAR’s border areas of China found support from one of CPC’s top leaders, Wang Yang, at the function in Lhasa.FOCUS ON HARMONY AND STABILITYStressing harmony and stability in Tibet and national security and stability in the border areas, Wang, member of the CPC’s seven-member Politburo Standing Committee, the top party organ, said officials and the general public of all ethnic groups should be mobilised to “forge an ironclad defence against separatist activities”.According to China’s latest census data, Tibet’s permanent resident population is around 3.64 million, an increase of 645,900 or 21.52% in the last decade.India shares 3,488km of border with China that runs along the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and the states of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, and Arunachal Pradesh; on the Chinese side, it is mostly TAR.Border area consolidation is among the four major policies that Beijing is implementing in Tibet, the other three being stability, development, and protection of ecology.The TAR party chief’s statement gives credence to reports that say China is bolstering its presence all along the TAR border, fortifying the remote regions not only by building critical civil-military dual use infrastructure but also building villages and populating them.China for one claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern TAR and has been rapidly building infrastructure including the recently laid-out high-speed train line along its side of the disputed border.Satellite pictures show new villages, which have also come up across the Sikkim border in TAR, a strategic location for India.In July, Chinese President Xi Jinping visited the TAR, the first time as the country’s leader beginning his three-day tour at a strategic border city near the Sino-India Arunachal Pradesh boundary.Xi first visited Nyingchi in southeast TAR, near the McMahon Line dividing India and China, before he took an electric train on the newly inaugurated strategic railway route to Lhasa, the regional capital. The new railway route is of strategic significance as it terminates close to the disputed border with India.SINICISATION OF TIBETAll-round efforts are needed to ensure Tibetans speak standard spoken and written Chinese and share the cultural symbols and images of the Chinese nation, Wang, the Politburo Standing Committee member who oversees policy towards ethnic minorities, said at the same function on Thursday.“He demanded all-round efforts to teach standard spoken and written Chinese language and foster and share the cultural symbols and images of the Chinese nation among all ethnic groups,” the Xinhua news agency said in a report from Lhasa.Wang called for efforts to ensure that religions in China are Chinese in orientation and guide Tibetan Buddhism in adapting itself to socialist society. “No one outside China has the right to point fingers at us when it comes to Tibetan affairs,” Wang said.“Any attempt or manoeuvre designed to separate Tibet from China is doomed to fail,” he said.Beijing says the India-based Dalai Lama is a dangerous separatist and instead recognises the current Panchen Lama, put in place by the party, as the highest religious figure in Tibet. As a mark of the party’s rule over Tibetan Buddhism, Wang presented the Panchen Lama with a commemorative plaque at the ceremony.The event held at the square in front of the Potala Palace, once the residence of successive Dalai Lamas and now a World Heritage Site, in Lhasa was telecast live and featured a four-storey high portrait of President Xi towering over the audience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-10-rise-in-population-in-border-regions-of-tibet-china-101629379005894.html
