24-08-2021||World||In virtual meet, BRICS NSAs review developments in Afghanistan||The national security advisers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) grouping on Tuesday reviewed the regional, global political and security scenario, especially developments in Afghanistan, Iran and West Asia.A virtual meeting of the NSAs, which was chaired by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, also adopted an action plan for combating terrorism and its financing for consideration by the leaders’ summit of the grouping to be held later this year.Meetings of the BRICS’ high representatives responsible for national security have become an important platform for exchanging views on political and security issues among member states. “Today’s meeting reviewed the regional and global political and security scenario with particular reference to current developments in Afghanistan, Iran, West Asia and the Gulf and emerging threats to national security, such as cyber security,” the external affairs ministry said about the meeting that was held a little more than a week after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. “India raised the issue of cross-border terrorism and activities of groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, which enjoy state support and threaten peace and security,” the ministry said.The NSAs also discussed cooperation among law enforcement agencies, health safety and healthcare, and counter-terrorism.As a follow up to the adoption of the BRICS counter-terrorism strategy at the leaders’ summit in 2020, the NSAs adopted the BRICS counter-terrorism action plan to be considered at the next summit to be hosted by India, which currently holds the presidency of the group. The action plan aims to strengthen existing mechanisms to combat terrorism and its financing, prevent misuse of the internet by terrorists, curb travel by terrorists, enhance border controls, protect soft targets, share information, and build capacity.The meeting discussed the heightened risk posed by an increase in illegal drug production and trafficking, and the NSAs agreed to enhance cooperation in this area between the concerned agencies of the BRICS member states. Health safety and healthcare were identified as a priority area of cooperation in light of new challenges linked to the Covid-19 pandemic.The NSAs also agreed to strengthen cooperation in cyber security by sharing information, exchanging best practices and combating cyber-crimes. India had hosted a BRICS workshop on digital forensics in August.The meeting was attended by Gen Augusto Heleno Ribeiro Pereira, head of the institutional security cabinet of Brazil, Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev, Chinese NSA Yang Jiechi, and South Africa’s deputy minister of state security Ncediso Goodenough Kodwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-virtual-meet-brics-nsas-review-developments-in-afghanistan-101629826805077.html
24-08-2021||World||'Every child knows this': Former Afghan mayor on Pakistan's role in ongoing crisis||A former Afghan mayor on Tuesday said the Taliban have a list of people who took a liberal approach during the earlier internationally recognised regimes, reported news agency ANI. Zarifa Ghafari, who was one of Afghanistan’s first female mayors, recalled the Taliban searching for her at her residence in Afghanistan and beating the security guards deployed there. The former mayor of Maidan Shahr that lies west of Kabul asserted that Afghanistan will remain theirs notwithstanding who rules the country.“Afghanistan was ours & it'll remain ours no matter who comes. If women like me are not there now it's because...just like a tiger who takes two steps back to come back with more force...We have to show to the world the real face of Taliban in Afghanistan,” ANI quoted Ghafari as saying.Many former Afghan officials have fled the war-torn region and are seeking refuge in other countries. Ghafari fled to Germany with the help of the German army as they were facilitating the evacuation of Afghan officials, activists and lawyers whose lives were in danger for helping Nato forces.The former Afghan official now wants to draw attention to the plight of Afghans by meeting high ranking officials, politicians and women of different countries. Ghafari is also open for talks with the Taliban leaders.“I want to talk to the Taliban leaders. I am taking responsibility. I am even forgetting the death of my father. I want to negotiate with them on behalf of every unspoken woman,” she added.She also commented on the role of external players like Pakistan in the ongoing crisis. Pakistan has long been accused of helping the Taliban in their offensive against the government forces. “The role of Pakistan is very clear, every child of Afghanistan knows this,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/every-child-knows-this-former-afghan-mayor-on-pakistan-s-role-in-ongoing-crisis-101629825756143.html
24-08-2021||World||Indians vaccinated in Saudi Arabia won’t be required to quarantine on return||Saudi Arabia on Tuesday lifted the quarantine rule for Indians who have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the Gulf nation. The Indian embassy in Riyadh announced on Twitter that Indian citizens fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country can enter the Middle Eastern country directly without quarantining in a third country.“Embassy is pleased to inform that Saudi Authorities have announced that Indian nationals who have travelled to India after receiving both doses of the vaccine in Saudi Arabia will be able to return to the Kingdom directly without need for quarantine in a third country,” the embassy tweeted from its official handle @IndianEmbRiyadh.Earlier in July, Saudi Arabia had said that it would impose a three-year travel ban on citizens travelling to countries which are on Saudi Arabia’s red list. It said that these measures were being taken to curb the spread of Covid-19 and its new variants. The Middle Eastern nation lifted a travel ban imposed on people arriving from 11 countries. The ban remains effective for nine countries which includes India and Pakistan.The United Arab Emirates on Tuesday temporarily suspended issuing visas on arrival for Indian passengers. It said that passengers who have been in India for the past 14 days or who have arrived from India will not be allowed visas on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indians-vaccinated-in-saudi-arabia-won-t-be-required-to-quarantine-on-return-101629823627643.html
24-08-2021||World||After Taliban's ultimatum, Pentagon says no change in plan for Aug 31 withdrawal||Amid speculations around an extension of the August 31 deadline for the final withdrawal of US-led foreign troops from Afghanistan, the department of defense on Tuesday said there hasn’t been any change to the mission timeline. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told a media briefing that the US is still aiming for the current deadline for final pull out and evacuation operation for Afghanistan."We're absolutely still aiming towards the end of the month," Kirby said, adding that the Pentagon believed it has the ability to safely airlift all Americans who want to leave Afghanistan by August 31.According to the Pentagon, the US may need additional bases to house Afghans evacuated from the war-ravaged nation.About 12,700 people have been evacuated by the US from the Kabul airport in the last 24 hours, reported CNN on Tuesday quoting a White House official. Kirby told the media briefing that “several thousand” Americans have been moved out of Afghanistan and they are targeting to move 100,000 people out of Afghanistan by the end of the week.“For all Americans who want to leave ...we are getting them out every day,” Kirby said.Also Read | ‘Taliban with us to free Kashmir from India’: Pak govt leader on TV news debateThe spokesperson claimed that there isn’t much “dissonance” between public statements made by the US and conversations with the Taliban.“The Taliban have been very clear about what their expectations are,” he added.The clarification comes after the Taliban denied any agreement with the US on the extension of the August 31 deadline for troops withdrawal and evacuation operation. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid also assured the Afghans, who are thronging the Kabul airport in a desperate attempt to flee Afghanistan, of safety and urged them to go home.“We have forgotten everything in the past,” Mujahid said, insisting that the group doesn’t have any list for reprisal.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-taliban-s-ultimatum-pentagon-says-no-change-in-plan-for-aug-31-withdrawal-101629820316628.html
24-08-2021||World||Blast kills 10 jihadists at Syria training camp||An explosion at a training camp for jihadist fighters in opposition-held northwest Syria killed at least 10 people and injured a dozen other recruits, residents and opposition sources said.The explosion took place while dozens of fighters from the Hyat Tahrir al Sham (HTS) group were attending a training session on artillery and mortars in the camp near the town of Hasano, in northern Idlib province, two military opposition sources told Reuters."There was a mistake which led to an explosion during a training session on mortars," said Mohamad Rasheed, an opposition activist familiar with the details of the incident.HTS is a jihadist group that controls parts of Syria’s northwest, a rebel-held area still at war with Damascus. Formerly known as the Nusra Front, it has been designated a terrorist group by the United States, Turkey and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-kills-10-jihadists-at-syria-training-camp-101629815978428.html
24-08-2021||World||Taliban asks Afghan government women workers to stay at home||The Taliban on Tuesday said they would not agree to an extension of a looming deadline to evacuate Afghans from Kabul airport, even as Western countries said they were running out of time.European nations have said they would not be able to airlift at-risk Afghans before the August 31 cut-off, and United States President Joe Biden has faced calls from all corners to extend the evacuation window.But speaking at a press conference in the capital Kabul, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the Islamist group would not agree to an extension, and told the US to stop evacuating skilled Afghans.Mujahid also said female Afghan government workers should stay home until security conditions in the country improve.US-led troops have ramped up operations to get thousands of people out of Kabul, after the Taliban warned they would not allow the US to extend the deadline for a complete withdrawal.President Biden has said he would stick to the schedule, but faced growing pressure to negotiate more time for the evacuations.Germany said on Tuesday that Western allies simply cannot fly every Afghan who needs protection out of Kabul before the cut-off date."Even if (the evacuation) goes on until August 31 or even a few days longer, it will not be enough to allow those who we, or the United States, want to fly out," Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told Bild TV.Earlier France said it would have to end evacuations from Kabul's airport on Thursday if the US stuck to the deadline, and Spain said it would not be able to rescue all Afghans who served Spanish missions.Britain, meanwhile, has said it will lobby for an extension at a virtual G7 summit later Tuesday.'They don't accept women'About 50,000 foreigners and Afghans have fled the country from Kabul's airport since the Taliban swept into power nine days ago, according to the US government.Many Afghans fear a repeat of the brutal interpretation of sharia law that the Taliban implemented when first in power from 1996-2001, or retribution for working with the US-backed government over the past two decades.The Taliban, who ended two decades of war with an astonishingly swift rout of government forces, has been publicly tolerant of the evacuation effort.But on Tuesday Mujahid reiterated an earlier Taliban warning against extending the airlift.He also said Americans were taking "Afghan experts" such as engineers out of Afghanistan."We ask them to stop this process," he said.The Taliban achieved their stunning victory thanks to Biden pulling out nearly all American troops from Afghanistan, following through on a deal struck with the movement by then-president Donald Trump.However, Biden was forced to redeploy thousands of troops after the fall of Kabul to oversee the airlift.According to the Washington Post, US Central Intelligence Agency chief William Burns held a secret meeting in Kabul on Monday with Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, although no details were reported and neither the CIA nor the Taliban confirmed it.'Time is running out'The rush to leave Kabul has sparked harrowing scenes and left at least eight people dead.Some have been crushed to death and at least one, a youth football player, died after falling off a plane.The German defence ministry said Monday an Afghan soldier was killed and three others wounded in a firefight with unknown assailants.Margarita Robles, the Spanish defence minister, said the security situation was getting worse."The Taliban are becoming more aggressive, there is gunfire, violence is more obvious," she said in an interview with news radio Cadena Ser."The situation is frankly dramatic and besides, with each passing day, it is worse because people are conscious that time is running out."Door-to-door huntThe Taliban have repeatedly claimed to be different from their 1990s incarnation, and have declared an amnesty for government forces and officials.But an intelligence assessment conducted for the United Nations said militants were going door-to-door hunting former government officials and those who worked with US and NATO forces.In the capital and other cities, the former insurgents have enforced some sense of calm, with their fighters patrolling the streets and manning checkpoints.The Taliban are also intent on quashing the last notable Afghan military resistance to their rule, made up of ex-government forces in the Panjshir Valley, north of the capital.The Panjshir has long been known as an anti-Taliban bastion.One of the leaders of the movement, named the National Resistance Front, is the son of famed anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-issue-new-warning-against-airlift-extension-as-deadline-looms-101629816020209.html
24-08-2021||World||Over 21,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan in 24 hours by US, allies||The United States on Tuesday said that more than 21,000 people have been flown safely out of Afghanistan in the 24 hours. The White House said that close to 21,600 people have been successfully evacuated out of Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in the 24-hour period from early Monday that ended earlier in the day, the Associated Press reported.Also, 37 US military flights, comprising 32 C-17s and five C-130s, were deployed to carry approximately 12,700 people and another 8,900 people were carried by flights belonging to US allies. This has been the highest number of people flown out by the US in a single day since the operations began, the report further showed.Also read | No agreement on extension of Aug 31 deadline for evacuation, Taliban sayWhile the evacuation has been continuing since the Taliban laid siege on the capital city of Kabul early last week, more than 58,000 people have been evacuated by the US since August 14. Moreover, for the first time, the number of people flown out of the country has exceeded the US projections, the report also showed.The evacuation in Afghanistan continues even as August 31, the deadline agreed by US President Joe Biden for a complete pullout of the US troops, approaches. Diplomats, officials, civilians and Afghan nationals who helped the troops are being evacuated out of the country. Meanwhile, some of the countries that are involved in the operations have expressed concerns about safely removing all their people from the country.Germany on Tuesday said that all Afghan citizens who wish to flee Kabul could not be flown out of the country before August 31. “Even if (the evacuation) goes on until August 31 or even a few days longer, it will not be enough to allow those who we, or the United States, want to fly out,” news agency AFP quoted German foreign minister Heiko Maas as saying, earlier in the day.Watch | India's message to Taliban at special UHRC meet on AfghanistanFurther, the Group of Seven (G7) countries are scheduled to meet on the day to discuss the crisis in Afghanistan, during which UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to push Biden for an extension of the August 31 deadline to complete the operations.However, the Taliban had previously said that the date is a “red line” that the US should not cross and extended American presence in Afghanistan would “provoke a reaction,” the AP reported.Amidst the chaos around the situation, director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) William J Burns had reportedly met with Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul on Monday, the Washington Post reported citing US officials familiar with the matter. The report also said that the discussion was likely around the deadline for the US’ evacuation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-21-000-people-evacuated-from-afghanistan-in-24-hours-by-us-allies-101629813220632.html
24-08-2021||World||No agreement on extension of Aug 31 deadline for evacuation, Taliban say||As US President Joe Biden is expected to decide on an extension of the August 31 deadline to airlift Americans and their allies, the Taliban on Tuesday denied agreeing to any such extension. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said the group has not agreed to extend the deadline for evacuation, urging the United States to not fly out skilled Afghans, reported news agencies.Guaranteeing the safety of the desperate Afghans crowding the Kabul airport to flee the country, Mujahid said they can go home. The Taliban also attempted to assuage the fears of reprisal saying there is no list of people for such targeting.“We have forgotten everything in the past,” the spokesperson insisted.Assuring foreign embassies security, Mujahid reiterated that the Taliban do not want them to either close or stop work.A day after the Taliban revealed hundreds of their fighters were heading for the Panjshir Valley, the centre of the resistance in Afghanistan, Mujahid claimed the group wants to resolve the situation through dialogue.Commenting on the reports of meeting between the Taliban and the director of Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Mujahid said he's not aware of any such meeting. The spokesperson, however, didn't explicitly denied that such meeting took place.The safety and freedom of Afghan women have been one of the major rights concerns following the return of the Taliban. During their rule from 1996-2001, girls were banned from attending schools and women weren’t allowed at workplaces. The United Nations has repeatedly raised the concerns regarding rights of girls and women. Mujahid said the Taliban are trying to come up with a procedure so women can return to work.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-agreement-on-extension-of-deadline-for-evacuation-say-taliban-101629812466003.html
24-08-2021||World||'No time to waste': Airbnb to host 20,000 Afghan refugees for free||Amid the worsening humanitarian crisis emanating from the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan, vacation rental company Airbnb pledged to house 20,000 Afghan refugees for free. In a series of tweets, Brian Chesky, co-founder and CEO of Airbnb, announced the company’s decision to host the Afghan refugees, hoping other business leaders get inspiration to do the same.“Starting today, Airbnb will begin housing 20,000 Afghan refugees globally for free,” tweeted Chesky, adding that they could not do this without “the generosity of our Hosts.”“The displacement and resettlement of Afghan refugees in the U.S. and elsewhere is one of the biggest humanitarian crises of our time. We feel a responsibility to step up," he wrote. “I hope this inspires other business leaders to do the same. There's no time to waste."If you’re willing to host a refugee family, reach out and I’ll connect you with the right people here to make it happen!About 270,000 Afghans had been internally displaced since January, according to a UN refugee agency estimate, taking the total uprooted population to over 3.5 million. A spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) told a media briefing last week that Afghans who may be in danger after the Taliban's takeover “have no clear way out.”“While widespread fighting has decreased since the takeover of the country by the Taliban on Sunday, the full impact of the evolving situation is not yet clear. Many Afghans are extremely anxious about what the future holds,” the UN refugee agency said in a statement released after the briefing.The UN agency has also called on the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan to keep their borders open in the wake of the evolving humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-time-to-waste-airbnb-to-host-20-000-afghan-refugees-after-taliban-takeover-101629809011960.html
24-08-2021||World||Only has a week of medical supplies left in Afghanistan: WHO||The World Health Organization warned Tuesday that it has enough medical supplies to last it "one week", following the blistering Taliban takeover of Afghanistan's capital Kabul 10 days ago."WHO now only has enough supplies in-country to last for one week," said Ahmed al-Mandhari, the head of WHO's Eastern Mediterranean region -- stretching from Morocco to Afghanistan."Yesterday, 70 percent of these supplies were released to health facilities," he added.Mandhari said that 500 metric tonnes of medicines and supplies stored in Dubai were unable to be delivered due to the chaotic evacuation efforts at Kabul airport which does not have the capacity to receive commercial flights."Countries sending in empty planes to pick up evacuees do not feel they are able to help," Mandhari said.On Sunday, the WHO and Unicef jointly called for an "immediate establishment of a reliable and robust humanitarian air-bridge to send in supplies"."Even prior to the events of the past weeks, Afghanistan represented the world's third largest humanitarian operation, with over 18 million people requiring assistance," the Sunday statement added.US-led troops have ramped up operations to get thousands of people out of Kabul, after the Taliban warned they would not allow the United States to extend an August 31 deadline for a complete withdrawal.About 50,000 foreigners and Afghans have fled the country from Kabul's airport since the Taliban swept into power 10 days ago, according to the US government.Many Afghans fear a repeat of the brutal interpretation of sharia law that the Taliban implemented when first in power from 1996-2001, or retribution for working with the US-backed government over the past two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-has-a-week-of-medical-supplies-left-in-afghanistan-who-101629806484817.html
24-08-2021||World||Taliban name Kabul governor, mayor as part of new regime: Report||A day after appointing the acting head of Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) – Afghan central bank — the Islamist militant group Taliban have announced the names of its officials who will be handling various governmental departments, including the roles of Kabul’s governor and mayor, Afghanistan news agency Pajhwok Afghan News reported.What are new appointments?1. Sakhaullah have been appointed as the acting head of education.2. Abdul Baqi will be the acting head of higher education.3. Sadr Ibrahim has been named the acting interior minister.4. Gul Agha has been appointed as the finance minister.5. Mullah Shirin will be the new Kabul governor.6. Hamdullah Nomani has been appointed as Kabul mayor.7. Najibullah has been appointed as Afghanistan’s intelligence chief.On Monday, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid took to Twitter to announce the appointment of Haji Mohammad Idris as the acting head of DAB. In the post, Mujahid said that Idris will be addressing the “looming banking issues and the problems of the people,” according to the translation by Bloomberg.Also Read | US blocks Taliban access to $9.5 billion Afghan monetary reservesIdris’ appointment came at a time when Afghanistan is in deep economic turmoil with ATMs reportedly running out of cash, Afghani currency hitting a massive low and prices of essential items such as oil and flour spiralling by as high as 35%, Bloomberg reported.Moreover, these appointments come as the deadline for the US troops to withdraw from Afghanistan nears its end, even as thousands of foreign nationals and desperate Afghans await their turn to be flown out of the country and the Taliban’s rule. The insurgents have already cautioned against extending the August 31 deadline, with spokesperson Suhail Shaheen saying that the act would “provoke a reaction” from the group and that there would be “consequences.”Speaking with Sky News in Qatar’s capital Dohan, Shaheen said that the extension is a “red line” and delaying the withdrawal of forces would mean “[US] is extending occupation while there is no need for that.”However, the US President, who is set to meet the G7 leaders today to discuss the mounting signs of worry related to the evacuation from Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport, is mulling over extending the withdrawal deadline. On Sunday, he warned that the evacuation is going to be “hard and painful” and much could still go wrong, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, an official from the Biden Administration told Reuters on Monday that the President can decide within the next 24 hours whether the US is going to extend the deadline to allow the Pentagon to have time to prepare.Also Read | CIA director held secret meeting with Taliban leader Baradar: ReportNotably, the G7 meeting will be taking place between Biden, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, France President Emmanuel Macron and Italy’s Prime Minister Mario Draghi.On Monday, US Army General Hank Taylor told reporters that nearly 16,000 people were evacuated from Kabul airport over the previous 24 hours with American military aircraft flying out 11,000 during the same period of time. He added that as many as 42,000 people have been evacuated from the war-torn Afghanistan since July, of which 37,000 were airlifted since August 14 as the Taliban took over the country after two decades.These evacuees, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said, include “several thousand” US nationals, Afghans who worked with US forces and applied or received Special Immigrant Visas (SIV), other at-risk Afghan nationals who worked in non-governmental agencies, and media, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-name-kabul-guv-mayor-as-part-of-new-regime-afghans-await-evacuation-101629804802284.html
24-08-2021||World||As Women’s Equality Day approaches, here’s all you need to know about its history, significance||The Women’s Equality Day is celebrated every year on August 26 in the United States to mark the American women’s advancements towards equality with men. It is also celebrated in memory of the ratification of the nineteenth amendment of the US constitution, which guaranteed the American women their right to vote.The US Congress officially acknowledged the Women’s Equality Day in 1971 in recognition of the continued efforts of women to achieve equality.HistoryDuring the 50th anniversary of the passage of the nineteenth amendment on August 26, 1970, the National Organization for Women (NOW) called for a “strike for equality,” a nation-wide demonstration by women in favour of equal rights.Richard Nixon, the 37th US President, officially declared the date as women's rights day, becoming the first president to do so. Since then, every US President has issued a proclamation declaring August 26 as Women’s Equality Day.In 2020, Donald Trump, in his proclamation, said, “On Women’s Equality Day, we honor all of the women who inspire and improve our Nation. Their talent and hard work strengthen our economy, our families, and our communities, and sustain our unique American way of life.”Former President Barack Obama in 2016, the last year of his second term, said, “On Women's Equality Day, as we recognize the accomplishments that so many women fought so hard to achieve, we rededicate ourselves to tackling the challenges that remain and expanding opportunity for women and girls everywhere.”The Nineteenth AmendmentThe nineteenth amendment to the US constitution was passed by the US Congress on June 4, 1919 and ratified on August 18, 1920 and guarantees all American women their right to vote.The amendment prevented the right to vote being denied on grounds of gender. “The right of citizens of United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation,” the amendment said.(With inputs from Encyclopedia Britannica)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-women-s-equality-day-approaches-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-its-history-significance-101629806066788.html
24-08-2021||World||Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed after being left behind: Afghan general||As the Taliban's campaign to reconquer Afghanistan was gathering pace in June, hundreds of people were dying in the fighting, and tens of thousands were fleeing. Danish Siddiqui, a 38-year-old star photojournalist for Reuters based in New Delhi, decided he wanted to help cover the story, telling a boss: "If we don't go, who will?"On Sunday, July 11, Siddiqui arrived at a base of the Afghan Special Forces in the southern city of Kandahar. There he embedded with a unit of several hundred elite commandos tasked with flushing out Taliban fighters who in the previous few weeks had been steadily capturing territory.On Tuesday, July 13, Siddiqui joined a successful mission to rescue a policeman who was surrounded by insurgents. His convoy was returning when it came under fire from rocket-propelled grenades.The Humvee he was travelling in was hit by one of the RPGs. Three other vehicles were destroyed. Siddiqui captured on video the flash and jolt as a grenade struck the side of his vehicle and the commandos up front drove through the barrage. His images and report of the mission went on the Reuters wire, and he later shared the action on Twitter."Holy mother of god," one friend responded by WhatsApp. "This is insane."Siddiqui, who had covered wars, mob violence and refugee crises, reassured the friend that Reuters had done a risk assessment before he embedded with the Special Forces. Reuters editors and managers have responsibility for approving or rejecting risky assignments and have the authority to end them. Journalists, too, have the option of withdrawing from the field."Don't worry," Siddiqui wrote. "I know when to pull the plug."Three days later, on July 16, Siddiqui and two Afghan commandos were killed in a Taliban attack while on another mission, a failed attempt to retake the key border town of Spin Boldak. That rout was an early milestone in the collapse of the Afghan military. In the weeks that followed, the Taliban conquered city after city. Its ultimate victory came in mid August, when Kabul was the last to fall.Siddiqui's death underlines the risks faced by journalists, both in the international media and in local outlets, when covering conflict and political strife. Media organizations are grappling with how best to safeguard their staff while publishing vital news in the public interest. Globally, more than 600 journalists have been killed since 2010, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. Afghanistan has been especially dangerous, accounting for 35 of those deaths as of early August, 28 of them local journalists.Also Read | Danish Siddiqui’s work mirrored society’s uncomfortable truthsFamily and colleagues were devastated to learn of Siddiqui's death when grim images of his body began circulating on social media. While some details about his death remain unclear, enough information has emerged to give an outline of events.First reports indicated Siddiqui was killed in crossfire while trying to take photographs in the bazaar at Spin Boldak, a hotly contested Afghan border crossing with Pakistan. But an examination of Siddiqui's communications with Reuters and accounts from an Afghan Special Forces commander show that Siddiqui was first injured by shrapnel from a rocket. He was evacuated to a local mosque for treatment. And he was killed, according to the top Afghan officer, after being abandoned with two soldiers in the confusion of a retreat.Major-General Haibatullah Alizai, who was the commander of Afghanistan's Special Operations Corps when it hosted Siddiqui in Kandahar, told Reuters it was evident now that, in fierce fighting, his soldiers withdrew from Spin Boldak and left behind Siddiqui and two commandos accompanying him, mistakenly thinking they had joined the retreating convoy. His account was corroborated by four soldiers who say they witnessed the attack."They were left there," Alizai said.Other circumstances surrounding Siddiqui's death are still not clear. Afghan security officials and Indian government officials have told Reuters that, based on photos, intelligence and an examination of Siddiqui's body, his body was mutilated while in Taliban custody after his death. The Taliban denies this.A British ballistics expert consulted by Reuters, Philip Boyce of Forensic Equity, reviewed photos posted on social media soon after the attack and compared them with pictures and X-rays taken after Siddiqui's body was recovered from the Taliban. Boyce concluded it was "evident that he was shot multiple further times after he was killed." Some reports also have claimed his body was run over by a vehicle; Boyce said the damage observed in the photos was consistent with gunshots and didn't necessarily imply other kinds of post-mortem injury.A Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said Siddiqui's injuries occurred prior to the discovery of the body by Taliban fighters.Siddiqui's loss has struck a chord in India and in the global photojournalism community. He shared a Pulitzer Prize for feature photography with colleagues for his iconic images of the Rohingya refugee exodus from Myanmar in 2018. At home, he gained fame, and drew threats, for images that captured penetrating insights into Indian politics and social tensions, including his haunting shots earlier this year of the funeral pyres of COVID-19 victims and last year of a Hindu mob beating a Muslim man in Delhi.Such work made Siddiqui one of India's most important photojournalists, the renowned Magnum photographer Raghu Rai told Reuters. "This is one of those rare guys, for sure, and to be doing this in today's time is hugely, hugely challenging and fearful," said Rai, 79.In a statement, Siddiqui's family said, "Danish was not only an outstanding professional but also a wonderful human being who captured the truth through his lens."Inside Reuters, the death of the distinguished colleague and father of two young children has caused anguish. Some of the news agency's journalists have questioned whether Reuters provided adequate security for Siddiqui on the assignment. This report was prepared and edited by Reuters journalists who weren't involved in managing the photographer or in the decisions to approve his assignment.Krishna N. Das, a correspondent based in Delhi who worked with Siddiqui, said some colleagues have zeroed in on the decision by Reuters editors to allow the photographer to stay embedded with Afghan forces after the July 13 RPG attack that damaged his Humvee."Why was he allowed to go back in the embed?" asked Das. "Why was he not pulled out of the deployment?"Others say an embed with highly trained Afghan forces was an appropriate way to fulfill the assignment Siddiqui undertook in bearing witness to the struggle."If you get a chance to join a mission like this, you take it," Goran Tomašević, a fellow Reuters photographer famed for his images of war, said of Siddiqui's final assignment. "The safest place to be quite often is with a group of soldiers like this."Members of the newsroom familiar with the decision-making say Siddiqui's embed with soldiers in Afghanistan was backed by senior photo editors, vetted by external advisers and newsroom managers who handle security, and reviewed by a group of top editors who regularly meet to consider potentially dangerous assignments.That group, which includes Editor-in-Chief Alessandra Galloni, Executive Editor Gina Chua, who oversees security, and John Pullman, the global managing editor for visuals, signed off on the embed with U.S.-trained Afghan Special Forces. Chua, who declined to comment, later approved the decision to send Siddiqui to Spin Boldak, a person familiar with the matter said.Interviews with Reuters managers and staff, and a review of email communications, indicate that editors in South Asia weren't part of the decision to embed Siddiqui with Afghan commandos and also had no advance notice of the Spin Boldak mission.Reuters, a unit of Thomson Reuters Inc, said in a statement deployment decisions "are made collectively." Galloni, in a written statement, said she agreed to Siddiqui's embed with Afghan Special Forces. "As editor-in-chief, I take full responsibility for the decision," she wrote.Reuters said the events surrounding Siddiqui's death are the subject of internal and external reviews and the company is working hard to verify the facts.In an email to staff on July 23, Galloni called Siddiqui "our brilliant colleague and devoted friend" and praised his unwavering gaze that exposed uncomfortable truths. She continued: "I also know many of you want answers. We do too." The review process that's under way, she said, "includes a detailed examination of our security procedures."Also Read | After Taliban's ultimatum, Pentagon says no change in plan for Aug 31 withdrawalBook of RemembranceReuters was founded in 1851 by an enterprising German named Julius Reuter who sent financial news by carrier pigeon. The agency has a long tradition of covering conflict for its clientele of investors and other media organizations that rely on its worldwide reach.Inside its major newsrooms, Reuters places large handmade books of remembrance containing accounts of the journalists who have died in the line of duty. The first commemorates Francis John Lamplow Roberts, a 25-year-old who died of disease in 1885 covering the British military campaign in the Mahdist War in Sudan. The book contains 33 names. Siddiqui's will be the 34th.Like many major news organizations, Reuters has tightened its security procedures considerably in recent years. In 2011, it appointed an editorial manager to oversee security and created a team of specialists to review, with veto power, potentially risky coverage. Reuters expanded its training for journalists working in hostile environments, helped develop international safety standards for freelance journalists, and distributed mandatory safety equipment for staffers and freelancers operating in conflict zones.The focus on safety intensified after the death in 2013 of Molhem Barakat, an 18-year-old Syrian photographer who freelanced for Reuters. Assessments take into account the skills and experience of the staff involved, with hostile-environment training required; the newsworthiness of covering a conflict; and the dangers the reporter or photographer will face. In the last decade, three Reuters journalists, including Siddiqui, have been killed. In the previous 10 years, 11 died.In her statement, Galloni, the editor-in-chief, said: "As a global news organization operating in 200 locations, we consider the safety of all our journalists our paramount priority, and we have developed a rigorous security program for those in hostile environments."Born in 1983, Siddiqui joined Reuters in 2010 as an intern in Delhi, where he grew up. He soon moved to Mumbai, India's financial capital, where he spent almost a decade, covering stories in India and around the world. He had also covered conflicts. He was trained in how to report in dangerous environments, and his assignments included two embeds with soldiers in Afghanistan and Iraq.Siddiqui was honoured with a sheaf of awards, including the team Pulitzer for covering the Rohingya refugee crisis. In 2019, he returned to Delhi from Mumbai as chief photographer for India, running a group of around a dozen photojournalists. Siddiqui was popular in the newsroom, a mentor to many less experienced photographers. His shirt neatly tucked into his jeans and his hair carefully parted, he would often walk around the office, coffee cup in hand, joking with his colleagues.On long assignments away from family, colleagues recall, he would typically video call with his kids – aged 5 and 3 – before they went to bed, sometimes showing them where he was, telling them about his work and asking them what they had done through the day.It was in Delhi that Siddiqui produced some of his most memorable work, including photographs that documented tensions between India's Hindu majority and its large Muslim minority.Covering his own country involved risks. Early last year, during deadly communal riots in Delhi, Siddiqui, who was Muslim, dodged stones, petrol bombs and smoke grenades, and then managed to take disturbing photographs of a Muslim man being mercilessly thrashed by a Hindu mob. Eventually, the mob cornered Siddiqui, suspecting he was a Muslim. He made a narrow escape. He later came under a long barrage of online abuse from right-wingers angered by his shots, which drew national attention in India.This year, he produced a set of images of the funeral pyres for COVID-19 victims. They were carried worldwide. Shot at a time when the government was saying it was taking adequate measures to fight the virus, the photos showed in stark and undeniable detail how deadly the outbreak had become. The images prompted a backlash, particularly on social media, where Siddiqui was branded a "vulture." Some would later celebrate his death online. But there was also an outpouring of grief and sympathy at his passing.In a TED Talk in 2020, he showed some of his work and described his mission as a photojournalist. "My role is as a mirror and I want to expose you to the raw truth, and make you a witness to it," he said. "You can look away or stand up and act for change."When the pandemic began to ebb slightly, Siddiqui looked for a new assignment. In Afghanistan, the Taliban was on the march. Siddiqui asked his editors if he could cover the story. He knew there were risks, colleagues said.In the past, Siddiqui told a colleague at Reuters, he rarely experienced fear on the job. But now, with young children, he had begun to think much more about his safety. "I have worked in difficult situations and on different assignments," he said, according to the colleague. "I have never felt fear. But since I became a father, I really feel fear."The story was worth it nonetheless, he believed. "If we don't go, who will?" Siddiqui's manager, Asia pictures editor Ahmad Masood, recalled him saying in the weeks preceding his deployment. Masood, a native of Afghanistan himself, now works from Reuters Asia headquarters in Singapore.At the height of the U.S. war in Afghanistan, dozens of news organisations kept offices in Kabul. In the years that followed, the number of foreign correspondents dwindled. Most news organisations, confronted by high costs and rising instability, cut back on coverage.Assessing RiskBefore going to Afghanistan, according to a close friend of Siddiqui's at another news organization, the photographer began considering a so-called embed: attaching himself to a fighting force so that he could receive its protection while observing the conflict up close. It is a common tactic for news organizations operating in war zones.On reaching Kabul at the start of July, Siddiqui and Reuters editors first weighed an embed with an Afghan militia leader, said Rickey Rogers, the Reuters global pictures editor, based in the United States. Reuters sought advice from an external security consultant about this possibility, said a person with direct knowledge of the deliberations. The consultant said the embed should be possible if certain conditions were met, but Rogers said the idea was abandoned when the militia leader backed out.On Saturday, July 10, the opportunity arose for an embed with Afghan Special Forces beginning the next day. A proposal was sent for approval to a group of senior Reuters editors with ultimate say on security matters, Rogers said. The group is chaired by Chua and includes Editor-in-Chief Galloni; Pullman, the global managing editor for visuals, who is Rogers' manager; and members of the company's operations team, which reports to Chua and is responsible for security.The security group approved the embed plan. "We were talking about the Afghan Special Forces, the elite," said Rogers. "They had all the hospitals at their disposal, all the equipment needed to evacuate, including air support." Siddiqui would join their headquarters near Kandahar.The Afghan Special Forces, some of the country's best-trained fighters, were at the centre of the battle with the Taliban. In the weeks before Siddiqui's embed, they sustained heavy casualties. In one incident, on June 16, international media reported more than 20 commandos were killed by the Taliban.Asfandyar Mir, a security analyst specialising in Afghanistan and Pakistan, said the Taliban viewed Special Forces "as their main adversary on the battlefield."Reuters said in a statement it consulted external security experts about the proposed embed with Special Forces, adding: "We work closely with external security specialists, advisors, and local sources – as well as staff in the region and with expertise about the region – to assess conditions on the ground. In rapidly changing environments, we review and adjust our plans."Other news organizations had also placed journalists on the front lines with Afghan forces. As the Taliban advance gathered momentum in July, some began putting more restrictions on deployments. Journalists at three international news outlets said embeds with Special Forces were only considered in certain situations – for example within a defined urban area where frontlines were clear. Such limits, they felt, could make it easier to withdraw from peril.In recent conflicts, such as Libya and Syria, Reuters journalists have usually entered war zones accompanied by a security adviser – typically unarmed former policemen or soldiers with an eye for avoiding trouble. Such advisers, however, are less often deployed by international media when embedding with regular well-trained forces, as those forces are held responsible for the reporters' protection.Unlike some other media organisations, at the time of Siddiqui's death Reuters had no security expert in Kabul, or in South Asia.Reuters previously did employ a full-time global security adviser, a former Northern Ireland policeman with decades-long experience of conflict situations, who was available round-the-clock to advise journalists on their missions. He retired in March after 16 years service and the company has yet to replace him."Reuters does not generally engage external security advisors to supervise operations. Reuters manages and supervises its own security," the news agency said. "News organizations differ in their processes and views, and an outside security advisor would not have the same level of familiarity with our people, protocols or practices."Siddiqui departed for Kandahar on Sunday, July 11, the day India said it had pulled out all nationals from its consulate there due to intense fighting near the city.Kandahar was where the Taliban launched its initial conquest of the country in the early 1990s. The city also lies close to the border with Pakistan, one of the few countries to recognise the Taliban government when the hardline Islamist group ruled until it was toppled in the U.S. invasion of 2001.Siddiqui was ebullient as he joined the Special Forces base in Kandahar that Sunday, colleagues said. His embed began the same evening. Two days later, on July 13, he filed his images and report from the RPG attack on his convoy.After the dispatch was published, Reuters colleagues back in Delhi teased him about his daring missions. He jokingly invited them to visit him in Afghanistan. But he corrected one colleague who said he had been taking "uncalculated risks.""Ahem! You are wrong buddy," he said in a WhatsApp message on the night before his death. "There is a risk assessment done for everything."Special ForcesSiddiqui posted about the RPG attack on Twitter, displaying a picture of himself lying on a patch of grass and writing that he had rested for only 15 minutes after 15 hours of the mission. Asia Pictures Editor Masood said that, at that point, he asked Siddiqui if he wanted to continue."You are the best judge of the situation," Masood said he told Siddiqui. "You can absolutely go back to Kabul, do you want to do that?"Siddiqui gave the matter some thought and then told Masood he wanted to continue. Rogers said a management team discussed his continued involvement with the Special Forces on a daily basis. This team, he said, instructed Siddiqui to remain in safety at the base in Kandahar for 24 hours to see if any more patrols were attacked the following day. Siddiqui did so, and there were no attacks over the next two days.Internally, his reporting was lauded. One senior video editor sent a note to staff praising his "very steady shot" after his vehicle took the direct hit from a grenade.Asked why the news agency didn't pull Siddiqui out of the assignment after the RPG attack, Reuters said "we paused and reviewed the situation on the ground – including monitoring the Kandahar unit's activities – after which we allowed him to continue with the embed."Siddiqui remained at the Special Forces base in Kandahar on Wednesday and Thursday, waiting for updates on the Special Forces' next mission.On July 14, Taliban forces had moved into Spin Boldak, a dusty town on the volatile border with Pakistan with a reputation for opium smuggling. In the past, India has accused Pakistan of harbouring the Taliban's leadership in Balochistan province on the other side of the Spin Boldak crossing. Pakistan has said India uses spies in the border area. Both sides deny the other's accusations – but the area was a high risk for any Indian national to venture into, according to analysts.The Special Forces offered to take Siddiqui along as they attempted to recapture the town. Siddiqui alerted his manager Masood, who emailed Rogers at 6.50 pm, Afghanistan time, on Thursday, July 15, seeking permission for Siddiqui to join the operation.There followed a 43-minute email exchange involving photo editors and a Reuters operations manager, who is based outside Asia. Participants in the exchange noted there had been no attacks on the Special Forces unit since the incident on July 13 when Siddiqui's vehicle was struck."Unless anyone has objections, I think we are good to go with this," wrote the operations manager. A photo editor replied in agreement. It was 7.33 pm. The mission was due to start before midnight. According to a person familiar with the matter, Chua signed off on the decision.Asked whether Reuters weighed security conditions in Spin Boldak, the company said that, when assessing Siddiqui's embed in Kandahar, the possibility of missions similar in type to the one to Spin Boldak were considered. "The locality of Spin Boldak itself was not," it added.In a call with South Asia staff after the photographer's death, Chua said that before deciding to deploy Siddiqui to Kandahar, the Reuters security team "took into account the fact that he was Indian. We understood that was a risk factor as well. And we balanced that off against his experience, his judgment. He was well trained. He was well equipped."Final ConversationsWhile in Afghanistan, Siddiqui kept in contact with friends on social media.On July 11, after India evacuated officials from its consulate in Kandahar, Siddiqui sent his close journalist friend a link to an article on the subject and revealed he was in the city. "Stay safe pls," his friend wrote. "Yes yes, I will pull out if I think it's too bad," Siddiqui replied.Two days later, on July 13, Siddiqui shared a link to a report about the strike on his vehicle, and reassured the same friend that he'd "pull the plug" if needed. On July 15, the evening before his death, Siddiqui shared a Twitter thread describing his experience with the Special Forces with a small group of childhood friends on a private WhatsApp group. The thread included his dramatic footage of the RPG strike."THIS IS BAT SHIT CRAZY!" a friend replied within minutes, according to screenshots of the messages. He asked Siddiqui about his life insurance.That same evening, Siddiqui messaged colleagues in Afghanistan and Pakistan, including Gibran Peshimam, the Pakistan bureau chief who also oversees the Kabul bureau, to tell them he'd be filing reports. "Folks, let me know who will be on the deck tomorrow morning," he wrote. "I will have feed." Siddiqui made no mention of the plan to join a combat mission to Spin Boldak.At 11.04 pm on Thursday, July 15, Siddiqui sent a message to Asia pictures editor Masood in Singapore: 'Leave Base.' That was the signal Siddiqui was off. He was riding with Major Sadiq Karzai, who was commanding the Spin Boldak assault, according to the Special Forces.Dozens of Humvees had left the base with the objective of retaking Spin Boldak, Siddiqui told Peshimam in a message at 5.09 am the following morning. At 6.33 am, Siddiqui called Peshimam from an Afghan number. They spoke for four minutes. Siddiqui told him they were expecting "contact" – to encounter Taliban forces – in the next few minutes.A cache of 350 pictures from Siddiqui's camera, which was recovered by Reuters, record his journey through a dusty, overcast landscape.At 7.03 am, Siddiqui passed an abandoned police truck, its front right tire blown out. He was some 12 kilometres from Spin Boldak, at a pass between two rocky outcrops. Known as Wat Mountain, in peacetime the place is a popular picnic spot.At 7.30 am Siddiqui sent a voice message to Peshimam, reporting heavy fighting. A minute later, his vehicle reached a roadblock. A series of 97 frames over 10 seconds show puffs of smoke from the impact of rockets and gunfire. Orange tracer rounds from a machine gun strike a building on his left.As the commandos take cover, Siddiqui appears to dismount from his vehicle to follow the action. The last picture, at 7.34 am, shows a commando crouching behind a wall and launching an RPG. Analysis of satellite imagery and a map reference provided by Special Forces indicate Siddiqui was 2.1 kilometers from the centre of Spin Boldak. The military identified the spot as the Shanaki petrol station and mosque complex.At 7.41 am, Siddiqui sent a voice message to Masood. There was the sound of heavy gunfire. Siddiqui is heard saying to another person, "What is it, RPG?" A minute later, another voice message. "Masood, I've been hit."The two spoke on the phone three minutes later. Siddiqui told Masood he had been hit by shrapnel on the back of his left arm. He passed the phone to one of the members of the unit, who assured Masood the wound was superficial."We are pulling him out," the man said.At 7.53 am, Siddiqui spoke to a photojournalist colleague in Kabul, telling him he was sheltering in a mosque.At 7.59 am, Siddiqui shared his live location with Masood via a tracking feature on his smartphone. At 8.01 am, in his last message, the photographer replied to a question from Masood asking how his injury was. "Just painful," he said.Over the next hour, Siddiqui's phone signal moved slowly from Spin Boldak along the main road towards Kandahar. Peshimam, Masood and the colleague in Kabul all tried calling Siddiqui at intervals, without any response. Siddiqui's tracking signal stopped at 9.06 am at Wat Mountain.Around 10 am, Masood and the colleague in Kabul separately got through on Siddiqui's phone. But they grew alarmed, because in both cases it wasn't Siddiqui who picked up. It was a stranger who identified himself as a shopkeeper before hanging up.Masood arranged a conference call with editors and operations managers to explain what had happened. During that call, another Reuters photographer in Kabul messaged Masood with pictures circulating on social media. Masood knew immediately the man in the photos was Siddiqui."Oh god, he has been killed," he said. There was silence.Conflicting AccountsAccording to first reports, Siddiqui had been killed in the bazaar at Spin Boldak. But the records of Siddiqui's phone tracker, accounts from the commander of Afghan Special Forces, Taliban, other local security officials, and photos and videos posted on social media give a fuller picture, albeit with many key details still uncertain.Alizai, the Special Forces commander, told Reuters his commandos, supported by other Afghan security forces, had advanced that morning to the petrol-and-mosque complex where Siddiqui took his last pictures. The troops had air support available.Based on communications at the time and interviews with commandos when they returned to base, Alizai said he concluded that Siddiqui took shelter in the mosque where he was treated for his shrapnel injury by a Special Forces medic, and accompanied by Karzai.As Siddiqui was being evacuated, the Taliban launched a new attack and all government units were forced to withdraw. A police commander who was nearby at the time gave Reuters a similar account. At this point, Alizai said, his men lost communication with Karzai, Siddiqui and the medic. They mistakenly thought all three had jumped aboard one of the retreating vehicles.Four other Special Force members interviewed by Reuters confirmed Alizai's account that Siddiqui and the two soldiers had been left behind in a hasty retreat. One senior officer, a deputy commander of the operation, said the Taliban had attacked the location from three sides. "The fighting was so strong that we did not know where Danish was," he said.After a gunner in Karzai's Humvee was hit by a mortar round, everyone started to pull out. A driver of another Humvee said he heard urgent shouts to Karzai to rejoin the vehicles. But at that moment, the driver said, the Taliban closed in and Siddiqui, Karzai and the medic were shot as they tried to run to the retreating vehicles. "I saw it with my own eyes," he said. Believing they were dead, this driver pulled out, too.Alizai said one of his officers then managed to get through to Karzai's phone. He said it was answered by someone identifying himself as a Taliban fighter, who said, "You're bringing Indians to fight against us." The officer replied, "Don't shoot him. He's a journalist." "We already killed that guy," the fighter answered. There was no further contact.Alizai said he believes Taliban fighters may have picked up Siddiqui's phone and taken it with them as they pursued the Special Forces to Wat Mountain, where the Taliban stopped and established defensive lines.Reuters was unable to independently determine if the Taliban deliberately killed Siddiqui or desecrated his body. Siddiqui's family said it believes that he was brutally murdered and his body mutilated."We reiterate our demand that the matter should be pursued to bring the perpetrators of this horrific crime to justice," the statement by the family said.At 9.40 am, 34 minutes after Siddiqui's tracking signal stopped, the first pictures of his body were posted on Twitter. Photos of captured Humvees followed minutes later. At 10.24 am, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid posted on Twitter a video of the same location where Siddiqui's phone tracker stopped – identifiable by the outcrops and three large radio masts – stating Taliban fighters had "crushed" government forces in a clash there.Contacted later for this article, Zabihullah said that after heavy fighting around Spin Boldak town, the Taliban mounted an ambush of Afghan Special Forces on the road back towards Kandahar, capturing three Humvees and destroying two others, plus a pickup truck. That fighting, too, was heavy, he said, involving over 100 armoured cars and pickups. The "largest ambush by us" was in the Wat Mountain area, he said."We don't know exactly where Danish was killed, but we recognised his body when we found three bodies lying by the roadside." He was identified as a journalist by a "PRESS" marking on his jacket. The other two casualties were the Afghan soldiers who were with Siddiqui: Karzai and the medic, identified by the Afghan military only as Abass.Zabihullah denied reports that Siddiqui was captured and executed, as well as claims by the Afghan security forces and Indian government officials that his body was desecrated."It is completely wrong that Danish was first injured then he was captured and then killed, so I reject this information. It is completely wrong," he said."We once again say that this death happened on a battlefield. We can't say whose bullet hit Danish Siddiqui, and we had no prior information about him being in the area."On Sunday, July 18, bureau staff gathered up Siddiqui's possessions in Kabul. His room there was left as any journalist in a hurry might leave it. Clothes and a towel lay on his unmade bed. Nearby were Bounty chocolate bars and cookies, a stab-resistant vest and a small suitcase containing his spare camera. Four weeks later, the Taliban occupied the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-was-killed-after-being-left-behind-afghan-general-101629805832115.html
24-08-2021||World||'I have to apologise': Fauci corrects his prediction on US Covid-19 curve||Top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci corrected his earlier prediction where he had “misspoke” about the United States getting good control over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the fall of 2022. During an interview with NPR, the chief medical advisor to the White House had said if the overwhelming majority of the unvaccinated population get jabbed, the United States could “start to really get some good control over” the pandemic as they get into the fall of 2022.“I have to apologise,” Fauci told CNN’s Anderson Cooper when asked about his prediction. “When I listened to the tape, I meant to say the Spring of 2022, so I did misspeak.”Fauci clarified he wanted to say if the country gets through “this winter” and the overwhelming majority of the 90 million unvaccinated people get vaccinated, the US could start to get some good control in the “Spring of 2022”. The United States is witnessing another Covid-19 wave largely driven by the highly contagious Delta variant as about 90 million eligible people remain unvaccinated.Also Read | Anthony Fauci says US can move quickly to offer 3rd vaccine shotsOn Monday, Fauci told NPR that it is difficult to correctly predict the curve of the pandemic when 90 million people are unvaccinated. He said there is the possibility of the coronavirus continuing to circulate, mutate, form more variants and take the country back to a similar or worse situation caused by the Delta variant.The United States continues to report one of the highest daily new Covid-19 cases, overall as well as per capita. According to the latest epidemiological update by the World Health Organization (WHO), the highest numbers of new cases from August 9 - August 15 were reported by the US, Iran and India. However, the highest numbers of new deaths in the same week were reported by Indonesia, Brazil and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-have-to-apologise-fauci-corrects-his-prediction-on-us-covid-19-curve-101629804867411.html
24-08-2021||World||Imposing sanctions on Taliban will be counterproductive, says China||China on Tuesday said imposing sanctions on the Taliban in Afghanistan will prove counterproductive, and urged the international community to support chances for positive developments in the country.“Afghanistan is an independent and sovereign country. The United States and its allies should learn from the lessons of history, reflect and act prudently on issues related to Afghanistan,” said Wang Wenbin, China’s foreign ministry spokesperson. “Imposing sanctions and pressure at every turn cannot solve the problem and will only be counterproductive.”Wang was responding to reports that said world leaders at the upcoming G7 meeting could consider new sanctions on the Taliban.“The international community should encourage and promote the development of the situation in Afghanistan in a positive direction, support peaceful reconstruction, improve the well-being of the people and enhance its capacity for independent development,” the spokesperson added.“We should not let the tragedy of individual countries making mistakes, only to have the Afghan people and the international community, especially regional countries, foot the bill, be repeated,” Wang said.China, which shares a border with Afghanistan, has sought to maintain friendly ties with the Taliban, and has seized on the US pullback from the country to sharpen its criticism of Washington.China and Russia are among the few countries to have kept their embassies open in Kabul after the Taliban swept to power earlier this month.In Geneva, China’s envoy to the UN in Geneva said on Tuesday that the US army and the militaries of allies should be held accountable for alleged rights violations they committed in Afghanistan.“The US, UK, Australia and other countries must be held accountable for the violation of human rights committed by their military in Afghanistan and the evolution of this current session should cover this issue,” China’s UN envoy Chen Xu said at an emergency session of the UN Human Rights Council on Afghanistan.“Under the banner of democracy and human rights, the US and other countries carry out military interventions in other sovereign states and impose their own model on countries with vastly different history and culture,” he said. This has brought “great suffering”, Chen added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imposing-sanctions-on-taliban-will-be-counterproductive-says-china-101629805121682.html
24-08-2021||World||CIA director held secret meeting with Taliban leader Baradar: Report||The chief of American spy agency CIA William J Burns held a secret meeting with the Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul on Monday, according to the Washington Post which quoted unnamed US officials.This was the highest-level face-to-face encounter between the two sides and comes more than a week after the insurgent group seized power in Afghanistan, the Post report said.Also Read: Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in AfghanistanUS President Joe Biden's decision to dispatch his top spy, a veteran of the foreign service, comes amid a frantic effort to evacuate people from Kabul international airport in what the president has called "one of the largest, most difficult airlifts in history," the paper said.Though the CIA has not officially commented on the meeting, the Post quoted officials to report that the discussions likely involved the impending August 31 deadline for the US military to conclude its airlift of US citizens and Afghan allies.The Biden administration is under pressure from some allies to keep US forces in the country beyond August 31 deadline in order to assist the evacuation of tens of thousands of citizens of the US and Western countries as well as Afghan allies desperate to escape Taliban rule. A meeting of G7 countries - Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States - will take place virtually on Tuesday, and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to push for a deadline extension.However, a Taliban spokesman on Monday warned that there will be "consequences" if the US and UK sought an extension to the August 31 deadline for the US-led troop withdrawal from the war-torn country.Baradar, who spent eight years in Pakistani prison before his release in 2018, has served as the Taliban's chief negotiator in peace talks with the US in Qatar that resulted in an agreement with the Trump administration on the withdrawal of US forces.A close friend of the Taliban's founding supreme leader Muhammad Omar, Baradar is believed to hold significant influence over the Taliban rank-and-file, according to Washington Post.It added that Burns made a similar unannounced trip to Afghanistan in April this year amid concerns over the ability to stop the Taliban offensive.As director, Burns oversees a spy agency that trained elite Afghan special forces units who had been viewed as a potent force in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-director-held-secret-meeting-with-taliban-leader-baradar-report-101629804200037.html
24-08-2021||World||Credible reports of executions of civilians by Taliban: UN human rights chief||The top UN human rights officials on Tuesday said she has received “credible reports” of summary executions of civilians by the Taliban as their actions raise fears of a “return to past patterns of human rights violations”.Michelle Bachelet, the UN high commissioner for human rights, told a special session of the UN human rights council that the civilian casualties between January 1 and June 30 rose by nearly 50 per cent compared to the same period in 2020, suggesting the toll further increased over the months of July and August when the Taliban intensified their offensive to take the effective control of Afghanistan.Bachelet said she has received reports of serious violations of international humanitarian law which include summary executions of civilians and restrictions on the rights of women. She didn’t divulge details of the executions during her speech but urged the Council to set up a dedicated mechanism to closely monitor the evolving human rights situation in Afghanistan. The top UN human rights official asserted that the treatment of women and girls by the Taliban would be a “fundamental red line.”“I strongly urge the Taliban to adopt norms of responsive governance and human rights, and to work to re-establish social cohesion and reconciliation – including through respect for the rights of all who have suffered during the decades of conflict,” she said.Also Read | Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in AfghanistanThe Taliban’s return has stoked fears of reprisal and Afghanistan’s return to the era when girls were not allowed in schools and women in workplaces under their harsh version of Islamic law. While the Islamist fundamentalists have promised inclusivity, they have repeatedly underlined that any freedom to women will be in accordance with the “genuine Islamic system”.Bachelet stressed the need for the government to remain inclusive, which means meaningful participation of women, and representation of Afghanistan's diverse communities.“There should be genuine, inclusive dialogue, including women, and including members of Afghanistan's diverse ethnic and religious communities, in order to address the underlying problems that the country faces, the root causes of discrimination, and the enduring legacies of decades of conflict,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/credible-reports-of-executions-of-afghan-civilians-by-taliban-un-human-rights-chief-101629800445123.html
24-08-2021||World||Ukrainian evacuation plane hijacked into Iran from Kabul: Reports||A minister in Ukraine claimed on Tuesday that an evacuation flight was hijacked from Afghanistan on Sunday and taken to Iran. However, the claims have been denied by both Ukraine and Iran.Ukraine's deputy foreign minister Yevgeny Yenin was quoted as saying by Russian news agency Taas that the plane was hijacked by "armed people". He said that the plane was stolen from Ukraine and "flew into Iran with an unidentified group of passengers onboard".He, however, did not divulge more information about what happened to the flight.Hours later, the authorities in Iran denied that any hijacked plane landed in the country. Ukraine too, officially rejected Yenin's claim that the plane was hijacked.Ukrainian foreign ministry spokesman Oleh Nikolenko denied that one the planes of the country had been hijacked in Kabul. He told Interfax agency that Yenin “was explaining in general the unprecedented level of difficulties that diplomats have had to face in order to evacuate Ukrainians.”Many countries have launched evacuation missions to take out their citizens from Afghanistan since the Taliban seized power on August 15. The swift evacuation is being carried out with the help of the forces of United States, which are in control of Hamid Karzai International (HKI) airport in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukrainian-evacuation-plane-hijacked-into-iran-from-kabul-reports-101629793819845.html
24-08-2021||World||UK says Afghanistan withdrawal may not go beyond Aug 31, cites Biden statements||Western nations are unlikely to extend the evacuation window in Afghanistan to allow more citizens and Afghan nationals to fly out of Kabul, British defence minister Ben Wallace said on Tuesday. Britain was reportedly pushing for an extension even though for that to happen the Taliban need to agree to it as well.According to a Reuters report, Wallace cited US President Joe Biden’s public statements as a reason for suggesting the evacuation window may not extend beyond August 31, which is when US troops are scheduled to withdraw from Afghanistan. “Not only because of what the Taliban has said but also if you look at the public statements of President Biden, I think it is unlikely," Wallace told British broadcaster Sky News.Biden had told reporters on August 22 he would not like to extend the timeframe for evacuation beyond month-end, but discussions on the same would be held. “There’s discussion going on among us and the military about extending,” he said, adding, “Our hope is we will not have to extend, but there are going to be discussions, I suspect, on how far along we are in the process”.A meeting of G7 leaders is scheduled to be held during the day where one of the key topics of discussion will revolve around extending the evacuation window in the war-torn nation following its takeover by the Islamic militant group that was overthrown by the US 20 years ago.The G7 meeting will be attended by leaders of the UK, US, Canada, France, Italy, Germany, and Japan and chaired by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Biden’s plan to complete evacuation by August 31 was hampered by the unexpected advance of the Taliban who took over Kabul on August 15 without minimal resistance from Afghan forces. American troops were expecting Kabul to hold strong for at least a month following the final withdrawal.In recent weeks, Biden has come under pressure from his Western allies for over extension of the evacuation window beyond August 31. In a call to his American counterpart, French President Emmanuel Macron “underscored the absolute need for swift, concrete coordination between the allies to ensure the evacuation of our citizens, Afghan men and women who worked for the allies, and those who are in danger”, according to this office.The Taliban have, however, cautioned that presence of US and its allies in Afghanistan beyond August 31 would invite “consequences”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-afghanistan-withdrawal-may-not-go-beyond-aug-31-cites-biden-statements-101629794522691.html
24-08-2021||World||Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed says India 'true friend', slams Pakistan||Afghanistan's famous pop star, Aryana Sayeed, who had escaped from Afghanistan after the Taliban took Kabul, has expressed her gratitude towards Indians for extending help to her fellow citizens even, while blaming Pakistan for the mess in the war-torn country and empowering the Islamic militant group."I do blame Pakistan. Over the years, we have seen videos, seen evidence that Pakistan is behind empowering the Taliban. Every time our government touches the Taliban, the identification reveals him to be a Pakistani person. So it is very obvious that I (would) blame them and hope that they would back off and would not interfere in the politics of Afghanistan anymore," Sayeed was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | "...I blame Pakistan. Over the yrs, we've seen videos & evidence that Pak is behind empowering Taliban. Every time our govt would catch a Talib, they'd see identification & it'd be a Pakistani, it's very obvious that it's them," says Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed to ANI pic.twitter.com/eIBAGXvaCPShe further said the Taliban troops were being instructed and trained by Pakistan. "They are being instructed by Pakistan, their bases are in Pakistan where they get their training. I hope the international community first cuts off their funds and doesn't offer funds to Pakistan for funding the Taliban."Also read | Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed leaves Kabul for Istanbul after Taliban take overSpeaking from an undisclosed location, the pop star, who broke multiple taboos in 2015 singing at a stadium, urged the global community to find a lasting solution for peace in the conflict-ridden nation.She also urged the Taliban to treat civilians in a more humane way. "I just hope that they will think about humanity. They should not treat innocent people the way they did 20 years ago," she added.During the Taliban's rule in Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001, brutal floggings, amputations and public executions were commonplace. Women were largely confined to their homes and death penalty was a norm for offences like adultery and homosexuality.Lauding the Indian government's efforts in Afghanistan, Sayeed said India was "true friend". "India has always been good to us. They have been a true friend, they have been very helpful and kind to our people, even refugees. Afghans who have been in India before have always spoken highly of the nation, its people. We are grateful to India," she added."On behalf of Afghanistan, I want to express my utmost gratitude to India and I want to say thank you. Over the years we have realised that the only good friend in the neighborhood we have is India," she said.She also expressed her dismay at the way former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani escaped from the country leading to the fall of the West-backed elected government and smooth seizure of power by Taliban. Calling Ghani a "coward", Sayeed said, “He left Afghanistan in the hands of a bunch of Pakistanis. He let down our people, our country, our armed forces and military. How could we fight without any leaders?""I was very sad and pissed off with him for what he did. The day we were leaving Afghanistan on August 15, he was still giving speeches promising people that everything will be alright. But within the next few hours he disappeared," she added.She further praised the efforts of Afghanistan's "acting" President Amrullah Saleh and Ahmad Massoud, son of legendary resistance leader Ahmad Shah Massoud, for challenging the Taliban regime from the Panjshir valley. "Whatever is happening now in Panjshir, it is very brave of them. Appreciate that but at the same time, I fear Afghanistan will go back to civil war which is scary. We have been through that and I don't want Afghanistan to go through that once again, I am really concerned," said Sayeed.She also took a dig at international powers for leaving Afghanistan in the middle of nowhere. "I mean look at all these superpower countries who initially went there and they said our reason of going there is to get rid of Al Qaeda, get rid of Taliban and then after being there for 20 years and spending millions and millions of dollars, lives of all those soldiers lost there, suddenly they decided to leave Afghanistan and come out and this is something so shocking to me," Sayeed said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-pop-star-aryana-sayeed-says-india-true-friend-slams-pakistan-101629791967387.html
24-08-2021||World||Signs of Delta variant taming in Israel due to vaccine boosters||Israel, which started its vaccine booster drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a few weeks ago, is witnessing indications of an impact on the high infection rate fuelled by the Delta variant of the virus, Reuters reported on Tuesday citing experts. The Delta variant started spreading in Israel in June, with the government reimposing indoor mask wearing, limitations on public gatherings and ramping up testing.On July 30, authorities in Israel started administering the third dose of Pfizer/BioNtech’s Covid-19 vaccine to people above the age of 60. Last Thursday, the government expanded the eligibility for people aged 40 and above who received their second vaccine doses at least five months earlier and pointed out that the age limit might come down further.Also Read| Do Covid-19 vaccine boosters help? This Israeli study has answersThe health ministry on Sunday revealed in its findings that a third dose of the Pfizer vaccine provided significantly improved protection from the infection and serious illness among people aged 60 and above compared to those who received only the first two doses.Israel has so far registered nearly a million cases and 6,856 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. As most of the restrictions to curb the spread of the viral disease have been taken down, Israel saw a massive rise in its infections as it went from single-digit daily tally and zero deaths to 7,500 daily cases, 600 infected patients being admitted to hospitals in serious condition and 150 dying last week, Reuters reported.However, with the beginning of the booster drive, the severity of Covid-19 is weakening among the first age group- which is those above 60 years. According to the country’s health ministry data and scientists interviewed by the news agency, more than a million people in this age group have received their third dose. The rate of Covid spreading among such people, which is also known as the reproduction rate, has been steadily declining since August 13.Also Read| US CDC delays review of Covid booster shots as debate swirls over third jabMeanwhile, scientists also said that besides booster shots, other factors are contributing to the decline in infection.Eran Segal, a data scientist at the Weizmann Institute of Science and an adviser to the government said, “The numbers are still very high but what has changed is that the very high increase in the rate of infections and severe cases has diminished, as has the pace at which the pandemic is spreading,”. “This is likely due to the third booster shot, an uptake in people taking the first dose and the high number of people infected per week, possibly up to 100,000, who now have natural immunity,” he added.(With Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/signs-of-delta-variant-taming-in-israel-due-to-vaccine-boosters-101629790017475.html
24-08-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine passports required as TIFF returns to theatres this year||As North America’s most celebrated movie event, the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), returns to theatres this year, those who want to attend it in person will be required to furnish what are being widely called “vaccine passports” or “Covid-19 green passes”.Attendees will have to show either proof of vaccination against the coronavirus disease or a negative Covid-19 test result.The 46th edition of the TIFF will take place from September 9-18. It will open with a feature adaptation of the Tony Award-winning musical Dear Evan Hansen and will close with Chinese director Zhang Yimou’s One Second.The event will take place in Toronto’s theatres even as the Delta variant-driven fourth wave of Covid-19 is underway in the country. The 2020 edition of the film festival was held in an entirely digital format due to the pandemic.TIFF co-heads Joana Vicente and Cameron Bailey said in a statement they have “taken great care and consideration in implementing protocols to mitigate risk to audiences and guests attending TIFF”. They added, “We have relied on municipal and provincial medical direction and advice on rapid testing and we expect this will provide another level of clarity and comfort for all festival goers.”As far as vaccine passports are concerned, five of Canada’s major banks have announced variations of the protocol for allowing employees into their offices and branches. The province of British Columbia announced on Monday that it will implement such a scheme for those wanting to access places such as restaurants, movie theatres and gyms. It will go into effect on September 13, when proof of at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine will be needed, and by October 24, the requirement will be upgraded to fully vaccinated status. Quebec is putting into force such a measure starting on September 1.The TIFF has identified five venues for indoor public screenings, while there will be outdoor screenings at drive-ins, and the films will also be available on a digital platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-passports-required-as-tiff-returns-to-theatres-this-year-101629784290613.html
24-08-2021||World||Will US compensate loss of Kabul by action on China?||The day after the Taliban seized Kabul, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan praised the Sunni Pashtun Islamists for breaking the shackles of slavery, in an obvious reference to the US military-led occupation of Afghanistan post 9/11. The Chinese, Russians, Iranians and Turks also made peace overtures and offered support to the UN-designated Sunni terrorist group in what is euphemistically called the reconstruction of Afghanistan.While the Joe Biden administration has been rightly panned by the democratic world for leaving Afghanistan in the hands of terrorists and killers, the future may not be so kosher for the deal makers in Islamabad, Washington and London. Even though the global credibility of the US has been damaged with the Afghan withdrawal, Washington will have to compensate for this loss by action against rising challenge China if it has any intention of retaining its sole global superpower status. Perhaps this was the signal of vice president Kamala Harris visit to Singapore.Also read | Will September 11 become the new deadline for US to exit Afghanistan?With no military commitments left after August 31 in the Afghan capital, the US and the EU will physically switch off from Kabul and with it will dry billions of dollars of aid and funding that Pakistan was getting for its two-faced role in the war against terror in Afghanistan since 2001. While Joe Biden and Donald Trump are two ends of the political spectrum, there is bipartisan consensus over Trump’s January 1, 2018, tweet where he accused Pakistan of deceit and harbouring terrorists that US forces were hunting in Afghanistan at that time. Pakistan would be living in a fool’s paradise if it thinks that the US with National Security Agency at its disposal does not know where the entire Taliban top leadership is based in Pakistan and their confabulations with Pakistan Army and ISI. After the Afghan withdrawal, neither the US nor the EU needs to fund Pakistan or give them preferential status for supporting military logistics lines to Afghanistan. US has funded Pakistan with over USD 35 billion dollars in aid since 2001 and the EU has given more grants to Islamabad than China has given in loans.Although the Biden administration may go politically dark over the Af-Pak region, the American agencies through spy satellites and communication intercepts will ensure the area is under floodlights and suppress any terror strike being plotted by the Taliban, Al Qaeda and their terror brothers based in Pakistan. In an era of stand-off weapons and missiles, counter-strike against terror plotters in this highly radicalized region can be taken with pinpointed accuracy. Taliban must not forget how their chief Mullah Mansour Akhtar was taken out by a hellfire missile from a US predator drone in 2016 inside Pakistani territory. Also read | Canada's Trudeau leaves door open to Taliban sanctions as G7 meet loomsChina, Russia and Iran are sanguine about the rise of the Taliban and virtually cheered the Deobandi-Islamist force for making the US run for their lives from Kabul on August 15. However, the Sunni Islamist force, weaned on perpetual jihad, has no space for either the Chinese Communists, Christian Russians or Shia Iran as all of them are Kaffirs. With top of the line US weapons at their disposal, a strong Taliban will not only reach out to their Uighur counterparts in Xinjiang but also destabilize both Iran and Central Asian Republics which buffer the Russian Federation. Pakistan will become more radicalized than ever with its Shia minority under threat and the Taliban will put pressure on border settlement as it does not recognise the Durand Line.Also read | The US misread Taliban once. Has it walked into Pakistan’s trap again?The Chinese propaganda machine has gleefully put out narratives in the media questioning the American commitment to ASEAN and Taiwan after the collapse of Kabul. The propaganda media has taunted all the American allies in Indo-Pacific by telling them that Washington under Joe Biden has no stomach for war against the PLA navy in the South China Sea. However, indications from Washington are to the contrary with the Biden administration focusing on China. It is also very much possible that the Biden administration compensation towards China may turn out to be Barack Obama’s Asian pivot, which was never implemented but only talked about in seminars in Singapore. Except for this time the US allies particularly in QUAD will trust only after verification.The rise of the Taliban will also destabilise the Indian sub-continent particularly countries like Nepal, Maldives, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka through Islamic radicalisation. While the Taliban may not be directly involved, their ideological brothers and comrades-in-jihad based in Pakistan will use this opportunity and new US weapons to spread political Islam in the region.Clearly, blood will not dry in Af-Pak battlefields for the time to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-us-compensate-loss-of-kabul-by-action-on-china-101629780276894.html
24-08-2021||World||UNHRC special session on Afghanistan today. Here's all about the meeting||The United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) will hold a special session on Tuesday to address the "serious human rights concerns and situation in Afghanistan" after the Taliban took over on August 15, the global body said in a statement. This session is being convened on the basis of an August 17 request submitted by Pakistan, the coordinator of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), and Afghanistan.The UN can call for special sessions only if a request receives the support of one-third or 16 or more of the 47 members of the Council. This particular request has received support from 89 states so far. Out of these 89 states, 29 states are members of the Council and 60 are observer states.Amongst the member states India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Mexico, UK, Italy amongst others have supported the call for a special session to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. States can become signatories up until the session starts and hence all lists for such sessions are considered provincial.Read More: Will September 11 become the new deadline for US to exit Afghanistan?India has always supported the government of Afghanistan in helping citizens realise the aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future where rights of all sections, especially minorities and women, were guaranteed. India has invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country and facilitated duty-free access to the Indian market.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has spoken in support of the Taliban since they took over Kabul but has urged the international community to stay engaged with Afghanistan to economically support the people of the war-torn nation. However, a cautious Pakistan has taken to fencing a previously open border that it shares with Afghanistan, to prevent cross-border militant attacks, 90 per cent of which has already been completed, and the remaining will be completed in 2021.The 31st special session will be held at Palais des Nations in hybrid format, with the majority of interventions being delivered online due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and is scheduled to start from 10am on Tuesday. The meeting will be webcast live in six official UN languages, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unhrc-special-session-on-afghanistan-today-here-s-all-about-the-meeting-101629778041862.html
24-08-2021||World||Will September 11 become the new deadline for US to exit Afghanistan?||September 11 could now become the new deadline for the US and its allies to wrap up operations in Afghanistan - chiefly the evacuation of their citizens and Afghan partners - if American President Joe Biden decides to continue the airlift efforts beyond the stated exit date of August 31.An unidentified Biden administration official familiar with developments told The Washington Post that the deadline extension, if it happens, will be brief and is likely to end by September 11 – which happens to be the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks in America that had led to the US-led invasion of Afghanistan back in 2001.The Taliban on Monday had categorically warned of “consequences” if foreign troops stayed on Afghan soil beyond the August 31 deadline to pull out, saying it would be a violation of their agreement.Taliban’s stance, however, won’t be a factor if the US government decides to push back the deadline until September 11.“We are engaging with the Taliban, consulting with the Taliban on every aspect of what’s happening in Kabul right now, on what’s happening at the airport, on how we need to ensure that there is facilitated passage to the airport for American citizens, SIVs (Special Immigration Visas), third-country nationals, and so forth,” said Jake Sullivan, the US National Security Adviser, at a White House news conference when asked if the Taliban group’s nod was needed for the US to extend the deadline.He added, “We’ll continue those conversations with them. Ultimately, it will be the president’s decision how this proceeds, no one else’s.”The new deadline is apparently acceptable to close allies of the US such as the UK and France, who plan to press Biden on it at a G7 virtual meeting on Tuesday to be convened by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.British and French officials told The New York Times that a delay of a few days would allow Biden to still get the US out of Afghanistan before September 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-september-11-become-the-new-deadline-for-us-to-exit-afghanistan-101629779850674.html
24-08-2021||World||Taliban abducting children, elderly in Andarab valley: Amrullah Saleh||The Taliban are not allowing food and fuel to reach the Andarab valley in the northern Baghlan province, Afghanistan's acting president Amrullah Saleh has said amid reports of clashes between the fighters of the hardline Islamist group and resistance forces. "Talibs aren't allowing food and fuel to get into Andarab valley. The humanitarian situation is dire. Thousands of women and children have fled to the mountains. Since the last two days Talibs abduct children and elderly and use them as shields to move around or do house search," Saleh tweeted late on Monday.Saleh also tweeted that the Islamist group's fighters have come near Panjshir, a known anti-Taliban bastion where some ex-government troops and militia have gathered under the National Resistance Front led by Saleh and Ahmed Massoud. Massoud is the son of famed anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud.Talibs aren't allowing food & fuel to get into Andarab valley. The humanitarian situation is dire. Thousands of women & children have fled to mountains. Since the last two days Talibs abduct children & elderly and use them as shields to move around or do house search."Talibs have massed forces near the entrance of Panjshir a day after they got trapped in ambush zones of neighbouring Andarab valley and hardly went out in one piece. Meanwhile, the Salang highway is closed by the forces of the Resistance. 'There are terrains to be avoided'. See you," Saleh tweeted late on Sunday.Also watch | Taliban recapture 3 districts as Panjshir resistance refuses to surrenderSaleh's tweets have come as clashes were reported between the Taliban and resistance forces in the Andarab region. The Taliban's spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid tweeted earlier their fighters are "stationed near Panjshir", and that the group was trying to resolve this issue "peacefully".Also read | Air India flight with 78 people evacuated from Afghanistan to land in Delhi soonOn the other hand, Massoud has also called for negotiations to form an inclusive government in Afghanistan but said they will resist if Taliban forces try to enter the Panjshir Valley.Leaders of the G7 countries will meet later on Tuesday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and also whether to seek an extension to an August 31 deadline for the evacuation of thousands of people trying to flee the Taliban. The leaders of the United States, Britain, Italy, France, Germany, Canada and Japan will also discuss whether to recognise or sanction a Taliban government.The Taliban have warned against any extension in the August 31 date and said it would not be granted. Since the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15, there has been chaos at the airport in the Afghan capital as tens of thousands of people are desperately trying to escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-abducting-children-elderly-in-andarab-valley-amrullah-saleh-101629777731755.html
24-08-2021||World||New Zealand witnesses highest jump in Covid-19 cases since April 2020||New Zealand on Tuesday recorded its highest increase in Covid-19 cases since April 2020, but authorities said the numbers were not rising exponentially and the majority of the cases were still in centred in Auckland where the recent outbreak started.The South Pacific nation's virus-free run since February ended last week after an outbreak of the highly contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus erupted in Auckland, New Zealand's largest city, and quickly spread to the capital Wellington.Authorities reported 41 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections in the country to 148, the Director General of health chief Ashley Bloomfield said at a news conference. That is the most new cases since April 2020, according to a graphic on the Ministry of Health website.Of the new cases, 38 are in Auckland and three are in Wellington."It is reassuring that we are not seeing an exponential increase," Bloomfield said, adding that with most cases being reported in Auckland, it indicated infections were not widespread.However, the health ministry said in a statement later on Tuesday that it would not be unexpected to see a rise in daily case numbers at this stage of the outbreak and at its peak last year New Zealand had a daily total of 89 new cases.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has garnered global praise for stamping out Covid-19 in the country.But, her reliance on strict border controls and snap lockdowns that have impacted the economy has been called into question amid the latest outbreak, which has occurred while few people have been vaccinated.On Monday, Ardern extended the strict level 4 national lockdown until midnight on August 27 while Auckland will have restrictions in place at least until August 31.Finance Minister Grant Robertson said the government has enough funds to tackle the latest outbreak and the economy has been "incredibly resilient"."A strong public health response is still the best economic response," he said in the news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-has-highest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-since-april-2020-101629775646532.html
24-08-2021||World||Afghan crisis: Around 10 million children across country require humanitarian aid, says UNICEF||Amid the fast-evolving developments in Afghanistan, UNICEF has said around 10 million children across the country need humanitarian assistance to survive."Today, around 10 million children across Afghanistan need humanitarian assistance to survive. An estimated 1 million children are projected to suffer from severe acute malnutrition over the course of this year and could die without treatment," UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta H. Fore said in a statement on Monday.An estimated 4.2 million children are out of school, including more than 2.2 million girls. Since January, the UN has documented over 2,000 grave violations of children's rights. Approximately 435,000 children and women are internally displaced, the statement said."This is the grim reality facing Afghan children and it remains so regardless of ongoing political developments and changes in government," Fore added.This comes as the UN agency anticipates that the humanitarian needs of children and women will increase over the coming months amidst severe drought and consequent water scarcity, the devastating socioeconomic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and the onset of winter."That is why, after 65 years in Afghanistan striving to improve the lives of children and women, UNICEF will remain on the ground now and in the days to come. We are deeply committed to the country's children and there is far more work to be done on their behalf," Fore said.She said that millions will continue to need essential services, including health, lifesaving vaccination drives against polio and measles, nutrition, protection, shelter, water and sanitation."Right now, UNICEF is scaling up its lifesaving programmes for children and women - including through the delivery of health, nutrition and water services to displaced families. We hope to expand these operations to areas that could not previously be reached because of insecurity," the Henrietta H. Fore Executive Director added.Fore further urged the Taliban and other parties to ensure that UNICEF and other humanitarian partners have safe, timely and unfettered access to reach children in need wherever they are.Afghanistan's situation is deteriorating as people are in a rush to leave the nation after the Taliban seized control last week. Several countries have been evacuating their citizens from the war-torn nation speedily. The Kabul airport is witnessing nowadays a heavy chaos due to instability in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/around-10-million-children-across-afghanistan-require-humanitarian-aid-unicef-101629770122546.html
24-08-2021||World||US President Joe Biden to meet G7 leaders today to discuss Afghanistan||US President Joe Biden is all set to hold a meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) leaders on Tuesday to discuss evacuation efforts in Afghanistan. This virtual gathering will be the first forum where Biden will be speaking to America’s allies about the fall of Kabul to the Taliban and the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan which has caused apprehension and anger amongst some of the allies.The G7 group includes leaders from the US, the UK, Italy, France, Germany, Japan and Canada. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who will chair the meeting, told Reuters that the meet will focus on evacuation efforts in Afghanistan and long term plans for the nation after the US withdraws its troops by August 31.Also Read: Joe Biden mulls staying beyond August 31; Taliban issue threatThe leaders will also be holding discussions on safeguarding gains made in Afghanistan in the last 20 years, especially in regards to girls' education and women's rights. Economic sanctions against the Taliban if they commit human rights abuses, and whether to officially recognise the Taliban as the leaders of the country will also be discussed in the meeting, diplomatic sources in the UK told Reuters.Biden, whose administration has come under fire for the fall of Kabul, said in a press statement that the G7 forum will help the international community to arrive at a joint approach for a longer term. "Our first priority is to complete the evacuation of our citizens and those Afghans who have assisted our efforts over the last 20 years – but as we look ahead to the next phase, it’s vital we come together as an international community and agree a joint approach for the longer term," he said."That’s why I’ve called an emergency meeting of the G7 - to coordinate our response to the immediate crisis, to reaffirm our commitment to the Afghan people, and to ask our international partners to match the UK’s commitments to support those in need," he added.The meeting will build on Biden’s calls this week to Johnson, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, France’s President Emmanuel Macron, and Italy’s Prime Minister Mario Draghi, White House press secretary, Jen Psaki, told reporters on Sunday. There has been no word from the White House on the difference of opinion between America and allies regarding Biden’s decision of a hasty withdrawal. France and the UK both have urged their American counterpart to ensure that the Afghan men and women who acted as their allies in the war in Afghanistan should be evacuated along with their citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-to-meet-g7-leaders-today-to-discuss-afghanistan-101629766414475.html
24-08-2021||World||Joe Biden expected to decide within 24 hours on Afghan evacuation deadline||With thousands of desperate Afghans and foreigners massed at Kabul's airport in the hope of fleeing Afghanistan's new Taliban rulers, U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to decide as soon as Tuesday on whether to extend an Aug. 31 deadline to airlift Americans and their allies to safety.Biden warned on Sunday that the evacuation was going to be "hard and painful" and much could still go wrong. US troops might stay beyond an Aug. 31 deadline to oversee the evacuation, he said.On Monday, an administration official told Reuters that Biden would decide within 24 hours whether to extend the timeline to give the Pentagon time to prepare.Beyond the need to remove thousands of Americans, citizens of allied countries and Afghans who worked with U.S. forces, Department of Defense officials said it would still take days to fly out the 6,000 troops deployed to secure and run the airlift.Some Biden advisers were arguing against extending the self-imposed deadline for security reasons. Biden could signal his intentions at a virtual meeting of the Group of Seven wealthy nations on Tuesday.Two U.S. officials had said the expectation was that the United States would continue evacuations past Aug. 31. A senior State Department official told reporters https://www.reuters.com/world/new-flight-carrying-at-risk-afghans-arriving-us-later-monday-official-2021-08-23 the country's commitment to at-risk Afghans "doesn't end on Aug. 31."Later on Monday, Democratic U.S. Representative Adam Schiff, chairman of the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee, told reporters after a briefing on Afghanistan by intelligence officials that he did not believe the evacuation could be completed in the eight remaining days."I think it's possible but I think it's very unlikely given the number of Americans who still need to be evacuated," Schiff said.A Taliban official said foreign forces had not sought an extension and it would not be granted if they had. Washington said negotiations were continuing.White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the United States was in daily talks with the Taliban and making "enormous progress" in evacuating Americans and others.Between 3 a.m. and 3 p.m. local time on Monday, some 10,900 people were evacuated from Kabul, meaning the United States had facilitated the removal of 48,000 people since Aug. 14.U.S. defense officials had told Reuters that almost everything would have to go perfectly to extricate every American citizen by Aug. 31, given concerns about reaching the airport, terrorist attacks and complicated processing times.State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters the United States had discussed future control of the airport with the Taliban, as well as with U.S. partners and allies.'DOES IT STILL HURT? YES'The Taliban's swift takeover and ensuing chaos in Afghanistan have roiled U.S. politics, with opposition Republicans piling criticism on Biden for the withdrawal, which was initiated by his Republican predecessor, Donald Trump. Biden's opinion poll numbers have slipped.Biden's fellow Democrats who control Congress have promised to investigate what went wrong in Afghanistan within the past weeks and throughout the 20-year conflict, America's longest war.For its part, the powerful U.S. military has been grappling with the collapse of U.S.-backed Afghan forces after 20 years of training. https://www.reuters.com/world/us/was-it-worth-it-pain-anger-inside-pentagon-after-afghanistan-crumbles-2021-08-23 "Was it worth it? Yes. Does it still hurt? Yes," General David Berger, the commandant of the Marine Corps, wrote in a memo to Marines.The difficulties at the airport were underlined on Monday with a firefight between Afghan guards and unidentified gunmen. German and U.S. forces were also involved, the Germany military said.A local Taliban militant, speaking to a large crowd in Kabul, urged Afghans to remain."Where has our honor gone to? Where has our dignity gone to?" the unidentified militant said. "We will not let the Americans continue to be here. They will have to leave this place. Whether it is a gun or a pen, we will fight to our last breath."WORKING WITH ALLIESThe Taliban seized power last week as the United States and its allies withdrew troops after the war launched after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Panicked Afghans and foreigners have thronged the airport since, clamoring to catch any flight out. Many fear reprisals and a return to a harsh version of Islamic law the Taliban enforced while in power from 1996 to 2001.Twenty people have been killed, most in shootings and stampedes, as international forces try to bring order. One member of the Afghan forces was killed and several wounded in Monday's clash, the U.S. military said.A British government spokesperson said British evacuations could not continue once U.S. troops leave. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian also said more time was needed.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said the virtual G7 summit must agree on whether to extend the deadline and how to improve access to the airport.The airport chaos also disrupted aid shipments. The World Health Organization said tons of medical supplies were stuck because Kabul airport was closed to commercial flights.Leaders of the Taliban, who have sought to show a more moderate face since capturing Kabul, have begun talks on forming a government, while their forces focus on the last pockets of opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-expected-to-decide-within-24-hours-on-afghan-evacuation-deadline-101629764327062.html
24-08-2021||World||Afghanistan's neighbours must keep borders open for refugees: UNHCR||Afghanistan’s neighbour must accept refugees as the security situation in the country remains precarious and tens of thousands of Afghans are trying to flee the Taliban, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said. “At this stage, our primary concern is that Afghans who are seeking safety can reach it, including across borders and into neighbouring countries if needed. UNHCR is calling on countries neighbouring Afghanistan to keep their borders open in light of the intensifying crisis in Afghanistan," Catherine Stubberfield, UNHCR’s regional spokesperson for Asia and the Pacific, said, according to Sputnik.Stubberfield said that the international community has to be ready to step up support for Afghanistan and its neighbours in case of a major influx of Afghan refugees. Her comments come as several countries, including India, the US and the UK, have helped evacuate Afghans. The UN agency has said that 3.5 million people have been internally displaced in Afghanistan, including over 550,000 displaced since January of this year."While UNHCR welcomes the expressions of solidarity made by several countries to either evacuate or resettle Afghans in need of protection, these efforts are unfortunately only able to benefit a tiny proportion of the millions of Afghans already displaced and in need across the country," the spokeswoman said.Also read | Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?Such initiatives should not impede Afghan asylum seekers from going to other countries directly, or replace the essential aid within Afghanistan itself, Stubberfield said, according to Sputnik.Also watch | Bullets, crowds & chaos: Afghans continue to flood Kabul Airport for evacuationMeanwhile, the United Nations Human Rights Council will hold a special session on Afghanistan on Tuesday to address the "serious human rights concerns" following the Taliban takeover. The meeting is being convened following an official request by the representatives of Pakistan, the coordinator of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and Afghanistan. The UN's top rights body said in a statement that the joint submission has been supported by 89 countries so far.Also read | Canada's Trudeau leaves door open to Taliban sanctions as G7 meet loomsThe Taliban seized Afghanistan's major cities with lightning speed and walked into Kabul on August 15 when president Ashraf Ghani fled. Since then, tens of thousands of Afghans have tried to escape the country from the hardline Islamist rule expected under the Taliban fearing reprisals for siding with the US-backed government that ruled for the past two decades.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistans-neighbours-must-keep-borders-open-for-refugees-unhcr-101629763542287.html
24-08-2021||World||Canada's Trudeau leaves door open to Taliban sanctions as G7 meet looms||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau left the door open to sanctions on the Taliban Monday, noting that the Islamist group that now controls Afghanistan remains a "terrorist entity.""Canada already recognizes, and has for long, that the Taliban are terrorists, and harbor terrorists. That's why they're on the terrorist list. So, yes, we can talk about sanctions," Trudeau told reporters.On Tuesday leaders of the G7 group of wealthy nations -- Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- will meet virtually on Afghanistan.Trudeau said he was "looking forward to" a conversation "shortly with my fellow G7 leaders as we look at what more we can do."Britain, which currently holds the rotating presidency of G7, has said that relief of existing sanctions "will depend on the behavior of the Taliban."The Islamist group swept to power in mid-August, nearly 20 years after its first regime was toppled in 2001 by the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.The United States and its allies are racing to evacuate tens of thousands of people from the country before US President Joe Biden's August 31 deadline for the final withdrawal of all its forces.But with the European Union and Britain saying it would be impossible to get everyone out by then, Biden is under pressure to extend the deadline.Britain said Monday it would urge the United States to extend it, while the Taliban warned any delay would lead to "consequences."Trudeau did not reveal his position on pushing the deadline back.He said Canada's focus remains "on getting as many Afghans out to safety as possible."The situation remains "volatile and chaotic" near the airport in Kabul, where thousands of terrified Afghans fleeing Taliban rule have gathered for days in a bid to make it on to an evacuation flight, senior Canadian government officials said Monday.Canada resumed flights to Kabul on Thursday for the first time since the Taliban seized the Afghan capital.Four flights have taken off from Kabul to Canada, the latest of which carried 436 Canadian citizens and Afghan nationals on Sunday.Nearly 900 Afghans have arrived in Canada under a new special immigration program, the Canadian officials said. Canada recently pledged to take in 20,000 Afghan refugees under the programme.ast/gen/st/ft||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-trudeau-leaves-door-open-to-taliban-sanctions-as-g7-meet-looms-101629752364850.html
24-08-2021||World||16,000 evacuated from Kabul airport in past 24 hours: Pentagon||Around 16,000 people were evacuated over the past 24 hours from Afghanistan through the Kabul airport, the Pentagon said Monday, as the US works toward completing its airlift by an August 31 deadline.General Hank Taylor told reporters that 61 military, commercial and charter flights involving a number of countries flew out from Hamid Karzai International Airport in the 24 hours to 3:00 am Monday (0700 GMT) carrying people fleeing after the Taliban seized power.Of the total evacuated that day, 11,000 were taken out by US military airlift operations, Taylor said.Taylor said the number of people relocated from Afghanistan since July on US flights hit 42,000, with 37,000 of those since the intense airlift operations started on August 14 as the Taliban took Kabul.That includes "several thousand" US citizens, and thousands of Afghans who worked for US forces, who had applied for or received special immigrant visas, and Afghans seen as at risk to Taliban attacks for their work in non-governmental organizations, the media, and other jobs, according to Pentagon spokesman John Kirby.Kirby said the focus remains on getting US evacuation operations done by the August 31 deadline that President Joe Biden has set for completing the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.That would require withdrawing the 5,800 US troops who have essentially run airport operations and maintained security since August 14, as well as large amounts of equipment brought in to support their mission.German, British and French officials said Monday that evacuations on their part could continue after August 31, and said they want the US force to stay in place to help the international airlift.On Tuesday leaders of the G7 group of wealthy nations will meet virtually on Afghanistan."Whether or not the US can be persuaded to stay is a matter for the prime minister (Boris Johnson) tomorrow in the G7 meeting," British armed forces minister James Heappey told Sky News.Britain currently chairs the G7, also comprising Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.Kirby did not categorically rule out Washington extending the deadline, although the Taliban have said they will hold the US to it.For the United States, Kirby said, "The goal is to get as many people out as fast as possible.""The focus is on trying to do this as best we can, by the end of the month," he said.At the White House, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan deferred questions on extending the US pullout deadline to the G7 talks on Tuesday, saying the White House is taking the situation "day by day."He said Biden had already spoke with Johnson on Monday."We remain in close touch with allies and partners to coordinate the evacuation of their own citizens and their priority personnel," Sullivan said.He said that there is enough time to evacuate all the US citizens in the country who have sought to leave."We believe that we have time between now and the 31st to get out any American who wants to get out," he said.pmh/dw||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16000-evacuated-from-kabul-airport-in-past-24-hours-pentagon-101629752076479.html
24-08-2021||World||Gunfire breaks out at airport, Taliban eye Panjshir capture||A firefight at Kabul’s international airport killed at least one Afghan soldier and injured three others on Monday, officials said, the latest chaos to engulf efforts to evacuate those fleeing the Taliban takeover of the country, a day after seven people died in frantic crowds waiting to leave the country.The airport shooting came as the Taliban sent fighters north of the capital to eliminate pockets of armed resistance to their lightning takeover earlier this month. The Taliban said they retook three districts seized by opponents the day before and had surrounded Panjshir, the last province that remains out of their control.Afghanistan’s security forces collapsed in the face of the Taliban advance. Tens of thousands of Afghans have sought to flee the country since, fearing a return to the brutal rule the Taliban imposed the last time they ran Afghanistan. That has led to chaos at the airport in Kabul, the main route out of the country.Gunfire broke out near an entrance to the airport, where at least seven Afghans died a day earlier in a panicked stampede of thousands of people. The circumstances of the shooting, which occurred around dawn, remained unclear.The German military tweeted that one member of the Afghan army was killed and three others were wounded by “unknown attackers”. An Italian humanitarian organisation that operates hospitals in Afghanistan said it had treated six patients with bullet wounds from the airport.Forces loyal to Ahmad Massoud, son of the anti-Soviet mujahideen commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, have established themselves in the Panjshir valley, a mountainous area northwest of Kabul which resisted the Taliban before 2001.Massoud, whose forces include remnants of regular army and special forces units, has called for negotiations to form an inclusive government for Afghanistan but has promised to resist if Taliban forces try to enter the valley. Several Taliban opponents have gathered there, including Amrullah Saleh, the vice president in the toppled government who claims to be the acting president.Late on Sunday, the Taliban’s Alemarah information service said hundreds of fighters were heading towards Panjshir but there has been no immediate confirmation of any fighting.Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said the Salang Pass, on the main highway running from southern Afghanistan to the north, was open and enemy forces were blockaded in the Panjshir valley. But his statement suggested that there was no fighting for the moment.“The Islamic Emirate is trying to resolve the problems peacefully,” Zabihullah said.The tragic scenes around the Kabul airport have transfixed the world. Afghans poured onto the tarmac last week and some clung to a US military transport plane as it took off, later plunging to their deaths. At least seven people died that day, in addition to the seven killed on Sunday.The Taliban blame the chaotic evacuation on the US military and say there’s no need for any Afghans to flee. They have pledged to bring peace and security after decades of war and say they won’t seek revenge on those who worked with the US, NATO and the toppled Afghan government.Addressing a conference of Muslim clerics, Zabihullah urged them to push back against Western “propaganda” about the Taliban and said the US was undermining their rule by sending planes and offering Afghans asylum.Despite their promises, the Taliban have violently suppressed protests and beat people with batons as they try to control the crowds outside the airport perimeter. There have also been reports in recent days of the Taliban hunting down their former enemies. It’s unclear if Taliban leaders are saying one thing and doing another, or if fighters on the ground are taking matters into their own hands.As the airlift continues, the US government asked for 18 aircraft from American commercial carriers to assist in transporting Afghan refugees to their final destinations after their initial evacuation. The request fell under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet programme, which was born in the wake of the Berlin airlift and can add to the military’s capabilities during crises.US President Joe Biden said on Sunday that he would not rule out extending the evacuation beyond August 31, the date he had set for completing the withdrawal of US forces. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to press Biden for an extension.But Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen, in an interview with Sky News, said August 31 is a “red line” and that extending the American presence would “provoke a reaction”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunfire-breaks-out-at-airport-taliban-eye-panjshir-capture-101629751213515.html
24-08-2021||World||Joe Biden mulls staying beyond August 31; Taliban issue threat||The Taliban warned on Monday there would be “consequences” if the United States and its allies extend their presence in Afghanistan beyond next week, as chaos continued to overwhelm Kabul airport with tens of thousands of people still desperate to flee.Taliban’s warning to America and its allies came as US President Joe Biden on Sunday said discussions were under way on the possibility of extending the US troops’ evacuation deadline beyond August 31 - the last day he has committed himself to for Americans to leave Afghanistan.To oversee a chaotic airlift of foreigners and Afghans desperate to escape the Taliban regime, thousands of troops have poured back into Afghanistan and pressure is growing on Washington to extend the month-end withdrawal deadline.The Taliban on Monday showed no willingness to compromise, with spokesman Suhail Shaheen telling Sky News that staying beyond the agreed deadline would be “extending occupation”. “If the US or UK were to seek additional time to continue evacuations, the answer is no... there would be consequences,” he said.Reacting to the Taliban’s position, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said, “We are well aware of the stated desire by the Taliban to have this mission completed by the 31st of August. I will tell you that we, too, are planning on completing it by the 31st of August. That is the mission we have been assigned by the commander-in-chief... that’s what we’re trying to execute.”Two Taliban sources, meanwhile, told AFP that the group won’t announce the make-up of its government or cabinet until the last US soldier has left Afghanistan.In his remarks, Biden indicated that US forces securing the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul were being expanded to provide “increased rational access” to the site to overcome difficulties.With the EU as well as France, Germany and Britain saying it could be difficult to get everyone out by the end of the month, the American president has been under pressure to extend the troop pull-out deadline.“There’s discussion going on among us and the military about extending,” Biden said. “Our hope is that we will not have to extend, but there are going to be discussions, I suspect, on how far along we are in the process.”On the streets of the capital, the Taliban have enforced a calm, with their armed forces patrolling the streets and manning checkpoints. They have been looking to stamp their authority, ensuring the tricoloured national flag is replaced with their white banner.Vital medical supplies blocked, laments WHOMore than 500 tonnes of medical supplies including surgical equipment and severe malnutrition kits that were due to be delivered to Afghanistan this week are stuck because of Kabul airport restrictions, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday.Aid agencies say it is critical that medical and food supplies reach some 300,000 people displaced in Afghanistan over the past two months.US mobilises commercial airlines for Afghan exitThe dramatic evacuation of people fleeing Afghanistan will involve a US military-civilian alliance that dates back to 1951 but which has been activated only twice before: in 1990-1991 during the Gulf War and in 2003 during the invasion of Iraq.The Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) is a “cooperative, voluntary program” between the government and private airlines that allows the US military to use commercial aircraft in emergency situations when it needs additional capacity.The partnership has its origins in the Berlin airlift of the Cold War, and allows the defence department to “to augment... aircraft capability during a national defence related crisis”. Created on December 15, 1951, the CRAF was not activated until Operation Desert Storm, from August 1990 to May 1991.With inputs from Yashwant Raj in Washington, DC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-mulls-staying-beyond-august-31-taliban-issue-threat-101629749811148.html
24-08-2021||World||FDA gives full approval to Pfizer vaccine||The top US health agency on Monday granted full approval to Pfizer-BioNTech’s two-shot mRNA Covid-19 vaccine, making it the first for the United States. It will now retail as Comirnaty.Janet Woodcock, the acting head of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), called the approval a “milestone”. “While this and other vaccines have met the FDA’s rigorous, scientific standards for emergency-use authorisation (EUA) as the first FDA-approved Covid-19 vaccine, the public can be very confident that this vaccine meets the high standards for safety, effectiveness and manufacturing quality the agency requires of an approved product,” she said.The full authorisation will address reservations harboured by people who refused to be vaccinated citing EUA granted to all Covid-19 vaccines available in the US thus far. The move will allow the company to retail the vaccine more freely, through pharmacies and also advertise it.Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine was the first to be used in the US - it had been rolled out already in the UK and Canada - after the FDA granted it EUA on December 11, 2020 for people 16 years of age and older.Pentagon set to mandate Covid vaccine for militaryThe Pentagon has said that it will require service members to receive the Covid-19 vaccine, now that the Pfizer vaccine has received full approval.Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said on Monday that US defence secretary Lloyd Austin is making good on his vow earlier this month to require the shots once the FDA approved the vaccine. Kirby said guidance is being developed and a timeline will be provided soon.In a memo on August 9, Austin said he’d seek US President Joe Biden’s approval to make the vaccine mandatory no later than mid-September, or immediately after the FDA’s nod, “whichever comes firs.”.Booster dose lowers infection risk: IsraelA third dose of Pfizer’s vaccine has significantly improved protection from infection and serious illness among people aged 60 and older in Israel compared with those who received two shots, findings published by the health ministry showed.The data were presented at a meeting of a ministry panel of vaccination experts on Thursday and uploaded on its website on Sunday. The findings were on par with separate statistics reported last week by Israel’s Maccabi healthcare provider, one of several organisations administering booster shots to try to curb the Delta variant.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-gives-full-approval-to-pfizer-vaccine-101629749653977.html
24-08-2021||World||China asks Pakistan to arrest those behind suicide bomb attack||China on Monday called for the swift arrest of the masterminds behind a blast in Pakistan’s southwestern province of Balochistan, which killed two children and injured three others including a Chinese national.China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin urged Pakistan to “severely punish” the perpetrators and “earnestly protect the safety of Chinese nationals, organisations and projects” in the country.“On August 20, a motorcade of the Gwadar East Bay expressway project was attacked by a bomber on the way to construction site. One Chinese national suffered minor injuries and several local personnel were injured or killed,” Wang said. “We are shocked and condemn this incident, mourn the Pakistani personnel killed in the attack and convey sympathy to the bereaved families and injured.”Friday’s attack came a month after a suicide bomber attacked a bus carrying workers in Pakistan, killing 13, including nine Chinese nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-pakistan-to-arrest-those-behind-suicide-bomb-attack-101629749520263.html
