25-08-2021||World||Afghanistan crisis: 19,000 people evacuated from Kabul in last 24 hours, says US||In its latest update on the ongoing evacuation efforts in Afghanistan, the United States said on Wednesday approximately 19,000 people boarded 90 evacuation flights out of Kabul in the latest 24-hour period. These flights, the US government said, included those operated by the US military and the ones operated in coalition with its allies.Also Read | Tajikistan says Taliban have abandoned pledges to form broad-based interim government“From 3am Eastern Time on August 24 to 3am Eastern Time on August 25, 42 US military flights carried approximately 11,200 evacuees and 48 coalition flights carried 7800 people,” the White House shared on its official Twitter handle. On the United States’ own evacuation efforts till now, it said, “Since August 14, the US has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 82,300 people on US military and coalition flights. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 87,900 people on US military and coalition flights.”Since August 14, the U.S. has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 82,300 people on US military and coalition flights. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 87,900 people on US military and coalition flights.The update came as the August 31 deadline to complete the evacuation process drew closer, with president Joe Biden resisting requests from G7 allies to extend the evacuations beyond the said date.Also Read | Joe Biden decides to stick to August 31 pull-out deadline, say reportsEarlier, the Taliban, which, by capturing Kabul on August 15, seized power in Afghanistan for a second time, had also warned the US against extending the deadline. It is the return to power of the Taliban which has led to the current crisis in Afghanistan. The Kabul Airport, in particular, has witnessed dramatic scenes as Afghans, desperate to leave their country, have thronged it, hoping for a way out.Also Read | Why did Biden choose August 31 as deadline for US withdrawal? Here's a timelineIn April this year, president Biden had announced all American troops in Afghanistan will have left by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. In July, however, he brought the date forward to August 31. The Americans have been in Afghanistan since 2001 when they arrived here following the 9/11 attacks, and defeated the Taliban. The insurgents first took power in 1996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-crisis-19-000-people-evacuated-from-kabul-in-last-24-hours-says-us-101629912208379.html
25-08-2021||World||'Afghan army lost its will to fight because...': Commander Sami Sadat on why they failed in front of Taliban||In an opinion piece for the New York Times, Sami Sadat, the Lieutenant-general of the Afghanistan army which was decimated in front of the Taliban, said the Afghan army lost its will to fight because of the "growing sense of abandonment" by the American partners. In a first such disclosure after the Taliban completed its capture of the country on August 15 raising question over the efficiency of the Afghan army, the commander said his army was fighting cronyism and bureaucracy, but when US president Joe Biden said that US troops can not and should not be fighting for Afghanistan, the Afghan army lost the will to fight."I am a three-star general in the Afghan Army. For 11 months, as commander of 215 Maiwand Corps, I led 15,000 men in combat operations against the Taliban in southwestern Afghanistan. I’ve lost hundreds of officers and soldiers. That’s why, as exhausted and frustrated as I am, I wanted to offer a practical perspective and defend the honour of the Afghan Army. I’m not here to absolve the Afghan Army of mistakes. But the fact is, many of us fought valiantly and honourably, only to be let down by American and Afghan leadership," the 36-year-old chief wrote at a time when the victory of the Taliban is being seen as "without resistance".Also Read | Taliban take control of Afghanistan: Why the country's army melted away#AFG Afghan army fought with honor and sacrificed 66,000 men and women in the war on terror. Terrorism is a global threat and must be dealt with globally in harmony. https://t.co/pyVcksfbwYSami says he was in the battle at Lashkar Gah when Ashraf Ghani named him the commander of Afghanistan special forces. He had to leave his troops there to come to Kabul. It was August 15. It was too late as the Taliban had already reached Kabul. Then Ghani entrusted him with the task of securing Kabul and left the country. "But I never even had a chance: The Taliban were closing in, and Mr Ghani fled the country," Sami wrote, depicting what unfolded on August 15. On that very night, Ghani left the country. Later, Ghani clarified that it was not an act of escape. He was forced to leave the country to avoid bloodshed, he said. With Ghani leaving the country, there was no chance of negotiation for an interim set-up, Sami wrote asserting that unlike what the world may believe, the Afghan army resisted, day in and day out.Still, the army failed and, according to Sami, there are three reasons for this failure. The first begins with the US and Donald Trump's Doha peace deal. Second, the Afghan army lost contractor logistics and maintenance support and the third is the corruption of the Ashraf Ghani government, the army chief wrote"The US air-support rules of engagement for Afghan security forces effectively changed overnight, and the Taliban were emboldened. They could sense victory and knew it was just a matter of waiting out the Americans. Before that deal, the Taliban had not won any significant battles against the Afghan Army. After the agreement? We were losing dozens of soldiers a day," Sadat wrote. By July, most of the 17,000 support contractors had left, he said.Recounting the final days of the war, Sadat said that it was surreal-- while the afghan army was fighting with its depleting resources against the Taliban, the US pilots were circling overhead as they were apparently not in a position to help them. Terming the war as an international one, Sadat wrote that it was not possible for any single army to fight. It was a military defeat but the reason is political failure. "We were betrayed by politics and presidents," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-army-lost-its-will-to-fight-because-sami-sadat-on-why-they-failed-in-front-of-taliban-101629910510245.html
25-08-2021||World||Tajikistan says Taliban have abandoned pledges to form broad-based interim government||Pakistan’s efforts to forge a common front with regional countries on Afghanistan didn’t find takers in Tajikistan, with President Emomali Rahmon saying on Wednesday the Taliban had abandoned promises to form a broad-based interim government with other political forces. Rahmon told visiting Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a meeting that Tajikistan wouldn’t recognise any government formed through oppression in Afghanistan. He called for an inclusive government with the participation of all minorities, especially Tajiks who make up more than 46% of the Afghan population. On Tuesday, Qureshi began a four-nation tour to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Iran. He will interact with the leaders of these countries on the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover. The Foreign Office in Islamabad said Pakistan believes regional countries have a vital stake in the security and stability of Afghanistan and coordinated efforts are needed to address common challenges. A statement from the Foreign Office on Wednesday said Qureshi, during his meeting with Rahmon, underlined the importance of a coordinated approach to realise shared objectives. Tajikistan’s foreign ministry said Afghanistan is on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe because of the withdrawal of foreign forces and the situation there is “one of the major threats to regional security”. The Taliban’s “rise to power has further complicated the geopolitical process in the region”, it added. “Evidence clearly shows that the Taliban are abandoning their previous promises to form an interim government with the broad participation of other political forces in the country and are preparing to establish an Islamic emirate,” the foreign ministry said in a statement. Tajikistan condemned all forms of lawlessness and persecution of Afghan people, especially Tajiks, Uzbeks, and other minorities, and called for the setting up of an inclusive government with the participation of all minorities, especially Tajiks who make up more than 46% of the Afghan population. The statement further said, “Tajikistan will not recognise any other government that is formed in [Afghanistan] through oppression, without taking into account the position of the entire Afghan people, especially all its minorities.” Tajikistan also called for urgent measures by the world community to ensure peace and stability in Afghanistan and to “stabilise its difficult political and security situation through negotiations as soon as possible”. It warned the international community’s “indifference to the current situation in Afghanistan could lead to a protracted civil war”. Rahmon proposed several ways to the Pakistani side for ensuring peace, stability, and sustainable development in Afghanistan. Since the Taliban took over several districts and crossings along the borders with Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, concern has grown among the Central Asian states. They have turned to Russia to help bolster security along their frontiers. The Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe and the airbase at Ayni have played a key role in India’s efforts to evacuate its nationals and others from Afghanistan. Indian civilian and military aircraft have conducted several flights from Dushanbe to bring back hundreds of evacuees. Pakistan is among the few countries with extensive contacts with the Taliban leadership and has been seeking to coordinate with regional countries in influencing the formation of the next government in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tajikistan-says-taliban-have-abandoned-pledges-to-form-broad-based-interim-government-101629909853503.html
25-08-2021||World||Johnson & Johnson says its booster shot increases antibodies||Johnson & Johnson says a booster shot of its COVID-19 vaccine appears to produce “a rapid and robust” increase in antibodies needed to fight the coronavirus.The drugmaker says researchers saw an increase in antibodies nine-fold higher than levels seen about a month after the first dose of the vaccination was administered. The company cited early results from studies looking at people who received the booster after getting an initial dose of J&J's single-shot vaccine.J&J says researchers saw increases in antibodies in people ages 18 to 55 and in study participants 65 and older who received a lower booster dose.US health officials announced last week plans to dispense COVID-19 booster shots to all Americans to shore up protection amid the surging delta variant of the virus. Officials say the protection against infections wanes over time among various vaccines but remains strong at preventing hospitalizations and deaths.J&J says it is talking with regulators in both the U.S. and Europe about booster shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-johnson-says-its-booster-shot-increases-antibodies-101629909014520.html
25-08-2021||World||'Specific threat' from ISIS-K outside Kabul airport leaves US worried: Report||While the Taliban might have promised security to Afghans and foreign embassies, US officials are concerned about "a very specific threat stream" from ISIS-K against crowds outside the Kabul airport, according to a CNN report. US President Joe Biden on Tuesday acknowledged the growing threat posed by the Afghanistan affiliate of the Islamic State group.“Every day we’re on the ground is another day that we know ISIS-K is seeking to target the airport and attack both us and allied forces and innocent civilians,” Biden said at the White House.ISIS-K is reportedly planning to carry out multiple attacks as desperate Afghans are thronging the Hamid Karzai International Airport to flee the Taliban-controlled nation. Concerns about their security have increased after dozens of prisoners loyal to ISIS-K escaped two prisons near Kabul as the Taliban advanced to capture Afghanistan's national capital, reported CNN.Also Read | Badri 313: Will Taliban be able to maintain military 'show off', ask expertsAccording to a recent report by the UN Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team, ISIS-K fighters have formed sleeper cells in many Afghan provinces, Nuristan, Badghis, SariPul, Baghlan, Badakhshan, Kunduz and Kabul. The report suggests that ISIS-K, a sworn enemy to the Taliban, has strengthened its positions in and around Kabul. The group has mostly been targeting minorities, activists, government employees and personnel of the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces.The leaders of ISIS-K also hope to attract intransigent Taliban and other militants who reject the deal between insurgents and the United States signed in Doha last year. The report estimates the strength of ISIS-K fighters anywhere could rise up to 10,000 “over the medium term.”“One UN Member State stressed that ISIL-K was largely underground and clandestine. Its leader, Shahab al-Muhajir, alias Sanaullah (not listed), cooperates with Sheikh Tamim (not listed), head of the al-Sadiq office. Tamim and his office are tasked by ISIL core to oversee the network connecting ISIL-K with ISIL presences in the wider region,” the report states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/specific-threat-from-isis-k-outside-kabul-airport-leaves-us-worried-report-101629905189164.html
25-08-2021||World||Attacker kills three police and security guard near French embassy in Tanzania||An attacker wielding an assault rifle was shot dead after killing three police and an employee of a private security company near the French embassy in the Tanzanian commercial capital Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, President Samia Suluhu Hassan said.Hassan said on Twitter that the attacker had been "neutralised" and "calm has returned"."I send my condolences to the police service and the families of three policemen, and one officer of the SGA security company, who lost their lives after an armed person attacked them in the Salenda area of Dar es Salaam," Hassan said in a tweet.Police gave no immediate details on the motive or target of the attacker. Video footage posted online, which could not immediately be verified, showed the gates of the French embassy in Dar es Salaam, a man outside of the gate, and the sounds of gunfire crackling.Tanzanian television aired footage showing police officers in bullet-proof vests who appeared to be wrapping a dead body outside the embassy in white material to remove it from the scene.Inspector-General of Police Simon Sirro, police spokesperson David Misime and SGA Security, which describes itself as a major security services provider in East Africa, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/attacker-kills-three-police-and-security-guard-near-french-embassy-in-tanzania-101629906743284.html
25-08-2021||World||Moderna says has completed filing process for FDA's full approval to its Covid-19 vaccine||Two days after the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted full approval in the United States to Pfizer-BioNTech’s coronavirus vaccine, Moderna announced on Wednesday that it, too, has completed the real-time review process needed for full approval of its jab. The American drugmaker has, so far, released 300 million doses of its vaccine to the US government.Also Read | US health agency fully approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine“The completed submission process includes data from a late-stage study that showed 93% efficacy, even through six months after the administration of the second dose,” Moderna said in a statement. The company’s submission includes a priority review designation for its vaccine, for which an Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) was granted by the FDA in December last year. Currently, the shot is administered to people aged 18 and above.The White House, in its statement welcoming the full FDA approval for Pfizer, had also mentioned it is looking forward for the same authroisation to the other two vaccines as well. “The Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines remain safe and effective options. Both have undergone rigorous and methodical scientific testing before being authorised for emergency use,” the White House had said.Also Read | 'After a thorough and rigorous review process..': White House welcomes FDA's full approval for Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccineModerna's messenger RNA (mRNA)-based jab, called mRNA-1273, is among the three vaccines that are currently being administered in the US, the other two being those of Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, respectively. It is administered in two doses, within a 28-day gap, while a third or booster shot is recommended for people who are immunocompromised.According to Fox News, Moderna announced on June 1 the beginning of its rolling admission process with the top drugs panel for a full approval for its vaccine.In medical terms, a full approval is called “Biologics License Application” (BLA). For a successful BLA, a company needs to provide a comprehensive document with information on specific requirements to the regulator. An EUA, as the name suggests, is authorised for use in emergency situation. It is given on the basis of interim clinical trial results, if the regulator is of the opinion that benefits “far outweigh” risks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-has-completed-filing-process-for-full-fda-approval-to-its-covid-19-vaccine-101629904344645.html
25-08-2021||World||US intel report on Covid-19 origin inconclusive||US President Joe Biden has reportedly received a report from the intelligence community that is “inconclusive” on the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic, whether the virus transmitted from animals to humans or accidentally escaped a laboratory in China, according to a news report.Tasked by Biden in May to produce a report in 90 days to “bring us closer to a definitive conclusion”, the intelligence community failed to arrive at a consensus, the Washington Post reported citing US officials.A decision is expected on the public release of elements of the report in the coming days.The debate over the origin of SARS-CoV-2 has raged around the world especially after former US president Donald Trump supported those who argued it emerged from a virology lab in Wuhan city of China, where the epidemic started at the end of 2019 and then spread rapidly around the world.Trump’s action was motivated by a desire to shift blame of his mishandling of the fightback in the US, but it was also backed by many scientists such as Robert Redfield, former chief of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). He said he believed the coronavirus “most likely” escaped a lab.A WHO report had earlier said the virus most likely travelled from animals to humans and that the possibility of a lab leak was “extremely unlikely”.Efforts to conclusively ascertain the origin of the virus that has killed over 4mn people around the world, causing the largest global public health crisis in 100 years, have been marred by the lack of transparency and cooperation by China.The US intelligence community was divided as well. Biden had said in May that two agencies believed in the animal-to-human theory and a third agency went with the lab-leak possibility.“The majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other,” the US president had said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-intel-report-on-covid-19-origin-inconclusive-101629903192782.html
25-08-2021||World||China, Russia agree to cooperate on Afghanistan||China and Russia on Wednesday projected a united front on the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan with the top leadership of the two countries pledging to enhance cooperation on handling the aftermath.In a phone call to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated China’s position of non-interference and respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty and independence.According to official media reports, Putin told Xi that he shares China’s positions and interests in Afghanistan and is willing to work together to “prevent foreign forces from interfering and destroying” Afghanistan.During the phone call, Xi told Putin that China is calling for “…concerted efforts to encourage all factions in Afghanistan to build an open and inclusive political structure through consultation, implement moderate and prudent domestic and foreign policies”.Xi also called for the new Taliban dispensation to “…thoroughly dissociate from all terrorist groups, and maintain friendly relations with the rest of the world, especially neighbouring countries”.According to national broadcaster China Central Television, Xi said: “We intend to establish a political framework for open and tolerant interaction with all interested parties in Afghanistan.”Putin said Russia also wants to work with China to fight terrorism and drugs smuggling and to prevent the security risks from “spilling out” of Afghanistan.Their talks came in the backdrop of Beijing attempting to bolster its influence in Afghanistan and keeping its line of communication open with the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-russia-agree-to-cooperate-on-afghanistan-101629902232669.html
25-08-2021||World||Peace deal with Panjshir Resistance? Taliban 80% confident, claims report||The Taliban are likely to strike a peace deal with the Panjshir Resistance as top leaders of both the groups are in talks, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said to Shamshad News Outlet, news agency ANI reported. The Taliban leader said he is 80 per cent confident of a solution without war in the Panjshir Valley, the free land in Afghanistan. If a peace deal is struck between the Taliban and the anti-Taliban forces, Panjshir will again remain free from the Taliban like it was between 1996 and 2001 when the rest of the country was under Taliban rule."We are in contact with people of Panjshir. We are in talks with the elders, influencers, and Jihadist commanders. The talks will soon solve the problem without war. I am 80 per cent confident that there will not be a need to go to war. According to our information, a peace agreement will be reached soon," Mujahid said.'Do not want war': What Massoud said on Panjshir Resistance, deal with TalibanThe Taliban and the National Resistance Front (the Panjshir Resistance army) are up in arms over the Panjshir province as NRF leaders Massoud, son of legendary Ahmad Shah Massaoud, and acting president Amrullah Saleh have refused to surrender before the Taliban. The NRF has also captured Pol-e-Hesar, Deh Salah and Banu districts after Kabul caved in.But what does a peace talk between the Taliban and the Panjshir resistance mean? Does it mean failure on part of the anti-Taliban forces? Massoud in his first interview given after the Taliban captured Kabul said the priority is to avoid bloodshed. He asserted that the NRF is in favour of a peace deal with the Taliban but if the Taliban do not agree to talks, then the anti-Taliban force is ready to go on a long war.The probable peace deal between the Taliban and the Panjshir Resistance is not yet clear. Neither it is known whether the Resistance is negotiating only for the Panjshir province or for Afghanistan. Massoud earlier said that Panjshir resistance is not only for Panjshir as forces from all across the country have converged in Panjshir and that they will push for an inclusive government -- not a totalitarian government ruled by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peace-deal-with-panjshir-resistance-taliban-80-confident-claims-report-101629891579972.html
25-08-2021||World||Communication with Taliban open and effective: China||China on Wednesday said it has a smooth and effective communication channel with the Taliban following a meeting between representatives of the group and the Chinese ambassador to Kabul on Tuesday.Abdul Salam Hanafi, the deputy head of the Taliban political office in Qatar, met Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan Wang Yu in Kabul on Tuesday.The Chinese foreign ministry did not share details about the meeting, the highest level one since the upheaval in Afghanistan.It was the latest instance of Beijing seeking to establish smooth ties with the insurgent group that swept to power following the pullback by western military forces.Earlier in the day, Russian news agency, Sputnik quoted a Taliban spokesperson Mohammad Naeem as tweeting: “They discussed the security of the Chinese embassy and diplomats, the current situation in Afghanistan, bilateral relations and China’s humanitarian assistance.”Asked about the meeting in Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin said Kabul is an important channel for the two sides to discuss various important issues.Wang described it as “open and effective communication and consultation with the Afghan Taliban”.“We have always respected Afghanistan’s sovereign independence and territorial integrity, pursued a policy of non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs and adhered to a policy of friendship towards the entire Afghan people,” Wang said on Wednesday in Beijing.“China respects the Afghan people’s independent decision on their own future and destiny, supports the implementation of the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned principle, and stands ready to continue to develop good-neighbourly relations of friendship and cooperation with Afghanistan and play a constructive role in the peace and reconstruction of the country,” Wang said.On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry had said that imposing sanctions on the Taliban in Afghanistan will prove counterproductive, and had urged the international community to support chances for positive developments in the country.“Imposing sanctions and pressure at every turn cannot solve the problem and will only be counterproductive,” spokesperson Wang had said.Meanwhile, senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi, member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs, has stressed on the political settlement of the turmoil in Afghanistan.Attending the 11th BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) Meeting of National Security Advisers on Tuesday via video link at the invitation of India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Yang stressed that political settlement is the only way out“The international community should respect the will and choice of the Afghan people and encourage Afghanistan to build a broad and inclusive political structure that suits its national conditions,” Yang was quoted as saying by Chinese state media.“Efforts must be made to fight terrorism in all its forms, and Afghanistan must never again become a gathering place for terrorist and extremist forces,” Yang noted.Commenting on the Taliban’s relationship with China, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid recently told national broadcaster CGTN: “We want good relations with China and all countries and we are looking for economic relations and friendly relations with China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/communication-with-taliban-effective-smooth-china-101629889931278.html
25-08-2021||World||Amrullah Saleh says Pakistan is not just a sanctuary for Taliban but their support base||Afghanistan's self-proclaimed acting president Amrullah Saleh has said that Pakistan was not just a sanctuary or safe haven for the Taliban in all these years. The entire country was at the service of the Taliban who used the neighbouring country as their support base. And the United States kept on paying money to Pakistan. The more they paid, the more Pakistanis became benevolent to the Taiban, Amrullah said in an exclusive interview to a television channel on Wednesday when he was asked why the Afghan army crumbled so easily in front of the Taliban offensive.Pakistan is internationally criticised for having provided sanctuaries to the Taliban in all these years. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has always remained a staunch supporter of a government in Afghanistan that has Taliban participation. In a recent interview, before the fall of Kabul, Imran Khan said that the Taliban are not a military outfit that the Pakistan army can hunt them down. Saleh in his interview claimed that there were not a few pockets or sanctuaries in Pakistan for the Taliban as the entire country was serving the Taliban.Also Read: Afghanistan too big for Pakistan to swallow, for Talibs to govern: Amrullah SalehThe former vice president, who is now one of the faces of the Panjshir Resistance, the anti-Taliban force of the country along with Ahmad Massoud, said the United States threatened the former Afghanistan government to released the prisoners, who have now ended up being the Taliban frontliners. "We said are you sure that these people will not end up at the frontlines? Their answer was no but they all ended up at the frontlines. So it was not prisoners’ release but gifting Taliban a division of highly radicalised fighters," Saleh told CNN-News18. This holds true for Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar, who was released in 2018 after the United State brokered for his release.What Amrullah Saleh implied is that while Afghanistan was under the pressure from the United States, the Taliban increased strength making Pakistan their base and receiving indirect help from the United States.As the anti-Taliban force of Afghanistan is confident to put up a fight against the Taliban, Saleh has recently said that he will not leave Afghanistan and nobody except God can evacuate his soul from the country's soil. "I own Afghanistan & it owns me. We are one. It speaks to me every day," he tweeted.Amid global criticism of Pakistan's no-secret help to the Taliban, Pakitan leader Neelam Irshad Sheikh has recently said that the Taliban are with Pakistan to help "liberating Kashmir". Unlike Massoud who has no qualms to seek help from Pakistan against the Taliban, Amrullah Saleh is a strong Pakistan-hater. Afghanistan is too big to be swallowed by Pakistan, Saleh recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amrullah-saleh-says-pakistan-is-not-just-a-sanctuary-for-taliban-but-their-support-base-101629885028755.html
25-08-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine Efficacy came down as Delta variant arose: CDC report||The effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines among front-line workers declined to 66% after the delta variant became dominant, compared with 91% before it arose, according to a report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The vaccines are still protective, the CDC said, and the finding must be interpreted with caution, as vaccine effectiveness might wane over time and the estimates of efficacy were imprecise.“Although these interim findings suggest a moderate reduction in the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines in preventing infection, the sustained two-thirds reduction in infection risk underscores the continued importance and benefits of Covid-19 vaccination,” researchers wrote in the agency’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.The findings echo earlier evidence from Israel and the UK suggesting Covid vaccines lost some potency in preventing infections over time as the delta variant spread. These and other research results will be under scrutiny next week as CDC advisers weigh the Biden administration’s plan to administer booster doses to most vaccine recipients in the US.The booster campaign, still awaiting the sign-off of the Food and Drug Administration, is set to begin Sept. 20. CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will consider the extra-dose plan during a two-day meeting that starts Monday. The finding of diminished effectiveness when delta was the dominant virus strain comes with an important caveat: The range of that estimate is highly uncertain. Researchers reported 95% confidence that the efficacy was between 26% and 84% in that period.The observational study tracked more than 4,000 health-care workers, first responders, and other front-line personnel in eight US locations across six states from December 2020 to August 2021. They were tested weekly for Covid infection, and about 83% were vaccinated. About two-thirds of those vaccinated had received the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE shot, 2% received Johnson & Johnson’s, and the rest received the Moderna Inc. vaccine.Overall, vaccinations were estimated to be 80% effective in preventing infection during the study period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-efficacy-came-down-as-delta-variant-arose-cdc-report-101629875837614.html
25-08-2021||World||Thailand develops robotic system to squeeze out more AstraZeneca vaccine doses||As Thailand struggles with its worst coronavirus outbreak yet, researchers in the country have developed a machine to draw out Covid-19 vaccine doses more efficiently and optimise lower-than-expected supplies.Using a robotic arm, the "AutoVacc" system can draw 12 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in four minutes from a vial, according to researchers at Chulalongkorn University, who made the machine that has been used at the university's vaccination centre since Monday.That is up 20% from the standard 10 doses drawn manually, they said. The machine only works on AstraZeneca multi-dose vials currently and labels show each vial can provide 10 to 11 doses."The machine guarantees with accuracy that we can gain an extra 20% from each vaccine vial - from 10 to 12 doses," said Juthamas Ratanavaraporn, the lead researcher of the team at the university's Biomedical Engineering Research Center.  "The extra 20% that we get means that if we have AstraZeneca for 1 million people, this machine can increase the number of doses to 1.2 million people," said Juthamas.While some health workers using low dead space syringes (LDSS) that aim to reduce wastage can draw up to 12 doses per vial, it requires manpower and a high level of skill, she said."This could drain a lot of the health workers' energy. They would have to do this every day for many months," Juthamas said.Thailand had kept Covid-19 largely under control for much of the pandemic, but more virulent variants like Delta have sent cases and deaths soaring since April, ramping up pressure on authorities to increase the pace of vaccinations.So far, around 9% of Thailand's population of more than 66 million have been fully vaccinated, with the rollout hindered by lower-than-anticipated vaccine supplies.The research team say they should be able to produce 20 more AutoVacc units within three or four months, but that government funds and support would be needed to expand across the country.The prototype machine costs 2.5 million baht ($76,243), including other materials like syringes, said Juthamas, adding that while they were open to export opportunities, that was something for the future.They also plan to make similar machines to use with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, she added.Juthamas said the machine was aimed at removing burdens on health workers. Thailand has reported around 1.1 million Covid-19 infections and 10,085 deaths in total, pushing parts of the health system to the brink."When the health workers are too tired, there are also chances of human error, so we should let the machines work on this," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-develops-robotic-system-to-squeeze-out-more-astrazeneca-vaccine-doses-101629878403390.html
25-08-2021||World||Can singers, filmmakers in Afghanistan do their job? Taliban spokesman answers||As the Taliban took control of Afghanistan last week and ousted the Ashraf Ghani-led government, the Islamist insurgents started attacking civilians, singers and filmmakers, HT’s sister publication, Livehindustan, said in a report on Wednesday.Last month, the Taliban admitted to killing comedian Fazal Mohammad, popularly known as ‘Khasha Zwan’. According to news agency AFP, Khasha Zwan was also a police officer and was stationed in southern Kandahar province. “He was not a comedian, he fought against us in several battles. He had tried to flee when we detained him, prompting our gunmen to kill him,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told AFP on July 29.Now, the Taliban gave an order to all the singers and filmmakers in the war-raved country. On Tuesday, Mujahid was asked whether the Taliban would allow the artists to continue with their work. Mujahid answered that singers and filmmakers will have to switch their profession if assessed against the Shariah.Also Read| Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed says India 'true friend', slams PakistanOver the past few days, many prominent filmmakers and singers in Afghanistan left their home country in the aftermath of the Taliban's siege of Kabul. Aryana Sayeed, a pop star, who had a harrowing escape from the capital city, told news agency ANI on Tuesday that there is no future for women under the Taliban’s rule and urged them to treat civilians in a more humane manner.“I am worried for women who will be stuck inside houses and they will not be given their basic rights. While out, they will need to have a male relative accompanying them. They won’t be allowed to go to school,” she said.Sahraa Karimi, one of Afghanistan’s most popular women filmmakers and the first woman to head the state-run Afghan Film Organization, who also escaped from the country, shared a nine-minute-long video on her Instagram profile on August 15, where she was seen running on a street in Kabul amid the mayhem. She said that the Taliban don’t support art or value culture, and stressed they are afraid of educated and independent women.The Taliban, meanwhile, claimed that they will respect women’s rights within the framework of the Islamic law and also urged them to join their government.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-singers-filmmakers-in-afghanistan-do-their-job-taliban-spokesman-answers-101629872558947.html
25-08-2021||World||Former Afghan minister Syed Ahmad Sadat works as pizza delivery guy in Germany||A former minister in Afghanistan is working as a pizza delivery person in Germany. The photos of Syed Ahmad Shah Sadat, who worked as communications and technology minister in Afghanistan, were posted by Al-Jazeera Arabia on Twitter.Sadat lives in Leipzig, where he reached in December last year after leaving Afghanistan.وزير الاتصالات والتكنولوجيا الأفغاني السابق سيد أحمد سادات يلجأ لمهنة توصيل طلبات الطعام على متن دراجة هوائية في مدينة لايبزيغ الألمانية التي وصلها نهاية عام 2020، بعد تخليه عن منصبه pic.twitter.com/zfFERbqCmDSadat joined Ashraf Ghani's cabinet in 2018, but resigned from his post in 2020 due to differences with him. He subsequently left Afghanistan and went to Germany.Sky News said it spoke to Sadat and he confirmed that these are his photos. He started working as a food delivery professional for German company Livrando after his money ran out, according to Sky News.He further told the news channel that his story will serve as a "catalyst" to change the way high-ranking people live their lives in Asia and the Arab world. Once surrounded by security personnel, Sadat is now delivering pizza on a bicycle.Sadat holds two master's degrees in communications and electronic engineering from Oxford University. He worked for 23 years in the field of communications with more than 20 companies, in 13 countries, including Saudi Arabia, for Aramco and the Saudi Telecom Company.In his over two decade experience, Sadat worked as technical advisor to Afghanistan's communication and information technology ministry from 2005 to 2013. He also served as CEO of Ariana Telecom in London from 2016 until 2017.Afghanistan came fully under the control of Taliban on August 15, when the insurgent group captured the capital city of Kabul. Ghani, who was the president, left the country the next day and is believed to be in the UAE.Reacting to the developments in Afghanistan, Sadat told Sky News that he never expected the civilian government to fall so quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-afghan-minister-syed-ahmad-sadat-works-as-pizza-delivery-guy-in-germany-101629876210132.html
25-08-2021||World||Houses being sold in Italy town for less than a burger's price||Italy is offering a massive discount on homes in the town of Maenza. It is one of those places where people can buy a house for as low as - hold your breath - one euro (approximately ₹87). This is less than the price of a burger offered by McDonald's.The only catch is that the buyer will have to restore the houses.Maenza, 70 kilometers south of Italy's capital Rome, and has become the first in the Latium region to begin selling homes for just over a dollar. The scheme was launched by Italy last year to help stabilise the dwindling population in villages.The town boasts of scenic views and has a long history of being the home to fiery tribes. Maenza is located high up on the wild Lepini hills south of the capital and is the latest to join Italy's one euro a home project.Mayor Claudio Sperduti said the plan is to breathe new life into the quite alleys of the town."We're taking it one step at a time. As original families get in touch and hand over to us their old houses, we place these on the market through specific public notices on our website to make it all very transparent," Sperduti told CNN.There are at least 100 neglected properties in Maenza which are in need of restoration.The offer, according to authorities in Maenza, is currently open for a few houses till August 28, but the mayor has assured that more such properties will be made available soon.A person buying the house do not have to live there compulsory, but submit a plan about how they want to use it - as a home, a restaurant or a shop. The initial deposit will be €5,000 (about $5,840), which will returned once work is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/houses-being-sold-in-italy-town-for-less-than-a-burger-s-price-101629872586159.html
25-08-2021||World||'There is no internet': Afghan youth, who wanted to mine Bitcoin, fled country after Taliban takeover||Muhammad Ali said he dreamt of building a cryptocurrency business before the Taliban began its sweep through Afghanistan, forcing him into a daunting journey west through Iran and Turkey, evading border guards and security searches as he went.The Taliban victory in Afghanistan has raised concern in Turkey, a staging post for many migrants trying to reach Europe and already home to nearly 4 million Syrians, of a new influx of refugees. It has ramped up security on its border with Iran - but some Afghans are still getting through.Sheltering in a drainage tunnel outside the Tatvan district of Turkey's eastern Bitlis province, Ali, a young man in his 20s from Afghanistan's Khost province, said he was waiting for transport west and wanted to go on to Europe. Around 50 others were sheltering with him.Ali said he had studied computer science and taught web and graphic design in Afghanistan. He said he had a YouTube channel where he posted videos on topics including how to make money online."I was planning a bitcoin or ethereum mining business... Suddenly everything changed and the Taliban took over all of Afghanistan," he said."There is no internet. If there is no internet, I cannot do my job there. If we had smartphones that had a camera, the Taliban wouldn't allow it."After trekking for weeks through Iran, migrants who enter Turkey's eastern province of Van make their way by foot, bus or boat to the town of Tatvan on the western shores of Lake Van.On their way, they try to evade police checkpoints, raids on their hideouts, and coast guard vessels that patrol the huge lake, where a boat carrying around 60 migrants sank last year, killing them all.Wais Muhammad Shehrzad, 30, said he left Afghanistan a month ago, paying $1,000 to traffickers and walking up to 50 hours at a time with little sustenance on the way."Our feet are blistered, we have no clothes, no food," he said, taking off his shoes to show a bruised ankle, and telling others in the group to sit down to avoid being seen.Shehrzad said he was from Kabul and had worked as a shoemaker and previously as an English teacher. He wanted to get to Istanbul, find work, and send money back to his family.In recent weeks Turkish police have detained thousands of Afghan migrants among an estimated 300,000 in the country. Those caught in Bitlis are sent to a repatriation center in Van, although Afghans are currently not sent back to their country because of the turmoil there.A day after he spoke to Reuters, Ali sent a text message. "We are arrested by police," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/there-is-no-internet-afghan-youth-who-wanted-to-mine-bitcoin-fled-country-after-taliban-takeover-101629872227511.html
25-08-2021||World||Kamala Harris calls on Vietnam to join US opposing China 'bullying'||Vice President Kamala Harris called on Vietnam to join the US to challenge China's “bullying” in the South China Sea, a continuation of her sharp rhetoric against Beijing as she tours Southeast Asia this week.“We need to find ways to pressure and raise the pressure, frankly, on Beijing to abide by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and to challenge its bullying and excessive maritime claims,” she said, in remarks at the opening of a bilateral meeting with Vietnamese President Nguyen Xuan Phuc.Her comments follow sharp words towards Beijing during a speech in Singapore Tuesday, where she said their actions in the South China Sea amount to “coercion” and “intimidation."Also Read| 'Dysfunction' in Kamala Harris' office: 2024 is elephant in the roomOn Wednesday in Vietnam, Harris also said that the US supports sending the country an additional US Coast Guard cutter, to help defend its security interests in the South China Sea. And she embraced elevating the relationship with Vietnam from a comprehensive partnership to a strategic partnership, a diplomatic designation that would reflect the deepening relationship between the two former foes.They're the latest moves by the Biden administration to strengthen its alliances in the Indo-Pacific region in an effort to counter China's influence. Harris' trip there, which included a stop in Singapore earlier this week, is aimed at broadening US engagement with both nations and affirming the US commitment to the region.Harris, who is the first US vice president to visit Vietnam, told the nation's president that “our relationship has come a long way in a quarter of a century.”She also announced the launch of a new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Southeast Asia regional office. The new CDC office will be one of four regional offices globally, and it's focused on collaborating with regional governments on research and training to deal with and prevent global health crises.The announcement comes as Vietnam is grappling with record high coronavirus infections in Vietnam driven by the delta variant and stubbornly low vaccination rates in the country. The surge in cases prompted a recent lockdown in Ho Chi Minh City, the nation's business hub and the epicenter of the latest outbreak.Harris is expected to offer further US support to help the nation expand its vaccination rate, which hovers around 2%. She'll also emphasize the opportunity for greater collaboration to address climate change and economic aid to the country.In the afternoon, Harris will join a health security event with the health ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations group and Papua New Guinea, where she'll speak more about the launch of the CDC center.But even as Harris hopes to keep her focus squarely on those key agenda items in Vietnam, her visit will be shadowed by a recent security scare in Vietnam and the ongoing developments in the US exit from Afghanistan.Also Read| Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staffHarris' flight to Vietnam was delayed for hours Tuesday afternoon after the vice president's office was made aware of an investigation into two possible cases of the so-called Havana Syndrome in Hanoi, according to administration officials. The Havana Syndrome is the name for a rash of mysterious health incidents first reported by American diplomats and other government employees in the Cuban capital beginning in 2016.Harris has yet to comment publicly on the developments, but they'll weigh heavily on officials while she participates in a lease signing for the US Embassy in Hanoi, with embassy staff attending.And her swing through Vietnam is certain to draw some unwanted comparisons between the humiliating withdrawal of US troops in 1975 and the tumultuous effort this week to evacuate Americans and allies from Afghanistan.US Sen. Bill Hagerty, a Tennessee Republican and a former US ambassador to Japan, noted that those images are unavoidable for many Americans as Harris stops in the country.“She's going to have a challenge from a domestic public relations standpoint, because everyone in America right now is associating the images that they're seeing on TV with the collapse of Kabul, with the images of Americans being lifted from the rooftop of our embassy in Saigon,” he said.Hagerty also said that Harris will need to reassure the Vietnamese that America remains a “beacon of liberty and freedom in the world” and a “strong partner” in the region.But Gregory Poling, a senior fellow for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, suggested that Vietnam could offer the vice president an opportunity to offer a more optimistic vision for what a relationship with a former foe can become.“Simply by being there and engaging in this process, it shows the remarkable progress in rapprochement between the US and Vietnam,” Poling said. “It's possibly marginally good for them to show that — who in 1975 would believe that this is where the US economic relationship would be?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-calls-on-vietnam-to-join-us-opposing-china-bullying-101629870665102.html
25-08-2021||World||Opposition narrows gap with Canada’s ruling party, two pollsters say||As the troops’ withdrawal fiasco in Afghanistan continues to dominate the news in Canada, it may be having an effect on Justin Trudeau’s attempt to garner a parliamentary majority in the September 20 elections. For the first time in months, Trudeau’s ruling Liberal Party is in a statistical tie nationally with the principal opposition Conservative Party. Trudeau has had to address the crisis in Afghanistan at every election stop, and that was also the case on Tuesday. After a virtual G7 summit, he told reporters that Canada was “ready to stay beyond the (August) 31st deadline if it’s at all possible, because we want to save as many people as possible.” That, however, will depend on whether the United States remains in Kabul beyond that date, as a prime minister’s office spokesperson told the outlet CBC News such a call was “contingent on the extension of the US military presence”.While Trudeau said nearly 2,000 people have been evacuated from Kabul thus far by the Canadian Armed Forces, his government has faced criticism for its lack of planning and tardy action in this regard. Among the critics are those associated with the World Sikh Organisation who have expressed their “disappointment” over Canada’s inability to rescue minorities from Afghanistan.All of this is having an impact on Trudeau’s electoral ambition as the outlet Global News pointed out the “first week of the campaign has been dominated by criticisms over the Trudeau government’s slow evacuation”.That comment came with a poll by the agency Ipsos for the outlet which showed that the Liberals have lost 3 points over a week and now have 33% support nearly the same as the Conservatives, who are at 32%.Another national poll conducted by the non-profit Angus Reid Institute underscored that trajectory, as it also found a statistical tie, with the Liberals again at 33%, a lead of just 2 points over the Conservatives.However, the good news for Trudeau could be that foreign affairs is rarely a decisive element in an election outcome in Canada. In an interview last week, political scientist professor Nelson Wiseman said that “it doesn’t end up being a factor in voters’ decisions”. Later in the campaign, he said, “It’s not something that people will be paying attention to unless something really dramatic happens.”In weeks from now, he felt, leaders will not be talking about such issues because their pollsters will be telling them what’s top of mind for voters and “foreign policy isn’t”. For now, however, it may well be and Trudeau has to address the matter every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opposition-narrows-gap-with-canada-s-ruling-party-two-pollsters-say-101629868509094.html
25-08-2021||World||'Afghanistan has what China most prizes': Beijing eyes access to $1 Trillion of untapped minerals||When the US invaded Afghanistan in 2001, the global economy looked a lot different: Tesla Inc. wasn’t a company, the iPhone didn’t exist and artificial intelligence was best known as a Steven Spielberg film.Now all three are at the cutting edge of a modern economy driven by advancements in high-tech chips and large-capacity batteries that are made with a range of minerals, including rare earths. And Afghanistan is sitting on deposits estimated to be worth $1 trillion or more, including what may be the world’s largest lithium reserves -- if anyone can get them out of the ground.Four decades of war -- first with the Soviet Union, then between warring tribes, then with the US-- prevented that from happening. That’s not expected to change anytime soon, with the Taliban already showing signs they want to reimpose a theocracy that turns back the clock on women’s rights and other basic freedoms rather than lead Afghanistan to a prosperous future.But there’s also an optimistic outlook, now being pushed by Beijing, that goes like this: The Taliban form an “inclusive” government with warlords of competing ethnic groups, allows a minimal level of basic human rights for women and minorities, and fights terrorist elements that want to strike the US, China, India or any other country.“With the US withdrawal, Beijing can offer what Kabul needs most: political impartiality and economic investment,” Zhou Bo, who was a senior colonel in the People’s Liberation Army from 2003 to 2020, wrote in an op-ed in the New York Times over the weekend. “Afghanistan in turn has what China most prizes: opportunities in infrastructure and industry building -- areas in which China’s capabilities are arguably unmatched -- and access to $1 trillion in untapped mineral deposits.”For that scenario to have even a remote possibility, much depends on what happens the next few weeks. Although the US is racing to evacuate thousands of Americans and vulnerable Afghans after a rushed troop withdrawal ending 20 years of war, President Joe Biden still has the power to isolate any new Taliban-led government on the world stage and stop most companies from doing business in the country. In a statement on Tuesday, the Group of Seven nations said the legitimacy of any Afghan government hinges on its adherance to international obligations including ensuring human rights for women and minorities. “We will judge the Afghan parties by their actions, not words,” the group said after a virtual leaders meeting.The US maintains sanctions on the Taliban as an entity, and it can veto any moves by China and Russia to ease United Nations Security Council restrictions on the militant group. Washington has already frozen nearly $9.5 billion in Afghanistan’s reserves and the International Monetary Fund has cut off financing for Afghanistan, including nearly $500 million that was scheduled to be disbursed around when the Taliban took control. To have any hope of accessing those funds, it will be crucial for the Taliban to facilitate a smooth evacuation of foreigners and vulnerable Afghans, negotiate with warlords to prevent another civil war and halt a range of human-rights abuses. Already tensions are growing over an Aug. 31 deadline for troops to withdraw, with the Taliban warning the US not to cross what it called a “red line.” Still, the Taliban have several reasons to exercise restraint. Kabul faces a growing economic crisis, with prices of staples like flour and oil surging, pharmacies running short on drugs and ATMs depleted of cash. The militant group this week appointed a new central bank chief to address those problems, just as his exiled predecessor warned of shocks that could lead to a weaker currency, faster inflation and capital controls. ‘Nothing Is Unchanged Forever’The Taliban also want sanctions lifted, with spokesman Suhail Shahee telling China’s state-owned broadcaster CGTN this week that financial penalties would hurt efforts to rebuild the economy. “The push for more sanctions will be a biased decision,” he said. “It will be against the will of the people of Afghanistan.” Leaders of the militant group have said they want good international relations, particularly with China. Officials and state-run media in Beijing have softened the ground for good relations, with the Communist Party-backed Global Times reporting that Chinese investment is likely to be “widely accepted” in Afghanistan. Another report argued the “the US is in no position to meddle with any potential cooperation between China and Afghanistan, including on rare earths.”“Some people stress their distrust for the Afghan Taliban -- we want to say that nothing is unchanged forever,” Hua Chunying, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said last week. “We need to see the past and present. We need to listen to words and watch actions.”For China, Afghanistan holds economic and strategic value. Leaders in Beijing have repeatedly called on the Taliban to prevent terrorists from plotting attacks against China, and view strong economic ties as key to ensuring stability. They also see an opportunity to invest in the country’s mineral sector, which can then be transported back on Chinese-financed infrastructure that includes about $60 billion of projects in neighbouring Pakistan.US officials estimated in 2010 that Afghanistan had $1 trillion of unexplored mineral deposits, and the Afghan government has said they’re worth three times as much. They include vast reserves of lithium, rare earths and copper -- materials critical to the global green-energy transition. But flimsy infrastructure in the landlocked country, along with poor security, have hampered efforts to mine and profit off the reserves.The Taliban takeover comes at a critical time for the battery-materials supply chain: Producers are looking to invest in more upstream assets to secure lithium supply ahead of what Macquarie has called a “perpetual deficit.” The US, Japan and Europe have been seeking to cut their dependence on China for rare earths, which are used in items such as permanent magnets, though the moves are expected to take years and require millions of dollars of government support.One major problem for the Taliban is a lack of skilled policy makers, according to Nematullah Bizhan, a former economic adviser to the finance ministry. “In the past they appointed unqualified people into key specialized positions, such as the finance ministry and central bank,” said Bizhan, now a lecturer in public policy at the Australian National University. “If they do the same, that will have negative implications for the economy and for growth in Afghanistan.”China BurnedOfficially, Afghanistan’s economy has seen rapid growth in recent years as billions in aid flooded the country. But that expansion has fluctuated with donor assistance, showing “how artificial and thus unsustainable the growth has been,” according to a recent report from the US Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction.China has been burned before. In the mid-2000s, investors led by state-owned Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. won an almost $3 billion bid to mine copper at Mes Aynak, near Kabul. It still hasn’t seen any output due to a series of delays ranging from security concerns to the discovery of historical artifacts, and there’s still no rail or power plant. MCC said in its 2020 annual report it was negotiating with the Afghan government about the mining contract after earlier saying it was economically unviable.The Taliban are trying to show the world it has changed from its oppressive rule in the 1990s, saying it welcomes foreign investment from all countries and won’t allow terrorists to use Afghanistan as a base. Janan Mosazai, a former Afghan ambassador to both Pakistan and China who joined the private sector in 2018, sees “tremendous opportunities for the Afghan economy to take off” if the Taliban prove they’re serious about “walking the talk.” But not many are optimistic. Reports have emerged of targeted killings, a massacre of ethnic minorities, violent suppression of protests and Taliban soldiers demanding to marry local women. “Everyone’s just in crisis mode,” said Sarah Wahedi, a 26-year-old tech entrepreneur from Afghanistan who recently fled the country. “I don’t see the entrepreneurs getting back to business unless there’s a huge overhaul in the Taliban’s behavior. And there’s nothing I’ve seen that makes me think that’s going to happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-has-what-china-most-prizes-beijing-eyes-access-to-1-trillion-of-untapped-minerals-101629867136786.html
25-08-2021||World||Trump slams Biden on Afghanistan issue, says 'thousands of terrorists' airlifted out of Kabul||Former US President Donald Trump has slammed his successor Joe Biden on his Afghan policy and expressed concerns that thousands of terrorists might have been flown out of Afghanistan as part of the evacuation process.“Biden surrendered Afghanistan to terrorists and left thousands of Americans for dead by pulling out the military before our citizens,” Trump said in a statement on Tuesday.“Now we are learning that out of the 26,000 people who have been evacuated, only 4,000 are Americans. You can be sure, the Taliban, who are now in complete control, didn’t allow the best and brightest to board these evacuation flights.“Instead, we can only imagine how many thousands of terrorists have been airlifted out of Afghanistan and into neighbourhoods around the world. What a terrible failure. NO VETTING. How many terrorists will Joe Biden bring to America? We don’t know!” he said.Meanwhile, Republican Congressman Mike Waltz, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan, introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives, condemning Biden’s failure to heed the advice of military and intelligence advisors about the speed and nature of the Taliban offensive, failure to present a coherent counter-terrorism or evacuation plan to the American people, and the damage done to the US credibility as a result of the president's abandonment of America's Afghan allies.The resolution was co-sponsored by Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Minority Whip Steve Scalise, and Conference Chairwoman Elise Stefanik.“President Biden has embarrassed the United States on the world stage and created the worst foreign policy blunder in our modern history,” Waltz said.Rather than heeding the advice of military leaders and lawmakers, Biden created a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan that he alone owns – all for the sake of seeking a headline that he would withdraw US troops prior to the 20th anniversary of September 11, he said.“Now, we will have shamefully given away the freedoms of Afghans, our military equipment and infrastructure, and countless other resources to the hands of Taliban terrorists because of the President’s cluelessness and stubbornness,” Waltz alleged.“Additionally, it is growing more likely by the day we will have broken our promise to thousands of Afghan allies who stood should-to-shoulder with our troops on the battlefield that have now been handed a death sentence for our failure to safely evacuate them in a timely fashion," he said.The intelligence community has made it clear that Al Qaeda 3.0 will come roaring back as the Taliban have made no indication they have cut ties with the perpetrators of September 11, Waltz said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-slams-biden-on-afghanistan-issue-says-thousands-of-terrorists-airlifted-out-of-kabul-101629866920947.html
25-08-2021||World||Chinese prez’s ‘thoughts’ to be taught from primary schools to varsities||China will include “Xi Jinping Thought”, a collection of the Chinese president’s policies and opinions, in its national curriculum, to be taught from primary schools all the way to university, the education ministry has said.The integration of Xi’s ideas into the curriculum will help establish “Marxist beliefs” among the country’s youth, the ministry said in a set of new guidelines issued on Tuesday.“The ‘Guide’ clearly requires that Xi Jinping’s thoughts on socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era be fully integrated into the curriculum and teaching materials. It should cover basic education, vocational education, and higher education,” the ministry said.While some universities in China have already included Xi’s thoughts and analysis on political thought and diplomacy in its curriculum, it’s the first time that the president’s ideas and ideals are being included for all students of all ages in the national curriculum.Formally known as “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, it is headlined by the central principle of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) leadership over all aspects of Chinese life.“Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era” was added to the country’s constitution in 2018.Inclusion in the national curriculum is an indication of how Xi’s personal power has also been strengthened - not least by the abolition of presidential term limits - since he became the general secretary of the CPC and the president 2012.In a speech to mark CPC’s 100 years, on July 1, Xi vowed to “enhance” the party’s leadership, uphold his own “core” leadership, and strengthen the unity of the Chinese people.Xi’s opinions will now likely be the guiding principle of China’s academic curriculum.Broadly, primary schools will focus on loving the CPC and country; middle and high schools will promote forming of basic political opinion and judgements while in university, emphasis will be on theoretical thinking, propagating socialist ideas and on researching new ideas.The ministry is now preparing the “Student Reading Book of Xi Jinping’s New Era of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics” and “The Handbook of Xi Jinping’s Important Education Discourses” to be distributed in schools and colleges.Han Zhen, a member of the National Textbook Committee, the ‘Guide’ fully integrates Xi Jinping’s thoughts into the curriculum and textbooks. It has been systematically arranged and overall designed, and has made detailed regulations on the spread of subjects and the promotion of sub-subjects.The guide also says that abstract concepts and theories should be explained with “vivid examples” so that students can understand the theories and relate them to the realities of their lives; theoretical examples should be converted to relatable teaching material, it says.The ministry is working on the inclusion of other major thematic contents, such as party leadership, national defence education, education on life safety and health, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-prez-s-thoughts-to-be-taught-from-primary-schools-to-varsities-101629867309055.html
25-08-2021||World||Biden commits to Aug 31 deadline, but seeks backup plans||President Joe Biden has said the US is “currently on pace” to finish the Afghan evacuation process by August 31 but he has also asked officials for “contingency plans to adjust the timetable” should that become necessary, leaving the door open thus for a rethink, and an extension.The American president made clear at the same time that the US’s ability to meet the August 31 deadline “depends upon the Taliban continuing to cooperate” allowing access to the airport to those wanted to be evacuated. The Taliban have been blocking Afghans from reaching the airport.“We are currently on pace to finish by August the 31st,” Biden said in an address to the nation from the White House on Tuesday. “But the completion by August 31 depends upon the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allowing access to the airport for those who are being evacuated, and no disruption to our operations.”He added: “I’ve asked the Pentagon and the state department for contingency plans and adjust the timetable, should that become necessary.”Biden’s key worry about staying longer was the risk of a terrorist attack. “The longer we stay, starting with the acutely growing risk of an attack by a terrorist group known as ISIS-K, which is an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan,” he said.The US will start withdrawing the 6,000 troops deployed to Kabul to secure the airport and facilitate the evacuation later this week and will continue the flights till close to the August 31 deadline. The last few days will be focused on removing the remaining troops and equipment and American citizens.Biden’s remarks came after the meeting of leaders of G7 countries, the United Nations, the European Commission, the European Council and Nato. The Europeans had sought more time to complete their evacuation process but were unable to convince the US president, for now.The meeting was called by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who holds the annually rotating chair of the group. He was joined by Biden Canada’s Justin Trudeau, France’s Emmanuel Macron, Germany’s Angela Merkel, Italy’s Mario Draghi, Japan’s Suga Yoshihide, European Commission’s Ursula von der Leyen, European Council’s Charles Michel, UN’s António Guterres and Nato’s Jens Stoltenberg.In a joint statement, the G7 countries said, “The Taliban will be held accountable for their actions on preventing terrorism, on human rights in particular those of women, girls and minorities and on pursuing an inclusive political settlement in Afghanistan. The legitimacy of any future government depends on the approach it now takes to uphold its international obligations and commitments to ensure a stable Afghanistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-commits-to-aug-31-deadline-but-seeks-backup-plans-101629866108759.html
25-08-2021||World||Why did Biden choose August 31 as deadline for US withdrawal? Here's a timeline||United States president Joe Biden on Tuesday reaffirmed his commitment to complete its evacuation mission in Afghanistan by August 31, the date laid out earlier to pull American troops out from the war-torn country. But why was August 31 chosen by the Biden administration to bring the operations, which spanned two decades, to an end? As debate rages on in the US over a potential extension to the deadline for the massive two-week airlift from the Kabul airport, here's a brief explainer on the events which led to August 31 being fixed as the final date for the US.The timelineDonald Trump, Biden's predecessor to the White House, had in February last year settled on an agreement with the Taliban, deciding that May 1, 2021, would be the date when all US forces would withdraw from war-torn Afghanistan.Also Read | 'We'll judge them by their actions,' says Biden after G7 leaders discuss Taliban approachHowever, when Biden succeeded Trump in January this year, one of the first things he did was order a review of the deadline that the previous administration had set. On April 14, Biden announced a four-month postponement of Trump's deadline, saying that the troops "will be out of Afghanistan" before Americans mark the 20th anniversary of "that heinous attack on September 11th." Critics, however, warned that the conjunction of the US pullout and commemorations of the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attack might not look good.Finally, in early July, Biden announced that the US military mission in Afghanistan will conclude on August 31. As many as 25,000 US troops, several thousand Nato soldiers, and some 16,000 civilian contractors who remained in the country will be brought back, the US president announced.What was the issue with the earlier deadline?According to news agency AFP, the deadline to complete the evacuation mission was extended since Washington wanted to provide the erstwhile Ashraf Ghani-led Afghan government more time to set up a fight against the Taliban. The US also needed a considerable time period to hand over previous US-controlled military bases and tactical equipment to the Afghan forces.Washington and Nato partners expected that Afghan forces would at the very least be able to slow, if not completely stop, the Taliban offensive. The country's intelligence sources said that Afghan government forces should be able to hold on at least six months after the US departure, AFP reported.Also Read | India, Russia to assess Taliban actions before any recognition moveThe delay, the State Department believed, was also enough time for the departure of US citizens and tens of thousands of Afghans and their families who worked for US forces and were promised "special immigrant visas" (SIVs) to resettle in the United States, according to the news agency.However, as it later turned out, Afghan forces were overwhelmed by the lightning-fast Taliban campaign, which won the militants a series of provincial capitals in July and August, and soon they were knocking at Kabul's door on August 15.Suddenly time was short.Is the August 31 deadline sufficient?The Pentagon, which is managing all Kabul airport operations, says it actually has to wind down evacuations several days before August 31, to remove its own 6,000-plus troops on the ground, hundreds of US officials, 600 Afghan security troops guarding the airport, and significant amounts of equipment.Officials of Britain, France, and Germany, allies of the United States, have however signalled that they probably cannot complete all of their planned evacuations by August 31 and want the US to extend the deadline into September.As debates on the extension of the August 31 deadline to finish evacuation rage in the United States, president Joe Biden, however, said on Tuesday that he was sticking to the end-of-August target and that his country was "on pace" to finish the US mission on that date. The statement from the US president came after G7 leaders held a video summit earlier in the day to discuss the matter of staying in Afghanistan beyond August 31."We are currently on a pace to finish (the evacuation) by August 31, the sooner we finish the better," said the US president. "But completion by August 31 depends on the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allowing access of the airport to those who are transporting out and no disruptions to our operation."The US president stressed that the situation in Afghanistan could deteriorate the longer the US remains, and said that "contingency plans" are in place in case more time is needed. He also pledged that the US would be "a leader in these efforts" and will look to international partners "to do the same".(With inputs from the AFP news agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-did-biden-choose-august-31-as-deadline-for-us-withdrawal-here-s-a-timeline-101629861240721.html
25-08-2021||World||Covid: Japan set to expand state of emergency as Delta variant spreads||Japan is set to expand a state of emergency to eight more prefectures, taking the total to 21, the minister in charge of coronavirus countermeasures said on Wednesday, as a surge in Covid-19 cases overwhelms its hospitals.Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said the expansion, which would cover almost half the country's 47 prefectures, was approved by a panel of external experts. It is expected to be formally approved at a government task force meeting later on Wednesday."The most important task is to beef up the medical system," Nishimura said, adding that securing oxygen stations and nurses was among the priorities.With the Delta variant spreading fast, the government has struggled to bring infections under control as citizens grow weary of life under restrictions and many companies ignore repeated requests to promote work-from-home.Public broadcaster NHK reported 21,570 new cases and 42 deaths on Tuesday. Japan's case fatality rate stands at about 1.2%, compared with 1.7% in the United States and 2.0% in Britain.Months of emergency curbs in the capital, Tokyo, and surrounding areas have failed to reverse a surge in infections and about 90% of the city's critical care beds are occupied."The working-age demographic is the driving force (behind the rise in infections)," Nishimura said. "We need to halve the movement of people."With hospital beds filled to or nearing capacity, many people have been forced to convalesce at home - some dying before they are able to get treatment.The latest state-of-emergency expansion will add Hokkaido, Aichi, Hiroshima and five other prefectures spanning the Japanese archipelago from Friday through Sept. 12.Another four prefectures are expected to be added to the more limited "quasi-emergency" measures, bringing the regions under those curbs to a total of 12.Restrictions in Japan have been looser than lockdowns seen in some countries and have centred on mandates for restaurants to close by 8 p.m. and stop serving alcohol, and requests for companies to have 70% of staff working from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-japan-set-to-expand-state-of-emergency-as-delta-variant-spreads-101629861513876.html
25-08-2021||World||'Locals never raised their voices': Former Afghan mayor on Taliban takeover||Afghanistan's first woman mayor, who fled to Germany recently, has blamed the people of her country for the Taliban's return to power. Zarifa Ghafari said the people did not raise their voices against terrorism."For whatever Afghanistan is facing today, everyone is to be blamed including local people, politicians, children, and the international community. The local people never raised their voices unitedly against all wrong including terrorism," Ghafari told news agency ANI.Also Read: Pak has clear role in current situation in my country, says former Afghan mayorThe 26-year-old said she is now considering meeting high-ranking officials, politicians and women of different countries to draw attention to the crisis in Afghanistan."My aim is to meet high-ranking officials, politicians and women of different countries to make them aware of the real situation in Afghanistan, and ask them to join me for the start of a movement."Ghafari was Afghanistan's first woman mayor of Maidan Shahr city that lies west of Kabul. She is among those who fled from war-torn Afghanistan following Taliban takeover.Ghafari said that Taliban fighters have a list of people who took a liberal approach and were killing off people one by one. She claimed the insurgents even visited her house and beat up her security guards."Taliban have been to my house, they were asking for me, and they grabbed my car away, they have beaten my guards. They were all searching for me," she told ANI.The Taliban seized control of Afghanistan in the wake of the withdrawal of US forces. Their offensive, launched in May, culminated with capturing of Kabul after which the civilian government fled the war-torn country.The US has said that they will withdraw Afghanistan by August 31, an president Joe Biden refused to extend it further on Tuesday. The Taliban had warned of consequences if the withdrawal of American forces is delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/locals-never-raised-their-voices-former-afghan-mayor-on-taliban-takeover-101629858708027.html
25-08-2021||World||US Supreme Court snubs Biden, asks to revive Trump-era 'remain in Mexico' immigration policy||The US Supreme Court on Tuesday denied President Joe Biden's bid to rescind an immigration policy implemented by his predecessor, Donald Trump, that forced thousands of asylum seekers to stay in Mexico awaiting US hearings.The court, with three liberal justices dissenting, rejected the Biden administration's effort to block a Texas-based judge's ruling requiring the government to revive Trump's "remain in Mexico" policy, formally known as the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) program.The Supreme Court's 6-3 conservative majority includes three justices appointed by Trump.The brief order by the justices means that US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk's ruling now goes into effect.The court's decision referenced its 2020 ruling that thwarted Trump's bid to end a program introduced by Democratic former President Barack Obama that protects from deportation hundreds of thousands of immigrants - often called “Dreamers” - who entered the United States illegally as children.Both cases concern whether the government followed the correct legal process in unwinding a previous administration's policy.Biden, who has sought since taking office in January to reverse many of Trump's hardline immigration policies, rolled back the MPP program. Republican-led Texas and Missouri challenged the Democratic president's move.Biden's administration turned to the Supreme Court after Kacsmaryk ruled that the Trump policy would have to be reinstated and the New Orleans-based 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals on August 19 denied the government's request for a delay.The 5th Circuit's decision said the Biden administration must implement the MPP program in "good faith," which leaves the government some discretion in how to move forward.Democrats and immigration advocates criticized MPP, saying the policy subjected migrants, primarily from Central America, to dangerous conditions in Mexican border cities.Trump's administration cited a "security and humanitarian crisis" along the US-Mexican border in refusing to allow migrants seeking asylum, because of a fear of persecution in their home countries, to enter the United States ahead of hearings before immigration judges.Reacting to the Supreme Court's order, Omar Jadwat, a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union, which challenged the Trump policy during the previous administration, said the Biden administration must "take all steps available to fully end this illegal program, including by re-terminating it with a fuller explanation."Arrests of migrants caught crossing the US southern border have reached 20-year highs in recent months, a development that Republicans blame on Biden's reversal of MPP and other Trump immigration policies.Biden's administration has left in place a separate Trump-era order that lets U.S. border authorities, because of the Covid-19 public health crisis, rapidly expel migrants caught at the border without giving them a chance to seek asylum in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-snubs-biden-asks-to-revive-trump-era-remain-in-mexico-immigration-policy-101629854262343.html
25-08-2021||World||'Deeply concerned': World Bank freezes aid to Afghanistan after Taliban takeover||The World Bank has suspended aid to Afghanistan, saying it is "deeply concerned" by the situation there, especially regarding women's rights, after the Taliban seized power, a bank spokesperson told AFP."We have paused disbursements in our operations in Afghanistan and we are closely monitoring and assessing the situation," the official said."We are deeply concerned about the situation in Afghanistan and the impact on the country's development prospects, especially for women."The suspension follows the Taliban's swift takeover of Afghanistan, as US forces prepared to complete a withdrawal with a deadline of August 31.Washington last week announced it would deny the Taliban access to the country's gold and cash reserves, most of which is held overseas.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) also suspended operations with the country, including an existing $370 million loan program, as well as $340 million Kabul was due to receive from Monday's release of Special Drawing Rights (SDR), the lender's basket of currencies.The swift takeover has led to heart-wrenching scenes of people trying to flee the country, including women fearing a return to the kind of Taliban rule of their 1990s regime that saw women confined to their homes, most entertainment banned, and stonings and public executions used as punishments.The World Bank held off on making a statement until it had pulled all of its personnel out of the country, an operation completed on Friday, according to a bank source.The spokesperson said the development lender "will continue to consult closely with the international community and development partners.""Together with our partners, we are exploring ways we can remain engaged to preserve hard-won development gains and continue to support the people of Afghanistan."The World Bank has more than two dozen development projects ongoing in the country and has provided $5.3 billion since 2002, mostly in grants, according to the bank's website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-concerned-world-bank-freezes-aid-to-afghanistan-after-taliban-takeover-101629853392102.html
25-08-2021||World||'We'll judge them by their actions,' says Biden after G7 leaders discuss Taliban approach||US president Joe Biden said on Tuesday that the G7 leaders, the European Union (EU), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Nato), and the United Nations (UN) have all decided to stand united in their approach to the Taliban. "We'll judge them (Taliban) by their actions and we'll stay in close coordination on any steps that we take moving forward in response to Taliban behaviour," Biden said in a statement at the White House, adding that the global leaders have collectively decided to support refugees and evacuees currently fleeing Afghanistan.Notably, the United States is evacuating thousands of people every day from Afghanistan on flights operating out of the Kabul airport. Debates on the extension of the August 31 deadline to finish evacuation have raged in the United States, with its allies, too, urging Biden to reconsider his decision.However, Biden on Tuesday reaffirmed his commitment to complete the US evacuation process from Afghanistan by August 31, as previously laid out. He warned, though, that that the deadline is dependant on "cooperation" from the Taliban."We are currently on a pace to finish (the evacuation) by August 31, the sooner we finish the better," said the US president. "But completion by August 31 depends on the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allowing access of the airport to those who are transporting out and no disruptions to our operation."Biden's latest statement comes in the wake of his meeting with other world leaders on the evacuation efforts. The US president stressed that the situation in Afghanistan could deteriorate the longer the US remains, and said that "contingency plans" are in place in case more time is needed. He also pledged that the US would be "a leader in these efforts" and will look to international partners "to do the same".The US has evacuated or facilitated to get around 70,700 people out of Afghanistan since the Taliban seized control of the war-torn country, according to Biden. Since the end of July, nearly 75,900 people were evacuated, he said, adding that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has been directed to provide an update on Wednesday about the number of Americans who are still in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/well-judge-them-by-their-actions-says-biden-after-g7-leaders-discuss-taliban-approach-101629851407061.html
25-08-2021||World||Joe Biden decides to stick to August 31 pull-out deadline, say reports||US President Joe Biden has reportedly decided to stick to the self-imposed deadline of August 31 to wrap up the evacuation process in Afghanistan and eventually pull all troops out of the country, withstanding pressure from G7 allies who had been very publicly asking for more time.Reports also suggested that the American president’s decision to stick with the current troop withdrawal deadline does not preclude a change in plans later. Biden has asked the Pentagon to prepare a contingency plan should an extension become necessary.Biden met virtually on Tuesday morning with G7 leaders and heads of the European Union, the United Nations and Nato to discuss the unfolding situation in Afghanistan.The G7 meeting on the Afghanistan crisis was attended by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Italy’s PM Mario Draghi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen, European Council head Charles Michel, UN secretary-general António Guterres, and Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-decides-to-stick-to-august-31-pull-out-deadline-say-reports-101629833644838.html
25-08-2021||World||Malala expresses concern for women in Afghanistan under Taliban rule||Nobel Laureate Malala Yousufzai on Tuesday expressed her concern for the women in Afghanistan and recounted her own ordeal with the terrorist group which currently governs Afghanistan. In a blog post, Malala said that she was closely observing the developments in Afghanistan from Boston where she underwent a surgery for facial paralysis caused after she was hit by a bullet fired by a Pakistani Taliban terrorist in October 2012 while on her way to school.Malala also said that several women may go through a terrible fate due to the Taliban siege of the country. “Nine years later, I am still recovering from just one bullet. The people of Afghanistan have taken millions of bullets over the last four decades. My heart breaks for those whose names we will forget or never even know, whose cries for help will go unanswered,” Malala said.“I was making phone calls, writing letters to heads of state around the world and speaking with women’s rights activists still in Afghanistan. In the last two weeks, we’ve been able to help several of them and their families get to a safe place. But I know we can’t save everyone,” she further added.The Nobel Laureate also said that she speaks to two of her other friends who were with her on the day the Pakistani Taliban terrorist shot her in the skull. She said that her best friend told her that she looked at the terrorist in a ‘defiant’ manner and said that she still has nightmares to this day.The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan continues to create widespread concern regarding the rights of women. During the last Taliban regime between 1996 to 2001, Afghan women suffered under the regressive rule of the terrorist group. Earlier today, the Taliban government asked Afghanistan government’s women workers to remain indoors until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malala-expresses-concern-for-women-in-afghanistan-under-taliban-rule-101629831225925.html
25-08-2021||World||UN raises alarm over reports of executions in Afghanistan||The UN human rights chief said on Tuesday that she had received credible reports of serious violations committed by the Taliban in Afghanistan, including “summary executions” of civilians and Afghan security forces who have surrendered.Michelle Bachelet gave no details of the killings in her speech to the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC), but urged the Geneva forum to set up a mechanism to closely monitor Taliban actions.The Taliban group’s treatment of women and girls would be “a fundamental red line”, she told the council’s emergency session, held at the request of Pakistan and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).Afghanistan’s diverse ethnic and religious minorities were also at risk of violence and repression, she said, citing reports of killings and targeted attacks in recent months.Nasir Ahmad Andisha, a senior Afghan diplomat from the deposed government, called for accountability for Taliban actions, describing an “uncertain and dire” situation where millions of people fear for their lives.Independent UN human rights experts, in a joint statement, said that many people were in hiding as “the Taliban continues to search homes door-to-door” and that seizures of property and reprisals were being reported.But China’s ambassador to the UN in Geneva, Chen Xu, said that the US army and the militaries of other coalition partners, including Britain and Australia, should be held accountable for alleged rights violations their forces committed in Afghanistan.The United States condemned attacks that it said were being carried out against civilians, journalists, activists and minority groups, but did not name the Taliban.In a separate development, prominent Afghan women’s rights activist Zarifa Ghafari arrived in Germany together with her family members. Ghafari landed at the Cologne-Bonn airport late on Monday after fleeing Afghanistan to Pakistan last week. Armin Laschet, the governor of Germany’s North Rhine-Westphalia state who met Ghafari, said it was important to help as many women as possible to leave Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-raises-alarm-over-reports-of-executions-in-afghanistan-101629830838168.html
25-08-2021||World||Taliban appoint ex-detainee at Guantanamo as acting defence min: Report||Afghanistan’s new rulers have appointed former Guantanamo detainee Abdul Qayyum Zakir as the new Taliban regime’s acting defence minister, Qatar-based Al Jazeera news channel reported on Tuesday, citing a source in the Islamist movement.Earlier in the day, the Taliban appointed a new finance minister, an intelligence chief, and an acting interior minister in Afghanistan, the Pajhwok news agency reported. It said Gul Agha would be the finance minister and Sadr Ibrahim would be the acting interior minister. Najibullah would be intelligence chief, while Mullah Shirin would be Kabul governor and Hamdullah Nomani the mayor of the capital.The reported appointments came even as the World Health Organization (WHO) warned that the country only has enough supplies to last for a week after deliveries of medical equipment from abroad were blocked by restrictions at Kabul airport.The WHO was also concerned the current upheaval in Afghanistan could push up Covid-19 infections, with testing dropping by 77% in the past week and vaccinations also down, officials from the WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean office said.WHO officials said 95% of health facilities in Afghanistan remained operational but some female staff had not returned to their posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-appoint-ex-detainee-at-guantanamo-as-acting-defence-min-report-101629830640494.html
25-08-2021||World||CIA boss held secret meeting with Taliban leader in Kabul||US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns held a secret meeting with top Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul on Monday in what is being seen as the highest level contact between President Joe Biden’s administration and Afghanistan’s new rulers.While details of Burns’ discussion with Baradar were not released, the secret meeting represented an extraordinary moment for the CIA that for two decades had targeted the Taliban in paramilitary operations. And it gives a sense of the extent of the wrangling happening ahead of the end of America’s two-decade war in the country.The CIA partnered with Pakistani forces to arrest Baradar in 2010. He spent eight years in a Pakistani prison before the Trump administration persuaded Islamabad to release him in 2018 ahead of peace talks.The Washington Post first reported Burns’ meeting with Baradar in Kabul. A US official later confirmed the report on condition of anonymity. A Taliban spokesman said he was not aware if Baradar met the CIA chief.In Moscow, President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday Russia would not interfere in Afghanistan and that Moscow had learned from the Soviet occupation of the country.“We’re not going to meddle in Afghanistan’s domestic affairs or involve our military in a conflict where everyone is against each other,” Putin said at a gathering of officials from the ruling United Russia party. “The Soviet Union had its own experience in this country. We have learned the lessons we needed,” he said.Moscow had invaded Afghanistan in late 1979 to support a communist government. The decade-long war there left up to two million Afghans dead and forced seven million more from their homes.Putin’s comments about Afghanistan came after Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said that US forces were “pawning off” Afghans fleeing the Taliban to Moscow-allied Central Asia.China: Sanctions will be counterproductiveChina on Tuesday said imposing sanctions on the Taliban in Afghanistan will prove counterproductive, and urged the international community to support chances for positive developments in the country.“Afghanistan is an independent and sovereign country. The US and its allies should learn from the lessons of history, reflect and act prudently on issues related to Afghanistan,” said Wang Wenbin, China’s foreign ministry spokesperson. “Imposing sanctions and pressure at every turn cannot solve the problem and will only be counterproductive.”Wang also said the “international community should encourage the development of the situation in Afghanistan in a positive direction”.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-boss-held-secret-meeting-with-taliban-leader-in-kabul-101629830490869.html
