26-08-2021||World||HT This Day: August 27, 1940— Berlin Bombed By British Planes||• HEAVY EXPLOSIONS IN German Capital• AIR-RAID ALARD LAST Three Hours• R.A.F attack on German Areas• NAZIS LOSE 37 ‘PLANES IN RAIDS OVER BRITIAN ON MONDAY• 55 ENEMY AIRCRAFT DESTROYED IN SUNDAY’S RAIDSThe R.A.F. replied to German air attacks on London by bombing Berlin on Sunday (August 25) night. The raid lasted nearly three hours during which heavy explosions were heard in the German capital. No news is yet received of the damage or casualtiesThe British planes also carried out extensive raids on German territory the same night. The targets included industrial areas in North-West Germany, and the Ruhr as well as armament factories in the Berlin area.On Monday again the German 'planes attacked the coastal areas of Britain, and were given a hot reception by Spitfire fighters.Thirty-seven German machines were shot down.During Sunday's air-raids on Britain a total of 55 enemy aircraft were brought down.The German official news agency states that incendiary bombs were dropped on Berlin during Sunday night.The Berlin correspondent of the New York Times states: Anti-aircraft batteries in Berlin were in action for nearly three hours.Heavy ExplosionsAccording to a Stockholm report the Berlin correspondent of the Dagens Byheter reports that heavy explosions were heard in the German capital on Sunday night, ten minutes after an air-raid warning was sounded. The populace remained under cover from midnight till the "all clear" was given about 3-30. The message does not mention any damage or casualties.An Air Ministry communiqué says: The R.A.F. aircraft continued their attacks on military objectives in Germany on Sunday night. Targets in North-West Germany and the Ruhr were bombed as well as the armament factories in the Berlin area.The military objectives in towns in South-West Germany included Frankfurt, Ludwigshaven, and Stuttgart. Many aerodromes in France, Belgium. Germany and Holland were attacked.Aerodromes AttackedAn Air Ministry communiqué states: On Sunday R.A.F. bombers attacked a number of aerodromes in enemy-occupied territory in Holland and Belgium. These attacks were continued after nightfall on the aerodromes in Northern France.In Berlin AreaThe operations in the Berlin area on Sunday night were hampered by poor weather conditions. Selected military objectives were attacked and also the anti-aircraft batteries and searchlight concentrations on the outskirts of the German capital. Other aircraft attacked supply depots at Cologne, Hamm and Schwerte. The docks at Bremen were also bombed Aircraft of the Coastal Command attacked oil tanks at Cherbourg, seaplane and E-boats on Boulogne harbour docks and flushing. From all these bombing operations five of our aircraft have not returned. A Sundeland flying-boat of the Coastal Command on patrol in the Tromso area on Sunday attacked a number of enemy flying-boats lying at anchor, sinking two and setting a third on fire and damaging others.Dinard AttackedThe first bomber which attacked the Dinard aerodrome set fire to the woods. The fury of the flames indicated that a large petrol store in the woods was hit. Fires spread rapidly and floodlit the aerodrome for the following Blenheims. The heavy attack was reserved for the Daimler-Benz plant at Stuttgart, and when the last raider had departed after over an hour of methodical bombing, heavy explosions had been caused and the main group of buildings was blazing.The Air Ministry News Service states that the Daimler Benz plant at Stuttgart was one of the objectives attacked last night. A nitrogen plant was hit.RAIDS OVER BRITAINHot Reception to German BombersReports so far received show that at least 37 enemy aircraft have been destroyed in attacks on this country today. Fifteen of our aircraft have been lost, But the pilots of six are safe.It is believed that eight enemy planes were shot down during a battle over the clouds in a south-east area. One bomber just missed the roof of farm house and crashed ablaze in a cornfield.Three more bombers are known to have been brought down in the southeast coast area.German bombers, escorted by fighters, were given a hot reception when her crossed the south-east coast on Monday afternoon.It is stated that three German machines were shot down and it is believed that two others were also destroyed. Spitfire fighters engaged the raiders in a fierce struggle at 20,000 feet.Dive-bombers dropped bombs on a south-east coast town, destroying a number of houses on the sea front. Bombs also hit buildings in Folkestone in which girls were working. One body has been recovered. Damage to house and property and some casualties were also reported from the southwest area on Monday afternoon-Reuter.Folkestone RaidA large number of bombs, including incendiaries were dropped during the raid on Folkestone. The German raiders dived low and the bombs could be seen leaving their racks. Damage was done to property and a number of casualties were caused, but no fires were started. One Dornier bomber crashed on the beach. A second crashed a mile or two inland and a third dived into the sea. Other raiders were chased away by British fighters.Reports from another southeastern area state that Spitfires shot down two Messerschmitt’s escorting German Dive-bombers across the Straits of Dover One German pilot bailed out and a Spitfire pilot guided a rescue boat to the scene. Altogether the crew of three German planes were rescued from the sea.Germans Turn TailTwo large forces of bombers flying at 20,000 feet were met by a strong force of fighters over a southeast town. For ten minutes, a terrific battle raged over the clouds, the machines being visible only for brier intervals through breaks in the clouds. Machine-gun fire and cannon of German Messerschmitts which were apparently accompanying the bombers could be plainly heard and after the battle, the Germans turned tail and made for home.At least two German machines were a seen to fall and, while the fighting was in progress, many bombs were heard falling in the distance.Reuter's correspondent, who witnessed some of the battle from the top of a corn stack, reports seeing several huge columns of smoke rising inAn Air Ministry "communique states:-different directions, apparently caused by the 'planes which crashed. Over one huge column, four R.A.F. fighters circled for some minutes, and later two R.A.P. machines were seen making a detour, passing over each smoke column, apparently checking up on the fallen German machines.Balloons Fall in FlamesThree Messersehmitts attacked Dover's balloon barrage and two balloons tell in flames.Raid on Scilly islesOne hundred and fifty bombs were dropped on the Scilly Isles this morning and yesterday. Children on the beach were machine-gunned and several wounded, and a girl was killed by a bullet. About fifty rounds of machine-gun fire were directed at a hotel which had its windows blown on and the roof damaged.Cross-Channel FightingThree loud explosions, believed to have been caused by shells fired from German long-range guns mounted on the French coast, were heard in Dover on Sunday night. Searchlights swept the sky over the French coast. Shell-bursts from German anti-aircraft guns stabbed the night sky and heavy explosions believed to be caused by bombs dropped by R.A.F. planes were heard on the south-east coast.Coastal Command aircraft carried out spotting for British artillery firing against enemy gun positions between Boulogne and Calais today. German long-range gun positions were also attacked by R.A.F bombers for the third successive night- Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ht-this-day-august-27-1940-berlin-bombed-by-british-planes-101629998856087.html
26-08-2021||World||'One this is clear...': US Senator comments on Taliban role after Kabul airport blast||Amid assurances from the Taliban to not harm US personnel, the chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee said the insurgents can not be trusted with the security of Americans. Bob Menendez, a Democrat, called on the US government to secure the Kabul airport and evacuate as many Americans and vulnerable Afghans as possible after two suicide attacks were reported in Afghanistan’s national capital Thursday evening.“As we wait for more details to come in, one thing is clear: We can’t trust the Taliban with Americans’ security,” Menendez said in a statement.Condemning the explosions outside the Hamid Karzai International Airport, the Senator said a full-fledged humanitarian crisis is unfolding in Afghanistan.“I strongly & forcefully condemn today’s explosions outside of the Kabul airport targeting US citizens, personnel, & vulnerable Afghans trying to flee Afghanistan,” Menendez added.Also Read | Kabul airport blast: 2 suicide attacks, American casualties. What we know so farReports suggest that US President Joe Biden is monitoring the latest developments from the White House situation room. While Biden had acknowledged the threat from Islamic State as US troops were conducting evacuation operations, he didn’t directly blame the Taliban for the heightened security concerns.The Pentagon has confirmed that "a number of US service members" were killed in the attack.“We also know that a number of Afghans fell victim of this heinous attack. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the loved ones and teammates of all those killed and injured," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement.Meanwhile, the Taliban have condemned the suspected suicide bombing and gunfires outside the Kabul airport that left many killed, including several US Marines."The Islamic Emirate strongly condemns the bombing targeting civilians at Kabul airport," a statement released by the Taliban spokesperson on Twitter said, adding that the explosion took place in an area “where US forces are responsible for security."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-this-is-clear-us-senator-comments-on-taliban-role-after-kabul-airport-blast-101629999493275.html
26-08-2021||World||Several US service personnel killed in Kabul: Pentagon||The United States defence department has confirmed a “number of its service personnel” were killed in the “complex attack” at the Kabul airport on Thursday evening.The number of casualties was put at 4 US Marines by The Wall Street Journal which cited a briefing by US ambassador to Afghanistan to his staff.US officials also said President Joe Biden was in the Situation Room of the White House at the time of the explosion, and he remained in a huddle with his national security team, cancelling and postponing scheduled events and briefings for the day, including a bilateral meeting Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett.“We can confirm that a number of US service members were killed in today’s complex attack at the Kabul airport,” John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary said. “A number of others are being treated for wounds. We also know that a number of Afghans fell victim to this heinous attack.”In a tweet earlier, Kirby had confirmed the explosion at the Abbey Gate of the airport saying it was the result of a complex attack that resulted in a number of US and civilian casualties. He had also confirmed another explosion, which took place at the Baron Hotel nearby.US officials had been warning of terrorist strikes at the airport for some days and even the American president spoke of it in his last address to the nation. “The longer we stay, starting with the acutely growing risk of an attack by a terrorist group known as ISIS-K, which is an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan,” Biden said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/several-us-service-personnel-killed-in-kabul-pentagon-101629999623770.html
26-08-2021||World||'Because of foreign forces,' Taliban blame US for Kabul airport blast||Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid condemned the Kabul airport blast and said that US forces were responsible for the security of the area where the twin blasts took place. "The Islamic Emirate strongly condemns the bombing of civilians at Kabul airport, which took place in an area where US forces are responsible for security. The Islamic Emirate is paying close attention to the security and protection of its people," the spokesperson said.Terming the twin blasts as a terrorist act, Zabihullah Mujahid said that the Taliban had alerted the US and other western forces about a possible attack by the IS.Turkey's Haberturk television quoted a Taliban official saying that the blasts took place because of the presence of foreign forces. "As soon as the airport situation is figured out and the foreign forces leave, we will not have such attacks anymore," a Taliban official has been quoted by the Turkish channel. Whole world should condemn this, the spokesperson told the news channel. Kabul airport blast came from within crowd of passengers: ReportThe blast took place as countries are wrapping up their evacuation process and the western countries issued alerts regarding a possible attack. Following the twin blasts in which at least 13 have been killed and dozens have been injured, the US Embassy in Kabul issued a security alert asking people not to travel to the airport. US citizens who are at the Abbey Gate East Gate or North Gate should leave immediately, the advisory said.The security crisis has posed a threat to the ongoing evacuation process. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said forces should continue to evacuate as many vulnerable people as possible without pausing the present evacuation drive. "Our priority remains to evacuate as many people to safety as quickly as possible," he tweeted after two deadly explosions hit crowds on the perimeter of the airport in Afghanistan's capital.I urge the Biden Administration to reestablish our presence in Bagram as an alternative to the Kabul airport so that we do not leave our fellow citizens and thousands of Afghan allies behind.It is not a capability problem, but a problem of will.US Senator Lindsey Graham tweeted urging President Joe Biden to make Bagram airforce operational as an alternative to the Kabul airport. "We have the capability to reestablish our presence at Bagram to continue to evacuate American citizens and our Afghan allies. The biggest mistake in this debacle is abandoning Bagram," Graham tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-blast-us-responsible-for-airport-security-say-taliban-condemn-blasts-101629996303873.html
26-08-2021||World||Left thousands of Americans at 'whim of Islamic extremists': Trump sharpens attack on Biden||Former US President Donald Trump has sharpened his attack against his successor over the latter's domestic as well as foreign policy, especially with Afghanistan. Trump said in a statement that President Joe Biden has left thousands of Americans at the “whim of Islamic extremists”, calling it the “single greatest humiliation” in the history of the US in Afghanistan.The former commander-in-chief said that Biden's policies have created a “living national nightmare” by sabotaging the economy, caving to China, and leaving the US borders wide-open to “deadly drugs, vicious crime, and unlimited illegal immigration at home.”“I created the most secure border in history. Biden has created the single most catastrophic border disaster in history—by far,” he added.Earlier on Tuesday, Trump had accused Biden of surrendering Afghanistan to terrorists by pulling our military before US citizens. He claimed that out of 26,000 evacuated people, only 4,000 were Americans, suggesting that thousands of terrorists have been airlifted out of Afghanistan and dropped into neighbourhoods around the world.“What a terrible failure. NO VETTING. How many terrorists will Joe Biden bring to America? We don’t know!” he said.Also Read | Kabul airport blast: 2 suicide attacks, American casualties. What we know so farTrump has released dozens of statements attacking Biden since the Taliban captured Afghanistan’s national capital earlier this month.On Wednesday, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said about 1,500 Americans may be awaiting evacuation from Afghanistan, indicating that the Biden administration will be able to airlift the remaining US nationals before the August 31 deadline.Meanwhile, two separate blasts in Kabul has left several killed and dozens injured including three US Marines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/left-thousands-of-americans-at-whim-of-islamic-extremists-trump-sharpens-attack-on-biden-101629994712727.html
26-08-2021||World||Taliban put 2, including former Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai under 'house arrest': Report||Two of Afghanistan most prominent leaders, former president Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, who led the High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR), have been “effectively” put under house arrest by the Taliban, news agency ANI has reported citing CNN. Last week, Taliban representatives held a meeting with Karzai and Abdullah in what was described as a part of the regime’s effort to form an “inclusive” government.Also Read | Kabul airport blast kills at least 13, including childrenThe CNN report, which claimed that both were “at the mercy” of the insurgents, further said that the group also confiscated the two leaders’ cars. Additionally, Abdullah’s home is believed to have been “searched” by the extremists. Their security teams have also been taken away.Also Read | Kabul airport blast: US confirms American casualties. What we know so farBoth Karzai and Abdullah stayed back in Kabul after the Taliban captured the Afghan capital on August 15, returning to rule the country for the second time. Kabul’s fall led to an exodus of several high-profile officials, including then-president Ashraf Ghani, who has since been taken in by the United Arab Emirates (UAE); then-National Security Advisor Hamdallah Mohib and Fazal Mahmood Fazli, who held an important position in the president’s office.Also Read | Pentagon confirms explosion outside Kabul airport, witness says several deadAmrullah Saleh, who was Ghani’s first vice president, and is currently in the Panjshir Valley, has since declared himself as the caretaker president under the Constitution of Afghanistan.Also Read | Who is behind the wheels? Video shows Taliban test-driving Blackhawk helicopterThe Taliban first came to power in the war-torn nation in 1996. Their rule ended in 2001, when international forces led by the US arrived here in the wake of 9/11 attacks. Karzai became Afghanistan’s first president in the post-Taliban era, and was in office till 2014, when Ghani took over. Ghani was re-elected in 2019, defeating Abdullah.Also Read | Canada wraps up Afghanistan airlift operationsEarlier this year, US president Joe Biden set August 31 as the date for all American troops in Afghanistan to be pulled out. This signalled the end of the US military’s twenty-year stint in the country, and drove the Taliban towards Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-afghan-president-hamid-karzai-under-house-arrest-in-kabul-report-101629992133350.html
26-08-2021||World||Kabul airport blast came from within crowd of passengers: Report||One of the two explosions outside Kabul's international airport which killed a dozen of US and Afghan people came from within the crowd, Afghanistan's Tolo News has reported citing eyewitnesses. The blast occurred from inside a crowd of Afghans close to the Baron camp, adjacent to the airport, an eyewitness told the Afghanistan media.Two blasts took place near Kabul airport on Thursday morning as several countries were carrying out their evacuation process. The commotion at Kabul airport started on Thursday when Afghan forces reportedly fired into the air to disperse crowds near the airport when an Italian military transport plane was departing. The firing was not aimed at the Italian plane, reports said. Then came the explosions one after another, reports confirmed.Kabul airport blast: 2 suicide attacks, American casualties. What we know so farWhere did the blasts take place?One of the blasts took place near the airport's Abbey Gate and the other close to the Baron Hotel near the Baron Gate. The Baron hotel blast came from the crowd, Tolo News said. Though the origin of the attack is not clear, US officials suspect a suicide attack and the involvement of the Islamic State is also being doubted.The attack took place around the time when US President Joe Biden was scheduled to meet his national security team regarding the situation in Afghanistan.The attack sent a ripple across the world as several countries are carrying out their evacuation from Kabul.IS Attack? US had intelligencethe United States and the allies urged Afghans to leave Kabul airport on Thursday citing a threat of an IS attack. In an alert issued on Wednesday evening, the U.S. Embassy in Kabul advised citizens to avoid travelling to the airport and said those already at the gates should leave immediately, citing unspecified "security threats".After the fall of Kabul on August 15, the Kabul airport has been in the focus of the world with many reports of violence, clashes pouring in. British Armed Forces Minister James Heappey told the BBC on Thursday there was ”very, very credible reporting of an imminent attack” at the airport, possibly within “hours". Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said his country had received information from the U.S. and other countries about the “threat of suicide attacks on the mass of people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-airport-blast-came-from-within-crowd-of-passengers-report-101629991988019.html
26-08-2021||World||Kabul airport blast: 2 suicide attacks, American casualties. What we know so far||After Pentagon confirmed an explosion near one of the gates of the Kabul airport Thursday evening, the Taliban said at least 13 people including children were killed in the suspected suicide bombing, news agency Reuters reported. A video shared by TOLO News shows dozens of bodies lying around close to Kabul airport as people are trying to rescue survivors.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the explosion was the result of a complex attack that led to a number of casualties which include Afghans as well as Americans. Kirby also confirmed at least another explosion at or near the Baron Hotel which is at a short distance from Kabul airport.“We can confirm that the explosion at the Abbey Gate was the result of a complex attack that resulted in a number of US & civilian casualties. We can also confirm at least one other explosion at or near the Baron Hotel, a short distance from Abbey Gate. We will continue to update,” tweeted the Pentagon spokesperson.Pentagon later confirmed that "a number of US service members" were killed in the attack.Also Read | Pentagon confirms explosion outside Kabul airport, witness says several deadUS embassy in Kabul said there have been reports of gunfire at the Hamid Karzai International Airport, urging Americans to avoid travelling to the airport at this time."US citizens who are at the Abbey Gate, East Gate, or North Gate now should leave immediately," the US embassy said.Reports suggest that US President Joe Biden is monitoring the latest developments from the Situation Room of the White House.The blast occurred hours after France and the Netherlands announced their decision to wrap up the evacuation operations amid security concerns. The United States, however, said it will continue to evacuate as many people as it can until the deadline.Also Read | Kabul airport blast came from within crowd of passengers: ReportA US official has said that the attack outside the Kabul airport is “definitely believed” to have been carried out by the Islamic State, reported Associated Press. US personnel deployed in the area were reportedly wounded in the attack which involved suicide bombers and gunmen.The Afghanistan affiliate of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) has emerged as a major security challenge for foreign countries trying to evacuate their nationals and other Afghan allies. A UN report recently warned that ISIS-Khorasan, a sworn enemy to the Taliban, has formed sleeper cells in many Afghan provinces. The report indicates that the strength of ISIS-K could be anywhere between 500 to 10,000.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-airport-blast-us-confirms-american-casualties-what-we-know-so-far-101629990631897.html
26-08-2021||World||Who is behind the wheels? Video shows Taliban test-driving Blackhawk helicopter||A video of a Blackhawk helicopter moving on the ground at the Kandahar airport has surfaced triggering the speculation whether the Taliban have trained pilots among them. The video, however, does not show who was controlling the helicopter and the Blackhawk, in the course of the video, does not take off the ground.It's no secret that the Taliban seized a major haul of US military-supplied gear when it took over Afghanistan earlier this month.Does anyone know if there's an Idiot's Guide to Flying a Blackhawk? If you've got a copy, the Taliban needs you. pic.twitter.com/ubYlVVoa9yThe Taliban has apparently started flying operations with one of the UH-60 Blackhawks they’ve captured. https://t.co/qhN2Jdon4KIn the recent Taliban offensive in which the Afghan army was decimated and the country fell to the hands of the Taliban, the Taliban managed to seize most of the weapons, equipment left behind the Afghan forces. And many of them are what the US military gave the Afghan army. The US has earlier said that there is no perfect estimate of what all the Taliban have plundered but they might have 2,000 armoured vehicles, including US Humvees, and up to 40 aircraft potentially including UH-60 Black Hawks, scout attack helicopters, and ScanEagle military drones, in their control. And the Taliban are ostensibly showing off their loot to the world through propaganda videos, seeing which many experts have already raised the question of whether they will be able to maintain these highly sophisticated equipment."It's no secret that the Taliban seized a major haul of US military-supplied gear when it took over Afghanistan earlier this month. Does anyone know if there's an Idiot's Guide to Flying a Blackhawk? If you've got a copy, the Taliban needs you," Russia's state-affiliated media wrote tweeting the video.Russia said the Taliban have captured more than 100 Russian-made Mi-17 helicopters, which was the backbone of the Afghan air force. But many of these helicopters might already be grounded, reports said.But who is operating these aircraft in videos that appear on social media from time to time? A Taliban spokesperson earlier said that the Taliban will ask Afghan soldiers, pilots, to join the army as the Taliban do not have trained pilots among them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-is-behind-the-wheels-video-shows-taliban-test-driving-blackhawk-helicopter-101629989519539.html
26-08-2021||World||Kabul airport blast kills at least 13, including children||A suspected suicide bomb exploded outside Kabul airport on Thursday, killing at least 13 people including children, a Taliban official said, after the United States and allies urged Afghans to leave the area because of a threat by Islamic State.The official said many Taliban guards were wounded.A U.S. official said U.S. service members were among the wounded, adding he was citing an initial report and cautioning that it could change. He said there were casualties but did not know how many or of what nationality.Thousands of people have been gathering outside the airport in recent days. Western troops are racing to evacuate foreigners and Afghans who helped Western countries during the 20-year war against the Taliban, and to get out themselves by an Aug. 31 deadline.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said there had been an explosion and it was unclear if there were any casualties. A Western diplomat in Kabul earlier said areas outside the airport gates were "incredibly crowded" again despite the warnings of a potential attack.There were few details yet of the attack, but Western countries have been warning of a potential attack by Islamic State militants.The Taliban, whose fighters are guarding the perimeter outside the airport, are enemies of the Afghan affiliate of Islamic State, known as Islamic State Khorasan (ISIS-K), after an old name for the region."Our guards are also risking their lives at Kabul airport, they face a threat too from the Islamic State group," said a Taliban official, who spoke on condition of anonymity and before the reports of the explosion.U.S. President Joe Biden has been briefed on the explosion, according to a White House official. Biden was in a meeting with security officials about the situation in Afghanistan when the explosion was first reported, according to a person familiar with the matter.The concerns about an attack came against a chaotic backdrop in Kabul, where the massive airlift of foreign nationals and their families as well as some Afghans has been under way since the day before the Taliban captured the city on Aug. 15, capping a lightning advance across the country as U.S. and allied troops withdrew.Also Read | Kabul airport blast: US confirms American casualties. What we know so farCANADIAN HALTCanadian forces halted their evacuations of around 3,700 Canadian and Afghan citizens on Thursday, saying they had stayed as long as they could before the deadline lapses. U.S. and allied troops also have to plan the logistics of their own withdrawal."We wish we could have stayed longer and rescued everyone," the acting chief of Canada's defence staff, General Wayne Eyre, told reporters.Biden ordered all troops out of Afghanistan by the end of the month to comply with a withdrawal agreement with the Taliban, despite European allies saying they needed more time.In an alert on Wednesday, the U.S. Embassy in Kabul advised citizens to avoid travelling to the airport and said those already at the gates should leave immediately, citing unspecified "security threats".British Armed Forces Minister James Heappey said intelligence about a possible suicide bomb attack by IS militants had become "much firmer"."The threat is credible, it is imminent, it is lethal. We wouldn't be saying this if we weren't genuinely concerned about offering Islamic State a target that is just unimaginable," Heappey told BBC radio.Australia also issued a warning for people to stay away from the airport while Belgium ended its evacuation operations because of the danger of an attack. The Netherlands said it expected to carry out its last evacuation flight on Thursday.ISIS-KFighters claiming allegiance to ISIS-K first began appearing in eastern Afghanistan at the end of 2014 but the ultra-radical Sunni movement soon expanded from the area near the border with Pakistan where it first appeared.Daesh, as it is widely known in Afghanistan, established a reputation for extreme brutality as it fought the Taliban both for ideological reasons and for control of local smuggling and narcotics routes, according to Western intelligence services.It also claimed a series of suicide attacks in cities like Kabul, where as well as government and civilian institutions, it particularly attacked targets associated with the Shi'ite religious minority.The U.S. military has said it would prioritize evacuating its troops, numbering about 5,200, in the two days before the deadline to leave..Since the day before the Taliban swept into Kabul, the United States and its allies have mounted one of the biggest air evacuations in history, bringing out about 95,700 people, including 13,400 on Wednesday, the White House said on Thursday.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said at least 4,500 American citizens and their families had been evacuated from Afghanistan since mid-August.The Taliban have encouraged Afghans to stay, while saying those with permission to leave will still be allowed to do so once commercial flights resume.The Taliban's 1996-2001 rule was marked by public executions and the curtailment of basic freedoms. Women were barred from school or work. The group was overthrown two decades ago by U.S.-led forces for hosting the al Qaeda militants who masterminded the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.The Taliban have said they will respect human rights and will not allow terrorists to operate from the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-airport-blast-kills-at-least-13-including-children-taliban-official-101629989297548.html
26-08-2021||World||Canada wraps up Afghanistan airlift operations||Canada on Thursday announced completion of its evacuation mission in Afghanistan. That announcement was made by Canada’s acting chief of defence staff General Wayne Eyre, as he said that “over the last day” the operation had “ceased” and the “majority of personnel departed Hamid Karzai International Airport” in Kabul with a small contingent staying behind to assist allies.On Tuesday, caretaker Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had said that Canada was “ready to stay” in Afghanistan beyond August 31 to rescue those seeking to leave. Trudeau’s statement came while speaking to reporters during a campaign stop following a G7 virtual summit.Briefing reporters on Thursday morning, General Eyre said Canada had transported or facilitated the transport of roughly 3,700 Afghan evacuees. “We wish we could have stayed longer and rescued everyone who were so desperate to leave. That we could not is truly heartbreaking but the circumstances on the ground rapidly deteriorated,” he said, adding that this was “a crisis of the Taliban’s making”.Canada announced an expansive plan to bring in 20,000 refugees from Afghanistan under a special immigration plan, but the actual figure has ended less than a fifth of the target.The early departure from Kabul may have been predicated on the United States sticking to the August 31 withdrawal deadline from Afghanistan. Outgoing Canadian defence minister Harjit Sajjan told reporters on Wednesday that as “Americans draw down to meet their deadline, partner nations, including Canada, must draw down our troops, assets and aircraft ahead of the Americans”.He said these “moves are necessary for the US to safely maintain control of the airport until they depart”.Sajjan did not specify a date, but his cabinet colleague, Afghan-origin women and gender equality minister Maryam Monsef faced flak for issuing an appeal to the Taliban, describing them “our brothers” and calling upon them “to ensure the safe and secure passage of any individual in Afghanistan out of the country.” Monsef, herself a refugee, clarified using the phrase “our brothers” was a “cultural reference” but was criticised for using such terminology. However, she asserted the Taliban was a “terrorist group” and asked the new Kabul regime “to immediately cease the violence, the femicide, the genocide, the rapes, the lootings and to return immediately to the peace negotiation table in an inclusive and meaningful way.”The situation unfolding in Afghanistan is increasingly a factor as Federal elections on September 20 approach. A poll by the agency Leger for the outlet National Post found that 65% of those sampled following developments “closely” and 54% of the opinion the government should have acted “quicker”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-wraps-up-afghanistan-airlift-operations-101629989003081.html
26-08-2021||World||'Overwhelming majority' airlifted from Afghanistan, says British PM Johnson||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday that the "overwhelming majority" of people eligible for evacuation from Kabul airport have now left Afghanistan.Johnson also reiterated that the UK government will do "everything we can" to get those remaining out of the country soon after warnings were issued of an "imminent" and "very lethal" terrorist attack from an Islamic State (ISIS) Afghanistan affiliate dubbed Islamic State Khorasan or ISIS-K.Speaking to reporters during a visit to British military's Permanent Joint Headquarters in north London to meet troops involved in evacuation efforts in Afghanistan, Johnson said, "around 15,000" people have already been evacuated by British troops."We've got the overwhelming majority of those to whom we owe that debt out of Afghanistan," said Johnson."In the time we have left, which may be – as I'm sure everybody can appreciate – quite short, we'll do everything we can to get everybody else," he said."We are coming now to the end of this phase in any event," he said, in reference to the airlift operations.The US has set a deadline of August 31 for the withdrawal of its troops, with President Joe Biden rejecting calls from Johnson and other allies for an extension.Johnson insisted the US deadline would not mark the end of the UK's efforts to help people wanting to flee the Taliban-controlled country, adding that the current airlifts were just the "first phase"."Even beyond the US deadline of the 31st of this month, we hope to be able to continue to say to people, well you can come out,” he said.Amid concerns the Taliban could block off exit routes for citizens, the British Prime Minister warned the group they must allow people to leave Afghanistan to benefit from engagement from the rest of the world."What we're hoping, and this is the key point that the G7 agreed, is that the Taliban understand that if they want to engage with development aid, they want to unlock those billions of funds, they want to have a diplomatic, political relationship with the outside world, then the safe passage for those who want to come out is the key precondition," Johnson said.Johnson also said his government had to be "transparent about the risks" posed by ISIS-K.His comments come following a stark warning by British Armed Forces Minister James Heappey that the UK had "very, very credible" intelligence that Islamic State militants are planning an “imminent” attack on those gathering at Kabul airport in an attempt to flee Afghanistan.Overnight on Wednesday, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) said that the situation in the region remains “volatile”, with the advice being for British citizens and other evacuees to find a safe location and await further advice."The security situation in Afghanistan remains volatile. There is an ongoing and high threat of terrorist attack,” the FCDO updated travel advisory reads."Do not travel to Kabul Hamid Karzai International Airport. If you are in the area of the airport, move away to a safe location and await further advice,” it says.The threat has strained the airlift operation to get as many people out of Afghanistan as soon as possible following its takeover by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/overwhelming-majority-airlifted-from-afghanistan-says-british-pm-johnson-101629985431318.html
26-08-2021||World||Pentagon confirms explosion outside Kabul airport, witness says several dead||US department of defense on Thursday confirmed an explosion outside Kabul airport amid reports of a growing threat from the Islamic State and other terrorist organisations. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said that casualties from the explosion are currently unclear as they wait for additional details."We can confirm an explosion outside Kabul airport. Casualties are unclear at this time. We will provide additional details when we can," tweeted Kirby.We can confirm an explosion outside Kabul airport. Casualties are unclear at this time. We will provide additional details when we can.US President Joe Biden has been briefed on the explosion outside the Kabul airport, reported CNN quoting White House officials.An Afghan man said several people appeared to be dead or wounded in the explosion among crowds waiting outside one of the gates of Hamid Karzai International Airport, reported Associated Press. Also Read | Why is Islamic State a threat in Afghanistan despite Taliban rule?Earlier today, countries like France and the Netherlands announced that they will stop evacuation operations days ahead of the August 31 deadline for a complete withdrawal of US-led foreign troops in the wake of heightened security concerns in Kabul.Britain had also warned its citizens to stay away from the Kabul airport, urging them to leave Afghanistan by other means if possible. Speaking to Times Radio, UK’s armed forces minister James Heappey called the threat situation at the Hamid Karzai International Airport "very serious" and "imminent".The United States, however, said it will continue to evacuate as many people as it can until the end of the mission timeline."Evacuation operations in Kabul will not be wrapping up in 36 hours. We will continue to evacuate as many people as we can until the end of the mission. #HKIA" Kirby wrote on Twitter.Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid had denied that any attack was imminent in the wake of those warnings.According to a UN report, ISIS-Khorasan has strengthened its positions in and around Afghanistan's national capital and has formed sleeper cells in many provinces, including Nuristan, Badghis, Sari Pul, Baghlan, Badakhshan, and Kunduz.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explosion-outside-kabul-airport-casualties-unclear-pentagon-101629986207129.html
26-08-2021||World||‘What’s your plan to ensure Taliban don’t acquire nuclear weapons from Pak?’: US lawmakers to Biden||As the August 31 deadline for the United States and its allies to pull out its troops nears, there remains mounting tension regarding the nature of rule that Islamist militants Taliban would impose on Afghanistan. Now, a group of US lawmakers has urged President Joe Biden to make sure that the insurgents do not destabilise Pakistan and acquire nuclear weapons.In a letter addressed to the President, as many as 68 lawmakers from the House of Representatives and the Senate, asked Biden to answer critical questions on the downfall of Afghanistan and what his plans are going forward.“Are you prepared to support regional allies militarily in the event that the Taliban militarise the Afghanistan border? What is your plan to help to ensure that the Taliban do not destabilise its nuclear neighbour Pakistan?” the group asked Biden in the letter.The lawmakers further noted that over the past few weeks, the world became a spectacle of Taliban’s sweeping control over Afghanistan with surprising speed — which they hailed as the result of “unforced errors made by withdrawing completely the small remaining footprint of [US’] main military force.”They also raised concerns over the unnecessary delay of the “evacuation of US personnel and its Afghan partners.”Also Read | 'Stay as long as necessary': US lawmakers implore Biden to extend Afghan airlift deadlineThe group in the letter highlighted that the effect of the US withdrawal from Afghanistan after 20 years doesn’t only have consequences in the particular nation, or even the Middle East, but also carry strategic and geographical consequences that have already commenced to unravel and will continue for decades.“Dealing with these consequences means that we must take action now to chart the course for American strategy, while we manage the immediate repercussions of this self-inflicted crisis in Afghanistan,” the letter noted, with the lawmakers asking Biden to “outline” his plan to “move America forward.”They also detailed about the swift manner in which Afghanistan “metastasised” into Taliban rule accompanied by rekindled oppression to women and girls, and the restraint of civil society.The lawmakers also pointed out that the insurgents’ comeback has triggered the displacement of innumerable Afghan nationals from their homes, who are then prevented by the Taliban by using force – and also a “power vacuum” that China seeks to fill by increasing its ties with the militants.The group of lawmakers also asked Biden to lay out his plan on ensuring that al Qaeda does not “resurge and regain a foothold in Afghanistan.” “What ‘over the horizon’ operations are you prepared to use to counter this threat?” they asked, noting that the intelligence community has cautioned against al Qaeda and ISIS-K getting full liberty from the Taliban to use Afghanistan as a safe haven to train and equip for future terrorists.Also Read | Biden defends Afghan pullout, says al Qaeda gone; Pentagon contradicts himBiden was also asked if the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan means that the group now has de facto command and control over the Afghan security forces’ former personnel, equipment and infrastructure. “If so, does this mean that the Taliban possess an air force through this de facto control? What is your plan to disable any air forces that operate under orders from the Taliban?” the letter asked.The lawmakers further asked the US President about his plan to “reclaim US military equipment” that has already fallen to the hands of Taliban, and how he plans to ensure that additional US and Afghan equipment do not end up with the militants.The 68 lawmakers’ concerns come when less than a week is left for the US to withdraw its forces from Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport. Prior to the meeting among the G7 leaders late on Tuesday, speculations were doing rounds that Biden was mulling over extending the deadline and would decide on the final date soon. The Taliban, however, had already given an ultimatum by rejecting any possibility of the deadline extension, warning that there would be “consequences” otherwise.Following these, the US President on Tuesday reaffirmed his decision to stick to the August 31 deadline.Meanwhile, German envoy Markus Potzel announced on Wednesday that the Taliban have agreed to let Afghans leave even after the August 31 deadline. He said that he met Taliban’s deputy chief negotiator Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai and his team, and that they “assured” him about allowing Afghans with “legal documents” with the opportunity to travel on commercial flights after the deadline.Pakistan has long been accused of fostering the Taliban in Afghanistan. A leader of Pakistan’s ruling Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government, Neelam Irshad Sheikh, recently said on a television news debate that the militants have said that they will help Pakistan in “liberating Kashmir from India.”Soon after regaining power in Afghanistan, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen had said that the group won’t allow anyone to use the country’s soil against any other nation. The remarks were made by Shaheen during an interview with Pakistan’s Hum News channel wherein he also said that India is welcome to complete its reconstruction and infrastructure projects in Afghanistan.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-asks-biden-to-ensure-taliban-don-t-acquire-nuclear-weapons-from-pak-101629984335674.html
26-08-2021||World||Maldives govt signs contract for India-funded $500 million connectivity project||The Maldives government and an Indian construction firm signed a contract on Thursday for the $500-million Greater Malé Connectivity Project (GMCP), the Indian Ocean archipelago’s largest infrastructure project that is being funded by New Delhi.The 6.74-km bridge and causeway link will connect the capital of Malé with the islands of Villingli, Gulhifalhu and Thilafushi. It is being funded through a grant of $100 million and a line of credit of $400 million from India, and will boost connectivity between the four islands that account for almost half of the Maldivian population.Maldives President Ibrahim Solih and foreign minister Abdulla Shahid had sought India’s backing for the project when external affairs minister S Jaishankar visited Malé in September 2019. GMCP was conceived as an economic lifeline for the Maldives, connecting the capital with a new international port planned at Gulhifalhu, also under an Indian line of credit, and an industrial zone at Thilafushi.The detailed project report was prepared by infrastructure consultants Arup Ltd of Hong Kong, and the project will be constructed by Mumbai-based Afcons Infrastructure Limited.The project includes three navigation bridges with a main span of 140 metres across the deep channel between each island, 3.73 km of marine viaduct, and 2.96 km of roads. The project will use solar power for lighting, and solar panels will be installed atop lamp posts and along the bridge parapets.The Maldives has emerged as one of the biggest beneficiaries of India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy, especially after Solih assumed office in November 2018 and moved the country away from the pro-China stance of his predecessor, Abdulla Yameen.During Solih’s first visit to New Delhi in December 2018, India announced an economic package of $1.4 billion, which included line of credit of $800 million for projects such as airport expansions at Hanimadhoo and Gan, roads in Addu and an expansion of fisheries in Hulhumalé.When GMCP is completed, it will dwarf the largest Chinese-funded connectivity project, the 1.4-km Sinamalé Bridge that connects Malé and Hulhule and Hulhumalé, and was completed in 2018.Indian high commissioner Sunjay Sudhir, who attended the event for the signing of the contract, said: “The GMCP supports the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ibrahim Solih for strong bilateral relations. The GMCP is concrete proof that India is a robust development partner of the Maldives, in addition to being the first responder in times of any emergency.”Foreign minister Shahid said in a tweet that the project will connect “peoples and countries”. He added, “This is a defining moment in the development journey of the #Maldives. Constructed with financial support from #India, the largest infrastructure project to be executed in Maldives will stand as an enduring tribute to the strong #MaldivesIndiaPartnership.”India is also implementing water and sanitation projects in 34 islands and a road project in the southern city of Addu. India has also undertaken about 30 community-oriented projects under grants worth $13 million, of which about half have been completed.Officials said enhancing connectivity within the Maldives and between the archipelago and India has been a priority area for the two governments.A direct cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin, Kochi, Malé and Kulhuffushi began last September. India launched an air travel bubble with the Maldives in August last year, which only made India the largest source of tourists but also provided impetus to the Maldivian economy. About 60 weekly flights currently connect Malé with five Indian cities.“President Solih’s ‘India First’ foreign policy and India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy have worked in tandem and brought about mutual synergies,” an official said.A contract for building 4,000 social housing units is expected to be signed soon with NBCC and JMC in the next few weeks. The Maldives government is negotiating with Indian companies for an additional 6,000 housing units under the EXIM Bank’s Buyers’ Credit scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maldives-govt-signs-contract-for-india-funded-500-million-connectivity-project-101629983482797.html
26-08-2021||World||Why Taliban must deal with Amrullah Saleh, Massoud and Dostum: What experts say||As the Taliban are consulting with Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, analysts say that it is time for the Taliban to understand that forming an inclusive government will not be as easy as defeating teh Afghan army was. There are several tall leaders representing different communities in Afghanistan whose opinion, if not support, will be crucial to form the government. If the Taliban want to steer clear from the internal conflict like that erupted during its previous regime, they will have to take some Afghan leaders on their side. And the list does not only include Karzai, the first president of the country after the US invasion, or Abdullah Abdullah. The list also includes warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum, former vice president Amrullah Saleh and Panjshir Resistance leader Ahmad Massoud."Despite having the upper hand now, the Taliban realizes any stable governing formation will need to include influential warlords and representatives from ethnic Uzbeks, Tajiks and Hazaras. Without that, the country risks falling into the same sort of internal conflict that erupted in the 1990s," Bloomberg said.Leaders whom the Taliban must have on board and whyAbdul Rashid DostumDostum is an Uzbek warlord who was supposed to mobilise the army for Ashraf Ghani this time. But Dostum reportedly fled the country before the fall of Kabul. Reports say he is in Turkey and not part of the consultation with the Taliban. But as a former vice president and a warlord, he has a considerable influence on his people.Peace deal with Panjshir Resistance? Taliban 80% confident, claims reportAmrullah SalehThe former vice president of Afghanistan vowed to not leave the country, and neither to surrender to the Taliban. The self-proclaimed acting president of the country, one of the leaders of the anti-Taliban forces, has said that the anti-Taliban force will continue fighting and Afghanistan will not become 'Talibanistan'.Ahmad MassoudThe son of the 'Lion of Panjshir' Ahmad Shah Massoud, Ahmad Massoud, has already sought international support for his movement which he said is not only for Panjshir but for the entire country. Massoud has also said that he is in favour of talks with the Taliban and not war.Panjshir resistance is a renewed Northern Alliance that was led by Ahmad Shah Massoud when the Taliban came to power in 1996. The Northern Alliance at that time received support from India, Iran, Russia, Turkey, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. At a time when the Taliban are looking for global acceptance and countries are cautiously deliberating over this decision, an all-inclusive government with these Afghan leaders on board might make it easier for the Taliban. Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah are already in talks with the Taliban. As the Taliban took over Afghanistan, Karzai, the former president, said he would not leave the country. Abdullah Abdullah, the former advisor of the Northern Alliance, is an ethnic Tajik leader. Another Tajik leader Ata Mohammed Noor, who is currently in Uzbekistan, was one of the first leaders to call for people's uprising when the Taliban began its advances. Mohammad Karim Khalili, the former vice president, is a prominent figure from the minority Hazara community who went to Pakistan after the fall of Kabul on August 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-taliban-must-deal-with-amrullah-saleh-massoud-and-dostum-101629975364475.html
26-08-2021||World||Canadian minister calls Taliban ‘brothers’, later clarifies it as 'cultural reference'||Maryam Monsef, the Canadian minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development, called the Taliban “brothers” during an online press meet, Wednesday, on the government’s response to the situation in Afghanistan. While the minister had reportedly clarified it by calling it a “cultural reference,” the comments had evoked a lot of responses criticising the term used by the minister.“I want to take this opportunity to speak to our brothers, the Taliban,” Monsef said during the press conference and also called on the militants to ensure the safe and secure passage of any individual in Afghanistan out of the country.Also read | Tolo News reporter beaten up by Taliban is alive“We call on you to immediately stop the violence, the genocide, the femicide, the destruction of infrastructure, including heritage buildings. We call on you to return immediately to return to the peace keeping table, to the peace deal that was negotiated and to ensure that women and minority voices are part of that discussion in a meaningful way.” she further said.A clipping of the video was shared by several people on Twitter and garnered widespread attention on late Wednesday and Thursday (IST).In her explanation to the criticism against her remarks, Monsef said “There are terrorists taking over my beloved ancestral land,” Canadian news website Globalnews.ca reported. “In terms of the terminology, if you go to masjids across the country, Muslims refer to each other as brothers and sisters, so, you know, rest assured I continue to believe deeply that the Taliban are a terrorist organization,” the website further quoted her as saying earlier on Wednesday.Notably, Monsef is the first Afghan-Canadian member of parliament in Canada’s history and is also the first Muslim to serve as a federal cabinet minister. The Taliban is one among the several currently listed terrorist entities according to the Canadian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-minister-calls-taliban-brothers-later-clarifies-cultural-reference-101629974182219.html
26-08-2021||World||Japan suspends 1.6 million doses of Moderna shot days after contamination report||Japan suspended the use of 1.63 million doses of Moderna Inc's Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, more than a week after the domestic distributor received reports of contaminants in some vials.Both Japan and Moderna said that no safety or efficacy issues had been identified and that the suspension was just a precaution. But the move prompted several Japanese companies to cancel worker vaccinations planned for Thursday."Moderna confirms having been notified of cases of particulate matter being seen in drug product vials of its Covid-19 vaccine," Moderna said in a statement."The company is investigating the reports and remains committed to working expeditiously with its partner, Takeda, and regulators to address this," it added, referring to Japan's Takeda Pharmaceutical, which distributes the vaccine in the country.A Health ministry official said Takeda first found out about the contaminated vials on Aug. 16 and reported the issue to the government on Wednesday. The delay was because Takeda needed time to gather information on which vials were affected and where they were in the country, the official said.Moderna said the contamination could be due to a manufacturing issue in one of the production lines at its contract manufacturing site in Spain.Spanish pharma company Rovi, which bottles or "fills and finishes" Moderna vaccines for markets other than the United States, said it is investigating possible contamination of Moderna doses and the issue appeared to be limited to a few batches bound for Japan.Shares in Rovi dropped 4.6%The suspension is a fresh setback for Moderna, whose partners had production delays last month that disrupted supplies to countries, including South Korea.Moderna and Takeda did not immediately reply to Reuters' requests for comment.Japan's defence ministry, which operates a mass vaccination site in Osaka, said shots from the lot in question, which contains 565,400 doses, had been used in the western prefecture between Aug. 6 and Aug. 20, but it did not say how many people were affected.Moderna said that "out of an abundance of caution" it had put the lot in question and two adjacent lots on hold.Takeda said it conducted an emergency examination after particulate matter was found in a lot of vaccine vials at an inoculation site.Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said on Thursday the country's inoculation plan would be little affected by the issue. A day earlier, he said about 60% of the public will be fully vaccinated by the end of September and the country had enough vaccines to provide booster doses if such a decision is taken.Chief cabinet secretary Katsunobu Kato said there had been no cases reported of health issues related to contaminated shots administrated.Japan Airlines said it had cancelled some Covid-19 vaccinations for its employees on Thursday after receiving Moderna vaccines with particulate matter.Its rival ANA said about 4,700 shots of the halted Moderna lot had been used and it would stop all vaccination planned on Thursday.Japan is battling its worst wave of infections, driven by the Delta variant, with new daily infections exceeding 25,000 for the first time this month. It has inoculated 54% of its population with at least one dose and fully vaccinated 43%, according to a Reuters vaccine tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-suspends-1-6-million-doses-of-moderna-shot-days-after-contamination-report-101629967903863.html
26-08-2021||World||What is 'Havana syndrome', the mysterious condition plaguing US officials?||A disease —considered to be mysterious so far — called the 'Havana Syndrome' has left several US diplomats plagued with severe headaches, nausea, and possible brain damage this week. While many officials are convinced that the Havana Syndrome is a sustained attack involving electronic weapons, there are also conflicting ideas about it. The condition, which seems to have almost uniformly affected US officials, has sparked several theories — from a 'microwave attack' to weapons that focused on ultrasound, poison, and even a reaction to crickets.Here's a brief run-down of the entire situation surrounding the Havana Syndrome:CasesOn Tuesday, US vice-president Kamala Harris delayed for several hours a trip to Vietnam after the US embassy in Hanoi reported a possible case involving "acoustic incidents" there, raising concerns she could be a target. Ultimately Harris did go to Hanoi, but the US state department said it was investigating a case of what the federal government officially dubbed an "anomalous health incident" or AHI. It was later unofficially called the 'Havana Syndrome' by the media.Also Read | US officials confirm 130 cases of ‘Havana syndrome’, mysterious brain injury, as CIA probes causeHowever, it is important to understand that the 'Havana Syndrome' is not new. Dozens of such cases were reported by US diplomats and intelligence officers since 2016, first in Cuba, then in China, Germany, Australia, Taiwan, and in Washington, DC itself.In July, the New Yorker magazine reported there have been dozens of cases among the US officials in Vienna, Austria since the beginning of 2021. However, the actual number of incidents reported among American officials has been kept under the wraps for security reasons.Why is it called the 'Havana Syndrome'?The syndrome was first named after Havana after the administration of former US President Donald Trump pulled the country's officials out of the Cuban capital and expelled 15 Cuban diplomats from Washington, hinting that either its government or Russia was behind the attacks.After Trump accused Cuba of perpetrating the attacks, the US government reduced staff to the embassy in the country to a minimum. The Cuban foreign minister, in turn, accused the US of lying about the incident and denied any involvement.ConcernsThere are concerns among officials of the US state department that a powerful rival, possibly Russia, is mounting the attacks, reported the AFP news agency.Following Kamala Harris' delayed trip to Vietnam, former CIA operative Marc Polymeropoulos, himself a victim of the same syndrome in Moscow in 2017, said the volume of attacks appeared to be mounting.Also Read | ‘Havana syndrome’ sickened 100 CIA officers, says chief"This is a message that they can get at our senior VIPs," he said, adding that the volume of attacks now includes intelligence officers, diplomats, and US military officers.SymptomsPeople who have been reported to be down with the Havana Syndrome have often mentioned hearing a "focused, high-pitched and sharp sound" that left them nauseated. In some cases, the afflicted had bloody noses, headaches, and other symptoms that resembled concussions.TheoriesAlthough the US government dismissed complaints regarding the Havana Syndrome for several years, instead judging them to be symptoms of people under stress or reacting with hysteria to unknown stimuli, the latest cases called for a revision.Several US officials said Russia was likely responsible for the attacks. This view was shared by CIA analysts, state department officials, and even several of the victims. It is known that Russia has a history of researching weapons that could potentially cause brain damage, such as the Cold War-era "Moscow Signal", however, there is no definitive statement from the US government yet linking Russia to the incidents.In May 2021, the New Yorker reported that the US government's "working hypothesis" was that the agents of Russia's military intelligence agency, the GRU, "have been aiming microwave-radiation devices at US officials to collect intelligence from their computers and cell phones and that these devices can cause serious harm to the people they target."CauseAt the end of 2020, the National Academy of Sciences studied the available cases and concluded they appeared to represent a distinctive set of symptoms, unlike any other known disorder. Their report noted that the symptoms vary among those affected, and not all of them were tied to a perceived sharp, directed sound.However, the academy noted in its report that the best explanation for the syndrome would be "pulsed, directed microwaves". The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has also created a task force to study the issue in detail.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-havana-syndrome-the-mysterious-condition-plaguing-us-officials-101629963102505.html
26-08-2021||World||British minister warns of 'very serious' terrorist threat at Kabul airport||A terrorist threat against Kabul airport is "very serious" and "imminent", Britain's armed forces minister James Heappey said on Thursday as the UK government warned its citizens to stay away from the area."Reporting over the week has become ever more credible. And it is of an imminent and severe threat to life," Heappey told Times Radio."This is a very serious threat, very imminent," he said.Late Wednesday, Britain warned its citizens away from Kabul's airport, where huge crowds have gathered hoping to board evacuation flights after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan."Do not travel to Kabul Hamid Karzai International Airport," the Foreign and Commonwealth Office wrote on its website. "There is an ongoing and high threat of terrorist attack.""If you are in the area of the airport, move away to a safe location and await further advice," it urged, adding that "if you can leave Afghanistan safely by other means, you should do so immediately".Washington and its allies have been flying out thousands of Afghans every day on hulking military transport, but it has become an increasingly difficult and desperate task.Heappey said his advice to British citizens was "to do as the Foreign Office advice instructs and to find a place of safety."According to the latest data, 11,474 people have been evacuated by the UK since August 13, including 6,946 Afghans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-minister-warns-of-very-serious-terrorist-threat-at-kabul-airport-101629962475481.html
26-08-2021||World||Afghans waiting to be evacuated being charged $40 for a bottle of water at Kabul airport||For the scores of people thronging the gates of Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul the exorbitant cost of essential items, such as water and rice, has made life increasingly difficult. “At Kabul airport one bottle of water is selling for $40 and a plate of rice for $100, not Afghan currency but dollars, that’s out of the reach for the common people,” an Afghan citizen told news agency Reuters on August 25.Kabul airport, where thousands of US-led foreign troops and huge crowds of Afghans desperate to leave the country after the Taliban took over on August 15 have gathered, is under threat from Islamic State militants, US warned Afghan citizens on August 25. The US, Britain, and Australia have urged people to leave the area for safer locations.Western troops are currently trying to evacuate as many people as possible before the official date of US withdrawal looms closer. Armed Taliban fighters are guarding the periphery as expectant crowds wait to be evacuated.A Western diplomat told news agency Reuters that despite security warnings the area around the airport is “incredibly crowded” and an estimated 1,500 US passport or visa holders were still trying to enter the airport. “I learned from an email sent from London that the Americans are taking people out of here that is why I have come here so that I can go abroad,” an Afghan man told Reuters.“The situation at the airport is really bad, people are crowding and because of the rush of people, women and children are in terrible condition,” an Afghan man waiting at the gates of the airport told Reuters.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken echoed President Joe Biden’s sentiments on Thursday, and told reporters that the US is prioritising evacuation of Americans out of Kabul, but they are committed to “getting out as many Afghans at-risk as we can before the 31st".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghans-waiting-to-be-evacuated-being-charged-40-for-a-bottle-of-water-at-kabul-airport-101629960854610.html
26-08-2021||World||'Pakistan our second home, there is peace in Afghanistan': Taliban spokesperson||A spokesperson of Taliban said on Wednesday that Pakistan "is like a second home" for the insurgent group and vowed to deepen trade and strategic ties with the neighbouring country. The spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid, also said that Taliban want good ties with India.Also Read: Rise of Taliban is internal security challenge for India"Afghanistan shares its borders with Pakistan. We are traditionally aligned when it comes to religion, the people of both the countries mingle with each other. So we are looking forward to further deepening of ties with Pakistan," Mujahid said during an interview with Pakistan-based ARY News.He also said that Pakistan has no role to play in Taliban's offensive to capture Afghanistan, saying the neighbouring country has never "interfered" in their affairs.Mujahid further said that Pakistan and India should sit together to resolve their outstanding issues, adding that Taliban desire good relations with all the countries, including India.Amid speculation around government formation in Afghanistan, the Taliban spokesperson said they want a government that is strong and based on Islam and which all Afghans are part of. News agency Reuters reported on Wednesday that former Guantanamo detainee Mullah Abdul Qayyum Zakir has been named acting defence minister by the Taliban. The Reuters quoted Al Jazeera news channel for the information.The Taliban have so far not formally announced the appointments, but Mujahid told ARY News that a government will be in place before the US leaves Afghanistan on August 31. "We are working on it," said Mujahid, adding that the US should not delay its plan to withdraw American soldiers.Mujahid also said that the Taliban won't allow Afghan soil to be used against any other country. He added that Taliban have seized control of all areas, "restoring peace and normalcy in the war-torn country".However, many news outlets have reported Taliban brutality in Afghanistan since they returned to power after two decades. Fox News obtained a video, which it claims shows Taliban fighters roaming around the streets of Kabul and other places and opening fire while looking for ex-government workers. The channel also reported about an incident in Takhar province where a woman was killed by Taliban fighters on Tuesday for being in public without a head covering.CNN also reported that Taliban fighters forcibly entered the house of a woman in Faryab in July and killed her for refusing to obey their command.The Taliban completely captured Afghanistan on August 15, ousting the civilian government led by President Ashraf Ghani, who fled to UAE. In the 10 days since Taliban's victory, the United States and its allies have mounted one of the biggest air evacuations ever, bringing out more than 88,000 people, including 19,000 in the past 24 hours. According to the US military, planes are taking off every 39 minutes from Kabul airport.India too has evacuated over 800 people, including Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, so far. A fresh batch of 180 people is expected to land in India today from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-our-second-home-there-is-peace-in-afghanistan-taliban-spokesperson-101629960082702.html
26-08-2021||World||Tolo News reporter beaten up by Taliban is alive||The news of Tolo News reporter Ziar Yaad being killed by the Taliban that surfaced on social media and carried by some news agencies is not true.Ziar Yaad took to Twitter on Thursday to confirm that he was beaten up by the Taliban in Kabul while he was covering a news at an intersection in the capital.I still don't know why they behaved like that and suddenly attacked me. The issue has been shared with Taliban leaders; however, the perpetrators have not yet been arrested, which is a serious threat to freedom of expression.The Tolo News reporter also expressed concerns over the incident and said the issue has taken up with the Taliban leaders.TOLOnews reporter Ziar Yaad and his cameraman were beaten by Taliban in #Kabul city while they were working on a report on Wednesday. #Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/UY5i4Ua9Y6The Afghan television channel also said that Ahmadullah Wasiq, the deputy head of the Taliban’s cultural commission, assured of "serious" investigation into the incident.ALSO READ | Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed after being left behind: Afghan general“The Taliban’s clash with journalists has been a concern for all reporters since they took control of Afghanistan and Kabul,” Parwiz Aminzada, the deputy head of a journalist’s association in Parwan province, told Tolo News.Since the Taliban took control of the provinces and laid siege to Kabul, several journalists have been beaten by the Taliban. This is despite the Taliban promising media freedom and a pardon for all their opponents.Last week, the Taliban have shot and killed a relative of a Deutsche Welle journalist while hunting for him. According to French news agency AFP, Deutsche Welle director general Peter Limbourg said the incident highlighted the danger Taliban pose to media workers and their families in Afghanistan. "It is evident that the Taliban are already carrying out organised searches for journalists, both in Kabul and in the provinces. We are running out of time!" he was quoted as saying by AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tolo-news-reporter-beaten-up-by-taliban-is-alive-101629958120687.html
26-08-2021||World||Canada’s Afghanistan evacuation mission to end today: Report||After caretaker Prime Minister Justin Trudeau emphasised on Tuesday that Canada was “ready to stay” in Afghanistan beyond August 31 to rescue those seeking to flee, it appears that the country’s evacuation mission there will actually cease in less than 24 hours.On Wednesday, the news outlet Globe and Mail reported that the last Canadian aircraft involved in evacuations from Kabul airport will depart on Thursday.Canada announced an expansive plan to bring in 20,000 refugees from Afghanistan under a special immigration plan, but the actual figure may be closer to 3,000, if the mission ends this week.The early departure from Kabul may be predicated on the United States sticking to an August 31 withdrawal deadline from Afghanistan. Outgoing Canadian defence minister Harjit Sajjan told reporters that as “Americans draw down to meet their deadline, partner nations, including Canada, must draw down our troops, assets and aircraft ahead of the Americans”.He said these “moves are necessary for the US to safely maintain control of the airport until they depart”.Sajjan did not specify a date, but his cabinet colleague, Afghan-origin women and gender equality minister Maryam Monsef faced flak for issuing an appeal to the Taliban, describing them “our brothers” and calling upon them “to ensure the safe and secure passage of any individual in Afghanistan out of the country”. Monsef, herself a refugee, clarified using the phrase “our brothers” was a “cultural reference” but was criticised for using such terminology. However, she asserted the Taliban was a “terrorist group” and asked the new Kabul regime “to immediately cease the violence, the femicide, the genocide, the rapes, the lootings and to return immediately to the peace negotiation table in an inclusive and meaningful way”.The situation unfolding in Afghanistan is increasingly a factor as Federal elections on September 20 approach. A poll by the agency Leger for the outlet National Post found that 65% of those sampled following developments “closely” and 54% of the opinion the government should have acted “quicker”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-afghanistan-evacuation-mission-to-end-today-report-101629953300232.html
26-08-2021||World||Imran Khan under fire, this time for linking 'misuse' of mobiles phones with sexual assault||Pakistan's prime minister Imran Khan has once again made a controversial statement, linking sexual assault with the misuse of mobile phones. While speaking about the 'correct usage' of modern technology, Khan said on Wednesday that sexual crimes are on the rise in Pakistan due to the "misuse" of mobile phones. The Pak premier's statement comes in the wake of a TikTok user from the country alleging that she was harassed and manhandled by a mob on Pakistan's Independence Day while shooting a clip for the video-sharing application near the Minar-e-Pakistan at Lahore's Greater Iqbal Park area.Also Read | Clothes torn, hurled into air: Pakistani TikToker says she was attacked by mob on I-DayAddressing the Punjab Education Convention in Lahore yesterday, Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan said that apart from providing quality education to the youth with the help of modern technology, it is also necessary to guide and educate them about the highest qualities of Seerat-e-Nabi (PBUH) for their "character-building". Highlighting the Minar-e-Pakistan incident, Imran Khan said that such cases are on the rise because children are not being guided in a proper way."Sexual crimes are on the rise due to the misuse of mobile phones," Khan was quoted as saying by Pakistani media. "We need to educate our children about the supreme qualities of the Seerat-e-Nabi".Also Read | Rights groups warn assaults on women on the rise in PakistanThis is hardly the first instance in a long history of Imran Khan's problematic comments regarding sexual assault. In a live television interview with Axios' on HBO earlier this year, Khan had said stoked controversies by commenting that a rise in sexual assault cases in Pakistan was linked to how women dress in "skimpy clothes"."If a woman is wearing skimpy clothes, it will have an impact on the men unless they are robots. It's common sense," he said. In the same interview, Khan also talked about the concept of 'purdah' - a religious and social practice of female seclusion in some orthodox Muslim communities - as a means to avoid 'temptation' in society.Civil society groups and activists in Pakistan have often cried out in outrage over the prime minister's remarks which pinned the blame for rape and sexual assault squarely on women themselves. Noting that these remarks are indicative of "victim-blaming", human rights campaigners called for a public apology from the prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-under-fire-this-time-for-linking-misuse-of-mobiles-phones-with-sexual-assault-101629950803959.html
26-08-2021||World||Afghan girl, born on US military plane fleeing Taliban regime, named 'Reach'||An Afghan girl born aboard a US military plane as her family was fleeing Taliban rule was named Reach after the aircraft's code name, US military officials said Wednesday.The baby's mother went into labor on Saturday while being flown to a US military base in Germany. As soon as the plane landed, military medics helped the woman deliver her baby in the cargo hold of the plane. The mother and child were then taken to a nearby hospital.Each US Air Force aircraft has a code name to communicate with other aircraft and control towers, and the code for C-17 cargo planes is usually "Reach" followed by a number.The code name for the plane that brought the Afghan family to safety was Reach 828 -- and that's how the parents decided to name the child, said General Tod Wolters, the head of US European Command.Reach and her parents are headed to the United States along with other Afghan refugees, Wolters said.Of the 7,000 people evacuated from Kabul who had passed through US bases in Europe since August 20, only 100 required medical care.Of those 100 people, 25 have been admitted to a local hospital and 12 have already been discharged. Two other babies were born after their mothers landed at the Ramstein base, Wolters said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-girl-born-on-us-military-plane-fleeing-taliban-regime-named-reach-101629947437614.html
26-08-2021||World||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny says prison time akin to Chinese labour camps||In his first interview from jail, Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny has compared Russian prisons to Chinese labour camps, stating inmates have to mandatorily watch state television programmes and propaganda films for more than eight hours everyday.“Reading, writing or doing anything else.You have to sit in a chair and watch TV,” Navalny, a key detractor of Russian President Valdimir Putin, told the New York Times in an interview that was published on August 25. He said if an inmate fell asleep in front of the television, prison guards promptly woke them up."You need to imagine something like a Chinese labour camp, where everybody marches in a line and where video cameras are hung everywhere. There is constant control and a culture of snitching," Navalny was quoted as saying in the interview.The key Opposition leader described the experience of a modern political prisoner in Russia as mostly “psychological hours”, where one spends mind-numbing hours in front of a pre-programmed television, which starts from the morning after calisthenics, breakfast and sweeping the yard and continues past dinner.Also Read: Russia opposition leader Alexei Navalny's health worsens in prison“We watch films about the Great Patriotic War (World War II), or how one day, 40 years ago, our athletes defeated the Americans or Canadians,” Navalny told the Times in a written exchange of questions and answers.He said, however, these eight hours of mandatory television every day had provided him with incredible clarity on Putin’s regime. He insisted that Putin was using the past to substitute both the present and the future, adding, “All sorts of past must constantly be in the spotlight to displace thoughts about the future and questions about the present”.Despite spending his days in Penal Colony number 2 since March, Navalny remained optimistic about the future, calling his regime a “historical accident” and insisted that one day this would come to an end and Russia “will move on to a democratic, European path of development. Simply because that is what the people want”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-compares-prison-time-in-russia-to-chinese-labour-camps-101629946795495.html
26-08-2021||World||Covid-19 origin probe has 'stalled', window of opportunity closing fast: WHO experts||The search for the origins of the Covid pandemic that has killed millions and crippled economies is at a standstill even as time is running out, scientists charged with the task by the UN warned Wednesday.An initial report by the team of independent, international experts sent to China by the World Health Organization in January concluded that it was most likely that the SARS-CoV-2 virus jumped from bats to humans via an intermediate animal.A competing hypothesis that the virus somehow leaked from a lab, like the specialised virology laboratory in Wuhan, was deemed "extremely unlikely".But in a comment in the journal Nature, 11 of the 17 scientists on that mission said it was only intended as a "first step in a process that has stalled.""The search for the origins of SARS-CoV-2 is at a critical juncture," they wrote."The window of opportunity for conducting this crucial inquiry is closing fast."Tracing the biological trail back to the earliest pockets of the disease, which first surfaced in Wuhan in late 2019, becomes more difficult as evidence disappears or becomes corrupted.'No impediment'The statement comes less than two weeks after the WHO, in a bid to revive the probe, urged China to hand over information on the earliest Covid-19 cases.This should include Covid data for 174 infections identified in December 2019 that China failed to share during the initial investigation, the experts said.The investigators said "it was agreed" at the time that the second phase of research would fill in this gap.But China pushed back against the WHO request earlier this month, saying the January investigation should suffice and that calls for further data were motivated by politics, not science.The WHO meanwhile highlighted Wednesday that the international experts' report, published in March in coordination with their Chinese counterparts, had laid out a number of studies that should be conducted, insisting there was no reason to wait."We have encouraged all parties to pursue those studies," WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters from the UN health agency's Geneva headquarters.Other WHO experts at the press conference stressed there was no need to wait for another international mission to China before delving into the many further studies needed there, pointing out that there were many capable Chinese scientists who could do the work."There is no impediment right now for those studies to go ahead, and Chinese colleagues don't need WHO to hold their hands through this kind of a process," WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan agreed."In fact, many of our Chinese colleagues do report that those studies are underway, and we very much look forward to receiving data and reports."'Diminishing returns'Beijing has especially bridled at the suggestion that the virus might have escaped from the Wuhan virology lab.On Tuesday US intelligence agencies presented President Joe Biden with a report looking at both the animal transmission and "lab-leak" hypotheses. The findings were described as inconclusive.The Nature piece noted that current data does not support the lab-leak scenario.None of the six priorities for further research mentioned after the January mission, which has faced criticism for lacking transparency and access, alluded to this possibility.Rather, the scientists emphasised the need to trace the earliest cases of Covid through disease reporting and antibody surveys, inside and outside China.They also called for further investigation of wildlife farms and wild bats."As SARS-CoV-2 antibodies wane, so collecting further samples and testing people who might have been exposed before December 2019 will yield diminishing returns," they said.They added that many of the wildlife farms of interest for study have been closed and their livestock killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-origin-probe-has-stalled-window-of-opportunity-closing-fast-who-experts-101629942993608.html
26-08-2021||World||Internal UN document says Taliban threatened, beat Afghan staff, looted offices||The Taliban stopped an Afghan United Nations staff member as he tried to reach Kabul airport on Sunday. They searched his vehicle and found his UN identification. Then they beat him.On Monday, three unknown men visited the home of another UN staff member who was at work at the time. They asked his son where his father was, and accused him of lying: "We know his location and what he does."The incidents are among dozens contained in an internal UN security document seen by Reuters that describes veiled threats, the looting of UN offices and physical abuse of staff since August 10, shortly before the Taliban swept to power.While the Islamist militant movement has sought to reassure Afghans and Western powers that they will respect people's rights, reports of reprisals have undermined confidence, not least among those associated with foreign organisations.The Taliban did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the UN incident list.The group has said it would investigate reported abuses, and has also encouraged aid organisations to continue their work. It said this week that aid was welcome, as long as it was not used as a means of political influence over Afghanistan.The United Nations said it did not comment on leaked security documents.UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric added: "The authorities that are in charge in Kabul are responsible for the safety and security of UN staff and premises. We remain in touch with them in that regard."The United Nations has relocated about a third of the 300 foreign staff it had in Afghanistan to Kazakhstan. It has also stressed that it wanted to maintain a presence to help the Afghan people.There are around 3,000 Afghan UN staff still in the country. A UN spokesman has said the world body was in contact with other countries to urge them to provide visas or support temporary relocation of some of them.Thousands of people have fled Afghanistan since the Taliban entered Kabul on Aug. 15, boarding military and commercial flights from the capital where the airport has been the scene of deadly chaos.Some fear a return to the Taliban's brutal enforcement of strict Islamic law last time they ruled, when they banned women from work and girls from school.Others, including those who work in advocacy and human rights, believe they could be the target of reprisals after scores of people were killed in suspected targeted Taliban attacks in the last year.'WE ARE IN DANGER'An Afghan woman, who has worked for the United Nations for several years, told Reuters she felt abandoned."Every woman I know has the same fear as I do. What will now happen to our children if we are punished for our work? What will happen to our families? What will they do to us as women?" she said, speaking on condition of anonymity.In a video message to staff in Afghanistan on Tuesday, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was distressed by reports that some had experienced harassment and intimidation."We are doing everything in our power, namely through the permanent engagement with all relevant actors, and will continue to do so to ensure your safety and well-being, and to find external solutions where they are needed," Guterres said.An Aug. 21 UN risk assessment, reported by Reuters on Tuesday, said there was "no coherent command and control" within the Taliban.The speed of their military victory, which coincided with US-led foreign troops withdrawing after 20 years of war, has left a power vacuum, and the group is scrambling to form a government in Kabul and the provinces to run the country.An Afghan UN worker, speaking on condition of anonymity, told Reuters he knew of at least 50 Afghan staff warned or threatened by the Taliban, adding: "UN national staff who are under serious direct threat of the Taliban must be evacuated."He said the threats were not all necessarily linked to people's status at the United Nations, but were a function of the Taliban's push to impose control over Kabul.A second Afghan woman who works at the United Nations has been moving houses with her husband and 3-year-old daughter in the past 10 days. Some of her neighbors knew she worked at the United Nations, and she worried they might inform on her.She has a visa for a neighboring country, but is frustrated that the United Nations has not helped her evacuate."We were expecting the entire UN system to help us. We were honestly expecting that," the woman said. "We are in danger. And if we cannot work, who is going to reach the people?"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/internal-un-document-says-taliban-threatened-beat-afghan-staff-looted-offices-101629942173300.html
26-08-2021||World||US says 1,500 Americans may be awaiting evacuation from Afghanistan||Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that as many as 1,500 Americans may be awaiting evacuation from Afghanistan, a figure that suggests the US may accomplish its highest priority for the Kabul airlift — rescuing US citizens — ahead of President Joe Biden’s Tuesday deadline.Untold thousands of at-risk Afghans, however, still are struggling to get into the Kabul airport, while many thousands of other Afghans already have been flown to safety in 12 days of round-the-clock flights.On Wednesday, several of the Americans working phones and pulling strings to get out former Afghan colleagues, women's advocates, journalists and other vulnerable Afghans said they have seen little concrete US action so far to get those Afghans past Taliban checkpoints and through US-controlled airport gates to promised evacuation flights.“It’s 100% up to the Afghans to take these risks and try to fight their way out,” said Sunil Varghese, policy director with the International Refugee Assistance Project.Blinken, echoing Biden's earlier declarations during the now 12-day-old evacuation, emphasized at a State Department briefing that “ evacuating Americans is our top priority. ”He added, “We’re also committed to getting out as many Afghans at-risk as we can before the 31st," when Biden plans to pull out the last of thousands of American troops.Blinken said the State Department estimates there were about 6,000 Americans wanting to leave Afghanistan when the airlift began Aug. 14, as the Taliban took the capital after a stunning military conquest. About 4,500 Americans have been evacuated so far, Blinken said, and among the rest “some are understandably very scared.”The 6,000 figure is the first firm estimate by the State Department of how many Americans were seeking to get out. US officials early in the evacuation estimated as many as 15,000, including dual citizens, lived in Afghanistan. The figure does not include US Green Card holders.About 500 Americans have been contacted with instructions on when and how to get to the chaotic Kabul airport to catch evacuation flights.In addition, 1,000 or perhaps fewer are being contacted to determine whether they still want to leave. Blinken said some of these may already have left the country, some may want to remain and some may not actually be American citizens.“We are providing opportunity," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said of those Afghans, who include dual Afghan-American citizens. "We are finding ways to get them to the airport and evacuate them, but it is also their personal decision on whether they want to depart.”On a lighter note, the US military said an Afghan baby girl born on a C-17 military aircraft during the massive evacuation will carry that experience with her. Her parents named her after the plane’s call sign: Reach.She was born Saturday, and members of the 86th Medical Group helped in her birth aboard the plane that had taken the family from Kabul to Ramstein Air Base in Germany.Two other babies whose parents were evacuating from Afghanistan have been born over the past week at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, the US military hospital in Germany.In Washington on Wednesday, Blinken emphasised that the US and other governments plan to continue assisting Afghans and Americans who want to leave after next Tuesday, the deadline for Biden's planned end to the evacuation and the two-decade US military role in Afghanistan. “That effort will continue, every day, past Aug. 31,” he said.Biden has cited what he US says are rising security threats to US forces, including from an affiliate of the Islamic State terror group, for his determination to stick with Tuesday's withdrawal deadline. Germany has said Western officials are particularly concerned that suicide bombers may slip into the crowds surrounding the airport. On Wednesday, the US Embassy in Kabul issued a security alert warning American citizens away from three specific airport gates, but gave no further explanation.The US Embassy has been evacuated; staff are operating from the Kabul airport and the last are to leave by Tuesday.Biden said this week he had asked his national security team for contingency plans in case he decides to extend the deadline. Taliban leaders who took control of Afghanistan this month say they will not tolerate any extensions to the Tuesday deadline. But Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted that “people with legal documents” will still be able to fly out via commercial flights after Tuesday.US troops are anchoring a multinational evacuation from the airport. The White House says the airlift overall has flown out 82,300 Afghans, Americans and others on a mix of US, international and private flights.The withdrawal comes under a 2020 deal negotiated by President Donald Trump with the Taliban.Refugee groups are describing a different picture than the Biden administration is when it comes to many Afghans: a disorganised, barely-there US evacuation effort that leaves the most desperate to risk beatings and death at Taliban checkpoints. Some Afghans are reported being turned away from the Kabul airport by American forces controlling the gates, despite having approval for flights.US military and diplomatic officials appear to still be compiling lists of eligible Afghans but have yet to disclose how many may be evacuated — and how — private Americans and American organisations said.“We still have 1,200 Afghans with visas that are outside the airport and haven’t got in,” said James Miervaldis with No One Left Behind, one of dozens of veterans groups working to get out Afghans who worked with the US military during America’s nearly 20 years of combat in the country.. “We’re waiting to hear from the US government and haven’t heard yet.”Marina LeGree of Ascend, a US-based nonprofit that worked to develop fitness and leadership in Afghan girls and young women, described getting calls from US officials telling the group’s interns and staffers to go to the airport for evacuation flights, only to have them turned away by American forces keeping gates closed against the throngs outside.One Afghan intern who went to the airport with her family saw a person killed in front of them, and a female colleague was burned by a caustic agent fired at the crowd, LeGree said.“It’s heartbreaking to see my government fail so badly,” said LeGree, the group’s American director, who is in Italy but in close contact with those in Kabul.US-based organisations, speaking on background to discuss sensitive matters, cite accounts from witnesses on the ground as saying some American citizens, and family members of Afghans with green cards, still were having trouble pushing and talking their way into the Kabul airport for flights.Kirby said the US military will preserve as much airlift capacity at the airport as possible in the coming days, ahead of Tuesday's deadline. The military will “continue to evacuate needed populations all the way to the end,” he said. But he added that in the final days and hours there will have to be a balance in getting out US troops and their equipment as well as evacuees.Maj. Gen. Hank Taylor, the deputy director of regional operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said US forces had conducted another helicopter mission beyond the perimeter of the airport to pick up people seeking to evacuate.The number of US troops at the airport has dropped by about 400 to 5,400, but the final withdrawal has not begun, Kirby said Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-1-500-americans-may-be-awaiting-evacuation-from-afghanistan-101629940689181.html
26-08-2021||World||Taliban solidify control around Kabul airport amid evacuations, US issues alert||The Pentagon, which is handling the evacuation operations of the United States from the Kabul airport in Afghanistan, said on Wednesday (local time) that the Taliban have now consolidated control around the Hamid Karzai International Airport in the Afghan capital. The US embassy in Kabul has also issued an alert to American citizens present outside the gates of the airport, asking them to leave immediately due to "security threats" outside."US citizens who are at the Abbey Gate, the East Gate, or the North Gate now should leave immediately," the security alert from the US embassy in Kabul said. "Because of security threats outside the gates of the Kabul airport, we are advising US citizens to avoid traveling to the airport and to avoid the airport gates at this time unless you receive individual instructions from a US govt representative to do so."Also Read | US says 1,500 Americans may be awaiting evacuation from AfghanistanNotably, the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul is the last remaining access point for the international community to reach out to people in the war-torn country, and also the only base fortified by US troops for the remaining large-scale evacuation operations. The Taliban, which swept across Afghanistan with a lightning-fast offensive in just two months, control most other regions.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters at a press conference on Wednesday that the Taliban have bolstered their own security at their checkpoints and have gotten involved in "crowd control"."Every day is a different day, and yesterday we estimated that crowds were about half the size they had been the previous days," Kirby said at the press briefing. "We still haven't seen them rise to the level they were in the early days of this. But yes, part of the reason is, certainly that the Taliban have strengthened their measures of access and control around the field."Also Read | Afghanistan situation: All-party meet today, Jaishankar to brief floor leadersKirby said that the US is only responsible for managing the Kabul airport till August 31, the deadline set by President Joe Biden for completion of the evacuation operations from Afghanistan. The US embassy is currently running from the airport compound, he said, adding that the Taliban are in control of Afghanistan and will have to manage the airport on their own.“I won't speak for their intentions one way or another going forward, but there's not going to be when the mission is over and when we are leaving the airport, the airport will not be the US' responsibility anymore," Kirby said. "How it gets managed going forward will be something that the Taliban...will have to manage on their own with -- and I assume with, you know, with the international community. But that won't be an American responsibility.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-solidify-control-around-kabul-airport-amid-evacuations-us-issues-alert-101629939864432.html
26-08-2021||World||Blue Origin to launch New Shepard spacecraft carrying lunar landing technology today||Jeff Bezos’ space flight company Blue Origin is all set to launch its New Shepard (NS) spacecraft on Thursday from West Texas. The spacecraft will fly a NASA lunar landing technology demonstration on the exterior of the booster, and commercial and NASA-supported payloads inside the crew capsule, the company said in a statement.“This will be the 4th flight for the New Shepard program this year and the 8th flight for this particular vehicle, which is dedicated to flying scientific and research payloads to space and back,” Blue Origin said in a statement on August 23.#NewShepard NS-17 is go for launch tomorrow at 8:35 AM CDT / 13:35 UTC with the second flight of @NASA's lunar landing technology demonstration on board. Live webcast starts at T-30 mins on https://t.co/7Y4TherpLr pic.twitter.com/hRTUojHsR4The New Shepard spacecraft had flown Jeff Bezos, his brother Mark, Wally Funk, and a fourth passenger to space in July. Till date, the spacecraft has flown more than 100 payloads to space across 11 flights. New Shepard is a 60-foot-tall and fully autonomous rocket-and-capsule combo that cannot be piloted from inside the spacecraft. The launch will be webcasted live on the company’s website.Also Read: Jeff Bezos thanks Amazon workers for 'paying' for his space trip, sparks backlash on social mediaThe NS-17 flight, which was flown for the first time in October, 2020, is all set to test further a suite of lunar landing technologies to reduce risk and increase confidence for successful missions to the Moon in its latest spaceflight, this is the second mission of its kind. “The technologies could allow future missions—both crewed and robotic—to target landing sites that weren’t possible during the Apollo missions, such as regions with varied terrain near craters,” said Blue Origins.For the first time the NS-17 will also feature the Suborbital Tryptych, which is a series of three portraits by Ghanaian artist Amoako Boafo painted on the top of the crew capsule on the main chute covers. The portraits capture the artist, his mother, and a friend’s mother. Boafo’s artwork is a part of Uplift Aerospace’s Uplift Art Program which seeks to make space more accessible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blue-origin-to-launch-new-shepard-spacecraft-carrying-lunar-landing-technology-today-101629939872677.html
26-08-2021||World||'Profound abuse': US judge penalises pro-Trump lawyers over election lawsuit||Nine lawyers allied with former President Donald Trump face financial penalties and other sanctions after a judge said they had abused the court system with a lawsuit that challenged Michigan's election results in favour of Joe Biden.US district judge Linda Parker on Wednesday said the lawsuit last fall was a sham intended to deceive the court and the public, just a few days after Biden's 154,000-vote victory in the state was certified.“Despite the haze of confusion, commotion and chaos counsel intentionally attempted to create by filing this lawsuit, one thing is perfectly clear: Plaintiffs' attorneys have scorned their oath, flouted the rules, and attempted to undermine the integrity of the judiciary along the way,” Parker said in the opening of a scathing 110-page opinion.The lawsuit was filed on behalf of six Republican voters who wanted Parker to decertify Michigan's results and impound voting machines. The judge declined in December, calling the request “stunning in its scope and breathtaking in its reach”.The state and Detroit subsequently asked Parker to order sanctions against Sidney Powell, L Lin Wood, and seven other attorneys who were part of the litigation.The judge agreed, telling the state and city to tally the costs of defending the lawsuit and submit the figures within 14 days.Parker said lawyers for Trump supporters filed affidavits stuffed with sinister “speculation and conjecture” about the vote-counting process without checking for evidence to support the claims.“Individuals may have a right — within certain bounds — to disseminate allegations of fraud unsupported by law or fact in the public sphere," the judge said. "But attorneys cannot exploit their privilege and access to the judicial process to do the same.”Parker ordered 12 hours of legal education, including six hours in election law, for each attorney. Her decision will also be sent to the states where the lawyers are licensed for possible disciplinary action there.It was one of the few efforts to wrench fines or other penalties from dubious post-election lawsuits across the US. There was no immediate response to messages seeking comment from attorneys for Wood and Powell.“I appreciate the unmistakable message she sends with this ruling — those who vow to uphold the Constitution must answer for abandoning that oath,” said Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel, a Democrat.There is no evidence of widespread fraud in the 2020 election. Indeed, election officials from both political parties have stated publicly that the election went well, and international observers confirmed there were no serious irregularities.During a July court hearing, Powell took “full responsibility” for the lawsuit and compared the legal fight to the 1954 US Supreme Court decision that outlawed racial segregation in schools.“It is the duty of lawyers and the highest tradition of the practice of law to raise difficult and even unpopular issues,” Powell told the judge, adding that efforts to impose sanctions would diminish the public's view of the court system.Wood's name was on the lawsuit, but he insisted he had no role other than to tell Powell that he would be available if she needed a seasoned litigator.In New York, Rudy Giuliani was suspended from practising law because he made false statements while trying to get courts to overturn Trump's election loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/profound-abuse-us-judge-penalises-pro-trump-lawyers-over-election-lawsuit-101629938881796.html
26-08-2021||World||China revises blue alert for rain in southwest region||China has renewed a blue alert in the wake of extensive rainfall forecast in some provinces in the southwest region. China's National Meteorological Center has forecast heavy rainfall in at least seven of its provinces.The blue alert was renewed at 8pm on Wednesday, and will remain in force till 8pm on Thursday.China has a four-tier colour-coded weather warning system, with red representing the most severe warning, followed by orange, yellow and blue.According to the weather department, downpours are expected in parts of Sichuan, Chongqing, Guizhou, Hubei, Shaanxi, Henan, Yunnan. Tibet and Inner Mongolia are also expected to receive heavy rainfall.Some of these areas are likely to encounter over 60 mm of hourly precipitation accompanied by thunderstorms and gales, the weather department said. In fact, parts of Chongqing Municipality will see up to 150 mm of rainfall, it added.China has advices local authorities in these provinces to prepare for rainstorms, suggested schools and kindergartens take appropriate measures to ensure the safety of children, and reminded drivers to watch out for road waterlogging and traffic jams.Torrential rains caused landslides, knocked out power and damaged houses in central China last week. The downpour prompted authorities to close tunnels and some bridges in Zhengzhou, a major city in Henan province.About 25 highways were closed in Henan, Shaanxi and Sichuan in the southwest, state TV reported.More than 300 people were killed by flooding in Henan in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-revises-blue-alert-for-rain-in-southwest-region-101629937911138.html
26-08-2021||World||US to work with Big Tech, finance sector on new cybersecurity guidelines||The US government on Wednesday said it would work with industry to hammer out new guidelines to improve the security of the technology supply chain, as President Joe Biden appealed to private sector executives to "raise the bar on cybersecurity."At White House meetings with Biden and members of his Cabinet, executives from Big Tech, the finance industry and infrastructure companies said they would do more about the growing threat of cyber attacks to the US economy.“The federal government can't meet this challenge alone,” Biden told the masked executives in the East Room, telling them, "You have the power, the capacity and the responsibility, I believe, to raise the bar on cybersecurity."After the meeting, the White House said the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) would work with industry and other partners on new guidelines for building secure technology and assessing the security of technology, including open source software.Microsoft, Google, Travelers, and Coalition, a cyber insurance provider, among others, committed to participating in the new NIST-led initiative.Cybersecurity has risen to the top of the agenda for the Biden administration after a series of high-profile attacks on network management company SolarWinds Corp, the Colonial Pipeline company, meat processing company JBS and software firm Kaseya. The attacks hurt the United States far beyond just the companies hacked, affecting fuel and food supplies."We have a lot of work to do," Biden said, citing both ransomware attacks and his push to get Russian President Vladimir Putin to hold Russian-based cyber gangs responsible, and the need to fill nearly half a million public and private cybersecurity jobs.The guest list included Amazon.com Inc CEO Andy Jassy, Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, Google's parent Alphabet Inc CEO Sundar Pichai and IBM Chief Executive Arvind Krishna.After the meeting, Amazon said it would make its cybersecurity training available to the public for free, and it would give multi-factor authentication devices to some cloud computing customers, starting in October.Microsoft said it will invest $20 billion over five years, a four-fold increase from current rates, to speed up its cyber security work, and make available $150 million in technical services to help federal, state and local governments to help keep their security systems up to date.IBM said it will train more than 150,000 people in cybersecurity skills over three years and will partner with historically black colleges and universities to create a more diverse cyber workforce.Google said it was devoting $10 billion to cybersecurity over the next five years, but it was not immediately clear what if any of the figure represented new spending. It also said it would help 100,000 Americans earn industry-recognized digital skills certificates that could lead to high-paying jobs.Vishaal Hariprasad, CEO of Resilience Cyber Insurance Solutions, told Reuters his company would work with the government on setting clear standards for cybersecurity, and would require policy holders to meet those standards."So, if a company is willing to adhere to the minimum standards, they'll have insurance, and if not, they'll have to identify those gaps so they can get to that baseline," he said."It's not just about getting our companies safer, but also ensuring that we're doing something to address the bad guys."Congress is weighing legislation on data breach notification laws and cybersecurity insurance industry regulation, historically viewed as two of the most consequential policy areas within the field.Executives for energy utility firm Southern Co and JPMorgan Chase & Co also attended the event.The event featured top cybersecurity officials from the Biden administration, including National Cybersecurity Director Chris Inglis and Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-work-with-big-tech-finance-sector-on-new-cybersecurity-guidelines-101629930360726.html
26-08-2021||World||World Bank freezes aid; UN alleges staff beaten||The World Bank has paused disbursements to its projects in Afghanistan, citing concerns about the Taliban government’s impact on development prospects, particularly for women.“We are closely monitoring and assessing the situation in line with our internal policies and procedures,” a spokesperson for the Washington-based lender said in an email on Tuesday. “We will continue to consult closely with the international community and development partners. With our partners, we are exploring ways we can remain engaged to preserve hard-won development gains and continue to support the people of Afghanistan.”The World Bank has committed more than $5.3 billion to development projects in the nation since April 2002. As of February, it had 12 active projects belonging solely to the International Development Association (IDA) for the planet’s poorest nations, with $940 million in commitments.The bank had another 15 projects jointly with the donor-funded Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund that the bank administers, with nearly $1.2 billion in IDA funds committed. The fund has raised almost $12.9 billion from 34 donors, making it the largest contributor to Afghanistan’s budget, the World Bank had said in April.The World Bank told staff in an internal memo on Friday that its Kabul-based staff and their families had been safely relocated to Islamabad in Pakistan.The lender’s pause on disbursements is the latest setback for a new regime in Afghanistan that’s starved for cash after the US froze access to over $9 billion in assets. The International Monetary Fund said last week the regime is cut off from using fund reserve assets days before the nation was set to receive almost $500 million allocated to other countries on Monday.Concerns over UN’s claim of threat and assaultThe Taliban stopped an Afghan United Nations staff member as he tried to reach Kabul airport on Sunday. They searched his vehicle and found his UN identification. Then they beat him.On Monday, three unknown men visited the home of another UN staff member who was at work at the time. They asked his son where his father was, and accused him of lying - “We know his location and what he does.”The incidents are among dozens contained in an internal UN security document seen by Reuters that describes veiled threats, the looting of UN offices and physical abuse of staff since August 10, shortly before the Taliban swept to power.While the Islamist militant movement has sought to reassure Afghan nationals and western powers that they will respect people’s rights, reports of reprisals have undermined confidence, not least among those associated with foreign organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-bank-freezes-aid-un-alleges-staff-beaten-101629930143625.html
26-08-2021||World||Race to flee Taliban picks up pace||Afghans on Wednesday faced an increasingly desperate race to escape life under the Taliban after US President Joe Biden confirmed that evacuations will end next week. Over 80,000 people have been evacuated since August 14, but huge crowds remain outside Kabul airport hoping to flee the threat of repression in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan.Biden said on Tuesday the US would stick to his August 31 deadline to completely withdraw its troops despite warnings from European allies that not all vulnerable Afghans would be able to leave by then. His worry about staying beyond the deadline is the risk of a terror attack. “The longer we stay, starting with the acutely growing risk of an attack by a terrorist group known as ISIS-K, which is an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan,” Biden said.Afghans can leave after August 31, says GermanyThe Taliban will continue to allow Afghans who have the right documents to leave Afghanistan after August 31, Germany’s ambassador to Afghanistan said. Markus Potzel tweeted he met with Taliban deputy chief negotiator Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, who “assured that Afghans with legal documents will continue to have the opportunity to travel on flights after August 31”.The Afghan capital’s airport has been gripped by chaos as US-led troops try to maintain a secure perimeter for evacuation flights, surrounded by Afghans.The US said it will prioritise the removal of its troops on the last couple of days, the Pentagon said. There are about 5,400 troops at the airport, a number that Biden says will go down to zero by the end of the month.Two US congressmen have revealed they violated official orders to travel to Kabul during the chaotic airlift. The revelation by Democratic congressman Seth Moulton and his Republican colleague Peter Meijer prompted criticism from the Democratic leader of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday.Xi and Putin unite in bid to handle aftermathChina and Russia on Wednesday projected a united front on the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan with the top leadership of the two countries pledging to enhance cooperation on handling the aftermath. In a call to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated China’s position of non-interference and respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty.According to official media reports, Putin told Xi that he shares China’s positions and interests in Afghanistan and is willing to work together to “prevent foreign forces from interfering and destroying” Afghanistan.China on Wednesday said it has an “effective” communication channel with the Taliban following a meeting between representatives of the group and the Chinese ambassador to Kabul on Tuesday.Abdul Salam Hanafi, the deputy head of the Taliban’s political office in Qatar, met Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan Wang Yu in the Afghan capital on Tuesday.With inputs from Sutirtho Patranobis and Yashwant R||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/race-to-flee-taliban-picks-up-pace-101629929945727.html
