29-08-2021||World||Committed to safe passage of citizens, Afghan allies, say US and other nations||As many as 98 countries, including the United States, said on Sunday they would continue to issue travel documents to all those people who are trying to leave Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban.In a joint statement, they further said the countries had received assurances from the Islamic outfit that all foreign nationals and any Afghan citizen with travel authorisation would be allowed safe passage outside the country.“We are all committed to ensuring that our citizens, nationals and residents, employees, Afghans who have worked with us and those who are at risk can continue to travel freely to destinations outside Afghanistan,” read the joint statement released by the US Department of State.Also read | France, UK to propose safe zone for people leaving Afghanistan: Emmanuel Macron“We will continue issuing travel documentation to designated Afghans, and we have the clear expectation of and commitment from the Taliban that they can travel to our respective countries. We note the public statements of the Taliban confirming this understanding,” it further said.However, there was no mention of any action if the Taliban would go back on their assurance.The statement came in the wake of the hurried evacuation operation undertaken by many countries in Afghanistan is nearing a set deadline of August 31. Several nations have either halted their efforts or have completed the evacuations process, with the UK being the latest to completely pull out its troops, even as many eligible Afghans were left behind in Kabul.Also, the Taliban had previously assured that Afghans with legal travel documents would be allowed to leave the country. On Friday, senior German diplomat Markus Potzel tweeted “Director Stanekzai assured me that Afghans with legal documents will continue to have the opportunity to travel on commercial flights after 31 August.” Potzel is currently part of the negotiations with the Taliban in Doha.“We have received assurances from the Taliban that all foreign nationals and any Afghan citizen with travel authorization from our countries will be allowed to proceed in a safe and orderly manner to points of departure and travel outside the country,” the joint statement showed. “France, Germany and Turkey were among the key US allies that were among the 98 countries, while regional players like India, Pakistan, China and Russia were not there.US special representative Zalmay Khalilzad had also said the Taliban would allow free travel of Afghans out of their country. “We, our allies, and the international community will hold them to these commitments,” he tweeted on Saturday.Approximately 250 US citizens still remain in Afghanistan and are trying to leave the country, news agency PTI reported citing an US official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-safe-passage-of-citizens-afghan-allies-say-us-and-other-nations-101630256918219.html
29-08-2021||World||From music to women's education in Afghanistan: What Taliban said so far||Artistes and women feared the advent of the Taliban in Afghanistan the most when the group was defeating the Afghan army one province at a time. After the fall of Kabul on August 15, the country witnessed a humanitarian crisis with thousands of Afghans attempting to flee the country. As the foreign troops are now leaving the country and the Taliban are set to announce a new government, which might have representation from many ethnic groups of the country, the Taliban are spelling out some of the terms and conditions of the possible rule, which will be guided by Sharia law, Taliban spokespersons have already said.Women's rightsIn its latest announcement, the Taliban have said that women will be allowed to study at university but there will be no co-education, Abdul Baqi Haqqani, the Taliban's acting minister for higher education said at a meeting with elders, known as a loya jirga, on Sunday. In schools too, there will be no co-education. Some reports said men will not be allowed to teach women which effectively will deprive women of higher education.Early this week, the Taliban asked all women healthcare workers to return to work, days after a Taliban spokesperson said women should stay at home as Taliban fighters at present are not yet trained to respect women.Music ban: No female voice on television, radio?During the earlier rule of the Taliban, music was banned as the group claims that music is forbidden in Islam. A ban on music will be imposed this time too, as the group is looking to rule according to Sharia law, the Taliban said. Reports said the Taliban have banned female voices on television and radio channels only in Kandahar.What will happen to singers, filmmakers?The Taliban have said that singers and filmmakers will have to switch their profession if it's assessed against the Shariah.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-music-to-women-s-education-in-afghanistan-what-taliban-said-so-far-101630257015180.html
29-08-2021||World||Women allowed to attend university under Taliban rule: Report||Afghan women will be allowed to study at university but there would be a ban on mixed classes under their rule, the Taliban's acting higher education minister said on Sunday.The hardline Islamist group that stormed to power in mid-August after ousting the Western-back government have vowed to rule differently compared to their 1990s stint when girls and women were banned from education."The... people of Afghanistan will continue their higher education in the light of Sharia law in safety without being in a mixed male and female environment," Abdul Baqi Haqqani, the Taliban's acting minister for higher education said at a meeting with elders, known as a loya jirga, on Sunday.He said the Taliban want to "create a reasonable and Islamic curriculum that is in line with our Islamic, national and historical values and, on the other hand, be able to compete with other countries".Girls and boys will also be segregated at primary and secondary schools, which was already common throughout deeply conservative Afghanistan.The group have pledged to respect progress made in women's rights, but only according to their strict interpretation of Islamic law.Whether women can work, get education at all levels and be able to mix with men have been some of the most pressing questions.But the Taliban rebranding is being treated with scepticism, with many questioning whether the group will stick to its pledges.No women were present at the meeting in Kabul on Sunday, which included other senior Taliban officials."The Taliban's ministry of higher education consulted only male teachers and students on resuming the function of universities," said a lecturer, who worked at a city university during the last government.She said that showed "the systematic prevention of women's participation in decision making" and "a gap between the Taliban's commitments and actions".University admission rates have risen over the past 20 years, particularly among women who have studied side by side with men and attended seminars with male professors.But a spate of attacks on education centres in recent months, killing dozens, had caused panic.The Taliban denied being behind the attacks, some of which were claimed by the local chapter of the Islamic State group.During their previous brutal rule, the Taliban excluded women from public life, entertainment was banned and brutal punishments were imposed -- such as stoning to death for adultery.The Taliban have yet to announce their government, saying they would wait until after the departure of US and foreign forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-allowed-to-attend-university-under-taliban-rule-report-101630253307226.html
29-08-2021||World||A blast in Kabul; US drone attack: What happened in Afghanistan capital today||A massive explosion was heard in Kabul on Sunday evening which was followed by a thick cloud of smoke rising out of a residential area of the Capital. Soon after the United States said it carried out an airstrike on a specific target in Kabul. Contradictory reports regarding the casualty of what happened on Sunday emerged.Here is what happened in Kabul today1. Afghan police chief said a rocket struck a residential area near Kabul airport which killed a child.2. The area where the strike took place is a congested residential area. Videos show many houses surrounding the place from where the smoke is rising.3. The United States claimed it carried out an airstrike in Kabul as it had intel about IS suicide attackers moving in Kabul4. The Taliban too confirmed the US airstrike and said that the airstrike was targeted at suspected ISIS-K terrorists.Watch: USA's 2nd drone strike in 2 days in Afghanistan, now 'ISIS suicide bomber' killed5. The US said it has been successful in its strike as the target is believed to be eliminated. It is not clear whether there was only one target or many suicide bombers.6. The US also confirmed that there was no civilian among the casualty, according to primary reports.7. US officials said that many suicide attackers were moving towards Kabul airport on Sunday, probably to target US forces who are leaving the country.8. The US described the strike as a "self-defence unmanned over-the-horizon airstrike".9. The US airstrike resulted in multiple explosions which indicates that the vehicle they targeted contained a substantial amount of explosive material.10. Are the US airstrike and the explosion in Kabul the same incident? Information about both the incidents remained scarce and there has been no official confirmation in this regard from any side.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-blast-in-kabul-us-drone-attack-what-happened-in-afghanistan-capital-today-101630251723898.html
29-08-2021||World||‘No existence of Taliban here’, says Bangladesh home minister Khan||The Bangladesh government on Sunday said that there is no existence of the Taliban in the nation, dismissing speculations that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will encourage terror activities in the country. Bangladesh home minister Asaduzzaman Khan said there are no threats from the smaller outfits present in Bangladesh as they will not be able to create chaos.His comments come after Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) commissioner Md Shafiqul Islam said the victory of the Taliban in Afghanistan would lead to a new wave of militancy in the sub-continent, including in Bangladesh, news agency PTI reporting citing media outlet Dhaka Tribune. “Bangladesh is a country of peace. Taliban have come to power in Afghanistan and Kabul is located far from Bangladesh. It has no effect in Bangladesh. There are many small notorious groups in the country. But they have no capacity to create chaos,” Kamal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He was speaking to media persons after the inauguration of a supermarket in Savar.“Some miscreants are appearing in different names to create anarchy in the country,” he added. The Bangladesh government has repeatedly denied the existence of any foreign terrorist groups in the country.Experts warn about terrorist groups in BangladeshSecurity experts expressed concern that groups like Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), which was founded by Afghan war veterans, could grow in strength following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Gautam Mukhopadhyay of the Centre for Policy Research (CPR) who is also the former Indian ambassador to Afghanistan told news agency PTI that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will have a ripple effect in the region.“If the Taliban takes over Afghanistan, we will see its ripple effects all over… they believe in an Islamic Emirate which by its nature is international. We foresee a rise in extremism not only among radicals in Bangladesh but also among Rohingyas,” Mukhopadhyay was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-existence-of-taliban-here-says-bangladesh-home-minister-khan-101630252280652.html
29-08-2021||World||'Went into hiding, lost relatives': How Afghan soldier's life changed in 15 days||It has been 15 days since hardline Islamists of the Taliban captured war-torn Afghanistan, gripping the lives of Afghan people with fear, terror and uncertainty. Among those, is a 25-year-old Afghan National Army (ANA) officer trained in Dehradun-based Indian Military Academy (IMA) who witnessed tragic changes in his life in the fortnight.The officer, who was once a proud army officer serving his country, had to hide his uniform to save himself from the Taliban’s death threat on August 15 when it captured Kabul in an overrun of the country.Hiding in an undisclosed location a few kilometres away from Kabul, he was “already broken from inside due to the death of his army” when on Thursday he further sank into deep sorrow after getting to know that three of his relatives lost their lives in the bomb blast outside Kabul airport on Thursday evening in which at least 180 have died so far.“Its all pain and agony now”The officer shared his sorrow with HT over an instant messaging application from an undisclosed location saying, “It’s all pain and agony in the country now. There is no smile on anyone’s face. Common people are gripped in fear and uncertainty with many already surrendering their fate to God under Taliban rule.”The officer whose identity cannot be disclosed due to security reasons, added, “After being forced to hide my uniform after the collapse of our army, I was still under a shock trying to cope with it while in hiding. And then I got to know the unfortunate news about the death of one of my cousin brothers and his two sons in the powerful suicide blast near Kabul airport on Thursday evening.”Also read: How a US veteran managed to get his visa-less wife out of Afghanistan“It was as if the pain and agony were not enough, that Allah decided me to put through another test through this tragedy. I was feeling so helpless on the news shared to me by my family over the phone that I can’t describe it in words. What was their fault who were just trying to escape this tyranny of the Taliban for a better future? His two sons, aged 7 and 9 years, were too young to depart this world. Their faces still come before me when I close my eyes,” said the officer.“All in vain”Emotionally exhausted, the officer also shared his pain of seeing the “sacrifices of his colleagues in the army going in vain.”“For 20 years we fought the Taliban in an effort to give a future free of fear and terror to the new generation. I know many of my friends in the army who went to the battlefield against the Taliban five days after getting married. They never got to see the face of their brides as they returned draped in the national flag which is now removed from all over the country by the Taliban,” he said.The officer added, “In the months before the collapse on August 15, many of us fought with only one meal a day instead of three. Many of us were also not getting the salaries on time but we never complained because we were fighting for our country. But all these sacrifices went in vain because we were sold out by the politicians and top commanders.”“But... little joys”The ANA officer whose childhood was spent during the rule of the Taliban from 1996-2001, also shared some joyous moments.“Amongst all this sad news, my younger sister made me happy by informing me that she had passed the entrance examination at Kabul University. Though we don’t know what this result will mean now but for the moment we are happy as we are gradually learning to find little joys amid the air of fear, death and despair,” said the officer, adding “there’s always hope for us as we Afghans are the most resilient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/25yearold-afghan-army-soldier-describes-his-ordeal-ever-since-taliban-s-return-101630247681557.html
29-08-2021||World||France, UK to propose safe zone for people leaving Afghanistan, submit resolution at UN meeting: Emmanuel Macron||Ahead of an emergency meeting by the United Nations on Monday, French President Emmanuel Macron said that France and Britain would propose for a safe zone in Kabul to protect people trying to flee Afghanistan.“Our resolution proposal aims to define a safe zone in Kabul, under UN control, which would allow humanitarian operations to continue,” news agency Reuters quoted Macron as saying on Sunday. During his visit to Mosul in Iraq later in the day, Macron stressed the resolution would be passed by the two countries and expressed hope that it would be accepted by member nations favourably. “I cannot see who could oppose enabling the safety of humanitarian operations,” he further said.Also read | Blast outside Kabul airport; rocket targeted residential building: ReportsUN secretary-general Antonio Guterres is scheduled to meet the permanent representatives for the United Kingdom, the United States, France, China and Russia — the five permanent members of the UN Security Council — to discuss the worsening situation in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, earlier on Saturday, Macron had said that France had held preliminary discussions with the Taliban about the humanitarian situation. The talks also included possible evacuation of more people out of the country.“We have begun having discussions, which are very fragile and preliminary, with the Taliban on the issue of humanitarian operations and the ability to protect and repatriate Afghans who are at risk,” Reuters had reported on Saturday citing the French President.France ended its evacuation operations in Afghanistan on Friday, two weeks after the Taliban seized the capital city of Kabul. The US troops are scheduled to withdraw completely from the country by August 31, a deadline that has been agreed upon by the Taliban.Several other countries have also closed their evacuation operations as the last date nears. The UK pulled out the last of its troops from the war-torn nation early on Sunday despite a number of Afghans, eligible for repatriation, being left behind.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-uk-to-propose-safe-zone-for-people-leaving-afghanistan-submit-resolution-at-un-meeting-emmanuel-macron-101630245589789.html
29-08-2021||World||'Multiple suicide bombers were heading to airport': US on Kabul airstrike||The United States has carried out a military strike in Kabul, two US officials told Reuters after a massive blast was reported from a residential area in the vicinity of the Kabul airport on Sunday. Reports said a child was killed in the rocket attack. The US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the strike targeted suspected ISIS-K militants. These are just initial information and could change as more information pour in, the official told Reuters."The incident happened as police said a rocket struck a neighbourhood just northwest of Kabul's international airport Sunday as the US evacuation there winds down following the Taliban's lightning takeover of the country, killing a child. The two strikes initially appeared to be separate incidents, though information on both remained scarce," the Associated Press reported.Regarding Saturday's strike, while many reports claimed that a child was killed in the strike, US military officials confirmed that there was no civilian death. "Significant secondary explosions from the vehicle indicated the presence of a substantial amount of explosive material," a US military official said.A Taliban spokesperson said the US military airstrike targetted a suicide bomber who was in a vehicle, attempting to target the Kabul international airport amid the American evacuation.The airstrike comes a day after the Pentagon claimed to have killed two ISIS men in an airstrike in Jalajabad, in a retaliatory attack of the ISIS-K's suicide bomb attack near Kabul airport n August 26 that killed over 180 people.As the foreign forces are being withdrawn from Kabul, the city has emerged as the stage of military blitzkrieg. While the Pentagon hinted that it might carry out a similar strike in the future, without revealing any details, the US government sounded terror alert for the next 24-36 hours.The Taliban had condemned the United States' Jalalabad strike and said the US should have informed the Taliban before the attack as it was a strike on the soil of Afghanistan. The Pentagon on Saturday said it continues to have the capability to defend itself in Afghanistan as long as the process of the withdrawal of the troops continues.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-it-carried-out-strike-in-kabul-after-rocket-hits-residential-area-101630244652275.html
29-08-2021||World||Blast outside Kabul airport again amid security alert; rocket targeted residential building: Reports||A huge explosion was reported from a highly congested residential area near Kabul airport on Sunday, killing a child, reports said. The attack comes a day after the United States killed two ISIS-K men in an airstrike as a 'retaliation' of the deadly blast near Kabul airport of August 26 that killed over 180 and injuring several people, including US, UK and Afghan nationals. This comes hours after US President Joe Biden said that US military commanders have intelligence inputs of another terrorist attack at the Hamid Karzai International Airport within the next 24 to 36 hours. Reports said Sunday's blast was heard from the Gulai area of Khajeh Baghra in the 11th security district. Unconfirmed reports also claimed that the blast might have been caused by a rocket hitting a residential house in the area.Photos and videos of large plumes of smoke rising from a heavily congested residential area surfaced on social media soon after the blast took place. Initial reports indicate that Sunday's blast was characteristically different from Thursday's blast. Thursday's blast was carried out by a suicide attacker who targeted the crowd outside the Kabul airport, while Sunday's attack, reportedly an airstrike might not have the airport as its target -- the rocket hit a residential area near the airport.JUST IN - Explosion rocks #Kabul. The blast hit a residential building west of the airport. Cause unclear.pic.twitter.com/vzh7T651KMJust after the blast, the United States said it carried out an airstrike in Kabul, which the Taliban too confirmed and said that the target was one ISIS-K suicide bomber who was on a vehicle, attempting to strike an attack in the airport. "The incident (US airstrike) happened as police said a rocket struck a neighbourhood just northwest of Kabul's international airport Sunday as the US evacuation there winds down following the Taliban's lightning takeover of the country, killing a child. The two strikes initially appeared to be separate incidents, though information on both remained scarce," the Associated Press reported.The rocket attack comes just after the US airstrike in Jalalabad in which two ISIS-K men -- including a planner and a facilitator-- was killed. "Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours. I directed them to take every possible measure to prioritise force protection, and ensured that they have all the authorities, resources and plans to protect our men and women on the ground," Biden said in his statement.The US embassy too issued a security alert urging all US citizens in the vicinity of the Kabul airport should leave the area.Ground of attack-retaliatory attackBefore August 26's airport blasts, the Taliban had anticipated an ISIS attack in Afghanistan and they reportedly alerted foreign forces carrying out evacuation operations in the country. After the airport attack, the United States carried out a 'retaliatory' attack and dropped hints that more such operations can take place in Afghanistan as long as the country is in the process of withdrawing its troops. The Taliban condemned the US airstrike and said the US should have informed the Taliban about it as it is an attack on Afghanitan's territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-heard-outside-kabul-airport-amid-security-threat-101630241728392.html
29-08-2021||World||Amid anti-Taliban uprising, Taliban kill Afghan folk singer with whom they had tea before: Report||As anti-Taliban forces are putting up resistance in Afghanistan's Panjshir province, reports said a Taliban fighter shot an Afghan folk singer Fawad Andarabi dead in Baghlan province, where the anti-Taliban forces are strong and have reportedly taken some areas under their control.Fawad Andarabi's son Jawad Andarabi told the Associated Press that this was not the first time that the Taliban came to their house. The Taliban previously came out to Andarabi's home and searched it, even drinking tea with the musician, his son Jawad Andarabi told The Associated Press. The singer was shot in the head on the farm.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told the AP that the insurgents would investigate the incident, but had no other details on the killing.“There is mounting evidence that the Taliban of 2021 is the same as the intolerant, violent, repressive Taliban of 2001. 20 years later. Nothing has changed on that front," Agnes Callamard, the secretary-general of Amnesty International tweeted reacting to the report of the killing.The report of Fawad Andarabi's killing comes amid global apprehension that the Taliban rule in Afghanistan would provide a fillip to jihadist activities. After ISIS-K perpetrated a deadly blast near Kabul airport on August 26, the United States carried out an airstrike killing two ISIS-K men.Taliban and musicDuring the previous rule of the Taliban, music was banned in Afghanistan as the Taliban claim that music is forbidden in Islam. Fawad Andarabi was a folk singer who used to sing praises of Afghanistan and most of his songs were about Afghanistan and its people. As disclosed by Andarabi's son, the Taliban apparently did not have much 'ill-feeling' about Andarabi as some leaders of the group had visited the singer's house earlier(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-anti-taliban-uprising-taliban-kill-afghan-folk-singer-with-whom-they-had-tea-before-report-101630240122776.html
29-08-2021||World||Turkish Airlines staff help Afghan woman deliver girl child on evacuation flight||A baby girl was born at 30,000 feet on an evacuation flight from Afghanistan which landed in the UK on Saturday, news agency Associated Press reported quoting Turkish media. Turkish Airlines staff helped 26-year-old woman Soman Noori give birth to a girl child. She and her husband were evacuated from Kabul to Dubai and were on a flight to Birmingham.Soman’s labour pains began shortly after the flight took off on Friday night. The flight landed in Kuwait as a precautionary measure, and the mother and child were deemed healthy enough to fly to the UK. The baby girl was named Havva, which translates to Eve in English.On August 26, another Afghan girl was born on a US military plane to parents who were fleeing Afghanistan. The girl, who was named Reach, was born after her mother went into labour while being flown to an American military base in Germany.Several Afghans continue to find their way out of the nation, fearing a regressive regime under the Taliban. Parents were seen in viral videos hurling their children over the Hamid Karzai International Airport’s barbed wire fence last week in a bid to evacuate them from Afghanistan fearing the Taliban takeover.Taliban takes control of Kabul airport gatesAs nations struggle to evacuate citizens out of Kabul in the aftermath of the double bomb blasts near the airport, the Taliban said that it now controls three gates at Kabul’s airport which were earlier with the US forces, news agency Bloomberg reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkish-airlines-staff-help-afghan-woman-deliver-girl-child-on-evacuation-flight-101630234268640.html
29-08-2021||World||Want to continue our political, trade ties with India: Taliban leader Stanekzai||Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai has said the group wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India, the first time a member of the Taliban’s top hierarchy has spoken on the issue since the takeover of Kabul. In a nearly 46-minute video posted on the Taliban’s social media platforms on Saturday, Stanekzai spoke extensively in Pashto on the end of the war in Afghanistan and the Taliban’s plans for forming an Islamic administration based on Shariah. He also spoke about the Taliban’s views on relations with key countries in the region, including India, Pakistan, China and Russia. Since the Taliban assumed power in Kabul after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on August 15, the group’s spokesmen Suhail Shaheen and Zabiullah Mujahid have spoken to the Pakistani media about the group’s views on relations with India. However, Stanekzai is the first senior leader to make a statement on relations with other countries. “India is very important for this subcontinent. We want to continue our cultural, economic and trade ties with India like in the past,” Stanekzai said. “Trade with India through Pakistan is very important for us. With India, trade through air corridors will also remain open,” he said, outlining the Taliban’s plans for trade in the region. However, he didn’t say whether trade via India should be two-way. Pakistan has allowed Afghan traders to ship their goods to India through its territory but has never permitted Indian goods to be transported via Pakistani soil to Afghanistan. “We give due importance to our political, economic and trade ties with India and we want these ties to continue. We are looking forward to working with India in this regard,” Stanekzai added. While speaking about Afghanistan’s relations with Turkmenistan, Stanekzai mentioned the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas pipeline project and said the Taliban would work to address the problems holding up the venture once a government is formed. Stanekzai also referred to the Chabahar port developed by India while speaking about relations with Iran and highlighted its importance for trade. He also spoke about relations with China, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Pakistan and Russia. He thanked Pakistan for hosting millions of Afghan refugees and said Afghanistan wants to have brotherly relations with Pakistan. As reported by Hindustan Times, Stanekzai had informally reached out to the Indian side after the Taliban took over Afghanistan and made a surprise request for New Delhi to retain its diplomatic presence in Kabul. He had also referred to reports that fighters from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) were in Kabul and deployed at check posts on routes to the airport, and contended that all check posts, including those at the airport, were firmly in the hands of the Taliban. However, the Indian side concluded Stanekzai’s message couldn’t be taken at face value and went ahead with plans to pull out nearly 200 diplomats, officials and security personnel, including the ambassador, from Kabul. There was no response from Indian officials to Stanekzai’s remarks.Stanekzai, who is seen as the number two in the Taliban’s negotiating team and third overall among leaders based in Qatar, trained for several years at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun in the early 1980s. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that he appeared to be taking on a key role in foreign relations though he has not been part of the decision-making in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/want-to-continue-our-political-trade-ties-with-india-taliban-leader-stanekzai-101630233039985.html
29-08-2021||World||'Ashraf Ghani made a mistake': Taliban say former President must return Afghanistan's 'money'||Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen has blamed Ashraf Ghani for the chaos that the country witnessed after August 15 and said that he did a mistake by abandoning the government all of a sudden. In an exclusive interview to Doha News, the spokesperson said on August 15, when the Taliban were 'looking forward to' a peaceful transfer of power and the fighters were waiting outside the gate of Kabul, Ashraf Ghani suddenly fled. "He made a mistake of abandoning the government...This is what resulted in the sudden vacuum, plundering and shooting," the Taliban spokesperson said.🔴 EXCLUSIVE: Taliban’s political spokesperson in Qatar, @SuhailShaheen1 says Afghan President Ashraf Ghani must return “the money of the people of Afghanistan”#afghanistan #taliban #qatar #dohanewsWATCH ⬇️ pic.twitter.com/v7E2xdIIYDOn reports of Ashraf Ghani fleeing with a huge amount of cash, Suhail Shaheen said if he has taken anything that does not belong to him, he must return that to Afghanistan, but pursuing that is not the priority of the Taliban as the group is now focussing on setting up the new government.Didn't take money, couldn't even change shoes, says Ashraf Ghani; vows to return to AfghanistanAshraf Ghani, on the other hand, refuted reports of both fleeing the country and fleeing with money. From the UAE, he gave a message saying that he was forced to leave the country to avoid bloodshed. He did not even have the time to change his slippers, he said, adding that there was no question of taking 'tonnes of money'.On further relationship with the UAE which has welcomed Ashraf Ghani and his family, the Taliban spokesperson said that Ashraf Ghani had close ties with the UAE. But that does not mean that the UAE will not have ties with the Taliban. "We have our office in Qatar. We have ties with the UAE. Giving shelter to Ashraf Ghani reflects their policy. It does not mean they do not have a relation with us," the spokesperson said.In the interview, given before the Kabul blatsts, the spokesperson said, the Taliban were searching all Afghans and all cars in the country as they had reports that ISIS members were trying to carry out sabotage "inside the congestion of people" in the airport "under the cover of going abroad". Afghans who do not have proper travel documents have been stopped from travelling to the airport because of security reasons, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ashraf-ghani-made-a-mistake-taliban-say-former-president-must-return-afghanistan-s-money-101630232430501.html
29-08-2021||World||SpaceX launches ants, avocados, robot to space station||A SpaceX shipment of ants, avocados and a human-sized robotic arm rocketed toward the International Space Station on Sunday.The delivery — due to arrive Monday — is the company’s 23rd for NASA in just under a decade.A recycled Falcon rocket blasted into the predawn sky from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. After hoisting the Dragon capsule, the first-stage booster landed upright on SpaceX’s newest ocean platform, named “A Shortfall of Gravitas.” SpaceX founder Elon Musk continued his tradition of naming the booster-recovery vessels in tribute to the late science fiction writer Iain Banks and his Culture series.The Dragon is carrying more than 4,800 pounds (2,170 kilograms) of supplies and experiments, and fresh food including avocados, lemons and even ice cream for the space station’s seven astronauts.The Girl Scouts are sending up ants, brine shrimp and plants as test subjects, while University of Wisconsin-Madison scientists are flying up seeds from mouse-ear cress, a small flowering weed used in genetic research. Samples of concrete, solar cells and other materials also will be subjected to weightlessness.A Japanese start-up company’s experimental robotic arm, meanwhile, will attempt to screw items together in its orbital debut and perform other mundane chores normally done by astronauts. The first tests will be done inside the space station. Future models of Gitai Inc.'s robot will venture out into the vacuum of space to practice satellite and other repair jobs, said chief technology officer Toyotaka Kozuki.As early as 2025, a squad of these arms could help build lunar bases and mine the moon for precious resources, he added.SpaceX had to leave some experiments behind because of delays resulting from Covid-19.It was the second launch attempt; Saturday’s try was foiled by stormy weather.NASA turned to SpaceX and other U.S. companies to deliver cargo and crews to the space station, once the space shuttle program ended in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-launches-ants-avocados-robot-to-space-station-101630222896413.html
29-08-2021||World||'Surrender out of question': These Afghan strongmen are banding to negotiate with the Taliban||A band of veteran Afghan leaders, including two regional strongmen, are angling for talks with the Taliban and plan to meet within weeks to form a new front for holding negotiations on the country's next government, a member of a group said.Khalid Noor, son of Atta Mohammad Noor, the once-powerful governor of northern Afghanistan's Balkh province, said the group comprised of veteran ethnic Uzbek leader Abdul Rashid Dostum and others opposed to the Taliban's takeover."We prefer to negotiate collectively, because it is not that the problem of Afghanistan will be solved just by one of us," Noor, 27, told Reuters in an interview from an undisclosed location."So, it is important for the entire political community of the country to be involved, especially the traditional leaders, those with power, with public support," Noor said.Atta Noor and Dostum, veterans of four decades of conflict in Afghanistan, both fled the country when the northern city of Mazar-i Sharif fell to the Taliban, the hardline Islamist group, without a fight.The US-backed government and military folded elsewhere as the Taliban swept into Kabul on Aug. 15.However, the backroom discussions are a sign of the country's traditional strongmen coming back to life after the Taliban's stunning military campaign.It will be a challenge for any entity to rule Afghanistan for long without consensus between the country's patchwork of ethnicities, most analysts say.Unlike their previous period in power before 2001, the predominantly Pashtun Taliban did seek support from Tajiks, Uzbeks, and other minorities as they prepared their offensive last month."The Taliban at this point are very, very arrogant because they just won militarily. But what we assume (is) that they know the risk of ruling the way they did before," Noor said, referring to the previous Taliban regime's exclusion of minority ethnic groups.'SURRENDER OUT OF QUESTION'Despite a commitment to negotiations, Noor said there was a "huge risk" that the talks could fail, leading the group to already prepare for armed resistance against the Taliban."Surrender is out of the question for us," said Noor, the youngest member of the erstwhile Afghan government's team that held talks with the Taliban in Qatar.Ahmad Massoud, leader of Afghanistan's last major outpost of anti-Taliban resistance, last week also said he hoped talks with the Taliban would lead to an inclusive government, failing which his forces were ready to fight. It remains uncertain how much popular support is actually enjoyed by leaders like Atta Noor, widely accused of corruption https://www.reuters.com/article/afghanistan-governor-atta-noor-idINKBN1EW07L, and Dostum, accused of multiple acts of torture and brutality, and described in a U.S. State Department report as a "quintessential warlord". Both leaders deny the accusations.The Taliban, already a formidable military force, are now in possession of an estimated 2,000 armoured vehicles and up to 40 aircraft, among other arms left behind by fleeing Afghan forces, potentially bolstering their firepower.Still, Noor said the Taliban would not be able to hold out against popular resistance."History has shown that no one in Afghanistan can rule by force, it is impossible," the Western-educated politician said, "No matter how much support they have from the international community, it will fail."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surrender-out-of-question-these-afghan-strongmen-are-banding-to-negotiate-with-the-taliban-101630222381995.html
29-08-2021||World||Hurricane Ida rapidly intensifies into dangerous Category 4||Hurricane Ida was rapidly intensifying early Sunday, becoming a dangerous Category 4 hurricane on track for a potentially devastating landfall on the Louisiana coast while emergency officials in the region grappled with opening shelters for displaced evacuees despite the risks of spreading the coronavirus.The National Hurricane Center predicted Ida would become an extremely dangerous Category 4 hurricane with 130 mph (209 kph) winds — that happened early Sunday ahead of an expected afternoon landfall. The storm arrived on the exact date Hurricane Katrina ravaged Louisiana and Mississippi 16 years earlier.Ida was a Category 4 hurricane Sunday morning with maximum sustained winds of 130 mph. The storm was centered about 175 miles (280 kilometers) southeast of coastal Houma, Louisiana, and was traveling northwest at 15 mph (24 kph).The storm threatened a region already reeling from a resurgence of COVID-19 infections, thanks to low vaccination rates and the highly contagious delta variant.New Orleans hospitals planned to ride out the storm with their beds nearly full, as similarly stressed hospitals elsewhere had little room for evacuated patients. And shelters for those fleeing their homes carried an added risk of becoming flashpoints for new infections.Gov. John Bel Edwards vowed Saturday that Louisiana's “resilient and tough people” would weather the storm. He also noted shelters would operate with reduced capacities “to reflect the realities of COVID.”Edwards said Louisiana officials were already working to find hotel rooms for many evacuees so that fewer had to stay in mass shelters. He noted that during last year's hurricane season, Louisiana found rooms for 20,000 people.“So, we know how to do this,” Edwards said. “I hope and pray we don’t have to do it anywhere near that extent.”In coastal Gulfport, Mississippi, a Red Cross shelter posted signs displaying directions for evacuees along with warnings about COVID-19. With skies still sunny, only a handful of people had shown up Saturday evening.Shelter manager Barbara Casterlin said workers were required to wear face masks. Evacuees were encouraged to do the same. Anyone who refuses will be sent to an isolated area, she said, and so will people who are sick.“We’re not checking vaccinations,” Casterlin said, “but we are doing temperature checks two or three times a day.”President Joe Biden approved emergency declarations for Louisiana and Mississippi ahead of Ida's arrival.Comparisons to the Aug. 29, 2005, landfall of Katrina weighed heavily on residents bracing for Ida. A Category 3 storm, Katrina was blamed for 1,800 deaths as it demolished oceanfront homes in Mississippi and caused levee breaches and catastrophic flooding in New Orleans.In Saucier, Mississippi, Alex and Angela Bennett spent Saturday afternoon filling sand bags to place around their flood-prone home. Both survived Katrina, and didn't expect Ida to cause nearly as much destruction where they live, based on forecasts.“Katrina was terrible. This ain’t gonna be nothing,” Alex Bennett said. “I hate it for Louisiana, but I’m happy for us.”Long lines formed at gas pumps Saturday as people rushed to escape. Trucks pulling saltwater fishing boats and campers streamed away from the coast on Interstate 65 in Alabama, while traffic jams clogged Interstate 10 heading out of New Orleans.Ida intensified so swiftly that New Orleans officials said there was no time to organize a mandatory evacuation of its 390,000 residents. Mayor LaToya Cantrell urged residents to leave voluntarily. Those who stayed were warned to prepare for long power outages amid sweltering heat.Officials also stressed that the levee and drainage systems protecting the city had been much improved since Katrina. But they cautioned flooding was still possible with up to 20 inches (50 centimeters) of rain forecast in some areas.Edwards said 5,000 National Guard troops were being staged in 14 Louisiana parishes for search and rescue efforts. And 10,000 linemen were on standby to respond to electrical outages.Ida posed a threat far beyond New Orleans. A hurricane warning was issued for nearly 200 miles (320 kilometers) of Louisiana’s coastline, from Intracoastal City south of Lafayette to the Mississippi state line. A tropical storm warning was extended to the Alabama-Florida line.Meteorologist Jeff Masters, who flew hurricane missions for the government and founded Weather Underground, said Ida is forecast to move through “the just absolute worst place for a hurricane.”The Interstate 10 corridor between New Orleans and Baton Rouge is a critical hub of the nation’s petrochemical industry, lined with oil refineries, natural gas terminals and chemical manufacturing plants. Entergy, Louisiana’s major electricity provider, operates two nuclear power plants along the Mississippi River.A U.S. Energy Department map of oil and gas infrastructure shows scores of low-lying sites in the storm’s projected path that are listed as potentially vulnerable to flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-ida-rapidly-intensifies-into-dangerous-category-4-101630222361969.html
29-08-2021||World||One phone call: How a US veteran managed to get his visa-less wife out of Afghanistan||Whipped by the Taliban and shoved from behind by other desperate Afghans, marriage certificate in hand, Sharifa Afzali thrust her cell phone at the U.S. soldier barring the Kabul airport gate. On the other end was her husband, a U.S. Army veteran in Oklahoma."I told her, 'Hey, see if he'll talk to me on the phone.' I didn't think he would do it, but he did," said Hans Wright, who pleaded with the soldier to bend the rules for the visa-less woman he loves."And by the grace of God, he let my wife and my interpreter through," Wright recounted to Reuters.Afzali made it out of Afghanistan, counting herself among the lucky ones.Unknown numbers of U.S.-affiliated families fearing Taliban retribution have been split up in the chaotic scramble for flights before the U.S. evacuation operation ends by Tuesday, said people involved in ad hoc networks racing to help extricate at-risk Afghans.With U.S. President Joe Biden's administration prioritizing U.S. passport and green card holders, many streaming to the airport through Taliban checkpoints with Afghan families have faced an agonizing choice: leave relatives behind or risk their own lives by staying, these people said."We have dealt with multiple cases of families that either have been separated or told that only the family members holding a blue (U.S.) passport or a green card are allowed through the gates," said Stacia George, a former USAID official.Some have had to leave children with U.S. citizenship rights with relatives, she said. Others managed to get children into the airport with family members who are Americans or green card holders.Joe McReynolds, another advocate for evacuees, said he has cataloged a dozen cases of Afghan-born active-duty U.S. military personnel or American veterans in the United States struggling to extract relatives with Special Immigration Visas or in the SIV process. "If the U.S. soldier was there in Afghanistan, we probably could have gotten them through," he said, adding he knows of only one case succeeding. He declined to provide details, citing safety concerns.Afzali's escape was aided by her determination, luck, her husband, their marriage certificate, and her SIV application.Critical help also came from Ashley Sogge, a former U.S. Army special operations officer who believes an email she sent to White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki proved crucial for getting Afzali on a list at the airport."It is a good news story. But unfortunately, nothing that is replicable," Sogge told Reuters. "It was truly ad hoc."Asked for comment, Psaki said those responsible for saving tens of thousands of lives were the men and women of the military and the national security and State Department teams on the ground in Kabul.COACHING, CAJOLING FROM AFARWright, of Grove, Oklahoma, retired in 2009 as a first sergeant after 24 years of service, and began working as a contractor advising Afghan special forces, he said.He met Afzali, who was working for the contracting company, in 2017. When he switched jobs in 2019, she went to work as an interpreter, but in a different location."Our relationship grows by text, email, Facebook," he said.They flew in April to Dubai to wed, but a judge in Utah had to marry them in an online ceremony. The United Arab Emirates, Wright said, would not give them the paperwork "because I am a Christian and she is a Muslim."Their marriage certificate is signed by Utah's lieutenant governor, he said. "It was really cool."But their wedding did not clear away one bureaucratic roadblock: Afzali could not apply for a U.S. spousal visa because she already had an SIV application in process since 2018, he said.Wright left Afghanistan in May hoping Afzali's visa would be approved. But then came the Taliban's rapid takeover and the bedlam of tens of thousands of people clamoring for flights out of Kabul."Over these last two weeks, I couldn't go to sleep," Wright recalled of his first efforts to evacuate his wife. "A lot of my nights were spent talking back and forth to the (U.S.) military, to the Afghan military liaison."Sogge was connected last Monday to Wright by a U.S. service member who saw one of her Instagram posts offering to help extricate people.She worked the phones and ad hoc evacuation networks, emailed pictures of Afzali's documents and what she would be wearing to contacts inside the airport and tracked the situation outside through her networks in near-real time.She urged Wright to contact Congress members, and then last Tuesday told him to tell his wife to head for the airport. He and Sogge maintained contact with her by phone and text.Afzali and the interpreter set out around 8 p.m. It took them some 16 hours in sweltering heat to reach a gate, Afzali flogged by Taliban fighters' canes.U.S. soldiers told the pair to go to a different gate."She suffered some injuries from some of the beatings. There was pushing and shoving by the crowd. I told her not to give up," Wright said.She reached a second gate. But U.S. troops again refused to allow her through because Afzali's visa was not yet approved.Sogge urged Afzali by text to persist as she advised Wright how Afzali should address the soldiers."I basically coached him," she said. "What to tell her to say at the gate, and to emphasize that she was the lawful spouse of a service member and an American citizen and she had her marriage certificate. I was like, 'That probably needs to be up front,' and that she's a pending SIV case."She told Wright to tell his wife to "be polite, be persistent."That is when Wright urged Afzali to hand her phone to the American soldier.Once the pair was safely inside, Sogge arranged for Afzali and the interpreter to board a flight. At that point, Wright said, her destination was unknown."She called me this morning," he said on Friday. "She's in Germany."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-phone-call-how-a-us-veteran-managed-to-get-his-visa-less-wife-out-of-afghanistan-101630221209898.html
29-08-2021||World||UAE says to resume visas for tourists vaccinated against Covid-19||The United Arab Emirates announced it will resume issuing visas to all tourists fully vaccinated against Covid from Monday, a month before Dubai hosts the delayed Expo 2020 trade fair.The move comes amid a drop in coronavirus infections in the oil-rich Gulf country, after it reported less than 1,000 cases per day last week for the first time in months.The UAE's decision to reopen its doors to tourists from all countries was taken in order "to achieve sustainable recovery and economic growth", the official WAM news agency reported on Saturday.Those eligible would have to be fully inoculated with one of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization, which include AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer/BioNTech, Sinopharm and Sinovac."The decision applies to citizens of all countries, including those arriving from previously banned countries," WAM said."Passengers arriving on tourist visas must take a mandatory PCR test at the airport," it added.The UAE is made up of seven emirates including the capital Abu Dhabi and Dubai.While life in the country has largely returned to normal amid the Covid pandemic, it continues to enforce strict rules on wearing masks and social distancing.Dubai was last year counting on the six-month Dubai Expo 2020 -- delayed a year by the health crisis and now set to open in October -- to attract millions of visitors and boost the economy.Heavily reliant on tourism, the emirate was one of the first destinations to open its doors to travellers, accepting tourists in July last year, just a few months after the pandemic took hold.Abu Dhabi, meanwhile, has been more cautious, opening up to some visitors only in December.The UAE as so far recorded more than 715,000 cases of Covid-19 infection, including 2,036 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-says-to-resume-visas-for-tourists-vaccinated-against-covid19-101630220620243.html
29-08-2021||World||Canada polls: For the first time, Trudeau’s party trails in surveys||Two weeks into a national election campaign for the September 20 snap polls, Canada’s ruling Liberal Party is for the first time trailing its principal opposition Conservative Party, led by its PM candidate Erin O’Toole, in voter preference, according to a number of surveys.Incumbent Prime Minister Justin Trudeau precipitated snap elections on August 15 in an attempt to convert his minority government into a majority, but as things stand, the Liberals may actually capture fewer seats in the new parliament than they did in 2019.Poll trackers put the momentum with the Conservatives, showing a narrow advantage for them now, after trailing the Liberals for months. The outlet CBC News’ stated, “For the first time in nearly 18 months, the Conservatives have moved ahead in voting intentions. The Liberals are still favoured to win most seats, but have been trending down as the Conservatives rise.”At 32.5% support, the Conservatives have the slightest of leads over the Liberals, who are at 32.2%. That status is confirmed by the tracker from the election analysis outlet 338 Canada, which puts the Conservatives at 32.8%, again just 0.3% ahead of the Liberals. 338 Canada’s founder Philippe J Fournier tweeted on Friday that “this election is now officially a toss-up”.Other polls give the Conservatives a bigger margin. In tracking data released on Saturday, the agency Nanos Research, in a poll for the outlets CTV News and Globe and Mail stated that “ballot support for the Conservatives sits at 33.3%, while the Liberals are at 30.8% support”.“What was a tie early this week, it looks like the Conservatives are now gaining the upper hand and there is definitely negative pressure on the Liberals right now,” Nik Nanos, founder of the agency, told CTV News.Trudeau and his party have three weeks to regain ground, and fulfil his ambition of garnering the 170 seats necessary for a majority in the House of Commons. But, as of now, 338 Canada projects the ruling party may capture just 141, pipping the Conservatives by only five seats. This emerging reality was echoed by the CBC News tracker: “The Liberals are still favoured to win most seats but their chances of winning a majority government have fallen sharply since the beginning of the campaign and they are now poised to win fewer seats than in 2019.” The Liberals captured 157 seats in the last Federal elections.Several factors are playing into Trudeau’s dwindling popularity. One of them is the negative impression that his administration seems to have given in its much criticised handling of the evacuation efforts in Afghanistan.Apart from that, many voters are unhappy over the snap election call in the midst of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. As Darrell Bricker, CEO of the polling firm Ipsos Public Affairs, tweeted, “A pundit trope that needs to be put out to pasture is that voters quickly get over the reason an election is called and engage with the campaign. Ipsos polling shows that the percentage who think we shouldn’t be having an election now has increased over the last two weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-polls-for-the-first-time-trudeau-s-party-trails-in-surveys-101630213359256.html
29-08-2021||World||US warns of ‘specific’ threat, Biden says attack ‘highly likely’||The US state department has told Americans still in Afghanistan to immediately leave the area around the Kabul airport citing a “specific, credible threat” just after President Joe Biden said his military commanders had warned that an attack was “highly likely” to take place in the next 36 hours.These specific warnings and alerts came just days before the United States is scheduled to wrap up its evacuation process and the complete pullout of its troops.“Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport (Hamid Karzai International Airport), including the South (Airport Circle) gate, the new Ministry of the Interior, and the gate near the Panjshir Petrol station on the northwest side of the airport, should leave the airport area immediately,” the US embassy in Kabul, said in a security alert, on Saturday. The state department estimates there are at least 500 Americans still left in Afghanistan who want to be evacuated.The US embassy in Kabul has been working out of the airport and, The Washington Post has reported, President Biden is planning to withdraw the ambassador and the diplomatic staff by Tuesday despite a desire expressed by the Taliban for the US to retain its diplomatic mission. A final decision on the future presence of the US has not been taken yet though.Earlier on Saturday, President Biden had also warned of an imminent attack. “Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours,” he said in a statement. “I directed them to take every possible measure to prioritise force protection, and ensured that they have all the authorities, resources and plans to protect our men and women on the ground.”“The situation on the ground continues to be extremely dangerous, and the threat of terrorist attacks on the airport remains high,” Biden added.The US had issued similar warnings ahead of the Kabul airport bombing last Thursday that killed more than 170 Afghans and 13 American troops. Islamic State of Iraq and Syria-Khorasan (ISIS-K), an affiliate of the Islamic State, had claimed responsibility for the attack.On the orders of Biden, who has vowed to “hunt down” the perpetrators of the Kabul attack, the US military killed two ISIS-K “planners and facilitators” in a drone strike in Nangarhar, a province of Afghanistan bordering Pakistan. One operative was injured. They had not been identified.“I said we would go after the group responsible for the attack on our troops and innocent civilians in Kabul, and we have,” Biden said in the same statement as the likelihood of another attack in 36 hours. “This strike was not the last. We will continue to hunt down any person involved in that heinous attack and make them pay.”The American president also said he was determined to continue the evacuation process “despite the treacherous situation in Kabul”.The US flew out another 6,800 people on Friday, he said, including hundreds of Americans. “And today,” he added, “we discussed the ongoing preparations to help people continue to leave Afghanistan after our military departs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-warns-of-specific-threat-biden-says-attack-highly-likely-101630211798957.html
29-08-2021||World||US enters 'final phase' of Kabul evacuation, about 1,000 civilians await flight||US forces are in the final phase of their evacuation from Kabul and just over 1,000 civilians inside the airport remain to be flown out before troops are withdrawn, a Western security official in the Afghan capital said on Sunday.The official, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters a date and time for the end of the operation was yet to be decided. US President Joe Biden has said he will stick by his Tuesday deadline to withdraw all troops from Afghanistan."We want to ensure that every foreign civilian and those who are at risk are evacuated today. Forces will start flying out once this process is over," said the official, who is stationed at Kabul airport.The Western-backed government and Afghan army melted away as the hardline Islamist militants entered the capital two weeks ago, leaving an administrative vacuum that has bolstered fears of a financial collapse and widespread hunger.A US official told Reuters on Saturday there were fewer than 4,000 troops left at the airport, down from 5,800 at the peak of the evacuation mission. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby told reporters some troops had been withdrawn but declined to say how many service members remained.A Taliban official told Reuters on Sunday the Islamist group was prepared to take charge of the airport."We are waiting for the final nod from the Americans to secure full control over Kabul airport as both sides aim for a swift handover," the official said on condition of anonymity.The Taliban's engineers and technicians were ready to take control, the Taliban official added.The Western security official said crowds at the airport gates had diminished after a specific warning from the US government of another attack by militants after a suicide bombing outside the airport on Thursday.That explosion caused a bloodbath outside the gates of the airport, where thousands of Afghans had gathered to try to get a flight out since the Taliban returned to power on Aug. 15.The United States said on Friday it killed two militants belonging to the Islamic State - enemies of both the West and Afghanistan's new Taliban rulers - which had claimed responsibility for the attack.After Thursday's blast that killed scores of Afghans and 13 American troops, the most lethal incident for US service members in Afghanistan in a decade, Biden vowed to hunt down the perpetrators. He said Friday's strike was not the last.The Taliban condemned the late-night U.S. drone strike, which took place in Nangarhar province, an eastern area that borders Pakistan."The Americans should have informed us before conducting the airstrike. It was a clear attack on Afghan territory," a Taliban spokesman told Reuters, adding that two women and a child were wounded in the attack.The Taliban have said they have arrested some suspects involved in the airport blast.'Taking over'Spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Saturday the Taliban would take over the airport "very soon" after US forces withdraw and announce a full cabinet in the coming days.Mujahid told Reuters the group had appointed governors and police chiefs in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces and would act to solve the country's economic problems.The US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 overthrew the then-ruling Taliban as punishment for harbouring the al Qaeda militants behind the Sept. 11 attacks that year.The Taliban, facing the loss of billions of dollars of aid for the country, appealed to the United States and other Western nations to maintain diplomatic relations after their withdrawal. Britain said that should happen only if the Taliban allow safe passage for those who want to leave and respect human rights.The White House said the next few days were likely to be the most dangerous of the evacuation operation. The United States and allies have taken about 113,500 people out of Afghanistan in the past two weeks, it said.U.S. military and allied countries' flights carried fewer people on Saturday as Washington prepared to end its mission.The last British flight evacuating civilians from Afghanistan left Kabul on Saturday. British troops would take small numbers of Afghan citizens with them as they leave this weekend, a defense ministry spokesperson said. Armed forces chief Nick Carter said hundreds of people who had worked with Britain would not make it through.While Kabul's airport has been in chaos, the rest of the city has been generally calm. The Taliban have told residents to hand over government equipment including weapons and vehicles within a week, the group's spokesman said.The airport attack added fuel to criticism Biden faced at home and abroad for the chaos after Afghanistan's government and military collapsed before a lightning Taliban advance. He has defended his decisions, saying the United States long ago achieved its rationale for invading in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-enters-final-phase-of-kabul-evacuation-about-1-000-civilians-await-flight-101630208912777.html
29-08-2021||World||US evacuates about 2,000 people from Kabul in the last 24 hours||The US has evacuated approximately 2,000 people from the Kabul airport in the last 24 hours, the White House has said, as the countdown for the end of America's longest military mission begins in Afghanistan.Since August 14, the US has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 113,500 people. Since the end of July, it has re-located approximately 119,000 people, it said.“From August 28 at 3:00 AM EDT to August 28 at 3:00 PM EDT, a total of approximately 2,000 people were evacuated from Kabul. This is the result of 11 U.S. military flights (11 C-17s), which carried approximately 1,400 evacuees, and 7 coalition flights, which carried 600 people,” the White House said on Saturday.“This is an incredible number of people who are now safer thanks to the heroism of the young men and women who are putting their lives on the line each day to evacuate American and vulnerable Afghans out of Kabul," Major General Hank Taylor Commander, Army Operational Test Command told reporters at the Pentagon.“We continue to evacuate American citizens and vulnerable Afghans out of Kabul. In fact, there are approximately 1,400 individuals at the Kabul airport who have been screened and manifested for flights today,” he said.On Friday, 32 U.S. military aircraft, 27 C-17s and five C-130s departed with approximately 4,000 personnel. Combined with 34 coalition aircraft and departures, an additional 2,800 personnel left Kabul for various intermediate staging bases. Sixty-six flights left out of Kabul on Friday in that 24-hour period with 6,800 evacuees.“Today, I can report an updated total evacuation that is more than 117,000. The vast majority of which are Afghans. Of this total number, approximately 5,400 are American citizens,” he said.As the military mission begins to end in Kabul, thousands of service members are working across the globe and within the United States to complete this incredibly important mission, Taylor said.Out of the EUCOM AOR, six flights will transport about 2,000 Afghans to the United States. Since August 20 the EUCOM AOR has received nearly 30,000 vulnerable Afghans and evacuees, he said.The US, according to a State Department spokesperson, have continued to provide assistance to any American in Afghanistan who would like to leave the country. That effort has included around-the-clock outreach consisting of tens of thousands of calls, emails, texts, and WhatsApp messages conducted multiple times a day to contact individuals who gave them their information.“We have received confirmation that at least 5,400 Americans and likely more have been safely evacuated from Afghanistan since August 14. This includes nearly 300 Americans in the last day,” the spokesperson said.At present, approximately 350 Americans have told the US that they are still seeking to leave the country.“These roughly 350 individuals are currently the only Americans we can confirm are in Afghanistan and seeking to leave. Our team on the ground has this information and continues to provide assistance around the clock. We believe that some of these people are nearly or already out of the country,” the spokesperson said.Additionally, the officials have actively communicated with roughly 280 additional individuals who self-identified as Americans in Afghanistan but who have not informed them of their plans to leave the country, or who have told that they do not intend to leave at all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-evacuates-about-2-000-people-from-kabul-in-the-last-24-hours-101630208092400.html
29-08-2021||World||Sydney breaks another record amid struggle to suppress Delta||Sydney had a record number of Covid-19 infections, accounting for the bulk of cases in New South Wales as Australia’s most populous state battles to contain the spread of the highly infectious delta variant. The state saw a record 1,218 daily infections in the 24 hours to 8 p.m. local time on Saturday, NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters Sunday in Sydney. Six more people died.Infections in the most populous state have risen -- topping 1,000 for the first time last week -- despite a ramped up vaccination drive and a lockdown in Sydney since the end of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sydney-breaks-another-record-amid-struggle-to-suppress-delta-101630201038372.html
29-08-2021||World||US warns of 'specific, credible threat' near Kabul airport||The United States warned Saturday of a "specific, credible threat" near Kabul airport and urged its citizens to leave the area, days after a deadly attack on crowds fleeing Taliban rule in Afghanistan.A series of urgent terror warnings have rattled evacuation efforts overseen by US forces, who have been forced into closer security cooperation with the Taliban to prevent a repeat of Thursday's carnage at one of the facility's main access gates."Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport... should leave the airport area immediately," the US Embassy in Kabul said in a security alert.In its alert, the embassy noted the threat to "the South (Airport Circle) gate, the new Ministry of the Interior, and the gate near the Panjshir Petrol station on the northwest side of the airport."Earlier Saturday US President Joe Biden warned that his military commanders believed a fresh attack could come "in the next 24-36 hours", calling the situation "extremely dangerous".Scores of Afghan civilians and 13 American troops were killed Thursday in the bombing claimed by the regional Islamic State-Khorasan group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-warns-of-specific-credible-threat-near-kabul-airport-101630200276328.html
29-08-2021||World||With foreign troops all but gone, here's what Taliban said about 'new cabinet' in Afghanistan||Most countries, except the United States, have said that they have completed their evacuation mission in Afghanistan by now, while the US, too, is expected to take the last of its troops out of the Kabul airport by Wednesday morning. The Taliban, in the absence of foreign troops in the war-torn country, has now said that they are preparing a new cabinet to govern the land that has been marred by conflict for decades. Although the exact timing of the formation of the new cabinet remains unclear, there have been conflicting reports on an announcement that the Taliban is looking to make in this regard, soon.Also Read | Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effortThe Reuters news agency originally quoted Zabuhullah Mujahid, the main spokesperson for the Taliban, as saying the announcement would be made in the coming week, but he later "clarified", in a voice message, that the group is looking to confirm the makeup of the new cabinet "in one or two weeks". On Saturday, Mujahid once again informed Reuters that the new cabinet was in the works and the relevant announcement would be made soon. The Taliban have, by now, appointed governors and police chiefs in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces, he said.It is still unclear what this new iteration of the caliphate will look like, but experts are skeptical about the Taliban's commitment to avoid a repeat of their 1990s rule when Afghanistan declined into a pariah state, the economy was in shambles, and repression was at an all-time high as discontent spread across the nation. Even Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar has admitted that the group did not anticipate seizing control of the country so soon, and political watchers say that the militants are yet to decide upon the exact terms regarding who would rule, and how."...they have to announce a government when the Americans leave but it’s really taking a long time and has potential to spin out of control," a report by The Guardian quoted Ashley Johnson, the co-director of the centre for the study armed groups at the Overseas Development Institute in London, as saying.Also Read | Taliban return but war isn’t over. Know the groups vying to take control of AfghanistanThe Taliban have brushed past inquiries regarding whether any women would be included in the new cabinet. When Reuters posed this question to the group, its spokesperson Mujahid said that this would be a matter for the leadership to decide and he could not anticipate what their decision would be.Moreover, there is the question of getting the economy back on track as well. Shattered by four decades of war, the country's financial system now also faces the loss of billions of dollars in foreign aid. The currency is plummeting while food prices are on the rise, leading to extreme economic hardship and mounting frustration in Kabul. Banks and financial institutions in the Afghan capital are still reported to be shuttered, even more than two weeks since the city fell to the Taliban.On Saturday, a statement from the Taliban said that banks were ordered to reopen with a weekly limit on withdrawals of $200 or 20,000 afghanis. Mujahid also said officials had already been appointed to run key institutions including the ministries of public health and education and the central bank. "The fall of Afghani against foreign currency is temporary," he insisted, adding that it will return to normal once the new government system starts functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-foreign-troops-all-but-gone-here-s-what-taliban-said-about-new-cabinet-in-afghanistan-101630197867096.html
29-08-2021||World||Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effort||The last of the British troops in Afghanistan have now been evacuated out of the Kabul airport, ending the United Kingdom's two-decade-long military campaign in the war-torn country. Boris Johnson, the country's prime minister, praised the "heroic" evacuation efforts, even as his government acknowledged with regret that not everyone in need of repatriation could be brought back from Afghanistan.Also Read | Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacksJohnson, in a heartfelt letter to the British troops, paid a tribute to the "heroic efforts" of all those involved in the evacuation operations, nicknamed 'Operation Pitting' and thanked the armed forces for ensuring that the mission is successfully carried out. The UK prime minister told the troops that they "should feel immense pride" for what they have done to bring closure to Britain's 20-year Afghan campaign. However, he also said that this is the time to reflect on all the 'sacrifices' that were made in the process. "The departure of the last British soldiers from the country is a moment to reflect on everything we have sacrificed and everything we have achieved in the last two decades," Johnson said in an official statement as the final UK flight carrying troops and diplomatic personnel left the Kabul airport late on Saturday, hours after the final evacuation flight for civilians left.Most countries, except the United States, have said that they have completed their evacuation mission in Afghanistan. The British ministry of defence, according to a report by the Guardian, said that about 14,000 people were airlifted out of Kabul airport in less than two weeks. It was "time to close this phase of the operation now", said Britain's ambassador to Afghanistan Laurie Bristow shortly before departing, adding a note for the people who could not be rescued from the war-torn country where Taliban insurgents had seized control in a matter of months.“But we haven't forgotten the people who still need to leave,” Bristow said in a video posted on Twitter. “We'll continue to do everything we can to help them. Nor have we forgotten the brave, decent people of Afghanistan. They deserve to live in peace and security.”Also Read | 'Attack on Afghan territory': Taliban on US airstrike that killed 2 ISIS-K menJohnson, in his statement, also said that the United Kingdom's "goals for the country" have not changed, even if the nature of engagement in Afghanistan has. "We will now use all the diplomatic and humanitarian tools at our disposal to preserve the gains of the last 20 years and give the Afghan people the future they deserve," he added.According to the Associated Press, as many as 1,100 Afghans who were entitled to come to the UK were left behind in the war-torn country at the mercy of the Taliban. Some British lawmakers who have been trying to help stranded constituents and their families believe the true total is higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/last-uk-troops-leave-kabul-boris-johnson-hails-heroic-evacuation-effort-101630196076647.html
29-08-2021||World||US warns of 'specific, credible threat' as Biden says new attack likely at Kabul airport in 24-36 hours||United States president Joe Biden on Saturday (local time) warned that a new terror attack was likely at the Kabul airport in Afghanistan in less than two days, as he put the timeframe for the predicted attack to "the next 24 to 36 hours". The statement from Biden comes in the wake of a drone strike that the US conducted in the war-torn country earlier in the day, claiming to take out a 'planner' of the Islamic State in Khorasan (ISIS-K) terror group in retaliation of the suicide bombing attack at the Hamid Karzai International Airport days ago which killed at least 169 Afghan civilians and 13 US service members.Also Read | Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacksThe US embassy in Kabul also issued a new warning on Sunday about a "specific, credible threat" near the Kabul airport and asked Americans to "immediately" leave areas outside the airport gates."Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport (HKIA), including the South (Airport Circle) gate, the new Ministry of the Interior, and the gate near the Panjshir Petrol station on the northwest side of the airport should leave the airport area immediately," the embassy said in its security alert.Biden, issuing a press statement at the White House late on Saturday, said: "The situation on the ground continues to be extremely dangerous, and the threat of terrorist attacks on the airport remains high. Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours."Notably, multiple ISIS-K gunmen and a suicide bomber had laid deadly havoc on the Kabul airport earlier this week on Thursday. Among the fallen US service members were 10 members of the Marine Corps, many of who were barely in their 20s. On Saturday, less than 48 hours after the attack, the United States hit back at the Islamic State, which had claimed responsibility for the airport bombing. In a retaliatory airstrike, the drone strikes by the US military targeted a 'planner' of the IS outfit who, according to Pentagon's initial reports, was killed in the Nangahar province of Afghanistan without effecting any civilian casualties in the process.Also Read | 14 Keralites with ISKP, blast outside Turkmenistan mission in Kabul foiledJoe Biden, the president of the United States, said that he had met with his national security team in Washington and commanders in the field on Saturday and discussed the airstrike that the US forces conducted on Friday night (local time) against the terrorist group ISIS-K in Afghanistan. "I said we would go after the group responsible for the attack on our troops and innocent civilians in Kabul, and we have," Biden's statement read.Biden further warned that this was hardly the last strike that the United States was planning against the terror outfit and said that the retaliation will continue. "This strike is not the last," he said. "We will continue to hunt down any person involved in that heinous attack and make them pay. Whenever anyone seeks to harm the United States or attack our troops, we will respond. That will never be in doubt."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-another-attack-at-kabul-airport-highly-likely-in-next-24-to-36-hours-101630194293906.html
29-08-2021||World||US strikes IS planners after Kabul airport attack||Acting on President Joe Biden’s promise to retaliate for the deadly suicide bombing at Kabul airport, the United States conducted a drone strike against an Islamic State target in Afghanistan on Saturday, as the airlift of those desperate to flee moved into its fraught final stages with fresh terror attack warnings.US forces overseeing the evacuation have been forced into closer security cooperation with the Taliban to prevent any repeat of the suicide bombing that killed scores of civilians crowded around one of the airport’s main access gates and 13 American troops.The attack was claimed by a regional Islamic State chapter, called the Islamic State-Khorasan, and the Pentagon announced that two members of the jihadist group were killed in the drone strike in eastern Afghanistan.“It was a single mission to get these targets and as the assessments and information flowed over time, we were able to recognise that another was killed as well and one wounded,” Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said at a Defense Department briefing on Saturday.“They were ISIS-K planners and facilitators and that’s enough reason there alone. I won’t speak to the details of these individuals and what their specific roles might be,” Kirby said. He added: “We have the ability and the means to carry over the horizon counterterrorism capabilities and we’re going to defend ourselves.’’He declined to identify those killed but said the United States knew who they were. US Central Command said it believed its strike killed no civilians.The airstrike came after Biden declared on Thursday that perpetrators of the attack would not be able to hide. “We will hunt you down and make you pay.”The US President authorised the drone strike and it was ordered by defence secretary Lloyd Austin, an official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The airstrike was launched from beyond Afghanistan and the Central Command said it was conducted in Nangarhar province.The speed with which the US military retaliated reflected its close monitoring of IS and years of experience in targeting extremists in remote parts of the world. But it also shows the limits of US power to eliminate extremist threats, which some believe will have more freedom of movement in Afghanistan now that the Taliban is in power.Spokesmen for the Taliban, which took over Afghanistan as US forces withdrew, did not comment on the drone strike. The Taliban, hardline Islamist militants, are enemies of Islamic State and have said they have arrested some suspects involved in Thursday’s airport blast.Later on Saturday, Pentagon said US troops have begun their withdrawal from Kabul airport as the evacuation efforts from the Afghan capital entered their final stages.With the airlift window narrowing sharply ahead of an August 31 deadline, thousands remained inside Kabul airport awaiting evacuation on Saturday.Gone are the crowds of thousands around the airport’s perimeter, hoping to be let through and allowed onto a plane. Now, the Taliban have sealed off roads leading to the airport and are only letting sanctioned buses pass.“We have lists from the Americans... if your name is on the list, you can come through,” one Taliban official told AFP near the civilian passenger terminal.The carnage of Thursday’s suicide attack injected further stress and tension into a situation already fraught with panic and despair for those wanting to leave and high risk for the US forces tasked with securing the operation.Based on a preliminary assessment, US officials believe the suicide vest used in the attack, which killed at least 169 Afghans in addition to the 13 Americans, carried about 25 pounds of explosives and was loaded with shrapnel. A suicide bomb typically carries five to 10 pounds of explosives, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss preliminary assessments of the bombing.The bombing followed a chorus of warnings about an imminent threat and, as people gathered outside the airport on Saturday, the US issued a fresh alert for its citizens to leave areas around the main gates “immediately”.At the White House, President Joe Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki said US national security experts consider another attack is “likely” and the next few days will be “the most dangerous period to date”.Taliban spokesperson Bilal Karimi tweeted that the group’s fighters had already moved into parts of the military side of Kabul airport, but the Pentagon stressed that US forces retained control over the gates and airlift operations.Racing to meet the Tuesday withdrawal deadline has required close cooperation with the Taliban on evacuee movements and the IS threat. The head of US forces at Hamid Karzai International, Rear Admiral Peter Vasely, is in constant contact with the Taliban official overseeing security around the airport.Biden still faces the problem over the longer term of containing an array of potential extremist threats based in Afghanistan, which will be harder with fewer US intelligence assets and no military presence in the nation.Emily Harding, a former CIA analyst and deputy staff director for the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she doubted Biden’s assurances that the US will be able to monitor and strike terror threats from beyond Afghanistan’s borders. The Pentagon also insists this so-called “over the horizon” capability, which includes surveillance and strike aircraft based in the Persian Gulf area, will be effective.Under enormous criticism at home and abroad for his handling of the Afghan crisis and the US military withdrawal, Biden has pledged to stick to the airlift deadline and punish those responsible for the suicide blast.About 109,000 people have been flown out of the country since August 14, the day before the Taliban swept to power, according to the US government on Saturday.Many Western allies have announced an end to their airlifts, with some admitting that at-risk Afghans eligible for evacuation had been left behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-strikes-is-planners-after-kabul-airport-attack-101630192550490.html
29-08-2021||World||China hindering Covid origins inquiry: Biden||President Joe Biden rebuked China for stonewalling a US investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, as his administration reported it was unable to reach firm conclusions because of Beijing’s unwillingness to cooperate. China denied that it had hindered the probe.“To this day, the PRC (the People’s Republic of China) continues to reject calls for transparency and withhold information, even as the toll of this pandemic continues to rise,” Biden said in a statement. “We must have a full and transparent accounting of this global tragedy. Nothing less is acceptable.”US intelligence has ruled out that the coronavirus was developed as a weapon, and most agencies assess with “low confidence” it was not genetically engineered.But the community remains divided on the pathogen’s origins, with four agencies and the national intelligence council judging in favour of natural exposure to an animal as the likely explanation, and one agency favouring the lab leak theory. Analysts at three agencies were unable to reach a conclusion.“All agencies assess that two hypotheses are plausible: natural exposure to an infected animal and a laboratory-associated incident,” the office of the director of national intelligence said in a short two-page summary of their findings.The intelligence community and global scientists lack clinical samples or epidemiological data from the earliest Covid-19 cases, it added.Biden said the US would continue to work with allies to press Beijing to share more information and cooperate with the World Health Organization.China’s embassy in Washington on Friday accused the US intelligence community of “political manipulation”.“The report by the US intelligence community shows that the US is bent on going down the wrong path of political manipulation,” the embassy said.Delta variant doubles risk of hospitalisationPeople who contract the Delta variant of Covid-19 are more than twice as likely to be hospitalised as those infected with the Alpha strain, according to a UK study, raising the prospect of a greater burden on health services this winter.The review of more than 43,000 Covid-19 cases in England, most of whom were unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, was published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal on Friday. It highlighted the protection shots provide against hospitalisation from both variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hindering-covid-origins-inquiry-biden-101630182312382.html
29-08-2021||World||Troops to leave as UK ends rescue mission||Britain’s defence ministry said on Saturday that the final flight for Afghan citizens had left Kabul and further flights over the weekend will bring home British troops and diplomats, though they may also carry a few remaining UK or Afghan civilians.Britain’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Laurie Bristow, said from Kabul airport that it was “time to close this phase of the operation now”.“But we haven’t forgotten the people who still need to leave,” Bristow said on Twitter. “We’ll continue to do everything we can to help them. Nor have we forgotten the brave, decent people of Afghanistan. They deserve to live in peace and security.”Britain says it has evacuated more than 14,500 people from Kabul in the past two weeks but that as many as 1,100 Afghans who were entitled to come to the UK have been left behind.Separately, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and German Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the situation in Afghanistan on Saturday and agreed on the need for international aid and a common approach by the G7 to the future government of Afghanistan.“The Prime Minister stressed that any recognition and engagement with the Taliban must be conditional on them allowing safe passage for those who want to leave the country and respecting human rights,” the British statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/troops-to-leave-as-uk-ends-rescue-mission-101630181482884.html
29-08-2021||World||Afghanistan evacuations enter final phase||Taliban forces sealed off Kabul’s airport on Saturday to most Afghans hoping for evacuation and most Nato nations flew out their troops after two decades in Afghanistan, winding down a frantic airlift that Western leaders acknowledged was still leaving many of their citizens and local allies behind.The US troops have began their withdrawal from Kabul airport, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby confirmed on Saturday, and was also keeping up airlifts ahead of President Joe Biden’s Tuesday deadline for withdrawal.Taliban forces were holding some positions within the airport, ready to peacefully take control as American forces fly out, spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. The Pentagon stressed on Friday that the Taliban, who now run Afghanistan, were not in control of any operations at the airport.Outside the airport, Taliban leaders deployed extra forces Saturday to prevent large crowds from gathering after a devastating suicide attack two days earlier. New layers of checkpoints sprang up on roads leading to the airport, some manned by uniformed Taliban fighters with Humvees and night-vision goggles captured from Afghan security forces.Areas where large crowds had gathered over the past two weeks in the hopes of fleeing the country were largely empty.A suicide attack on Thursday by an Islamic State group affiliate killed 169 Afghans and 13 US service members, and there were concerns that the group could strike again.An Afghan who worked as a translator for the US military said he was with a group of people with permission to leave who tried to reach the airport late on Friday. After passing through three checkpoints they were stopped at a fourth. An argument ensued, and the Taliban said they had been told by the Americans to only let US passport-holders through.“I am so hopeless for my future,” the man told The Associated Press after returning to Kabul, speaking on condition of anonymity because of security concerns. “If the evacuation is over, what will happen to us?”The Pentagon said on Friday that Afghans with the proper documents still were being allowed in.On Saturday, the Taliban fired warning shots and deployed some kind of coloured smoke on a road leading to the airport, sending dozens of people scattering, according to a video circulating online that was consistent with AP reporting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-evacuations-enter-final-phase-101630181243578.html
29-08-2021||World||US believes new Kabul airport attack 'highly likely' soon: Biden||US military commanders believe that another terror attack like the deadly suicide bombing at Kabul airport is "highly likely in the next 24-36 hours," President Joe Biden warned Saturday.After a briefing from his national security team, Biden said in a statement that a US drone strike targeting the Islamic State-Khorasan group, which claimed responsibility for Thursday's carnage at the airport, was "not the last.""The situation on the ground continues to be extremely dangerous, and the threat of terrorist attacks on the airport remains high. Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours," Biden said.Scores of Afghan civilians were killed in the Kabul bombing Thursday, along with 13 US troops -- several of them born around the time US military operations in Afghanistan began 20 years ago.Also Read | Two high-profile ISIS-K targets killed in US strike, claims PentagonThe Pentagon said Saturday it had killed two "high profile" targets -- logistics experts for the jihadist group -- and wounded another in a drone strike in eastern Afghanistan in retaliation for the suicide bombing.No civilians were hurt in the attack, Major General Hank Taylor told a news conference in Washington."The fact that two of these individuals are no longer walking on the face of the Earth, that's a good thing," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said.US troops have been scrambling in dangerous and chaotic conditions to complete a massive evacuation operation from the Kabul airport by an August 31 deadline.Biden has pledged to stick to the agreed cut-off and had vowed to punish those responsible for the suicide blast. He said Saturday that the drone attack would not be the last."We will continue to hunt down any person involved in that heinous attack and make them pay," he said. "Whenever anyone seeks to harm the United States or attack our troops, we will respond. That will never be in doubt."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-believes-new-kabul-airport-attack-highly-likely-soon-biden-101630180596647.html
29-08-2021||World||China protests passage of US warships||The Chinese defence ministry on Saturday protested against the passage of two US warships through the Taiwan Strait, saying it had closely monitored them and is maintaining a state of high alert.The passage comes amid a spike in military tensions in the past two years between Taiwan and China, and follows Chinese “assault drills” held near Taiwan last week for which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployed battle ships and fighter jets.“The Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer USS Kidd (DDG 100) and legend-class US Coast Guard National Security Cutter Munro (WMSL 755) conducted routine Taiwan Strait transits August 27 (local time) through international waters in accordance with international law,” Lt Mark Langford, 7th Fleet spokesperson said late on Friday.“The ships’ lawful transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. The United States military flies, sails, and operates anywhere international law allows,” the statement added.The Chinese defence minister reacted angrily against the US move on Saturday morning.A statement posted on the ministry’s website on Saturday called the move provocative. It added that the passage of the ships showed that the United States is the biggest threat to peace and stability and creator of security risks in the 160km wide Taiwan Strait.Pentagon holds talks with Chinese militaryA senior Pentagon official held talks with the Chinese military for the first time since President Joe Biden took office in January, a US official told Reuters on Friday.Michael Chase, deputy assistant secretary of defence for China, spoke last week with Chinese Major Gen Huang Xueping, deputy director for the People’s Liberation Army Office for International Military Cooperation. “(They) utilised the US-PRC Defence Telephone Link to conduct a secure video conference,” the US official said.“Both sides agreed on the importance of maintaining open channels of communication between the two militaries,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tension-in-taiwan-strait-after-china-protests-passage-of-us-warships-101630148974828.html
