01-10-2020||Calcutta||Bleeding & unconscious inside ATM kiosk||A man was found bleeding and unconscious in an ATM kiosk on Canal South Road near Chingrighata on Wednesday afternoon. Initially cops suspected he had been assaulted but footage of CCTV cameras inside the kiosk suggested he had tried to kick open the kiosk’s glass door and smashed it. Glass shards left him with multiple wounds as he tumbled inside and fell on the floor, police said. Mohammad Zafar Ali, 34, a guard by profession and a resident of Beleghata, has been admitted to NRS hospital. “Preliminary investigations showed he was drunk and he kicked the glass door very hard and the door gave in. Glass shards were shattered all over the place… he lost balance and fell  inside the kiosk and became unconscious,” an officer of Pragati Maidan police station said. Canal South Road is lined with residential and commercial establishments and remains busy with pedestrian and vehicular movement. People in the neighbourhood were the first to spot him bleeding and unconscious inside the kiosk and alert the police. Cops took him to hospital. On regaining consciousness, Ali has corroborated the findings of the police, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Molested on way home from tuition, brother attacked||A girl returning home from tuition was molested by several men near Sukantanagar on the outskirts of Salt Lake on Sunday, she has said in her police complaint. The men hit her brother when he protested, she has said in the complaint. People of the area, which borders the East Kolkata Wetlands, were alerted by her cries and they rescued the girl and her brother before calling the police. She was headed home with her brother when a couple of men blocked her way and started passing lewd remarks at her. “She initially tried to ignore them and walk away but they blocked her way and hit her brother when he protested,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate quoted the girl as saying in the complaint. Cops later picked up two men, Toton Sardar, 28, and Paresh Sardar, 34, from their houses in the same area. Both have been booked for assault or criminal force on a woman with the intent to outrage her modesty and sexual harassment among others. The charges carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court refuses stay on Pous Mela wall||The high court on Wednesday refused to stay the construction of boundary walls around the Pous Mela grounds on the Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan. The state government had on Tuesday prayed for a stay on the construction, citing a possible law-and-order situation. But the division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan said on Wednesday: “Construction work will continue.” The division bench of the Chief Justice and Justice Shampa Sarkar, however, said if the government or anyone else had any objection to the construction of the wall, they would have to approach the four-member committee the high court had formed to monitor the matter. The state government is still to decide on the future course of action. Visva-Bharati authorities had to stop the construction of the wall after protesters resorted to vandalism on the fairground on August 17. The high court set up a four-member committee on September 18 to find a solution with all stakeholders. Led by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the other committee members are Justice Arijit Banerjee, advocate-general Kishore Datta and additional solicitor general Y.J. Dastoor. The bench had appointed advocate Jaydeep Kar amicus curiae to the case. Kar will assist the bench in the matter. Work to build the contentious wall resumed on Monday following a decision at a meeting on Sunday that was attended by members of the committee and officials of the university and the district administration. While appearing for the state on Tuesday, advocate-general Datta requested the court to allow him to quit the committee. The division bench on Wednesday allowed Datta to do so but said the district magistrate of Birbhum could join the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Parakeets, hill mynas found in truck to city ||More than 100 parakeets and scores of hill mynas were seized from a mini truck near East Burdwan on Wednesday. The truck was headed for the city, a forest official said. The driver and the helper of the truck have been arrested. Trading in such birds is prohibited and both are protected under the wildlife protection act, the official said. Officers of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau had received specific information a consignment of birds was headed to the city and that they would be sold in various places, including Barasat and Galiff Street. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau alerted the forest department offices in Durgapur and Burdwan. Teams of officers from these two areas stopped the truck on NH2 near East Burdwan. “The birds were crammed in small cages. They could barely move,” a forest department official said. “Both hill mynas and parakeets are protected under the wildlife protection act.” Most fledglings are captured from the forests of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director, wildlife crime control bureau, said. “The birds are then transported to the city using various modes of transport,” Mitra said. Animals under schedule I of the wildlife protection act enjoy the highest protection. A person convicted of trading, killing or hunting a schedule I animal faces at least seven years in jail, a forest department official said. The hill myna is protected under schedule I. The website of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) says the common hill myna “occurs in moist or semi-evergreen forests in lowlands, hills and mountains. It is known for its ability to mimic sounds, including human speech”. The population is suspected to be declining because of trade and widespread forest destruction, according to the website. A conservationist working for an NGO said birds were sold on Galiff Street every Sunday. Trading begins around 5.30am. “Despite forest department raids, birds protected under the wildlife act are still sold there,” he said. Many birds don’t survive the long journeys they are forced to undertake in crammed cages, the conservationist said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||3-day Sealdah flyover closure||Vehicles headed for the Sealdah flyover from north will be diverted from Shyambazar, Maniktala and Rajabazar, while those moving towards the flyover from south will be re-routed from the Exide and Moulali intersections for three from the morning of October 2. The traffic diversion scheme will remain in force from 6am on October 2 to 6am on October 5 as the flyover will remain shut during the period to facilitate the construction of a tunnel for the East-West Metro project. The tunnel-boring work for the Metro corridor — which, once fully functional, will link Sector V in Salt Lake with Howrah Maidan — resumed in June after remaining suspended for over three months because of Covid-19. “Five roads will be one-way on the days the flyover will remain closed so that the traffic diversion works smoothly,” said a senior officer of Calcutta police. “Movement of trams along APC Road, Mahatma Gandhi Road, College Street and Bidhan Sarani during this period will be restricted or suspended.” According to the traffic diversion plan, Sealdah-bound vehicles from Maniktala and Shyambazar along APC Road will be diverted from the Rajabazar crossing towards Narkeldanga Main Road, Phoolbagan and Beleghata Main Road. Some Sealdah-bound vehicles will also be diverted from the Shyambazar and Maniktala crossings. Moulali-bound buses and minibuses from Lenin Sarani that travel till or beyond Maniktala will be diverted along Central Avenue, and those headed for Rajabazar down Beleghata Road will be diverted from the Phoolbagan crossing. Beleghata-bound vehicles from the NRS Medical College and Hospital-end will take the east-bound slope of the flyover and head straight. At least seven bus and minibus routes, which cover large parts of south Calcutta and have their terminuses at Rajabazar, will be curtailed or terminated near the NRS Medical College and Hospital. Similarly, several bus and minibus routes along MG Road and Beleghata Road that stretch till the Beleghata baraf kal will terminate near the Rajabazar tram depot. To ensure that the thoroughfares remain unclogged on these days, police have decided to strictly enforce “No parking” rules along seven thoroughfares — Ahmerst Street, BB Ganguly Street, College Street, Nirmal Chunder Street, SN Banerjee Road, Creek Row and MG Road. “October 2 being a Friday and a national holiday, the traffic load will be comparatively lesser. Then we have Saturday and Sunday. Taking these into consideration, we have decided to implement the diversion plan,” said the officer. “From the morning of October 5, when most of the traffic would start rolling, the restrictions will have been lifted,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Recognition relief to small pujas||In October 2000 when some residents from a locality in New Alipore decided to organise a Durga Puja, the organisers had a trying time shuttling between police stations and court. There was no official permission to organise a puja and holding one was termed “illegal”. Two decades later, when members of the New Alipore Sanskritik Parishad hold Durga Puja this October, it will be a legal one. A formal police permission this time will make the puja committee eligible for the state grant of Rs 50,000, discounts on electric bills, facilities provided by the civic body, and services of the fire and emergency services department. Not just New Alipore Sanskritik Parishad. More than 1,000 puja committees across Calcutta, who have been struggling to organise the festival on a shoestring budget without an official clearance so far, a formal permission this time will make all the difference. Last Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had requested the police to grant permission to all committees who have been organising pujas for almost a decade. The city police have already started scanning applications. “We won’t have to take electricity connection from our para members any longer. A permission means we will be eligible for a CESC connection and even a 50 per cent discount,” Indrajit Dey of New Alipore Sanskritik Parishad puja committee said. “Our electric bill used to be around Rs 20,000 for the halogen lamps inside the pandal and decorations outside and the microphone that is used during anjali.” Almost all such low-budget pujas are held in lanes and organisers keep hoping that cops don’t turn up and seize all items branding them “illegal”. “In case cops arrived, we would plead with the officer in charge of Narkeldanga police station every year not to take any step and invite him to attend our puja,” Sanat Halder of Pallybasi Brinda puja committee said. Halder was among the first group of men from a locality on Canal West Road in Narkeldanga to start the Durga Puja in 2009. The puja has so far been held without permission. “We will start erecting our pandal in next few days. For the first time, it feels nice to think we will not have to run away seeing a police van approach our puja,” Halder said. In Sonagachhi, Durga Puja organised by sex workers faced several challenges. The battle for rights reached Calcutta High Court from the streets after the police denied them permission. The puja on Abinash Kabiraj Street will probably get an official nod for the first time this year, according to sex workers. “When a puja committee has the police permission, it has the entire government support to help sail through the days of festivity,” a puja organiser in Kasba said. “Those who don’t have the police clearance know how difficult it can be organising Durga Puja.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Woman dies of burns after ‘fight’||Cops reached a rented flat in Azadgarh after receiving a call on 100 to find a woman with burns all over her and her friend with burns on his hand after midnight on Tuesday, police said. She had apparently got into a fight with the friend, the police said. The call on 100 came around 12.50am. The woman was taken to NRS hospital and her friend to SSKM Hospital. She died of her injuries early this morning. “The woman was standing near the door with burns all over her… her friend was sitting nearby with burns on his hand,” an officer of Jadavpur police station said. Anita Sardar, 38, a resident of Canning in South 24-Parganas had rented a flat on the ground floor of a building in Azadgarh a few weeks ago. A friend of hers, Tarun Sardar, used to visit her frequently, the police have found during investigation. Preliminary investigation suggested she had poured kerosene on herself before setting herself on fire. Her friend got burns on his hand trying to save her, the police said. Neighbours have told cops that they heard the two arguing and fighting around 12.30am. “Around 12.50am there was a call at 100 in the Lalbazar control room. There was specific information about the fire. Jadavpur police station was immediately alerted and a team reached the flat,” an investigator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Why police need to review time-tested Puja plan||The established traffic and crowd management blueprint that Calcutta police execute every year during Durga Puja may not work this year because of increase in the number of private vehicles and restrictions on crowd gathering. With fewer people opting for public transport fearing Coronavirus infection, more private cars are expected on roads this Puja, the police believe. Crowd management at major intersections, where pedestrian movement is controlled by ropes and barricades, may also need a fresh approach because the last thing police would want is people jostling with each other in their eagerness to cross a road. Police are busy, in the run-up to Puja, finding solutions to new problems posed by the pandemic. The Telegraph reports some of the apprehensions of the police over traffic and crowd management. The scare of infection as well as scarcity of public transport have prompted several Calcuttans to opt for private transport — be it two-wheeler or four-wheeler — during the pandemic. Several police officers said they were expecting more private vehicles to hit the roads on the festival days compared with public transport. “Many who were dependent on public transport have purchased two-wheelers now. A large number of people who were earlier travelling by Metro are now using their own vehicles for daily commute. People are scared to travel in public transport. As a result, there is a sudden surge in the number of private vehicles on the roads,” said an officer in the traffic department. The police are planning to implement stricter “no parking” rules along major thoroughfares during the Puja to ensure the carriageways are not blocked. Ensuring physical distancing among pedestrians, especially at the crossovers, would be a challenge, officers fear. Over the past few years, Calcutta police had been following a mode of crowd dispersal at major intersections, called “Formula 44”, during the Puja. According to Formula 44, pedestrians are made to wait at crossovers till one full cycle of traffic signal — covering movement of vehicles from north to south, south to north, east to west and west to east – is complete. After completion of one cycle, the traffic lights for vehicles for all directions are turned red to allow movement of pedestrians in all directions. “Formula 44 had been effective in dispersing crowds within seconds. But now, we cannot make people stand so close to each other and wait for an entire traffic cycle to complete,” said an officer. Another officer said implementing the same formula after half a cycle would reduce the time pedestrians would spend waiting at crossovers. However, that too may cause unwanted traffic snarls as fewer vehicles will get to pass if the “half a cycle” system is followed. Sources said more than half the CCTV cameras damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May are yet to be repaired. Of the 1,600-odd cameras the police had installed on the roads, only around 700 are operational, sources said. “Cameras act as our eyes and help in identifying problem areas in real time. Without cameras, our officers have to manually search and locate the particular spot where there is a congestion and assess the reason,” said an officer. Senior officers said defunct cameras were likely to be repaired before Durga Puja. In previous years the police could predict the pattern of pandal hopping by experience or timings of Metro and local trains. This year it will be different. “There is uncertainty. No one knows what would be the pattern like. Would more people come out at daytime so they could return early? We cannot predict the pattern this year,” said a traffic police officer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked the police to make arrangements to allow Puja revellers at pandals from the night of Tritiya (October 19).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Metro to pay heed to request for more trains||Metro Railway is planning to extend the timings of the last trains in either direction by half an hour from Monday, following passenger feedback and increasing rush in the evening, officials said on Wednesday. “The plan is to run six additional trains (three in each direction) from Monday. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8pm,” said an official. Since Monday, the carrier has been running 116 trains daily, instead of 110 till the week before. The last trains leave the terminal stations at 7.30pm now. Till last week the last trains would leave at 7pm. The decision to further increase the number of trains and extend the timings is in response to the growing rush in the evening, said Metro sources. It is also based on the feedback received from passengers at several stations. They requested station staff and RPF personnel for more trains in the evening, the sources said. “Till around 7pm on Wednesday, around 44,000 e-passes had been booked on the New Garia-Noapara route. Around 17,000 of them were booked for slots between 5pm and 8pm,” said an official of the agency that has designed the e-pass system. Many Metro passengers are said to have asked for extending the services beyond 8pm, an official said. “The station staff, including RPF personnel, are facing many such requests every day,” he said. As the city is opening up, more and more people are out till night. In the run-up to the festive season, roads are no longer deserted at 9pm. “Under such a situation, 7.30pm (when the last trains leave the terminal station) is too early. We want to go as close to the earlier timings as possible. But since local trains are still suspended, many of our staff are still having problems in transportation,” the official said.  Before the pandemic, the last trains left the terminal stations at 9.55pm. The evening trains are full on most days and passengers are having to stand in many compartments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||3 Bengal workers ‘rescued’ from Tamil Nadu factory||Three workers from South 24-Parganas were “rescued” by Tamil Nadu police from a factory compound in Tirupur district on Tuesday night following an alert from their Bengal counterparts and days after one of the workers had had his fingers “crushed” under a machine. The workers — a man, his wife and his younger brother — have alleged that they were underpaid and physically abused by two labour contractors at the factory in Kangayam town. The contractors also allegedly said they would not allow the group to return home to Bengal unless “Rs 30,000 was sent to an account”. The alert from Bengal police went after the alleged victims called up their family members back home and sought help. As a “punishment” for letting word out, the accused allegedly dragged the younger brother near a conveyor belt machine and ran the belt over his right hand on September 25. The owner of the factory, which makes coir ropes and mats from coconut husk, has denied the allegations. “It was an accident, according to eyewitness accounts. I rushed him to a hospital immediately. A plastic surgery was done. He is recovering now,” he told Metro over the phone on Wednesday. He also denied the allegations of physical abuse and underpayment. Disha Mittal, the police superintendent of Tirupur district, said: “The local police went to the factory site on Tuesday night. There was nothing to suggest that the group was wrongfully confined. A suo motu case has been registered against two accused, a labour-in-charge and the factory owner, under sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) under the Indian Penal Code).” A prima facie probe suggests that the “right index and middle finger were damaged by a conveyor machine,” said Mittal. When Metro called up the elder brother on Wednesday, he said: “We have been rescued from the accommodation near the factory and taken to a hotel. We have tried telling the local police everything. But there is a language barrier. We want to return home safely but my brother has suffered permanent damage to his right hand. We also want compensation.” Mittal, the police superintendent, discounted the language barrier, saying the cops had arranged for an interlocutor. A family member of the brothers had approached Jibantala police station in South 24-Parganas with a written complaint on September 27, on the basis of the allegations of the group in Tamil Nadu. The police are said to have refused to register an FIR, citing “lack of jurisdiction”. This newspaper has a copy of the written statement the relative wanted to submit to police. The same cops swung into action and burnt the midnight oil to trace the location of the alleged victims and coordinate with their Tamil Nadu counterparts apparently after a prod from Kamanasish Sen, the police superintendent of Baruipur police district, who this newspaper contacted on Tuesday afternoon. “Please ask the complainant to get in touch with me. I will do the needful,” Sen had told Metro on Tuesday. According to the rulebook, any police station in India can draw a “zero FIR” for registering a case that has not happened in their jurisdiction. Once the jurisdiction is ascertained, the case can be forwarded to the police station concerned Asked why a “zero FIR” was not lodged, the officer-in-charge of Jibantala police station, Samaresh Ghosh, said: “The complainant had come with a photocopy of the complaint. He was been asked to come with the original written complaint.” Both contractors accused of the atrocities are from Bengal and one of them is a distant cousin of the two brothers. During the multiple calls the alleged victims made to their family members, they could not provide their specific location in Tamil Nadu. The cops in South 24-Parganas traced the location by tracking the phone numbers, the bank account and the report of a nursing home where one of the alleged victims was treated at after the “accident”. The elder brother had also shared with this newspaper what he said was the report. “Right middle finger plus index finger crush injury,” says the “final diagnosis” in the report. The alleged victims left in a bus on August 8 with scores of other workers, the statement shared with this newspaper by the family member says. The incident underscores the pitiable conditions in which many workers from Bengal are forced to work outside the state. “The pandemic has narrowed opportunities and made things worse. People are so desperate for work that they are ready to accept anything that comes their way,” said Kakali Das of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a Canning-based NGO that helped the family of the workers in South 24-Parganas in seeking redress from police. “Cyclone Amphan and the lockdown have robbed us of everything. A maternal cousin offered jobs in a factory in Tamil Nadu,” another brother of the alleged victims who lives in South 24-Parganas told Metro. The officer-in-charge of Jibantala police station said the primary focus was on the “safe return of the workers”. “If they want, they can file a fresh complaint with us. We will then register a case and transfer it to the police station under whose jurisdiction the area falls,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Call for Durga Puja discipline||The Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease, has appealed to the people to avoid crowds during and before the Puja to avert a spurt in Covid-19 cases after the festivity. The network urged the Puja committees to involve as few hands in meetings and other organisational work as possible and ensure that people do not sit inside pandals and chat. Visitors as well as residents of the respective neighbourhoods must be encouraged to stay inside pandals for as short a duration as possible, members of the network said at a news conference on Wednesday. The organisers should compete about hosting the most disciplined Puja than the most decorated one, said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and the mentor of Covid Care Network. He advised people to suspend pandal-hopping for this year. Chowdhury also said the government had set some rules and people should follow them but he wanted individuals to go over and above the government’s rules and avoid crowds. “The government will not be able to aggressively enforce the guidelines that it has issued. It cannot do so to people who are out enjoying the biggest festival of the year. But we as a social organisation have to take the responsibility to tell the people to not crowd any place. Do not drop your guard but drop your habit of pandal-hopping for this year at least,” said a member of the network. “It is our self-discipline and responsible behaviour that can help prevent a rise in Covid cases after Puja,” he said. Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, a member of the network said: “Puja committees should involve only those without whom the Puja cannot be organised…. On the Puja days, people should avoid wasting time inside pandals, chatting for hours.” Such measures should be in addition to wearing masks, washing hands with soap or disinfecting them with sani-tiser and maintaining a distance of at least 6ft from one another. There is an apprehension among public health workers that the Covid-19 numbers may see a sharp jump if people forget about the pandemic and indulge in reckless celebrations. A large number of people are likely to step out during the Puja, the first such occasion where many people will be out together since the pandemic hit the state and the city in March. The words of caution come from a realisation that if people are not careful, the situation may become grim after the festival. “The joy during Durga Puja should not lead to trouble post-festival. That is why we are appealing to individuals and the community to behave responsibly,” Chowdhury said. The state government has issued several guidelines for the Puja. The organisers have been asked to erect open and spacious pandals, keep inaugurations and immersions low-key and ensure that not many people gather during rituals. The committees have also been asked not to organise cultural programmes. This Puja should be enjoyed with bare minimum people’s presence and the unrestricted crowding can wait for some other year, Chowdhury said. “We have a tendency to overshoot the barriers put before us during festivals. On behalf of Covid Care Network, we are appealing to the people to be careful. Enjoy and celebrate but wear a mask, maintain physical distance and avoid crowding,” he said. He also said the way some people had started immersing themselves in the pre-Puja celebrations,throwing caution to the winds, was worrying. “People are tired staying at home. So they have come out in hordes as things are opening slowly. But they will be making a grave mistake if they do not take the precautions. Enjoy, but do it responsibly and with caution,” he said. The network, in association with Khadims, will honour one Puja each in 10 districts of Bengal. “The Puja that is the most disciplined and takes all necessary measures advised for combatting Covid-19 will get Rs 25,000 as prize money. They will also get a trophy,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||School reopening talks after Kali Puja||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Bengal government would think about reopening schools only after Kali Puja, which falls on November 14. “We will think about (reopening) the schools only after Kali Puja. We cannot give it a thought now. The situation has not become normal yet,” Mamata said while addressing an administrative review meeting in north Bengal. Kali Puja and Diwali are on the same day this year. The chief minister made the comment about the prospect of reopening schools while announcing that the Integrated Child Development Services centres would remain closed till October 31. At Sunday’s virtual meeting that education minister Partha Chatterjee had with vice-chancellors, it was decided that undergraduate classes in Bengal’s government-run colleges and government-aided universities were unlikely to start before the first week of December. Asked about the schools then, Chatterjee had said no decision had yet been taken. An official of the education department said the government was unsure about the reopening of schools, given the rise in Covid cases. “As the festival season is approaching and assembly in public spaces is feared, no one knows whether the situation will turn for the worse. Therefore, the government is not saying anything on when the schools will reopen,” the official said. Another official said that in colleges and universities, some of the classes still can be held on digital platforms. In government schools, that would be difficult. In Bengal, the number of government-run primary schools is close to 52,000.  The number of secondary and higher secondary schools is 12,000 and 7,000, respectively. Metro had on September 18 reported that the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) clarified that the partial reopening of schools in keeping with the Unlock IV manual issued by the home ministry would have to be “in conformity’’ with the directives of the respective state governments and any reopening would be subject to their permission. The council had directed the schools not to do “anything’’ in regard to reopening which “contravenes’’ the guidelines of the state government concerned. Mamata had said towards the end of July that the state government might reopen schools and colleges on alternate days in September “if the situation improves in August’’. The plan had to be scrapped as the Covid situation continues to be grim, said an official of the education department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Hospital bill ‘without details’ deals crushing insurance blow||A Covid patient’s family had to beg and borrow to raise Rs 2.5 lakh for his treatment after the insurance company rejected their cashless claim. It has been more than two months now but the patient, a 37-year-old hawker from Posta in Burrabazar, has yet to get the reimbursement because, the family alleged, the hospital’s bill lacks transparency and there were overbillings. Vicky Sonkar, who has a stall on a footpath at Raja Katra market in Burrabazar, had tested positive for Covid-19 and got admitted to Flemming Hospital in Topsia on July 9. He had bought a health insurance policy from HDFC ERGO, a private company, earlier this year. Sonkar was discharged from the hospital on July 16. During discharge, he came to know that the request for cashless admission was rejected by the insurance company and so the family had to arrange for the money. He later submitted the bills provided by the hospital for reimbursement but they are yet to be cleared because HDFC ERGO is said to have sought clarifications on the bill, which amounted to Rs 2.49 lakh. “We had called many hospitals but they either said there was no bed or asked for exorbitant amounts of money. One private hospital said Covid treatment would cost around Rs 12 lakh and another said Rs 10 lakh,” Sonkar said on Wednesday. “I run a small stall on the footpath. How would I arrange so much money?” Sonkar, a resident of Posta in Burrabazar, said. Then someone told him about Flemming Hospital, where the charges would be less. “When my parents called up the hospital, they said the treatment could cost Rs 2.5 lakh,” said Sonkar. “I had to get admitted because at that time if someone had Covid, neighbours were getting scared and the patient was being abandoned.” He had submitted to the hospital the documents of the insurance coverage but the claim for cashless treatment was rejected, said Sonkar. “The hospital said I had to pay the money to get discharged because the insurance company had rejected the cashless request. My parents had to beg and borrow the money from relatives to get me discharged,” said Sonkar. “Till now I have not got the reimbursement. The insurance company has told me that they are investigating the bill and it would take some time.” The bill, submitted to the insurance company by Flemming Hospital, shows the bed charge for a day was Rs 17,000. It was Rs 13,000 a day for the rest of the stay at the hospital. Besides, the hospital had billed Rs 32,000 for doctors’ visits for seven days. In June, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that a hospital could not charge a Covid patient more than Rs 1,000 a day for doctors’ consultation. The bill also shows Rs 8,000 was charged for air mattress, which, doctors said, is used for patients who are immobile. Air mattresses prevent bed sores. Sonkar said he could sit and move around and he was not sure whether an air mattress was given to him by Flemmings. The bill shown to Metro does not have details of the charges under the heads of pharmacy, pathology, radiology, etc. “Insurance companies usually reject documents sent in this format,” said the CEO of a private hospital, whom this newspaper had sent the bill. “A proper bill needs to have details charged for every investigation, consumable, non-medical item etc.” A Flemming Hospital official said he would not be able to comment without seeing a copy of the bill. This newspaper sent him a copy by WhatsApp on Wednesday afternoon, but he did not get back till late in the evening. An HDFC ERGO spokesperson said the company would not be able to comment on this case. There have been a lot of complaints over bills lacking transparency against private hospitals. “Initially, there were complaints from patients about testing. Then it was about not getting beds. Now, we are getting most complaints against private hospitals about billing,” said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, the regulatory body for private hospitals. Insurance professionals said lack of transparency in billing had been a huge problem during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Many hospitals submit bills that have no details. These bills cannot be accepted. But in the end, it’s the patient who is suffering because that person is forced to pay and then get discharged,” said Dipayan Saha, a doctor who handles claims for a private insurance company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Justice weeps, what more do I say?||Justice Asok Kumar Ganguly, a former Supreme Court judge, responded to the Babri Masjid demolition verdict by saying that in India of the present, Rabindranath Tagore’s prophetic verse, “Bichareyr bani nirawbey nibhritey knadey (the voice of justice silenced, doomed to weep)”, still holds true. “It saddens me deeply to see the truth of that saying by Tagore even today. I feel so bad, hearing of this judgment… words fail me,” Justice Ganguly, 73, told The Telegraph. The verse was from the 1932 poem Proshno, written in protest against Mahatma Gandhi’s arrest. “Ki bolbo bolun toh? Ei niye ar ki bolbo ami? Aajkeyr dineyr ja poristhiti, etai hoytoh protyashito. Jani na (What do I say, tell me. What more do I say about this? The situation today, maybe this is what is to be expected. I don’t know),” the retired judge said. Reminding the nation that the Supreme Court had described (in 1994) the demolition of the mosque as “an act of national shame”, Justice Ganguly said it was “clear” that there was “elaborate planning” with “support from a political party”. The following are excerpts from Justice Ganguly’s comments on Wednesday: “From whatever I have heard so far, the judge (of the CBI special court in Lucknow) has said there was no pre-planning. But prior to this, there were several judgments by the Supreme Court. “For instance, in the Ismail Faruqui case, the Supreme Court clearly said that the Babri Masjid demolition was ‘an act of national shame’. That was the phrase used, remember, it was ‘an act of national shame’. “In that judgment, the Supreme Court — the then central government had issued a white paper over the demolition of Babri Masjid — had quoted from that white paper. A contradiction of that, I haven’t read anywhere since. “Reading that, it is clear that there was elaborate planning. Who did that planning I cannot say. But that there was support from a political party, it was clearly stated, and was quoted in the Supreme Court’s judgment. “The Supreme Court said that it was ‘a great pity that a constitutionally elected government could not discharge its duties in a matter of this sensitiveness and magnitude’. Commitments to the court and Constitution, pledges to Parliament and the people, were simply cast aside. Therein lay the failure, therein the betrayal.” (Ismail Faruqui’s petition had challenged the validity of the Acquisition of Certain Area at Ayodhya Act, 1993, by which the Centre acquired 67.703 acres of land in and around Babri Masjid. A five-judge bench, in a majority judgment of 1994, upheld the acquisition.) “Also, in 2017, Justice Rohinton F. Nariman’s judgment had said that this trial court where the CBI was conducting its inquiry, to expedite it… there too the Supreme Court had stated in no uncertain terms that the Babri Masjid demolition had ‘shaken the secular fabric of the Constitution’. “Then the other, eventual judgment (November 9 last year), on the basis of which the foundation stone-laying ceremony took place there (Ayodhya). Even in that judgment, the demolition of Babri Masjid was denounced categorically. “There too the Supreme Court stated that the act was against the law. It stated: ‘The destruction of the mosque and the obliteration of the Islamic structure was an egregious violation of the rule of law.’ (In its 2019 judgment, the Supreme Court unanimously awarded the disputed site in Ayodhya to Ram Lalla Virajman (infant Ram) and empowered the Centre to build a temple there but ruled that the demolition of Babri Masjid was “an egregious violation of the rule of law”. Justice Ganguly, who had delivered the 2012 verdict in the 2G spectrum allocation case that was celebrated by the BJP, then in the Opposition, had on November 9 last year said he was “very disturbed” with the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya judgment.) “So, in the light of all those Supreme Court judgments, it is amply clear that the incident was condemnable and criminal. So, since it was a criminal incident, some people must have committed the crime. It did not take place on its own. What happened, happened before the eyes of tens of thousands in daylight. It was telecast globally and published in newspapers too, the act of demolition. There was no game of hide-and-seek. “The concept of the rule of law, in the light of all this, seems but an insignificant, hollow noise now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Business||Global mining giants shun first commercial coal mine bidding in India||Global mining giants have shun the first commercial coal mine bidding in the country. Fifteen out of 38 mines did not receive any bids. Gautam Adani-controlled Adani Enterprises placed seven bids, while group firm Adani Power Resources placed a bid for one mine. Forty-two firms, including Vedanta, JSPL, Hindalco Industries, JSW Steel and Nalco, bid for 23 coal blocks. The government has put up 38 coal blocks for commercial mining. The ministry said two or more bids have been received for 19 coal mines. The highest number of bids (seven) were submitted by Adani Enterprises; followed by Hindalco Industries and JMS Mining (five each); and the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation, Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure, and EMIL Mines and Minerals Resources (four bids each). Vedanta submitted three bids, Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) submitted two, JSW Steel and Nalco one each, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Oberoi Group's strategic alliance with Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group||The Oberoi Group on Wednesday announced that it has entered into a long-term strategic alliance with Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group to collaborate across a range of initiatives while retaining their respective heritage and identities. The Oberoi Group said in a statement that the partnership will provide members of the brands’ recognition programmes privileged access to over 50 luxury hotels. According to the firm, this global alliance between the two hotel groups has been designed to appeal to the loyal guests of both brands. By working together across all facets of the guest experience, the two groups will curate new and exclusive experiences available at the Oberoi and Mandarin Oriental hotels. EIH is the flagship listed entity of The Oberoi Group. “Our brands complement each other extremely well as do our organisations values and culture... This alliance will allow guests to experience new destinations and experiences in the legendary styles for which both companies are renowned,” EIH Ltd MD and CEO Vikram Oberoi said. “We are delighted to launch this innovative partnership with The Oberoi Group, setting the stage for us to push the boundaries of luxury hospitality. By working together, both organisations will create further differentiation in the industry that our guests will value,” Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group chief executive James Riley said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||NTT Ltd looking to invest $2 billion in India||NTT Ltd, London-based technology and service provider, is looking to invest $2 billion over the next 4-5 years in India to scale up its data centre capacity and put in place supporting infrastructure such as solar power units and laying under-sea cables connecting Singapore, Myanmar and India. The company on Wednesday said it planned to double its data centre capacity in the country over the next two to three years. At present, it has 10 data centres across Mumbai, Bangalore, Noida and Chennai covering 1.5 million square feet. “We have data center parks in Mumbai and we have land in Chennai, Noida and our Bangalore campus for further expansion. The company’s new Solapur plant is aimed at meeting 83 per cent of the power needs by the Mumbai data centres,” said Sharad Sanghi, CEO, global data centres and cloud infrastructure of NTT Ltd in India. “India has been a key market for NTT Ltd’s data centre portfolio. Organisations today demand an ever expanding global platform to reach their growing digital business objectives. That’s why we continue to expand our portfolio,” said Masaaki Moribayashi, senior executive vice-president (services) of NTT Ltd. Nelco, Telesat tie up Tata group company Nelco has entered into a pact with global satellite operator Telesat to bring LEO satellite network to India, according to a statement. Nelco and Telesat will collaborate on terrestrial facilities, commercial distribution and regulatory frameworks to offer Telesat LEO satellite connectivity in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Core infrastructure sector contracts for the sixth month||The core infrastructure sector contracted for the sixth month in August to 8.5 per cent, mainly because of a decline in steel, refinery products and cement output. The eight core sectors had contracted 0.2 per cent in August 2019. The figure was revised in July to (-) 8 per cent from (-) 9.6 per cent previously. Barring coal and fertiliser, all sectors — crude, gas, refinery, steel, cement and electricity — contracted in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra Thar fetches Rs 1.1 crore in auction||An online auction of the first all-new M&M Thar fetched Rs 1.11 crore, which will be donated towards Covid-19 relief work. Th company will match the winning bid amount with an equal amount, taking the total proceeds towards the relief work to Rs 2.22 crore. There were 5,500 bidders from 550 locations across the country. The winning bid was placed by Aakash Minda from New Delhi at Rs 1.11 crore, over four times the auction reserve price which was set at Rs 25 lakh. The winner has chosen Swades Foundation to receive the entire proceeds from the auction. The  idea of the auction was to harness the Thar’s iconic status and help the country in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||BPCL bid deadline extended to November 16||The government has extended the deadline to bid for its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL to November 16 and this virtually rules out the chances of the budgeted divestment target of being met this fiscal. The extension — fourth so far— comes amidst reports that Saudi Aramco of Saudi Arabia and Rosneft of Russia may not participate in this bidding round because of falling crude prices and a worsening economic environment for refineries across the world, including India. Brokerage Emkay in a report has said that refineries in India had seen throughput decline in August because of weak demand and planned maintenance shutdowns. “In view of further requests received from the interested bidders and the prevailing situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the last date for submission of EoIs (expression of interest) is further extended to November 16,” the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said in a notice. Initially, the EoI submission deadline was May 2, but it was first extended up to June 13, then to July 31 and later to September 30. After EoIs come in, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to conduct a due diligence, only after which financial bids will be called, industry sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Current account surplus leaps to $19.8 billion||India’s current account surplus (CAS) rose to a record $19.8 billion, or 3.9 per cent of  GDP, in the April-June quarter as a contracting economy led to a steep decline in imports compared with exports. The country’s current account surplus was $0.6 billion, or 0.1 per cent of GDP, in the preceding March quarter, while it had reported a current account deficit of $15 billion, or 2.1 per cent of GDP, in the year-ago period. According to the RBI, the surplus in the current account was on account of a sharp contraction in the trade deficit to $10 billion as merchandise imports fell more sharply relative to exports on a year-on-year basis. During the January-March period, the trade deficit had come in at $35 billion. While a current account surplus is unusual, it reflects the poor state of the economy which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian economy had contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal and economists warn that the financial year will also end up with a double-digit decline. India’s current account surplus (CAS) rose to a record $19.8 billion, or 3.9 per cent of  GDP, in the April-June quarter as a contracting economy led to a steep decline in imports compared with exports. The country’s current account surplus was $0.6 billion, or 0.1 per cent of GDP, in the preceding March quarter, while it had reported a current account deficit of $15 billion, or 2.1 per cent of GDP, in the year-ago period. According to the RBI, the surplus in the current account was on account of a sharp contraction in the trade deficit to $10 billion as merchandise imports fell more sharply relative to exports on a year-on-year basis. During the January-March period, the trade deficit had come in at $35 billion. While a current account surplus is unusual, it reflects the poor state of the economy which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian economy had contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal and economists warn that the financial year will also end up with a double-digit decline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Honda Motorcycles set for 300cc foray||Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (HMSI) Pvt Ltd on Wednesday unveiled a 350cc motorcycle, its first in the 300-500cc mid-sized segment, under its new sales channel for premium bikes, BigWing. The new motorcycle developed for the Indian market is another product under Honda’s CB brand and has been named H’ness CB350. The bike will be priced around Rs 1.9 lakh. Noriaki Abe, managing officer at Honda Motor Co, said: “Globally, Honda has a 37 per cent market share. In countries such as Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil, we have a 70 per cent market share. To expand our business in India, we have brought a new CB brand.” The company has been “keenly watching the 350cc segment for a couple of years and decided to bring the CB legacy into the segment”, said HMSI president Atsushi Ogata. The bike will be launched closer to the festive season beginning with Navratri. Prototypes will be available now in Gurgaon, Mumbai, Bangalore, Cochin and Bhilai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Gas prices slashed by 25% to $2.39 per mBtu ||The Centre has slashed domestic natural gas prices by 25 per cent to an all-time low of $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu), severely impacting the revenues of state-owned ONGC and Oil India. Prices were at $2.39 per mBtu between April and September. The price of new gas from difficult fields such as deep-sea locations has also been cut to $4.06 per mBtu from $5.61, the oil ministry order said. User industries such as electricity, fertiliser and CNG for automobiles will benefit from the cut. This is the third straight reduction in rate. The price was cut a steep 26 per cent to $2.39 per mBtu in April. Natural gas price is set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 — based on rates prevalent in surplus nations such as the US, Canada and Russia. For every dollar change, ONGC’s revenues are impacted about Rs 4,400-4,500 crore annually, according to some estimates. ONGC accounts for 75 per cent of crude oil and natural gas production by volume and 17 per cent of domestic refining capacity. A unified tariff proposed by the The Petroleum and Natural Gas Board (PNGRB) in respect of the pipelines forming part of the national gas grid system will encourage more pipelines and boost gas demand, brokerage Motilal Oswal said. The PNGRB has sought stakeholders’ views for fixing a uniform tariff for Zone 1 of the pipeline, which comprises the first 300 km. The rest of the grid system comprises Zone 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Dhanlaxmi Bank chief now gets the boot||Less than a week after shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) voted out seven directors, another top honcho of a private sector bank faced a similar fate. On Wednesday, shareholders of Thrissur-based Dhanlaxmi Bank ousted managing director and chief executive officer Sunil Gurbaxani, a little more than seven months after he assumed the post. Gurbaxani came to the bank with more than three decades of banking experience with State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur (which was merged with SBI) and Axis Bank. Reasons for the no-confidence shown by shareholders in Gurbaxani could not be ascertained. Some believe his strategy of expanding in the northern parts of the country did not find favour with a section of the investors. There were rumblings ahead of the shareholders meeting with bank unions — the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) and the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) — flagging concerns over a few developments at the private sector bank even as they sought immediate corrective measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). In a letter written to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, the AIBOC had requested the central bank to take appropriate steps so that the 93-year-old institution was allowed to grow by catering to its own niche segments. In a separate letter, the AIBEA had urged the governor to intervene into the affairs of the bank, which it alleged was heading in the wrong direction. “Attempts are again being made to open more branches in northern states, while the bank has inadequate infrastructure to manage the business in those areas. “Efforts are afoot to appoint a large number of sales executives and senior executives on contractual and cost-to-company basis at a much higher remuneration. This will land the bank in a catastrophe and financial burden which, we apprehend, the bank cannot afford at this juncture,” C.H. Venkatachalam, general secretary, AIBEA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||Business||Reliance raises more money for retail arm||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Wednesday announced a cumulative investment of Rs 5,549 crore in its retail arm. While global private equity firm General Atlantic will bring in Rs 3,675 crore for a 0.84 per cent stake in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), the co-investors of Silver Lake will invest an additional Rs 1,875 crore into RRVL. This comes after Silver Lake brought in Rs 7,500 crore for a 1.75 per cent stake and KKR, Rs 5,550 crore for a 1.28 per cent shareholding. The transaction values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.285 lakh crore. In a late evening announcement, RIL said that the co-investors of Silver Lake will invest an additional Rs 1,875 crore into RRVL. This brings the aggregate investment by Silver Lake and its co-investors in RRVL to Rs 9,375 crore, which will translate into a 2.13 per cent equity stake in RRVL on a fully diluted basis. With the latest investments, RIL has raised Rs 18,600 crore in its retail arm. All the 13 investors, who had put in a combined Rs 1.52 lakh crore in Jio Platforms, have been offered a chance to explore investing in the retail unit. Reuters reported that the Abu Dhabi state fund Mubadala Investment Co is in advanced talks to invest up to $1 billion in RRVL. Mubadala had invested around $1.2 billion in Jio Platforms. For General Atlantic, this marks its second investment  in a RIL subsidiary following a Rs 6,598.38 crore investment in Jio Platforms earlier this year. Reliance is expected to plough the proceeds from these transactions into the retail business. It comes at a time rivals such as Amazon and Walmart-controlled Flipkart are also looking to expand their presence in India’s retail market. The Tatas have been in the news with reports saying that Walmart is in talks with the conglomerate to invest in its “super-app”. Reliance Retail, a subsidiary of RRVL, operates about 12,000 stores in nearly 7,000 towns with 640 million footfall across the core categories of grocery, consumer electronics and apparel. The company reported revenues of Rs 1.63 lakh crore in the last financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||Business||November 30 last date for filing income tax returns: CBDT||The Central Board of Direct Taxes has further extended the last date for submitting late and revised income tax returns for assessment year 2019-20 to November 30, 2020. The last date of the submission of returns was first extended to July 30 from March 31, 2020 on account of the pandemic. It was later extended to September 30. Tax advocate Narayan Jain said that the move would benefit taxpayers . The government has also extended the deadline for filing GST annual return and audit report for 2018-19 financial year by a month till October 31. Some changes in tax collection at source (TCS) will take effect from October. They relate to tax collection at source for foreign remittances and sale of goods in a year in excess of Rs 50 lakh by sellers with a turnover of more than Rs 10 crore. At present, Indian residents can remit up to $250,000 every year under Liberalised Remittance Scheme for capital account transactions such as purchase of property, investments and loan as well as current account transactions such as business trips, donations, medical expenses and maintenance expenses. Remittances above Rs 7 lakh will invite tax of 5 per cent. Sale of overseas tour programme packages would also attract TCS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||Business||Centre sticks to borrowing limit||The Modi-government has stuck to its plan to borrow Rs 12 lakh crore this fiscal as it gave the details of its Rs 4.38 lakh crore borrowing plan for October to March 2021 even as analysts warned of a revenue shortfall in the pandemic-ravaged economy. The Centre had revised the borrowing target to Rs 12 lakh crore in May against Rs 7.8 lakh crore approved in Budget 2020-21. It raised Rs 7.66 lakh crore in the first half till Sepetmber. As many as 16 weekly auctions will be held in the rest for the fiscal to raise Rs 4.38 lakh crore, which is 36.16 per cent of the proceeds. “The unchanged borrowing calendar may turn out to be a case of postponing the inevitable, given the considerable fiscal stress that is building up amid the unrelenting pandemic,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said. The Centre’s ways and means advances (WMA) limit has also been trimmed down to Rs 1.25 lakh crore from Rs 2 lakh crore earlier. The fiscal deficit has touched 109.3 per cent of the annual target estimated in the budget during April-August. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit was at Rs 8,70,347 crore. It stood at 78.7 per cent of budget estimates  a year ago. “The high deficit is likely to put further pressure on bond yields as reports suggest the final deficit figure for the full year (FY21) will be a lot higher than the budgeted deficit target,” Nish Bhatt of investment consultant Millwood Kane International said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||India||Air India cancels all 12 Frankfurt-India flights till October 14||Two days ago, Lufthansa said it will have to cancel all "planned flights" between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 because of an "unexpected rejection" of its flight schedule by the Indian authorities.  The government officials said Thursday the airline has cancelled 10 Delhi-Frankfurt flights and two Bengaluru-Frankfurt flights that were scheduled till October 14.  "The permission for all Frankfurt flights till October 14 has been withdrawn by the German authorities," said one of the officials.  Air India did not respond to the request for a statement from PTI on this matter.  Lufthansa said on Tuesday it had applied for continuation of the special flights it was allowed to operate until the end of September but would now have to cancel the flights because of the "unexpected rejection".  The German carrier said it "sincerely urges" Indian authorities to work together with the German government to establish a temporary travel agreement between both the countries.  However, Indian aviation regulator DGCA said Tuesday that there are restrictions in place for Indian nationals desiring to travel to Germany which was putting Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa.  "As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue," it noted.  Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, special flights have been permitted under "air bubble" arrangements India has formed with 16 countries, including Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||HC summons senior UP govt officials over Dalit woman’s rape and murder||A Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court has summoned senior government officials amid a national outrage over accusations that the Hathras district administration had forcibly cremated the body of a 19-year-old Dalit girl who had been allegedly raped and brutalised. A bench of justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh issued summons to the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, director general of police and additional director general of police on Thursday, asking them to be present before the court on October 12 to explain the case. Taking suo motu cognisance of the September 14 gang-rape and subsequent death of the teenager, the bench also ordered the Hathras district magistrate and senior superintendent of police to appear before it. The high court bench asked all officials to come prepared with all the relevant material and documents to apprise the court of their versions of the incident. The order was issued on the day the girl’s father has alleged that he and his family members were being pressured by the district administration to change their statement. The court, which appeared especially upset over the police cremating the teen's body overnight, allegedly forcibly, in Hathras without her parent's consent, also asked officials to apprise the bench of the latest status of the probe into the alleged gang-rape and murder case. The bench also asked the late teen's parent to come to the court to apprise it of their version of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court. Family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi hospital has alleged they were being pressured by the district administration against repeatedly changing their statement. The father of the woman, whose death has triggered widespread criticism of the UP government, said he was being pressured by government officials and demanded a CBI probe into the matter. The father, around 50, claimed he was pressured into going to a police station where the district magistrate and police officials made three members of his family sign some document. “But we are not satisfied with this. My daughter's case should be probed by the CBI and monitored by a Supreme Court judge. We are under pressure from officials and confined to our home while the media has also been disallowed from meeting us,” he said in a purported video shared by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Twitter. The development came after another video, purportedly showing Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar meeting the family at their home and allegedly asking the woman's father to reconsider if he wanted to stick with the statement or change it. “Aap apni vishwasniyata khatam mat kariye. Media wale main aapko bata doon aaj abhi aadhe chale gaye, kal subah tak aadhe aur nikal jaenge aur 2-4 din bachenge ... Hum hi bas khade hain aapke saath mein, thik hai. Ab aapki ichha hai, aapko baar-baar bayaan badalna hai, nahi badalna hai... (You should not destroy your credibility. About the media, I must tell you, half of them have left today the other half would leave by tomorrow morning... two or four more days maybe. Only we are standing by your side, alright. Now, it is up to you whether you want to change your statement repeatedly or not...),” a man, purportedly D.M. Laxkar, is seen and heard telling the victim's father in the video circulated on social media. A woman member of the family claimed they were being pressured by the district magistrate and feared these people “won't let us live here”, according to another purported video. “Un logon ne mummy ke ulte seedhe video bana rakhe hain, us time haalat aise the ke jiske jo mu mein aa raha tha wo hum log bole ja rahe the... ab ye log humein yahan rehne nahi denge. Ye DM zyada hi chaalbaazi kar rahe hain, pressure daal rahe zabardasti... keh rah eke tum logon ki baton ka bharosa nahi hai, zabardasti bayaan badal rahe. Papa ko bulwa rahe keh rahe bayaan badalne se tumhari wo rahegi, hum log doosri jagah chale jaenge. (They have made random videos of mother's statements. Soon after the incident, the situation was such that we were speaking anything that came to our minds... But now they (administration) won't let us live here anymore. This DM is a trickster, he is pressuring us,” the sobbing woman alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Punjab eases lockdown curbs ||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a slew of relaxations amid COVID-19 outbreak, including lifting of night curfew and Sunday lockdown, while directing the DGP to strictly enforce wearing of masks and other safety norms. Among the relaxations announced by the chief minister are increasing the guests limit for marriage functions and funerals to 100 in the state, in line with the Centre's guidelines, as well as easing the limit of three persons in a car and 50 per cent capacity in buses, subject to the condition of windows being open, an official release said here. Singh, however, directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict adherence to coronavirus protocols, with immediate action against those violating the mandatory wearing of masks condition. "There should be no laxity, especially in view of the ongoing paddy procurement operations and the forthcoming festival season, he said. On reopening of schools and educational institutions, which the Centre had left to the states to decide post October 15 under Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the CM said the final decision will be announced after due deliberations between the home secretary and the education department. During a virtual meeting to review the COVID situation in the state, the senior Congress leader took note of the "decline in rising cases/deaths trend" and said the restrictions imposed earlier by the state government had helped. However, he expressed concern over the increase in COVID-19 cases in rural areas, even though the numbers in cities and towns were going down. Singh also directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to look into arranging for provision of vitamins among others to poor COVID-19 patients discharged from hospitals. In a brief presentation earlier, the state's expert health committee head K K Talwar said the positivity rate in the state had come down from 10.85 per cent on September 14 to 5.12 per cent on September 28. The number of deaths and patients on ventilators had also shown a decline during this period, he said. The state's COVID-19 death rate currently stands at 2.9 per cent with deaths per million at 112.5 per cent. The recovery rate has gone up to 82.1 per cent, Talwar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||SC directs refund of air tickets bought within the lockdown period||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed refund of air tickets, domestic and international, for travel during the COVID-19 lockdown period from March 25 to May 24 within three weeks from the date of the cancellation of flights. Accepting the Centre's proposal, the top court directed that if the tickets have been booked through an agent for travel within the lockdown period, in all such cases full refund shall be given by the airlines immediately and the amount shall be passed on immediately by the agent to the passengers. It said: If on account of financial distress, any airline/airlines are not able to refund then they shall provide credit shell, equal to the amount of fare collected, in the name of passenger when the booking is done either directly by the passenger or through travel agent so as to consume the same on or before March 31, 2021 . It is open to passengers either to utilise such credit shell up to March 31, 2021 on any route of choice or transfer the credit shell to any person including the travel agent concerned, and the airlines shall honour such a transfer, the top court said. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said the suggestions and formulations arrived at the meeting held by the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MCA), Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), which are acceptable to the majority of stakeholders have to be implemented in letter and spirit. We also feel that such formulations are workable solutions in these peculiar circumstances which are prevailing in the country, the bench said, while passing a slew of directions for refund of air tickets to the hassled passengers, whose flights were cancelled due to the pandemic induced lockdown. The top court's verdict came on a batch of petitions, including by NGOs and passengers associations, seeking complete refund of ticket fare for the flights cancelled. It said that the court cannot lose sight of the present situation prevailing in the country and across the globe with regard to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and any strict enforcement action of Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR) (aviation norms) against the airlines would further restrict their operations. It cannot be disputed that the civil aviation sector, which is one of the important sectors, is seriously affected in view of the ban imposed for operating flights. Added to the same, air passenger traffic has come down heavily and which is gradually being restored, the top court said. It added that any such enforcement action may further jeopardise the possibilities of generation of cash by airlines which can further adversely affect/delay the refund cycle. Strict enforcement of Civil Aviation Requirements at this moment may not yield any meaningful result for any stakeholder, the bench said. It said that the passengers who booked tickets at any period of time but for travel after May 24, then the refund of fares to the passengers covered under this category shall be governed by the provisions of CAR. Even for international travel, when the tickets have been booked on an Indian carrier and the booking is ex-India (flights originating from India), if the tickets have been booked during the lockdown period for travel within the lockdown period, immediate refund shall be made, the bench said in its order. If the tickets are booked for international travel on a foreign carrier and the booking is ex-India during the lockdown period for travel within the lockdown period, full refund shall be given by the airlines and said amount shall be passed on immediately by the agent to the passengers, wherever such tickets are booked through agents, it added. In all other cases airline shall refund the collected amount to the passenger within a period of three weeks, the bench emphasised and added that the credit shell issued in the name of the passenger shall be transferable which can be utilized up to March 31, 2021 and the concerned airline shall honour such a transfer by devising a mechanism to facilitate such a transfer. It is also made clear that such a credit shell can be utilized by the concerned agent through whom the ticket is booked, for third party use. It is also made clear that even in cases where the credit shell is transferred to a third party; same is to be utilized only through the agent who has booked the ticket at the first instance, it directed. Justice Reddy, who penned the verdict on behalf of the bench, said that in cases where passengers have purchased the ticket through an agent, and credit shell is issued in the name of passenger, such credit shell is to be utilized only through the agent who has booked the ticket. It said that in cases where tickets are booked through agent and credit shell is issued in the name of the passenger remains unutilized till March 31, 2021, then the refund of the fare collected shall be made to the same account from which account amount was received by the airline . The bench said that in all cases where credit shell is issued there shall be an incentive to compensate the passenger from the date of cancellation up to June 30, 2020 in which event the credit shell shall be enhanced by 0.5 per cent of the face value (the amount of fare collected) for every month or part thereof between the date of cancellation and June 30, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Gandhi siblings arrested by UP Police while proceeding towards Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were on Thursday arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police after they were stopped from marching towards Hathras, the party said. Rahul Gandhi also fell down in the melee after police tried to stop him and his supporters from proceeding on the Yamuna Expressway. The Gandhis were then taken away in a police jeep. Earlier, their convoy was stopped near Pari Chowk, prompting party workers and senior leaders to proceed on foot to Hathras. "Shri Rahul Gandhi, Smt Priyanka Gandhi and senior Congress leaders have been arrested by the UP police," the Congress said on Twitter, using the hashtag "JusticeForIndiasDaughters". Rahul Gandhi asked senior UP cops under which law was he being stopped as he wanted to walk alone towards Hathras to meet the rape victim's family. "Can you tell me under which law can you stop me from marching towards Hathras?" he told the cops. "I want to go alone to Hathras and on what basis can you arrest me," he added, to which the cops told him that he had violated Section 188 of the IPC of disobeying the orders promulgated by the government during the pandemic. Congress leader Randeep Surjrewala put out a video along with a tweet showing Rahul Gandhi allegedly being roughed up as he marched forward on the Yamuna Expressway. Pictures of him falling down in the melee were shared by the Congress. "Lala Lajpat Rai had said that every blow of a stick on my body would prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the British Raj. "The sticks on Rahul ji and Priyanka ji's convoy will also prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the Yogi government," Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader P Chidambaram also alleged that none of the country's laws seemed to apply to the UP police. "UP police is a law into itself. None of the laws of the country seem to apply to it," he alleged. "What is wrong if the leaders of a political party protest against a gruesome crime and wish to visit the victim's family," he asked on Twitter. Chidambaram said the two leaders were not violent, they did not carry arms and they were lodging a peaceful protest. "Why should the police stop them from protesting peacefully? Why should the UP police arrest the two leaders and take them away?" "I hope the court where the leaders will be produced will release them," he said. The Gandhis were seeking to walk down from Greater Noida to Hathras after their vehicles were stopped by the police. After walking for some time, they were stopped by the police. A large number of Congress workers and leaders were accompanying them during their march. NCP leaders on Thursday criticised the Uttar Pradesh government after the convoy of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was stopped by police while they were going to Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit gang-rape victim. Maharashtra Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh told reporters here that there should be no objection to a leader of a political party going there (Hathras) to condole with the family. "I feel quite surprised that the Uttar Pradesh government did not allow a senior leader of the party to meet the kin. This is a very serious issue," he said. NCP MP Supriya Sule also condemned the UP Police's action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Hathras victim was not raped, says UP Police||A senior Uttar Pradesh police officer said on Thursday said the forensic report has revealed that the 19-year-old Hathras woman who succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi hospital was not raped. Citing a forensic science laboratory (FSL) report, ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said the cause of her death is an injury on the neck and trauma resulting due to it. "The report of the FSL has also come. It says clearly that samples did not have sperm. It makes clear that there was no rape or gang rape," Kumar said. "Even the woman in her statement to police did not mention about rape but talked about 'marpeet' (beating) only, he said. "For disturbing social harmony and create caste violence, some persons wrongly presented facts," the UP police officer said. "Police took immediate action in the case and now we will identify those who tried to disturb social harmony and create caste violence," the ADG added, stressing that people "distorted facts" in the media. The officer said taking note of the matter, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had constituted a special investigation team to probe the incident. Those involved in the act will not be spared. But before the medical report, wrong statements pointing fingers on the government and police to malign their image were made. We will examine who are doing this. This is a serious matter. The government and police are sensitive to crime-related to women," he said. The ADG claimed that as per data, Uttar Pradesh topped in conviction in cases related to the crime against women in 2018 and 2019. The woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of night. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family", even as the incident triggered protests in Hathras with several people coming out on roads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka's convoy stopped by UP Police en route Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday proceeded on foot towards Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit gang-rape victim after their convoy was stopped in Greater Noida by the UP Police. The convoy was stopped near Pari Chowk, prompting party workers and senior leaders to proceed on foot to Hathras, which is 150 km away from here. A large number of Congress workers from Uttar Pradesh accompanied the two leaders on their march towards Hathras. They also raised slogans against the UP government. Talking to reporters while walking on the Yamuna Expressway towards Hathras, Priyanka Gandhi said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should take responsibility for the alleged gangrape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in the district and strict action should be taken against the perpetrators of the crime. The victim died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. "Since our cars have been stopped, we will walk down to Hathras as we want to meet the victim's family. We want to express our condolences to the family," Priyanka Gandhi said. "He (Adityanath) would have to do something for women's safety. We will continue to fight till the time he does something. The women in the entire state will fight as they realise that they are not safe and secure. Everyday such incidents are happening. Eleven rape cases are registered in Uttar Pradesh everyday," she said. The Congress general secretary recalled that around the same time last year, her party was protesting for the Unnao rape victim. Attacking the UP government for "not allowing the family to cremate the woman with honour", she said, "You claim to be the protectors of the Hindu religion, we are Hindus, but where has it been written that you cannot allow a father to lit the pyre of his daughter and not allow the family to cremate the victim? "The incident was a big injustice. What the state government did after that was a bigger injustice," she said, adding the Adityanath must ensure that atrocities against women are stopped. Ahead of the visit by Congress leaders, the Hathras district magistrate imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and ordered sealing of the district borders to maintain peace. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14 and referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday. Her brutal death and subsequent cremation in the dead of the night in Hathras allegedly under police pressure on Tuesday triggered massive outrage across the country over the law and order situation in UP and over women safety in general. Earlier, a Congress functionary said the Noida-Greater Noida expressway was barricaded by the police and scores of personnel deployed on the road shortly after the Congress leaders and workers entered UP's jurisdiction from Delhi. Nearly a hundred vehicles were in the convoy that was stopped from proceeding, the functionary said Scores of Congress workers had also staged a protest at the Delhi-Noida border, raising slogans against the BJP-led governments in the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh over the gang-rape and death of the Dalit woman. The protestors at the Delhi-Noida border also included women functionaries of the party as well as workers of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) who gathered at the Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) link around 11.30 am. The Gandhis were joined by Randeep Surjewala, P L Punia, and UP unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. When asked about the prohibitory orders placed in Hathras ahead of the Congress leaders' visit, Surjewala told reporters at the DND, Instead of stopping criminals, the Yogi Adityanath government is working on stopping Rahul and Priyanka and that is the question. He also questioned the cremation of the woman in the dead of the night, saying it was against the Hindu traditions and was done without her family's involvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Bhushan files fresh plea seeking review of punishment in contempt case||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan moved the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking review of the August 31 sentencing order to either pay nominal fine of Re 1 or face a three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years in the contempt case for his two tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan, who has already deposited Re 1 as fine with the apex court's registry on September 14, has filed two separate review petitions in the contempt case. The first review plea on September 14 had challenged the August 14 verdict convicting him for the contempt of court, while the second plea has been filed against the August 31 sentencing order which imposed the fine. In the second review plea, filed through lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan has sought an oral hearing in an open court on the matter. He has also sought recall of the impugned judgment and a fresh hearing, and said that the questions of law raised by him should be referred to a larger bench of appropriate strength. The plea said Bhushan was not supplied with the copy of the contempt petition filed by a lawyer on which the apex court had taken cognisance. Referring to an apex court judgement, the review plea said the court never indicated to Bhushan that it was contemplating barring from practicing as a lawyer. At no point during the judicial proceedings in this matter did this court even slightly indicate that it was contemplating disbarring the Petitioner-Advocate herein from appearing before this court. However, without any prior notice, the impugned order imposed on the petitioner a sentence in the alternative disbarring him from appearing before this court for a period of three years which is per incuriam as per the law laid down by a coordinate three judge bench in R K Anand vs Delhi High Court case.., the plea said. The rules of natural justice, therefore, demand that before passing an order debarring an advocate from appearing in courts he must be clearly told that his alleged conduct or actions are such that if found guilty he might be debarred from appearing in courts for a specific period, it said. Besides, Bhushan was denied an opportunity to file a fresh affidavit in case the court was not satisfied by his preliminary reply. He said that his second tweet regarding the judiciary in the last six years was not part of the contempt petition and was a separate issue altogether and should have been placed before the Chief Justice Of India for appropriate directions in the face of settled law . The petitioner was further denied an opportunity to lead evidence under Section 17(5) of Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, to substantiate averments in his preliminary reply, the plea said. On August 14, the top court had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. Holding that Bhushan attempted to scandalise the entire institution of the Supreme Court, the top court had said, If such an attack is not dealt with, with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations. The top court had analysed the two tweets of Bhushan posted on the micro-blogging site Twitter on June 27 on the functioning of judiciary in past six years, and on July 22 with regard to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Hathras victim was referred to AIIMS, not Safdarjung||The principal of the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) hospital, where the Hathras gangrape victim was under treatment for more than two weeks, on Thursday said he had no idea why she was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi when they had referred her to the AIIMS. "We are not in a position to explain as to why the patient was taken to the Safarjung hospital in New Delhi when we had referred her to the AIIMS," Professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui said. "On the night of September 28, the victim's family sought permission to shift her and we willingly referred her to the AIIMS," he added. The next morning, the patient, along with her family members, left for Delhi. Asked about the issue on Wednesday, JNMC authorities told reporters, "The Hathras district administration will be able to respond to this query, we had no role in this." Siddiqui said, "Normally, the decision to shift a patient for better medical facilities is taken by doctors in consultation with the patient's family, but if the family members wish to go by their decision, they can do so and we always cooperate." Asked about certain conflicting media reports regarding the injuries suffered by the victim, he said there is no scope for speculation as "we are only authorised to submit the report to the investigating officer or the court". Meanwhile, opposition parties and organisations have severely criticised the decision of the Hathras authorities on performing the last rites of the victim allegedly without the consent of the family. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14 and was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died at around 3 am on Tuesday. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi will be visiting Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to meet the family members of a Dailt gangrape victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. "Priyanka and Rahul will be visiting Hathras to meet the family members of the victim," Uttar Pradesh Congress media coordinator Lalan Kumar said, adding that a large number of party workers have gathered at Ghaziabad to receive the two leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Another Dalit rape victim in UP dies ||A 22-year-old Dalit woman died after being allegedly raped by two men in UP's Balrampur district, an incident which comes amid nationwide outrage over the Hathras gang-rape case. The woman's mother said she was abducted in the morning while on way to secure a college admission, as reported by ndtv.com. When she failed to return in time, the family launched a search for the woman. The family says she returned around 7 pm, and that the assailants had allegedly put her on an e-rickshaw and sent her home, sources said. "The men had injected her with some substance due to which she lost consciousness. Then they raped her... They broke her legs, they broke her back. A rickshaw-wallah brought her home. They was thrown in front of our house. My child could barely stand or speak," the woman's mother said, weeping. "Somehow, crying, my daughter said, 'Save me, I do not want to die'," the mother said. She added that soon after her return, her daughter complained of a burning pain in her stomach. "The doctor at the local hospital said her condition is serious and advised that she be taken to Lucknow. But she died when we were near Balrampur town," she added. The girl looked dazed and had an intravascular cannula, medically known as Vigo and used for administering injection or other fluids in the body, inserted in her hands, said Balrampur Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma. About the reports that the victim's legs and back were broken, he said, "It was not confirmed in the post-mortem. We contradict this news." The victim was cremated on Wednesday after the post-mortem in the presence of her family members, the police said. The district magistrate and the SP, along with the mahant of the Devipatan temple, Mithilesh Nath Yogi, visited the victim's house on Thursday morning, met the family members and condoled her death. "The family members were assured that the accused will be given a strict punishment in accordance with law. A letter sanctioning a financial assistance of Rs 6,18,450 was handed over to them by the mahant. The amount will be sent to the victim's mother bank account by the afternoon," a statement issued here said. The mother has demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for her son. "My daughter wanted to become a lawyer but she was killed. The same fate should await the culprits. We want justice. My son should be given a government job and we should get at least Rs 25 lakh as compensation," she said. The "jungle raj" that has spread in Uttar Pradesh has no limits and the time for accountability is now, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, adding that a gruesome incident like Hathras had taken place in Balrampur too. "Law and order is not run by marketing and speeches. This is time for accountability of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. The public wants accountability," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Alleging that "atrocities" on women and the government's brazenness is continuing, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said, "Did not give respect when alive and also snatched the dignity in death." His tweet, also in Hindi, referenced the Hathras victim's family being allegedly denied the right to properly perform her last rites. When the matter was reported to the police from the hospital, the parents alleged that their daughter was gang-raped, SP Verma added. Acting on the parent's complaint, police identified the accused as Shahid and Sahil and arrested them, the SP said. Reacting to the incident, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav said, "After Hathras, now a daughter was harassed and gang-raped in Balrampur. The victim died in serious condition. Condolences!" "The BJP government should commit no laxity in this case as was done in Hathras and arrest the accused immediately," he added with a hashtag #Balrampur... #NoMoreBJP" on his Twitter handle. The Balrampur case comes at a time when there is a widespread outrage over the gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Hathras. A 19-year-old Dalit was allegedly sexually assaulted by four upper caste men on September 14 and referred on Monday to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi with spinal injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Brutalised Dalit girl’s body ‘hijacked’ by UP police||Police allegedly hijacked the body of the gang-raped and brutalised Dalit teen whose death has triggered protests in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and cremated it without her immediate family’s participation — a tactic often followed in Kashmir with militants’ funerals to pre-empt flare-ups. The girl’s family in Hathras district, Uttar Pradesh, said the state police had “surreptitiously” taken the body away from Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, brought it to their village at night, locked them inside their house and “burnt” the body at the local cremation ground. An uncle of the 19-year-old victim said he had been standing outside the girl’s house in Champda village when “some policemen grabbed me and forcibly took me to the cremation ground and shot a video to show I had attended the funeral”. He said that after placing the body on the pyre, “the policemen poured a liquid from a plastic container on the pyre and burnt the body”. He added that no holy water ritual or mukhagni (a fire ritual) was done. “People were protesting at various places along the highway in Hathras. The police clandestinely cremated her, instead of handing the body over, to prevent the funeral triggering an outpouring of emotion and anti-government protests,” the victim’s elder brother said. With the same objective in mind, Kashmir police have been refusing to hand over the bodies of slain militants to their families, and have been burying them in far-off places, sometimes with a token representation from their families. Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir said: “The police were at the cremation ground to maintain law and order. The victim’s family performed the last rites.” Prem Prakash Meena, joint magistrate of Hathras, echoed him: “The victim’s family members were present during cremation. We have made many videos of their presence.” The brother said he had been waiting at Safdarjung Hospital for the handover of the body after his sister died there around 4am on Tuesday. He learnt around 6am that the Uttar Pradesh police had taken the body away. It’s not clear where the police kept the body through the day. It was at night that they arrived with the body in Champda, 180km from Delhi. “On the way, they used force to disperse the large number of women and men from across Uttar Pradesh who had gathered on the highways in Hathras after learning the police had seized the body,” he said. The victim’s father said: “The police locked the door of our house from outside while my wife, son, eldest daughter, some other close relatives and I were inside. They burnt her body at the local cremation ground at 2.30am.” “We were not allowed to go. We couldn’t even see her face,” said the brother, who had registered the FIR against the four accused on September 14. That day, the victim and her mother were collecting grass for their cattle from two distant parts of a large field when the accused allegedly overpowered the girl, gang-raped her, chopped her tongue off and broke her spinal cord, paralysing her from the waist down. “My sister was admitted to J.N. Hospital, Aligarh, on September 15 and shifted to Safdarjung Hospital on Sunday. We had demanded she be treated at AIIMS, New Delhi, but the police said no bed was available there,” the brother said. Sandeep Singh, Lavkush Kumar Singh, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar Singh — upper caste men from Champda — were arrested one by one within five days of the incident on the charge of attempt to murder. The charge has been changed to murder now. “The charge of molestation was added on September 19 and that of gang rape on September 22,” Piyush Mordia, inspector-general of police, Aligarh range, said. The family says the gang rape charge was added under public pressure. But Mordia on Wednesday said the reports from the Aligarh hospital “didn’t confirm the gang rape, so we have sent the evidence to a forensic laboratory”. “The police initially ignored our request to book the criminals on the charge of gang rape,” the girl’s mother, who witnessed the last few moments of the assault after being alerted by the victim’s cries, said. “I want the tormentors of my daughter and the policemen who are trying to save them to suffer the way my daughter suffered in hospital and died.” The state government has formed a three-member special investigation team under home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop to probe the case. The other members are a senior police officer and a bureaucrat. “The SIT is just eyewash. I have come to know that most SIT reports ordered by the Yogi Adityanath government never see the light of day,” the victim’s brother said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||‘No plot’ to demolish Babri, all acquitted||A special CBI court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 surviving accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, denying any conspiracy by the assembled BJP and VHP heavyweights and blaming the vandalism on “anti-social elements” who had infiltrated the kar sevaks. The judgment concludes a 28-year-old chapter stemming from one of the darkest incidents in Indian history, handing another victory to the BJP after the Supreme Court last November allotted the disputed Ayodhya plot to Hindus despite calling the demolition an “egregious violation of the rule of law”. The CBI, the prosecuting agency, said it would decide on an appeal after consulting its legal department. Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav, who retired on Wednesday after passing the verdict, said in his 2,300-page order: “There were some anti-social elements which had mixed up with the kar sevaks and committed the crime. The politicians and the sadhus were continuously making appeals to the mob to maintain peace.” Hearing the verdict, which brings the Babri issue centre-stage ahead of the Bihar polls, some among the 26 defendants present in court broke out in chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. ⚫ The verdict disposes of the case against the unnamed kar sevaks too, pinning the blame on “anti-social elements (who) ignored the fact that there was an idol of the god (Ram) inside the structure”, which “suggests that they didn’t have respect for any religion”. ⚫ It was partly because of the Ram idol — installed surreptitiously inside the mosque in 1949 — that Hindu leaders like the late VHP stalwart Ashok Singhal had wanted to save the structure rather than encourage the mob to demolish it, the court observed. ⚫ The court refused to admit newspaper clippings or video recordings of the demolition, many of which said or purported to show that some of the Sangh parivar leaders had egged the mob on. ⚫ The court said the CBI had failed to follow Section 65 of the Indian Evidence Act (which deals with electronic records) and had relied on video footage rather than furnishing negatives of the footage and the equipment used to shoot the videos. ⚫ It said some of the video cassettes produced as evidence were unclear and that the voices of the parivar leaders in some of the audios were inaudible. ⚫ The judgment quoted a December 1, 1992, report by the local intelligence unit of Uttar Pradesh police that spoke of a possibility of “unscrupulous elements” joining the kar sevaks and committing a crime. BJP veteran L.K. Advani, allowed to participate via videoconferencing along with party stalwarts Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharati and Kalyan Singh and two others, did so at home. “It’s a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court’s order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram,” Advani, 92, said in a video message. Zafaryab Jilani, advocate and member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, spoke about challenging the verdict in the high court. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi called the development “obnoxious”, saying the judgment “satisfies the collective consciousness of Hindutva and its followers and ideology”. “Was it some sort of magic that on December 6 the masjid was demolished? Who called for the assembling of the people over there? Who made sure that they entered over there?” he asked. Kalyan was Uttar Pradesh chief minister, responsible for the mosque’s protection, when the December 6, 1992, demolition happened, triggering riots that killed hundreds across the country and deeply divided Indian society. The verdict came on the last day of the final deadline set by the apex court, which had extended the judge’s retirement age. Judge Yadav took his seat at 12.10pm and spent five minutes reading out the operative part of his judgment. Iqbal Ansari, a prominent litigant in the Ayodhya title suit, welcomed Wednesday’s verdict. “It’s good that all have been acquitted. Whatever had to happen, happened on November 9 last year (with the Ayodhya land verdict). This case should also have ended the same day,” he said. Two cases had originally been filed, one against unknown kar sevaks and the other naming 49 parivar heavyweights as conspirators, of whom 17 have died. The cases were later clubbed together. All the accused alleged being falsely implicated by the then Congress government at the Centre. At one stage, the criminal conspiracy charge was dropped against the key figures but the Supreme Court restored it in 2017 and ordered daily hearings. The CBI produced 351 witnesses and furnished 600 pieces of evidence. The six accused excused from physical presence in the court on Wednesday included Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust president Nritya Gopal Das and Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan. Das had tested Covid-positive last month while Kalyan and Uma are in hospital recovering from the infection. “The judgment vindicates my personal and the BJP’s belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said. “I also feel blessed that this judgment has come in the footsteps of another landmark verdict of the Supreme Court given in November 2019, which paved the way for my long-cherished dream of seeing a grand Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, the foundation-laying ceremony of which was held on August 5.” Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Surprises in Covid study||A giant study on Covid-19 conducted in India has pointed to early deaths, high risk of transmission among children below 14 years and the oldest adults being surprisingly protected from the infection.The study has also revealed that the risk of secondary spread — an infected person spreading the virus — is much higher among occupants of shared vehicles during travel for six hours or longer than among people within households. A team of nine health researchers and government officials analysed data from 575,000 contacts of 84,965 confirmed Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to look for patterns of infection spread, mortality and the risk of exposure. Scientists not associated with the analysis said they were impressed by the richness of the data. “It is absolutely fantastic that two state governments have shared Covid-19 data for academic analysis,” Gagandeep Kang, a senior clinician-scientist and expert in infectious diseases at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. Some community medicine specialists, including members of the Indian Public Health Association, have highlighted the Centre’s failure to make data available for independent analysis despite the country witnessing more than 6.2 million Covid-19 infections and 97,000 deaths. The study has generated evidence for a strong transmission risk among similar-age contacts, with the highest such risk among children aged 14 years, which the researchers believe could be driven by social interactions such as those in shared play spaces. While worldwide data have established that most infected children remain asymptomatic or develop only mild symptoms, scientists have been debating children’s capacity to spread the infection. “We have compelling evidence that children are efficient transmitters,” Ramanan Laxminarayanan, a public health researcher and director of the US-based Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy who led the study, told this newspaper. The new study, published in the US journal Science on Wednesday, found that half of 5,733 Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu occurred within six days of diagnosis and 1,042 (18.2 per cent) within 24 hours or even before a test result. The observed time-to-death after the diagnosis is shorter than the average of 13 days reported from the US or at least two weeks from China and indicates that a substantial proportion of patients in the two states were diagnosed late. “Covid is among the trickiest diseases to diagnose only through symptoms,” Shankar Reddy Dudala, a community medicine specialist and a study team member from Andhra Pradesh, told this newspaper. Many patients, he said, reached hospitals only after they had developed severe breathlessness. Before suffering breathlessness, the patients often had mild fever, cough, sore throat, body pain, loss of appetite, stomach pain or just hiccups, he said. Their analysis revealed significant differences in the risk of spread in different exposure settings. The chance of someone picking up the infection if exposed to an infected patient was 1.2 per cent in healthcare settings, 2.6 per cent in the community, 9 per cent within households and 79 per cent if travelling in the same vehicle for six hours or longer. About 31 per cent of the infections occurred in people below 30 years and the deaths were concentrated between ages 50 and 64 years. Among a group 124,000 cases, the overall case fatality rate was 2.06 per cent — 0.054 per cent among patients aged between 5 and 17 years, increasing with age to 16 per cent among patients aged 85 or older, the rise in line with observations in other countries. “Unlike observations in high-income countries, the incidence of reported cases does not increase with older age,” said Ramanan, who collaborated with researchers at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health and the University of California, Berkeley, for the study. The researchers say it is possible that the stringent stay-at-home orders for the elderly has reduced their risk of exposure. But they say it is also possible the oldest people in India enjoy a “survivability bias” rooted in a socio-economic advantage, reflected by their survival to very old age in a country where life expectancy is 69 years, compared with 77 years in China, 79 years in the US and 83 years in Italy. “This is a novel finding — we need to understand this better, but it is possible that better nutrition or overall health or their socio-economic status somehow confers the oldest people in the country some protection from exposure,” Dudala said. Scientists say the study’s findings — the early deaths, the high risk of spread through shared travel and efficient transmission between children — could guide policy decisions to control the epidemic. “Transmission within children would need to be considered while making policies on opening schools,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist in India. “This study reinforces the criticality of making available public health data for analysis in real time.” He added: “By now, India should have had comparable data across most states so that even regional and sub-regional differences could be identified. Sensible policy can only be formulated when high quality data is available in a timely manner.” The other study members were epidemiologists Joseph Lewnard from the University of California, Berkeley; Brian Wahl from Johns Hopkins; S. Neelima from Andhra Pradesh and K. Gopal, Chandra Mohan, K.S. Jawahar Reddy and J. Radhakrishnan, senior government officials from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Travesty of justice: CPM||The CPM on Wednesday described the Babri Masjid demolition verdict as a “travesty of justice” that would blemish the image of India as a secular, democratic country governed by the Constitution. Demanding that the CBI appeal against the judgment, the CPM politburo said “it took 28 long years for this verdict but not justice to be delivered”. It noted that all top leaders of the BJP-VHP-RSS who were present during the Babri demolition in 1992 had been found to be innocent of the charge of conspiracy to demolish the mosque. In a related statement, the CPI’s Binoy Viswam said the verdict, while disappointing, was not unexpected. “The whitewashing of the plethora of crimes committed on December 6, 1992, has been the hallmark of this government and its coteries.... The impunity afforded to those who subscribe to a particular political disposition is unbecoming of the foundational principles of India where every citizen is equal and the law rules supreme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Vindicated, says CBI  ex-chief  ||Former CBI director P.C. Sharma on Wednesday said the acquittal of all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case was a vindication of his decision to drop the criminal conspiracy charge against then deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani. “The verdict of the court has brought to light what I had opined nearly two decades back that there was no criminal conspiracy,” Sharma said. He said that during his tenure — first as an officiating director of the CBI and later during his two-year stint as its chief — he had gone through every detail of the case and reached the conclusion that Advani could not be accused of criminal conspiracy. “Pursuing this, an application was moved before the Rae Bareilly court informing it of the CBI’s decision in 2003, but all hell broke loose and the agency was questioned and even accused of siding with the political government of the day,” Sharma, who is in his early 80s, said. He added: “I believe today’s verdict is an answer to all those accusations and the case has reached its finality.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Cong cites SC, slams verdict||The Congress has objected to the mass acquittal in the Babri Masjid demolition that the Supreme Court had termed an “egregious violation of the rule of law”, arguing the entire country has witnessed the Sangh-BJP “conspiracy” to destroy communal harmony. “The decision of the special (CBI) court to acquit all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to the Supreme Court’s (Ayodhya title suit) judgment as also the constitutional spirit,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “The Supreme Court in its judgment on November 9, 2019, pronounced by five judges, held that the demolition of the Babri Masjid was a clear illegality and an ‘egregious violation of the rule of law’. But the special court has exonerated all the accused.” Surjewala added: “The entire country witnessed a deep-rooted political conspiracy by the BJP-RSS and its leaders to destroy the country’s communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost. The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a co-conspirator in the designed attack on India’s constitutional ethos, so much so that the Supreme Court was misled (with) a wrong affidavit (filed) on oath. “It is only after a detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of the masjid to be ‘an egregious violation’ of the rule of law.” While the Congress had welcomed the Supreme Court verdict that gave the disputed plot in Ayodhya to Hindus to build a Ram temple, it views the Babri demolition as a criminal act that should be treated separately. Surjewala said: “Every Indian who has innate faith in the Constitution as also in the spirit of communal amity and brotherhood expects and urges the central and state governments to file an appeal against the decision of the special court, (which is) founded in error, and follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any partiality and pre-meditated prejudice. This is the true calling of the rule of law and our Constitution.” The Congress spokesperson read out an extract from the Supreme Court verdict: “On 6 December 1992, the structure of the mosque was brought down and the mosque was destroyed. The destruction of the mosque took place in breach of the order of status quo and an assurance given to this court. The destruction of the mosque and the obliteration of the Islamic structure was an egregious violation of the rule of law.” Surjewala added: “Para 800 said, ‘The Constitution postulates the equality of all faiths. Tolerance and mutual co-existence nourish the secular commitment of our nation and its people’. Still, the special court found no one guilty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||A shame, no remedy: Lawyers||There is no remedy in the country anymore, veteran lawyers said while reacting to the Babri mosque demolition verdict and cautioned that the judgment acquitting senior BJP leaders L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and others was a recipe for lawless elements to break the law with impunity. The critics also unanimously agreed that the foundation for Wednesday’s acquittal was perhaps laid by the five-judge Supreme Court constitution bench’s judgment on November 9 last year handing over the disputed land in Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple even after accepting that the demolition of the mosque had been an “egregious violation of the rule of law”. The rights activists said it was unlikely that the CBI would file an appeal against the acquittal by the special CBI court in Lucknow, given the agency’s track record. They pointed out that the CBI had not challenged the discharge of then BJP chief and current Union home minister Amit Shah in 2014 in the alleged fake encounter killing of gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh. The CBI counsel has said it will decide on filing an appeal against the special court verdict after consulting its legal department. Technically only the CBI as the prosecuting agency can file an appeal unless there is a complainant in the case who is also a party to the dispute. In the Babri case, there is no complainant other than the CBI and Uttar Pradesh police. However, the high courts under Articles 226 and 227 and the Supreme Court under Article 142 have inherent powers to order the CBI to file an appeal either suo motu or through a PIL. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave and veteran lawyer Prashant Bhushan felt no useful purpose would be served by filing an appeal against Wednesday’s judgment. Civil liberties lawyer Colin Gonzalves, referring to the acquittal, said: “What a shame!” “Nobody is punished? I would say this is a very dark day for India, for which the police and the judiciary are to be blamed. Because you can smash a mosque in broad daylight after giving an assurance to the Supreme Court, completely destroy a mosque. And nobody is punished?” Gonzalves told The Telegraph. “This naturally follows the Supreme Court judgment on Ayodhya. It follows from that. Because if you can give the mosque over to another community, you know there is no justice in this country,” he added. The senior advocate pointed out that the law of the land states that even if a person breaks his own property, he has to first reconstruct it and then seek adjudication of the dispute. But in the case of the Ayodhya land, Gonzalves said the Supreme Court last year allowed the arguments to proceed in the matter without first seeking the reconstruction of the demolished mosque. “But here the court allowed arguments without insisting on reconstruction. So what it means is there is an incentive to any group to say this land belongs to A, this belongs to me. It’s an incentive to break and then finally file a suit and make a claim that this land is mine,” he said. “Take the law first into your hands. It is an incentive to take the law into your hands. Today’s judgment is a continuation of that principle. Nothing is going to happen, nothing is going to happen. Take the law into your hands. You broke the thing in broad daylight, nothing is going to happen to you. What a shame!” Gonzalves said. The senior advocate was dismissive of the possibility of the CBI filing an appeal against Wednesday’s verdict, saying the “CBI is his master’s voice”. He, however, did not agree with the view that it was time to move on. “There is no moving on. It’s like the Sikhs (in the 1984 riots). Sikhs have not got justice. How can you move on when you have lost your husbands, wives, sons and daughters in a riot, how can you move on?” Gonzalves asked. “There is no remedy in India with a weak judiciary and a very servile police force. There is no remedy in the country anymore,” he said. Bhushan said the acquittal was a foregone conclusion. “It was in many ways a foregone conclusion given what the court — the Supreme Court — has done by rewarding these very people with the land where these people had demolished the mosque.” He added: “The CBI will not appeal (Wednesday’s judgment)… Just as they didn’t appeal against the discharge of Amit Shah, they are not likely to appeal.” Bhushan went on: “It will become a very old sort of thing and more important things have overtaken the country. There is a much bigger onslaught on the minorities today than the demolition of a mosque.” Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association president Dave said the acquittal was bound to follow the Supreme Court judgment. The lawyer felt the CBI would not challenge the verdict. “Well, the CBI is controlled today by the executive. (Then) Chief Justice (R.M.) Lodha had said it is a caged parrot. It would be very difficult to expect the CBI to do anything. They didn’t file any appeal against the discharge of Mr Amit Shah, whose prosecution had been ordered by the Supreme Court itself. I would be very surprised if the CBI were to file an appeal,” Dave said. The senior lawyer felt it would not be possible for any private person to file an appeal as the remedy would lie in the form of a PIL before Allahabad High Court or the Supreme Court for a direction to the CBI to lodge an appeal. “I think time has come to forget this matter as the majority of the country wanted and the Supreme Court obliged the majority and I think we should put it behind and move on,” Dave said. “I don’t know whether originally the complainant was a private person or not. But it would be a kind of public interest petition by a private person asking the CBI to maintain an appeal. I think such a plea can be maintained by a private person. “But as I said, this is an exercise in futility. Everybody expected this outcome and once the Supreme Court itself overlooked the destruction of the mosque and permitted rebuilding of the temple, that was a clear sign to the district judge to exonerate all these people,” Dave said. He said India would have to accept, as was happening in Turkey and other Islamic countries where religious structures of minorities are destroyed and those of the majority community are constructed on the ruins. “I think we must accept the position like Turkey has done. Turkey recently converted a church into a mosque. There also they have relied upon some judgment of the constitution bench of the Supreme Court of Turkey,” he added. “India is also following the same thing that Islamic countries are doing. I think in today’s world, the majority speaks and once it speaks it should be treated as final. I don’t think anybody else should have any voice against it,”Dave said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Modi and Shah silent ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda remained silent on Wednesday’s acquittal of all the Babri demolition accused but the RSS welcomed the verdict, urging everyone to move forward for the “progress of this country”. Defence minister Rajnath Singh too lauded the judgment saying it represented the victory of “justice”, although a delayed one. The silence maintained by Modi, Shah and Nadda appeared deliberate. Party sources said there was no need to celebrate the verdict as the decks had already been cleared for the BJP’s main goal of having a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya. Many of the acquitted accused from the BJP, some of them big names during the temple movement of the 1980s and early 1990s, are now sidelined within the party. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, chose an aggressive response. In a tweet, he welcomed the verdict with “Satyamev jayate (The truth alone wins)” and went on to demand an apology from the Congress, accusing the party of “falsely implicating saints and BJP leaders” in the case. “Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh welcomes the decision of honour acquittal of all the accused in the case related to the destruction of the disputed structure by CBI special court,” RSS general secretary Suresh “Bhayyaji” Joshi said in a statement. “After this decision, all sections of society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country.” Marginalised BJP veteran L.K. Advani, one of the accused and the face of the Ram temple movement, said he had welcomed the verdict by chanting “Jai Shri Ram” at his home. “The judgement vindicates my personal and the BJP’s belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement,” the 92-year-old, who attended the Lucknow court proceedings through videoconferencing, said in a statement. Television channels flashed pictures of Advani waiting for the judgment at his Delhi home, holding the hand of his daughter Pratibha. Advani said the judgment, along with last November’s Supreme Court verdict handing the disputed Ayodhya plot to the Hindus, had “paved the way for my long-cherished dream of seeing a grand Ram Mandir at Ayodhya”. “May Shri Ram keep us blessed always,” he added, concluding his statement with a “Jai Shri Ram” in bold capitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||SC nod for civil services exam on October 4 ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday permitted the Union Public Service Commission to go ahead with the October 4 civil services exam as it rejected the plea of a batch of students for postponement of the exams by two-three months on account of the pandemic situation in the country. A bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, however, directed that the authorities must take all precautionary steps and standard operating procedures (SoPs) evolved by the ministry of health, including ensuring that no Covid positive student is allowed to take the exams and there shall be not more than 100 students in a centre, be fully followed. “… but there are instructions that such patients cannot travel… It requires isolation how can lives be risked? We cannot breach protocol by saying quarantine has to be violated,” the bench said, while rejecting the plea for permitting Covid positive candidates to appear for the exam. The bench also comprising Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari rejected the plea of the candidates for merger of the 2020 civil services exams with that of the 2021 preliminary exams, which is tentatively scheduled for June 27. Justice Khanwilkar said there can be no merger as it would have a “cascading effect” on various other exams in the country. The court passed the directions after taking on record the affidavit filed by the UPSC which stated that it had incurred an enormous expenditure for conduct of the exams at 72 centres and over 2,500 sub-centres across the country and all necessary precaution and SoPs are being followed to protect the health of the candidates and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||States can decide on schools||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued guidelines permitting states to take a call on reopening schools outside containment zones from October 15 and also allowed cinemas to operate at 50 per cent capacity. States and Union Territories will consult the schools to assess the situation and decide on reopening, the Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the government says. Coaching centres will also be allowed to reopen. In Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said there is no chance of schools reopening before Kali Puja in mid-November. States and Union Territories can allow from October 15 social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and other events with a ceiling in enclosed spaces. However, in open spaces, the size of the ground and other such areas will decide the number of people to be allowed at the gatherings. This is expected to facilitate rallies in the run-up to the Bihar Assembly polls. The reopening of schools will be subject to the following conditions, according to the Centre: ⚫ Online/distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged. ⚫ Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend them rather than physically go to school, they may be permitted to do so. ⚫ The written consent of parents is must for students to attend school and also coaching institutes. ⚫ Physical attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent. ⚫ States and Union Territories will have to prepare their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding health and safety precautions for reopening schools and coaching institutions. The SOPs will have to be based on the one issued by the department of school education and literacy under the Union education ministry and in keeping with local requirements. ⚫ Schools that are allowed to reopen will have to follow the SOPs. Higher education institutions meant only for research scholars and postgraduate students of science and technology who require laboratory facilities will be allowed to reopen on October 15. Cinemas, theatres and multiplexes outside containment zones will be permitted to reopen with a ceiling of 50 per cent of the seating capacity from October 15. In Bengal, cinemas have been allowed to reopen on October 1 but the establishments have decided to wait till the I&B ministry issues the SOPs. Entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted to reopen from October 15. Only those swimming pools that are used for the training of sportspersons will be permitted to open from October 15. Business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions will be permitted from the same date. The SOP will be released by the department of commerce. Lockdowns in containment zones will continue till October 31 and states will not be allowed to enforce lockdowns outside these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Blame on UP cops for assaults on Dalit girls ||A leading Dalit rights group on Wednesday described the fatal gang rape and torture of a teenaged Dalit girl in Hathras as the tip of an iceberg of atrocities against deprived segments of the population in Uttar Pradesh. The National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR) blamed the indifference of the police for the increasing assaults on Dalit women in Uttar Pradesh and demanded that all these cases be tried in fast-track courts. In a statement, the organisation said that more than a half-dozen assaults on Dalit women and girls had been reported from Lakhimpur Kheri district alone in the past two months. Six instances of abduction and rape have been reported from Saharanpur district. “These gruesome incidents of sexual violence reflect the real picture of Indian society, constructed on violent casteist patriarchal structure,” the statement said. Data collated from the National Crime Record Bureau’s reports suggest that Uttar Pradesh witnessed the highest number of atrocities against Dalit women in India between 2014 and 2018. Altogether 7,920 cases of atrocities against Dalit women were registered under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act in the state during this period. These included 3,421 cases of assault, 2,410 rapes and 1,870 kidnappings. Vimal Thorat, an academic and the NCDHR convener, told this newspaper that the police were completely apathetic to atrocities against Dalits. “If the police had taken prompt action, these incidents could have been reduced to a great extent. But the culprits are committing assaults with impunity,” Thorat said. In the Hathras case, the arrests took several days while the victim’s family accused the police of invoking gang-rape charges after a delay of more than a week. Nor did the police provide protection to the victim’s family, the NCDHR said. It demanded strict implementation of the SC/ST Atrocities Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and the fast-tracking of all cases of sexual assault on Dalit women and girls. It also demanded relief and rehabilitation for the survivors of caste and gender violence. According to the NCDHR statement, the 19-year-old Hathras victim was dragged, with her dupatta twined around her neck, into the field where she was gang-raped on September 14. She suffered severe spinal cord injuries that paralysed her from the waist down and also sustained a deep cut to her tongue. She died on Tuesday at a Delhi hospital. All the four accused are upper caste men. The inhumanity continued even after her death, the NCDHR said, referring to the police’s alleged act of cremating her without the consent or participation of her immediate family, who say the force locked them inside their home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Priyanka to Yogi: What kind of CM are you?||The Congress has said that justice for the Hathras gang-rape victim who died on Tuesday entails Yogi Adityanath’s removal as chief minister, referring to the monk by his original name to question his spiritual accomplishments and highlight his caste. The party has described as a national shame the administration’s “criminal negligence” after the September 14 assault and its pre-dawn cremation of the Dalit girl’s body on Wednesday without the family’s consent or participation. The victim’s family says the police delayed invoking rape charges, denied the brutalised girl the best treatment, and smuggled her body out of a Delhi hospital to cremate it in her village after locking the family inside their home. While Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, sought Adityanath’s resignation, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev demanded his dismissal. “The only way to give justice to the Hathras rape victim is to sack Ajay Singh Bisht. Nothing else will suffice,” Sushmita told a news conference. “The SIT (special investigation team) can probe the crime but what about the criminal negligence and the violation of human rights by forcibly cremating the body in the middle of the night?” Throughout the news conference, Congress spokespersons referred to the chief minister as Ajay Singh Bisht rather than Yogi Adityanath. Party sources later cited two reasons. One, calling him a yogi amounts to demeaning the spiritual tradition because he hasn’t shown the required sensitivity or compassion, they said. Two, his real identity needs to be stressed because of his brazen caste politics. Priyanka, who has instructed the Uttar Pradesh Congress to hold statewide demonstrations demanding the chief minister’s resignation, said in a video message: “The chief minister spoke on the ghastly crime today even as the incident happened on September 14. He said the SIT was constituted after the Prime Minister called. Were you waiting for the Prime Minister’s call? What were you doing for 15 days? Couldn’t even ensure proper treatment to the child? What kind of chief minister are you?” The victim’s brother has said the police got the girl treated at J.N. Hospital of the Aligarh Medical College before shifting her to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 27. All the while, he says, the force refused the family’s demand for AIIMS admission saying no beds were available there. “And what kind of conduct happened after the victim’s death? Who passed the order to snatch the body from the family to be burnt in that manner, after locking up the parents?” Priyanka said. “This showed how inhumane your government is. Why was the SIT not constituted on the day of the tragedy itself?” Priyanka had earlier tweeted: “Unbelievable inhumanity. Instead of stopping crime, you acted as criminals. You inflicted greater injuries on the family. Yogi Adityanath must resign.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi released a video message, saying: “The Hathras incident is a blot on society. Is it a crime to be a girl, a poor man’s daughter? The victim didn’t die; she was killed by the cruelty of the government, by the apathy of the administration.” She added: “When she was alive, she didn’t get security. After her death, she was confined to flames using the power of the police. Her body was not sent home, her mother couldn’t see her off the last time. Human existence has some dignity but that too was violated.” Sushmita said: “Why was the body cremated in the middle of the night without the family’s approval? What was Ajay Bisht trying to hide? Why was rape not mentioned in the original FIR? Ajay Bisht has crossed all limits. The nation will be ashamed if Prime Minister Narendra Modi doesn’t sack Bisht.” Dalit leader Udit Raj told the media conference: “Do you remember any other incident in which the administration burns the body in the middle of the night despite the family’s strong protests? They could do it because she was a Dalit. She was left to die without proper treatment because she was a Dalit. “Ajay Bisht has an anti-Dalit mindset. The RSS ideology is anti-Dalit; they want to crush the community so badly that they can’t fight for their rights. They want Dalits to live like slaves.” Many in Uttar Pradesh feel that the total dominance of Rajputs, the caste Adityanath belongs to, in the state has created social turmoil. “I must mention that all the accused are from Bisht’s caste. Out of 54 districts, officials from the same caste are posted in key positions in 39 districts,” Udit Raj said. “There has been a series of incidents. The goons are all Bisht supporters. He has to be removed to end the jungle raj.” Sushmita also targeted Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani. “There is not a word from the central minister though, like the Prime Minister, she comes from the same state. She is just a drama queen; a woman of no conviction, no integrity,” Sushmita said. “She now says rape should not be politicised. Prime Minister Modi told Delhi voters, ‘Nirbhaya ko yaad rakhna’ (an appeal to remember the December 2012 bus gang-rape victim). But now they are silent.” Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “A Dalit daughter is raped and murdered. Facts are suppressed. And finally, the right of conducting the last rites is snatched from the family. This is unjust and humiliating.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Delhi police detain rape protesters ||Police detained 80 people from Opposition-affiliated student, youth and women’s groups in the capital on Wednesday when they tried to protest outside Uttar Pradesh Bhavan against the gang rape and murder of a teenager in Hathras and her cremation by cops without her family’s participation. The protesters were later allowed to leave but not before they had been booked under sections of the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code, collectively punishable with up to 18 months in jail. Those detained include Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, CPM-backed All India Democratic Women’s Association general secretary Mariam Dhawale, CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association Delhi secretary Prasenjeet Kumar and activists of several Left groups, the Congress and the Bhim Army. Protests began on Tuesday outside Safdarjung Hospital after the brutalised Dalit girl breathed her last there. Later at night, JNU students blocked Baba Gangnath Marg outside the university and held a candlelight vigil. On Wednesday, the police and central forces picked up protesters as soon as they came near Uttar Pradesh Bhavan that had been barricaded, and whisked them away to police stations. “Low conviction rates, dysfunctional fast-track courts, namesake rehabilitation and inaction on errant policemen have led to the sense of impunity among perpetrators. The UP government is yet to act against errant senior officials indicted in the Unnao case. The message of the government is that they don’t take rapes seriously,” Dhawale told The Telegraph. Protesters who were let off later gathered at India Gate where they raised slogans in the evening before being detained again. Kumar said in a statement sent from the police bus: “We have been taken into detention with inhuman violence and harassment of women comrades. We are in a bus right now and do not know where the police are taking us. Many women were detained after 6pm and many people were injured. We demand immediate speedy trial in the rape case of the Dalit woman in Hathras. The case must be fast-tracked and justice ensured to the victim.” He added: “UP has become the national capital for violence against women and Dalits. The landlord Thakurs are dominating the state machinery with the hate politics of Hindutva garbing it. Our battle for the victim of Hathras symbolises our battle against the BJP’s upper caste hate politics.” Leaders and elected representatives of Delhi’s ruling AAP are expected to protest at Jantar Mantar on Thursday. On Tuesday, AAP legislators had been roughed up by the police and unidentified men at Safdarjung Hospital when they had enquired about the girl’s body. Delhi minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said: “We all know that yesterday midnight UP police denied the body of the survivor to her family. The police cremated the body without the permission of the family. We demand that an FIR be filed against the local SHO, ACP, DCP and other police officers who manhandled AAP MLA Ajay Dutt. We also demand an independent probe into the gang rape and murder case by the CBI.” He added: “The AAP demands speedy trial in the case and the filing of the chargesheet within two months. Thereafter the case must be heard in a fast-track court. We also demand that the UP government give Rs 2 crore to the (girl’s) family and a government job to a family member. We demand that the case be decided in a time-bound manner, the chargesheet be filed in two months and also the case be fast-tracked. Lastly, the AAP demands protection to the family members.” Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress president Amrita Dhawan, who was detained outside Uttar Pradesh Bhavan on Wednesday afternoon, told reporters: “The Arvind Kejriwal government has spent only 5 per cent of the Nirbhaya Fund — only Rs 19 crore out of the total allocation of Rs 390 crore — set up to ensure the safety and security of women, which clearly points to its non-seriousness about women’s safety. They have not spent a rupee from the Rs 50 lakh for the women’s helpline, though Kejriwal and his backers BJP and RSS had held a big agitation over the (2012 Delhi bus rape and murder) case.” The Congress has complained to the National Human Rights Commission. Delhi Commission for Women chairperson Swati Maliwal has written to all judges of the Supreme Court demanding a court-monitored probe and immediate suspension of officers for trying to “cover up” the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Sushant’s kin thank Nitish for support||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar met deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father Krishna Kishore Singh at his official residence here on Wednesday, the visit being seen in political circles as a move to attract voters of the Rajput community from which the family hails. Krishna Kishore had come with his daughter Mitu Singh to Nitish’s residence at 1, Aney Marg to thank the chief minister for supporting their quest for justice for Sushant, who was found dead in his flat in Mumbai on June 14. Sushant’s father told Nitish that the CBI probe would not have been possible without his intervention and that Mumbai police would have taken the case into a completely different direction. “The probe is going on now. It had faltered earlier,” Krishna Kishore said. Nitish told Sushant’s father that his government had waited for his permission and concurrence to recommend the CBI probe. “We had thought that the all-India agency would be able to do better than somebody (Bihar police) from the state. They started the work,” Nitish said. “There was no cooperation from them (Mumbai police). An IPS officer was sent, but was quarantined. There were several issues.” Sources said Nitish told Sushant’s family members that he had “thought there was something wrong when the police officer was quarantined. And the Shiv Sena leaders were attacking me. So when Sushant’s father demanded a CBI probe, I recommended it”. Sushant’s case shot to limelight after his father registered an FIR in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others for abetment of suicide, cheating and criminal breach of trust. Nitish had not met or visited Krishna Kishore after Sushant’s death. At that time, Krishna Kishore had thanked Nitish for intervening and getting the FIR registered when the police were not keen. The political connotations of the meeting could not be missed as Bihar is scheduled to go to polls in October–November. Around 6 per cent of the electorate in Bihar are Rajputs. With a plethora of alliances ready to contest the Assembly elections and a strong resentment against the ruling NDA among certain sections of voters, votes belonging to every category are going to play a crucial role in the results. Nitish’s photograph with Sushant’s father is already circulating on media and social media platforms, sending a strong message that he cares about the case. A senior JDU leader defended Nitish’s action and said, “The BJP came out with posters, stickers and masks bearing Sushant’s pictures to keep the issue alive. What is wrong in our chief minister meeting the victim’s family members? Everybody knows that he has done a lot to ensure that justice is done to the deceased actor. Our party stands with his family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Idol-makers ask Bengal government for financial aid ||The virus has not spared the clay magicians whose fingers conjure up idols revered by millions. Over a thousand potters, mainly idol-makers, from East Burdwan’s Kalna and Nadia’s Phulia took to the streets on Wednesday demanding financial help from the state government as their industry is reeling under the outbreak of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown. The artisans organised the rally in Kalna under the banner of the All India Anunnata Kumbhakar Samity, which has around 16 lakh members in Bengal, and demonstrated in front of the local block development office (BDO). They demanded a monthly aid of Rs 7,500 for each of their families from the state government. The demand from artisans follows the Bengal governments’ decision to provide a monthly dole to priests and also help Durga Puja organisers with Rs 50,000 each. “The government has come forward to help priests and clubs (Puja organisers) but there is no word on us,” said an artisan who took part in the rally in Kalna. “We have been struggling to survive since April as there is hardly any demand for idols. Usually, every year, we look forward to Durga Puja for the bulk of our annual earnings, but this year the organisers have ordered smaller idols. There has been a huge drop in the number of Vishwakarma and Ganesh Pujas (and hence idol orders and revenue) this year. We are going through difficult times and can hardly survive,” said Benoy Kumar Paul, the Burdwan district president of the samity. Flagging their demands, Paul said: “We want the state government to pay us a monthly financial help of Rs 7,500 per family from April onwards (with retrospective effect) and help us get loans at low interest rates after the market revives.” “Artisans have got very few orders for clay models of Durga, while potters are facing a huge drop in the demand for clay pots. As not all food and tea stalls are open, the potters are not getting enough orders (for clay cups and utensils) to meet the cost required to keep their businesses running,” he added. A leader of the samity said they had already written to the minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprise and textile, Swapan Debnath, for financial help. They have also planned to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta with their plea next week. “We had written to the minister on September 2 but we are yet to get any response. Therefore, we planned to meet the chief minister at her residence in Calcutta next week,” said Bipul Paul, the secretary of the samity in Hooghly. In these tough times, artisans had nowhere to go except the government, Munna Pal, an artisan in Nadia’s Phulia and a working committee member of the samity, said. “The state has helped hawkers, folk singers, priests with financial aid but we have been ignored. Only the government can save us in our time of crisis. We also want cards for artisans so that we can get the benefit of welfare schemes of both the state and central governments,” Pal added. Artisan Saikat Malo of Kalna said they were making hefty compromises in 2020 to survive. “I have accepted the fact that I will sell a Durga idol for Rs 9,000 this year when I had sold a similar one for Rs 18,000 last year. I have no option but to sell it at half the price because I don’t have many orders this year. The state government has come forward to help clubs with Rs 50,000 each but we are not getting any such benefit,” Malo rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Land given for Bagdogra airport expansion ||The Bengal government on Wednesday cleared the decks for the expansion of Bagdogra airport as chief minister Mamata Banerjee handed over 104 acres of land to the Airports Authority of India for the project. The demand for the expansion of the airport’s infrastructure was raised in several quarters in the past few years following a steep rise in the number of flights and passengers. The rise in the passenger count had made the AAI draw up plans for the expansion of the terminal building and allied infrastructure. But it took time for the state government to arrange for the land. The AAI, for the first time, paid Rs 25 crore to the state as compensation. It needed to be paid to a tea garden, from which the land had been acquired. “We have handed over the land that was required for the airport. It will help in the expansion of the Bagdogra airport that has recorded an exponential growth in terms of the number of passengers in the past few years,” Mamata said at an administrative review meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts on Wednesday. The meeting was held at Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state in Siliguri. Apart from providing land for the airport’s expansion, Mamata tried to reach out to the hill population and the Rajbanshi community. She gave a grant of Rs 175 crore to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and land documents of 64 forest villages in the GTA area, which have been converted into revenue villages. Engagement letters for jobs of home guards were handed over to 161 former militants of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation. The chief minister provided the Rajbanshi Bhasha Academy with Rs 5 crore and the West Bengal Rajbanshi Development & Cultural Board with Rs 10 crore. On Tuesday, Mamata had announced homes for tea estate residents in the Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. Political observers said she was playing the development card by trying to meet some long-pending demands. “She has simultaneously come up with additional financial allocations for several bodies and agencies that are engaged in the development of various regions or communities. It is evident that the chief minister wants to reach out to people living in the hills and the plains,” according to one. Mamata is keen on winning back the support of Rajbanshis, whose support can be the decisive factor in close to half of the 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, the observer said. Mamata’s announcements have this clear, he said. On Wednesday, Mamata said the medical college in Cooch Behar would be named after Maharaja Jitendra Narayan (one of the erstwhile kings of Cooch Behar) and the second campus of Cooch Behar Panchanan Burma University (that will come up in Mathabhanga) will be named after Pachanan Burma (a revered statesman from the Rajbanshi community). She handed over 50 acres for the second campus. Mamata addressed another issue of the hills — the right of people who live in forest villages. For some time, there was a demand that the rights of such people be protected according to the forest rights act as it has been done in the neighbouring districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri. In the course of her review meeting, Mamata met another old demand of Jalpaiguri residents and laid the foundation stone of a medical college and hospital. She inaugurated the second phase of work on a Rs 6 crore project to renovate Graham’s Chapel in Kalimpong. The chief minister instructed Rajiva Sinha, the outgoing chief secretary, to look into the demand for constituting a separate block in Banarhat of Jalpaiguri. Banarhat in the western Dooars is surrounded by tea gardens and is part of the Dhupguri block now. Residents of Banarhat and adjoining areas joined in a celebration on Wednesday evening. Local Trinamul leaders held a rally in the presence of Mitali Roy, the Trinamul MLA from Dhupguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid count: an eventful month||September turned out to be the most eventful month for Bengal in terms of the Covid-19 pandemic with 94,271 new cases and 1,730 deaths on one hand and 91,489 recoveries and nearly 13.4 lakh tests on the other. On Wednesday, Bengal logged 3,281 new cases, 59 deaths, 2,954 recoveries and 43,765 tests. The recovery rate rose by over five per cent in the current month to reach 87.83. The state began the month with 1.62 lakh total cases and the figure now stands at 2.57 lakh. Of them, nearly 2.26 lakh are recoveries, nearly double the 1.34 lakh at the beginning of September. The total cases also include the 4,958 deaths. “The first week was exceptionally good, followed by a slump over the next three weeks. But, overall, we aren’t doing too badly. We began the month with 25,280 active cases and are ending it with 26,332,” said a Bengal minister. However, while the national recovery rate climbed over the month from 76.93 to 83.35, the rise of the state’s recovery rate from 82.49 at the beginning of the month has been relatively slower. The tests per million count is now 35,861, which was 20,974 even at the beginning of September. Steady rise in the number of tests, coupled with a plateauing out of the number of new cases, improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.62 to 7.96 per cent in a month. Of the total 4,958 deaths, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,710, of which 420 occurred in September. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,106 deaths, including 367 in September. The state government reported 4,221 deaths (85.1 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Of the 1,730 deaths in the month, 1,418 (81.96 per cent) were classified as comorbid by the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.92, which was 1.98 per cent at the start of September. “The national mortality improved to 1.56 from 1.77 in that window. We have continued to lag behind that rate and are under pressure to improve performance on that front,” said the minister. The state reported 35.34 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 92 dedicated hospitals. A month ago, the occupancy was 32.14 per cent but on 12,045 beds at 87 hospitals. Over 2.75 lakh telemedicine consultations on the pandemic were provided, of which 1.26 lakh were in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal zoos reopen tomorrow, eye on safety||Gates of the Bengal Safari Park — the only one of its kind in the state nestling on the outskirts of Siliguri — will reopen for visitors on Friday, along with all other zoological parks of the state. Last week, the state forest department made the decision to allow the resumption of visitors in zoos. The department has also drawn up a series of health safety measures which are to be followed by the staff and visitors in all these locations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources in the department said that on Wednesday, a mock drill of forest guards and other staff was conducted at the Bengal Safari Park to apprise them on safety protocols to follow. The staff, henceforth, will also be able to guide the visitors to adhere to such health directives. “This park on Siliguri outskirts is one of the major attractions for wildlife lovers in north Bengal. As we will open it for visitors on October 2, we thought of conducting the mock drill first. There are a few things which every visitor has to follow for safety as he enters the park (in view of the pandemic),” said Badal Debnath, the director of the park. Elaborating on these, Debnath said that all vehicles of visitors would be sanitised before entering the park area. Moreover, each visitor would be screened with a thermal scanner for his or her temperature to be checked before entry. Also, no ticket would be sold at counters. Visitors will have to buy tickets online to do away with human contact. The visitors, park director Debnath said, can enjoy safaris in animal enclosures. However, only 12 passengers would be allowed in the 24-seater buses which take visitors around on the safaris. Moreover, the popular elephant safari at the park won’t open immediately. A crowd-puller before onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the park is spread over 297 hectares and has enclosures for tigers, leopards, the Asiatic black bear, gharials (fish-eating crocodiles), the rhino, and different species of deer. It also has an aviary. Debnath added: “People can watch the male tiger and two growing cubs in the safari. But the tigress and its newborn triplets will be in quarantine for some more days before they are released for public viewing.” In the hills, the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park, a popular destination of tourists in Darjeeling town for decades, will also reopen on October 2. More commonly known as the Darjeeling zoo, it is known for housing the red panda, Himalayan black bears and snow leopard, among other high-altitude and endangered animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||National Highways Authority of India officials caught in twin protests in Malda||Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Malda have been caught in a deadlock by two movements, both of which are being spearheaded by the Trinamul Congress. On one hand, the district Trinamul and its youth wing are staging protests and sit-in demonstrations demanding immediate repair of the stretch of NH12 that passes through Malda. On the other hand, around 400 workers, who are backed by the All India Workers’ Federation that is close to Trinamul and have been engaged by a company that is developing the highway, have decided not to join their duties. They have decided to refrain from repairing the road or running the toll plaza at Baishnabnagar in Malda because of non-payment of their wages for over nine months. In total, around 1,100 workers serve under the Hindustan Construction Company Limited (HCCL). On Wednesday, over one-third of them assembled near the office of the company in Baishnabnagar, demanding immediate payment of their dues. “Repair of the damaged stretches of the NH is likely to commence from the first week of next month. But if we are not paid our dues, we will not join the work,” said Ramesh Singh, one of the demonstrators. According to them, the total dues of the workers are around Rs 20 crore. “The workers who serve here are from different states. Their salary and wages have been pending for nine months. They will not join the repair and expansion work of the highway if they do not get their dues,” said Sunil Sarkar, general secretary of federation. The demonstrating workers might also close down the toll plaza on October 8 if they are not paid by then, said sources. On September 16, district Trinamul leaders had sat on a “dharna” in front of the toll-plaza in Baishnabnagar. The agitation was withdrawn only after the NHAI officials gave it in writing that the repairs would start from October. Recently, a delegation of Trinamul Youth Congress had submitted a memorandum to the project director of the NHAI, reminding him of his promises. Prasenjit Das, the district youth Trinamul president, reiterated that the repairs should start immediately. “The private company and the NHAI will have to see how they can arrange the salaries and wages of the workers. We want the repairs to start in the interest of lakhs of people who commute on the highway every day,” he said. With such being the situation, officials of HCCL said they were trying to arrange for funds. “The issue has been conveyed to higher authorities. We hope a part of the dues would be paid ahead of the festive season,” said Gautam Biswas, a personnel manager of the HCCL, who conceded that the workers had not been paid their dues for around nine months. The demonstrations by Trinamul and the workers have also put the NHAI authorities under pressure. D.K. Hansaria, the project director of NHAI in Malda, said they had plans to start the repairs from October as the monsoon would be over. “We hope the problems would be resolved and repair works will start soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri heavyweights gear up for Bengal Assembly elections||Trinamul’s Gautam Deb and CPM’s Asok Bhattacharya, both heavyweights of Siliguri politics, have started focusing on their respective constituencies with greater vigour as the Bengal Assembly polls draw near. While Deb is helping Durga Puja committees, Bhattacharya is highlighting development issues to strike a rapport with the electorate. Tourism minister Deb represents the Dabram-Fulbari constituency. Bhattacharya, also the chairman of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), was elected MLA from the town Assembly seat. The two constituencies are contiguous. Last Saturday, Deb held a meeting with 66 Durga Puja organising committees from his constituency, which have not been recognised by the administration, and assured “all possible assistance.” Deb’s assurance comes within 24 hours of chief minister Mamata Banerjee announcing financial assistance for puja committees. The Dabgrma-Fulbari MLA also seems eager to send out a clear message that he is ready to provide full support to puja organisers of his constituency irrespective of whether they are recognised by the administration. “This meeting is significant as during the last Lok Sabha election, Trinamul trailed BJP by 80,000 votes from the minister’s constituency,” said an observer. The minister did not talk about “financial assistance” to the media but added that he would provide all possible support needed to organise the puja. Deb said many of the pujas were being organised by women groups for more than 10 years now. “Considering the present pandemic, it may not be possible for many of them to get necessary ‘go ahead’ from different departments. I have promised all assistance so that they don’t have to face any difficulties to organise the puja,” Deb said after the meeting. Many believe that following the rise of the BJP in north Bengal — the saffron party won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats of the region in 2019 — an assurance for the smooth conduct of Durga Puja might be a calculated strategy. Bhattacharya, on the other hand, announced that his party workers would hit the seats on October 3 to highlight a number of issues including the alleged “non-cooperation” of the state government in improving civic services. “We are organising the rally at Siliguri keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly election and civic elections,” said Bhattacharya. Siliguri is among the few seats where the Left Front is relatively strong in the state. Playing the development card, Bhattacharya alleged that proposals such as comprehensive drinking water project and improving drainage system in the SMC areas were repeatedly ignored by the state government. “A scam in Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority also needs to be probed properly. These are some of the issues that we will highlight before the residents of Siliguri,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Dooars tea garden executive succumbs to Covid||An assistant manager of a tea estate in the Dooars died of the novel coronavirus infection at the Covid hospital of Alipurduar district on Wednesday morning. This is the first time that an employee of executive rank working in the tea belt has lost his life because of the pandemic. Sources said Jyotiprasad Ghosh, who was 65 years old and the senior assistant manager at Dima tea estate in Kalchini block of Alipurduar, was in home quarantine for the past few days after he tested positive. “He was doing well so far but on Tuesday evening, he suddenly fell ill. We took him to the health centre in Latabari from where he had to be shifted to the Covid hospital in Alipurduar with oxygen support. On Wednesday morning, we were informed that he had died. It is a huge loss for all of us,” said Dibyendu Ghosh, the manager of the Dima tea estate. Ghosh, who had been working at the Dima tea garden for the past eight months, hailed from Khanyan in Hooghly. However, he had worked in a number of tea estates in the Dooars. As the news of his death spread, hundreds of workers joined in mourning. They did not work for the day. “He was here for only a few months but had developed a close coordination with the workers. Many of us are mourning his sudden demise,” said Shibram Nayak, a trade union leader of the garden. In Siliguri, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Rajiva Sinha, the outgoing chief secretary, issued a health alert to officials of different north Bengal districts. Speaking at an administrative meeting in Uttarkanya, both of them said those working in the districts should not get lackadaisical because Covid-19 cases were on the rise. “After combating with the pandemic for over six months now, some might feel fatigued. But we should be on alert and take appropriate steps to maintain the green zones as well as curb transmission of the disease in places where cases have been reported,” said Sinha. The state government of Sikkim will allow inter-state movement of people from Thursday after a gap of over six months. On Wednesday, the health and family welfare department of the Himalayan state also issued a notification that the two health screening checkpoints at Rangpo and Melli — the two entry points to the state — will be withdrawn. From October 10, entry of tourists, both domestic and international, would be allowed in Sikkim. Additional reporting by Rajeev Ravidas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Rahul Sinha to hold talks with Amit Shah today||BJP leader Rahul Sinha, who made his first public appearance on Wednesday after being dropped from the national committee on Saturday, said he would inform the central leadership as to how old timers were being neglected in the Bengal unit of the party. Sinha, a two-time state party president and former national secretary, left for New Delhi on Wednesday to attend a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and other senior BJP leaders on Thursday. “Old timers in the party are disgruntled. They have given their sweat and blood for the party for 40 years. Now they have been distanced from their rightful places. I’ll speak to the national leaders about their grievances,” Sinha told reporters at the airport on Wednesday. Sinha, sulking ever since he was removed from the national secretary’s post, has been invited to New Delhi for talks after he did not show any interest in speaking to three senior leaders who had been deployed by the central leadership to pacify him. A touch of drama marked Sinha’s departure for Delhi. As the BJP leader got off his car at the airport, he was stopped by a group of supporters, including a few women, to prevent his journey to New Delhi. The women threw themselves on his way and urged him to not go to Delhi till he was given due respect in the party. It took Sinha nearly 30 minutes to persuade them and leave for Delhi. Since the reconstituted BJP national committee was announced on Saturday, clashes between old and new factions of the party have been reported from various parts of the state. Though the clashes have no apparent connection with Sinha being dropped from the list, party insiders didn’t rule out the involvement of the lobby loyal to the disgruntled leader. On Wednesday, a group of BJP workers demonstrated in front of the state BJP headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane here demanding the removal of Sibaji Singha Roy, who was recently appointed as the president of the BJP’s North Calcutta district. “Dilipda (Dilip Ghosh) has placed people close to him in important positions. Rahulda has kept quiet so far. But since he has no official position in the BJP now, his lobby is creating all the ruckus,” a state BJP leader said. However, Sinha’s allegations were primarily not directed at the state BJP president, Dilip Ghosh. In a video message on Saturday, he had categorically mentioned that his removal was orchestrated to accommodate Trinamul turncoats on the national committee. In Saturday’s rejig, former Trinamul leader Mukul Roy had been inducted into the national committee, along with his close aide and fellow Trinamul turncoat Anupam Hazra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee jibe at BJP-ruled UP, Gujarat||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee came down heavily on BJP during an administrative review meeting here on Wednesday as she raised questions over the law and order situation in some of the BJP-ruled states including Uttar Pradesh. “There are some people who question the law and order situation in Bengal. We would like to know how the situation is in states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh,” she said. “ In Bengal, the situation is much better than any other state of the country.” Though she did not refer to the Hathras tragedy of Uttar Pradesh in which a 19-year-old Dalit girl died on Tuesday two weeks after she was gang-raped, and was cremated before dawn on Wednesday by the police, it was clear that the Yogi Adityanath government was her target. In a bid to turn the Hathras incident into a political issue with pan-India resonance, Mamata’s party Trinamul — assisted by Team Prashant Kishor — has been making noise on social and mainstream media on the Dalit victim angle. Several senior Trinamul Congress leaders, right up to the party’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee, questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the Hathras tragedy. “An unspeakable crime committed in #Hathras under Narendra Modi’s reign & he was silent. The girl succumbed to her injuries, after battling to stay alive for 15 days & now, UP police have utterly disrespected her remains!” tweeted Abhishek, the Diamond Harbour MP. After her assault on the BJP-led governments in different parts of the country, Mamata then criticised the central government for the alleged highhandedness of  the Border Security Force (BSF) in bordering areas of Bengal. “In bordering areas of Cooch Behar, the BSF personnel are being used to open fire and intimidate people. There are reports that the BSF personnel roam around in villages in the name of vigilance and threaten the residents. This has to be stopped. I would also ask the policemen posted in such places to take strict steps to prevent smuggling and other illegal activities,” she added. The attack on the BSF was significant as there have been recent instances in which jawans were accused of firing at innocent people. In a recent incident, a youth in Toofanganj in Cooch Behar was gunned down by BSF. The killing triggered a controversy as north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh had lodged a complaint against the BSF with the chief minister. Mamata also spoke on social networking and accused the BJP of floating thousands of groups on social media to disseminate “fake news”. In a missive to the police officers posted across different police stations and to the BDOs, she said that they have to take the initiative on a regular basis to prevent the spread of such “irresponsible and fake posts”. She took on the Centre and the BJP over the agenda of development and said that though the state has readied airports in Cooch Behar, Balurghat and Malda, the central government has not acted yet to make these airports operational. “The onus is on the Union civil aviation ministry. We have spent money to get these airports ready. They should take initiative to start flight services from these airports to boost regional connectivity. Earlier, we had seen some people bringing in a flight to Cooch Behar and claiming initiation of air services. But ultimately, it turned out to be a gimmick,” said Mamata. She was referring to Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar. In July last year, Pramanik had landed in a nine-seater aircraft in Cooch Behar and had said that flight services would commence soon from the airport. However, no flight services eventually started from Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||North East||Assam police recruitment scam: Mastermind Diban Deka surrenders||BJP leader and one of the prime accused in Assam police recruitment scam, Diban Deka, has surrendered before the police in the state's Barpeta district. Deka, who, along with former DIG PK Dutta, had been absconding since the scam came to light, surrendered on Wednesday night in Pathacharkuchi area, a police officer said. He has been brought to Guwahati for further interrogation, the officer said. Examination to recruit unarmed sub-inspectors was cancelled on September 20, minutes after it began, as the question paper was found to have been leaked on social media. Over 20 people have been arrested in this connection. State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) chairman Pradeep Kumar subsequently resigned on September 27 taking "moral responsibility" for the leak. Police had issued look out notices and announced an award of Rs one lakh each for any information which could lead to the arrest of Deka and Dutta. The former DIG is yet to be traced and it is suspected that he was holed up somewhere near the India-Nepal border. Deka was questioned by the CID after the scam had surfaced, but was allowed to go as there was "no circumstantial evidence against him". Shortly after, he went missing. On September 24, however, he took to Facebook to claim that his life was in danger. Deka said he was involved with the "company" which was responsible for conducting the exam. He identified himself as the national executive member of the BJP's Kisan Morcha and said he would not do anything to bring disrepute to the saffron party. He also said that he had flagged the leak after receiving a copy of the question paper on WhatsApp. Deka said he has "left Assam fearing for his life". He further said that he might get killed anytime as many big and corrupt officials are involved in the scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
01-10-2020||North East||OIL plans to cap blowout by November||Oil India Limited has said that it will be able to “resolve” the gas well blowout at Baghjan in Assam by November. At the company’s 61st annual general body meeting on Tuesday, Oil India chairman and managing director Sushil Chandra Mishra said: “We have been able to divert the gas flow. A team is arriving from Canada for the stubbing process. Everything remaining equal, we will be able resolve (the) Baghjan (blowout) by November.” The blowout at Baghjan in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, around 530km from here, occurred on May 27 and is still to be controlled completely. It has affected over 8,000 local residents and the ecology of the area. On the demand for early compensation to the affected, Mishra said they have already deposited Rs 33 crore with the Tinsukia district administration based on initial recommendations. “We will also abide by whatever the final assessment of the National Green Tribunal on the compensation front,” Mishra said. He also said an independent damage assessment of the local ecosystem has not been as serious as predicted but said the company will still carry out reclamation to restore the ecology. On the company’s performance during the last fiscal, Mishra said financial year 2019-20 was a challenging one with weak economic growth, resulting in weaker demands across sectors. “But we completed the year on a positive note, leveraging the best of available advantages and building on available opportunities, reporting a revenue of Rs 13,649 crore and profit after tax of Rs 2,584 crore,” Mishra said. Oil India is the country’s second largest Navaratna company in terms of total proved plus probable oil and natural gas reserves. The company’s top brass also paid tribute to three employees who lost their lives while fighting the blowout at Baghjan. Mishra also said that Oil India has drawn up ambitious plans for the future, including fast-tracking of exploration in Arunachal Pradesh and developing the Baghewala heavy oil field in Rajasthan, besides strengthening its presence in other sectors of the hydrocarbon industry. He reiterated Oil India’s commitment to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India programme) recently launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “With a view to expedite action in this direction, OIL has created a new department ‘INDEG’ for development of items indigenously,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
01-10-2020||North East||Cong steps up heat on question paper leak case in Assam||The Opposition Congress on Wednesday not only accused Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal of being “directly involved” in the question paper leak case but also used a protest here to reach out to the “disgruntled” youths whose future was being “compromised” by the incumbent government. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora levelled the accusation against Sonowal during a protest against the cop recruitment scam at the Manabendra Sarma complex here. Hundreds of Congress members participated in the protest which was cut short by security personnel. “The chief minister is directly involved in the case, based on facts and reports. There cannot be an impartial probe if he is there. Therefore, we want his resignation and a probe by a sitting high court judge. We will continue to protest till our demands are met,” Bora said. He said he was also against an inquiry by the CBI because it was in the hands of the government. At the start of the protest, the PCC chief released a bunch of black balloons inscribed with the words “nibanuwa murkhuwa (headache for the unemployed) Sarbananda Sonowal resign as CM”. Later, Bora urged the unemployed youths to come out and protest as their future was being allegedly compromised by the state government. The Congress has called another protest on October 5 in all the district headquarters where the offices of the superintendents of police will be the gheraoed. Party spokesperson Imdad Hussain told The Telegraph, “The youths are most affected and disgruntled because of the government’s inability to hold any exam without hitch and lack of jobs. Aren’t their futures being compromised? As a political party we have to look into such issues and flag them appropriately.” There are over 18 lakh educated unemployed youth in the state. Apart from targeting Sonowal, Bora also targeted the police department, BJP legislators whose names have cropped for holding mock tests for the sub-inspector exam without naming them, former chairman of the state level police recruitment board, Pradeep Kumar, and officer on special duty (Ranjit Mazumder) to the chief minister, who has been allegedly appointed by the RSS for “saffronisation” of the government. He also displayed the photographs of BJP youth leader Diban Deka, a suspect in the paper leak case who is absconding, with senior BJP leaders such as Ram Madhav, Siddhartha Bhattacharya and MLA Bhaskar Sarma and Phanindra Sarma, to counter them denying any link with Deka. The recruitment of Deka’s wife in the publicity department was also raised by Bora. Deka is likely to surrender any moment, sources said. Bora condemned the police for “using” force to thwart their democratic protest, allegedly injuring a few Congress members who tried to march to Dispur. Besides the Congress, peasant organisation Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti also sought Sonowal’s resignation in connection with the scam. Sonowal told mediapersons on the sidelines of an official function here that “in sync with the state government’s principle of zero-tolerance against corruption, no leniency or compromise would be tolerated” in the inquiry process. He said the new recruitment board has been constituted with a mandate to see that no meritorious student is deprived of his or her right. He also maintained that the inquiry ordered was not the result of any complaint. “Within 15 minutes of the reported leak of question papers, state government has cancelled the examination of the recruitment... for the first time any government acted so expeditiously and transparently to institute an inquiry to disclose the reasons responsible for the alleged scam,” Sonowal said. So far 21 people have been arrested in the case since September 20, including one by the CID on Wednesday. The arrested is a close aide of former DIG Dutta. The CID, which is probing the case along with Guwahati police’s crime branch, is also “preserving the crime scene” in the two hotels where the mock test for the exam was held and candidates stayed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
01-10-2020||Opinion||Golden voice: Remembering S.P. Balasubrahmanyam||Sir — The demise of the legendary singer, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, has left a huge void in the field of music (“Gentle giant of music is no more”, Sept 26). There are countless songs from Balasubrahmanyam that would fit varied human emotions. From a soothing lullaby to an upbeat number, he could lend his vocals to all sorts of music with ease. In spite of scaling dizzying heights and becoming an icon with a career spanning over five decades with more than 40,000 songs across 16 languages, Balasubrahmanyam was the epitome of humility. In many ways, he was similar to the cricketing icon, Sachin Tendulkar, who shared an emotional message after the musician’s demise. Tendulkar even revealed that one of his favourite songs by the singer is “Sach mere yaar hai” from Saagar. The genial giant may have left this world, but he will always live in our hearts through his immortal songs. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The celebrated playback singer, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, has left behind an unmatched body of work. He sang in 16 languages, won the National Awards six times and held the title of recording the maximum number of songs in cinema in the Guinness Book of World Records. After K.J. Yesudas, he was only the second male singer from Southern India who could make a name for himself in the notoriously insular Hindi film industry. Much like his idol, Mohammed Rafi, Balasubrahmanyam will be remembered for his soothing and melodious voice. It is a testimony to his massive popularity that so many people gathered to bid him goodbye on his final journey even in the midst of a pandemic. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — S.P. Balasubrahmanyam had a unique voice that suited the needs of many regional film industries including Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. Back in the late 1980s and early 1990s, when I was a school-going child, I would be mesmerized by his voice and watch the Tamil movies that he acted in with rapt attention. I fondly remember his songs being aired often on local television and radio channels in my native areas like Korkai, Tiruchendur and Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. Indian cinema has evolved wonderfully over the years and has helped bind people across the subcontinent. The unforgettable songs performed by Balasubrahmanyam have been an integral part of that journey. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — The passing of S.P. Balasubrahmanyam has dealt a huge blow to the Indian film industry. SPB, as he was referred to by his fans, mesmerized millions with his golden voice. In his long and illustrious career, he had worked with almost all the renowned music composers of the country, including Ilaiyaraaja and A.R. Rahman. He will be greatly missed. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — This year has been one of great losses in the Indian film industry. Several artists lost their lives to unforeseen circumstances, with S.P. Balasubrahmanyam being the latest. Their contributions to Indian cinema will always be remembered. Rohit Sharma,Gwalior Pedal away Sir — The pandemic has given bicycles a new lease of life. While some have been cycling to stay fit, others have taken it up in a bid to avoid public transport. Calcutta organized a cyclothon last month and has also set up a committee to look into possible cycling lanes. Hopefully this enthusiasm for bicycles will endure beyond the pandemic. Cycles are an accessible green alternative to fuel-run vehicles. If opted for in the long run, they can help reduce carbon emissions significantly, thus making way for a cleaner planet. Abhirup Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
01-10-2020||Opinion||Reason first: Scientific research in India||The scientific fraternity of India and Bengal has been the recipient of glad tidings in recent times. Index rankings by Nature revealed that Calcutta and Bangalore rank among the top 100 ‘science’ cities around the world. The city rankings take into account such important parameters as the concentration of research institutions, investments in cutting-edge research and development as well as the ability to attract global scientific talent. That Bengal’s acumen in the sciences is not to be trifled with was further demonstrated by the fact that as many as six scientists from the state left their mark at the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize. There has been something for India’s women scientists too. In a belated, but necessary, step the department of science and technology has declared its intention of ranking the country’s scientific institutions on the basis of the proportion of women employees. Such a step, if implemented properly, could go a long way in addressing the skewed gender ratio in the field of science and research. But these facts, even though they are encouraging, should not deflect attention from the formidable challenges that confront both the pedagogy as well as institutions of science. Much has been said about the rise in the national gross expenditure on research and development in science and technology but the fact remains that India spends a miserly 0.7 per cent of its GDP on research and development. The corresponding figure for, say, China, India’s regional competitor, is 2.1 per cent. An even greater impediment, however, stems from the zeitgeist of New India. There have been sustained assaults on not just scientific institutions but also the spirit of science by this elected regime. Outrageous cures are being peddled — for the coronavirus and cancer — in the name of indigenous wisdom; the Indian Science Congress was made to listen to ideologues claiming that Ancient India had accomplished, among other feats, the airplane and stem cell research. They must have been inspired by the prime minister, who believes that plastic surgery and in-vitro fertilizations are the result of such primitive wizardry. This ideological contamination of the scientific temper can have dire consequences: a number of rationalists have paid with their lives to uphold the cause of reason. There is then a method in this political madness. Science, which is founded on the principle of objective scrutiny, remains the greatest rival of obscurantism, be it ideological or political.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Opinion||Cleared: Babri accused let off scot-free||Indian jurisprudence demands that there should be conclusive evidence before conviction. Perhaps that is why the special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation yesterday acquitted all those charged in the Babri Masjid demolition case since the prosecution had failed to establish the case beyond all reasonable doubt. Since the list of accused included senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, such as the former deputy prime minister, L.K. Advani, or Murli Manohar Joshi, and the event left a deep impression on Indians, the verdict was anticipated with especial interest. The CBI had investigated the matter for years and had produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents. One of the points reportedly made by the court was that the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6, 1992 was not pre-planned. There was apparently no evidence of conspiracy, which nullified the charge under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code. The prosecution’s charge that a meeting was held in the house of Vinay Katiyar, a Bajrang Dal leader, on the previous day where a plan was made to raze the structure was not substantiated, the court reportedly said, as the video presented as evidence did not prove that a conspiracy was hatched. The court reportedly said that the video cassettes could not be relied upon as they were not sealed and not clear; the CBI did not produce negatives of the photographs given in evidence either. Not only was there no proof of provocation through slogans and speeches violating IPC Section 153 that penalizes provocation with intent to cause riot, there was also no desecration of a religious place — an offence under IPC Section 295 — because, in the wisdom of the court, the minority community had not offered prayers there for years. Additionally, without the imposition of Section 144 there could have been no unlawful assembly, besides the fact that the Supreme Court had permitted symbolic kar seva on that day. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh at the time, Kalyan Singh, one of the accused, had promised security and peaceability, and had, the court thought, done his best to maintain order. The demolition had been carried out by anti-social elements; the court reportedly ruled that there was nothing to connect the accused, directly or indirectly, with it. In other words, in the court’s eye, no transgression had taken place on the fateful day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Opinion||NEP: Get to the heart of the matter||Even in the middle of the pandemic there was reason for school teachers to rejoice. The National Educational Policy 2020 was announced and we learnt that the curriculum content for school students would be reduced in each subject to its “core essentials”. This part is still a ‘work in progress’ as the National Council of Educational Research and Training is in the process of applying finishing touches to the curriculum. Teachers are heaving a big sigh of relief that the authorities finally realized that the way in which children are made to ingest syllabus-related information is not of great educational importance. Any reduction in the vast syllabus is thus welcome to them; a more compact syllabus would facilitate better assimilation of subject matter. Students would get more time for deeper study of each topic. But now comes the difficult part: on what basis will the “core essentials” be identified? As it is, there have been raging debates on public platforms over the selection of curriculum content. Often, the nature of these debates indicated that as a civilization, we seem to have regressed. The contention that we must go back to our ‘roots’ and ancient texts for all knowledge is narrow and limiting. It implies the neglect of important aspects of study that are illogically labelled ‘anti-national’. Ideology and political concerns have always influenced curriculum design but propaganda (blatant or subtle), bias and factual inaccuracies must be guarded against. In fact, students should be encouraged to examine a variety of books and resources and engage with different analyses and interpretations of facts and events. Teachers appreciate the fact that the NEP has recognized that education is not just about retaining a mass of information. Rote learning is being frowned upon for good reason. Learning is about being able to analyse, synthesise and apply new knowledge and simply cannot be equated with the ability to memorize and reproduce the content of text books.The welcome reduction of the syllabus should enable students to process every new unit of learning in detail instead of having to rush through a massive syllabus within a specified time-frame. But teachers know that without a parallel overhaul in the mode of assessment there would be no dividends from a shortened syllabus. The trouble is that we Indians are so organically attached to textbooks and ‘mass examinations’ that we find it hard to conceive that learning and assessment can take place in any other way. It is interesting to note that many scholars trace the birth of modern China way back to 1905. It was in this year that the Qing dynasty abolished the central examination system as the curriculum was felt to be irrelevant to the issues of the 20th century. Expectedly, as soon as the outdated examination system was discarded, the rigid bureaucracy too was wiped out and China was finally rid of antiquated ‘scholar-officials’. In India too, in spite of periodical reforms, young people have been tied to an examination system which is far too dependent on textbooks and rote learning. The announcement of the new National Curriculum Framework after 15 years is most refreshing, and the hope is that finally our dated examination system will be overhauled for the better. Sometimes it takes a cataclysm to force changes in society. The totally unexpected assault of the novel coronavirus led to the temporary shutdown of the world’s schools. This in turn necessitated an alternative teaching-learning process. Also, a way had to be found to do away with a system of assessment which required large numbers of candidates to assemble at different centres and sit in a hall for two to three hours to write their exams. In the six months that schools have remained closed, educators have discovered much about the pros and cons of virtual lessons. They have learnt to sift from the prescribed syllabuses and have discovered effective pedagogical strategies. It is pointless to discuss the comparative benefits of in-person and virtual teaching because it is time that we looked reality in the face and prepared for a blend of the two. The sooner we accept that we cannot return to our school campuses and just pick up from where we left off, the better we will be prepared for the future. It is during the lockdown that we teachers realized the need to examine our priorities and ‘reinvent’ ourselves. We found ourselves adapting to the world of Google, Microsoft and Zoom classes, trawling the internet for appropriate resources and searching for ways to make children ‘work from home’. In this period of trials and tribulations we also discovered how hidebound many of us were about the sanctity of the trinity of syllabus, textbook and examination. The reactions of parents to the changes were varied. Some appreciated the quickness with which teachers had transitioned to a new and completely unfamiliar environment in spite of the adverse circumstances. A few felt that they were “not getting their money’s worth” as certain chapters in their children’s textbooks had not been dealt with ‘thoroughly’ by the teacher. They are usually the nit-pickers who lose sight of the larger picture and fail to recognize the demands of the times. Thankfully, both parents and teachers have by now changed their mindsets and are making the most of the tools that are available to keep the learning process alive. Indeed, many are engaging children in fun activities, discovering the joys of flexibility and enjoying the rewards of connecting with school communities near and far. Meanwhile, teachers worry about the deepening digital divide. Many children are deprived of the fruits of distance learning because they neither have access to the internet nor possess the appropriate devices. Their learning has practically come to a halt. Moreover, sometimes we forget that some children’s home environments are not conducive to learning. Thus, “core essentials” have a wider meaning than important topics in a subject. Nevertheless, we teachers are waiting with bated breath for the makers of the new National Curriculum Framework to tell us what they are.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Opinion||Bold decisions||Experience from history shows that maintaining democracy in times of war is a formidable challenge. What India and, indeed, the whole world are confronted today with — the Covid-19 pandemic — may not be novel — the 20th century has witnessed an influenza epidemic and outbreaks of plague, cholera and smallpox in India — but it is still extraordinary. Earlier in the previous century, foreign rule and the absence of elected governments prior to 1947 meant that there were limited expectations from the government. However, the presence of elected governments both at the Centre and in the states has meant that the onus of doing something purposeful to resolve the crisis has devolved almost entirely on the State. While the expectation that only divine intervention will find a way out hasn’t disappeared entirely from the popular imagination, the insistence on State-based solutions is more widespread. For democracy, this is a daunting prospect. As a rule, democracy works in a din. It operates in an environment of ‘argumentative’ groups and ‘million mutinies’ — expressions popularized by Amartya Sen and V.S. Naipaul. By definition, decision-making is slow, and politics necessitates compromises. In theory, a prime minister may enjoy formidable backing and the trust of a majority. At the same time, the system has to factor in awkward voices from multiple sources and institutions. Even the sincerest attempts at forging consensus and taking everyone along leave behind a trail of dissatisfaction and disappointment. In particular, intellectuals, activists, experts and, occasionally, judges feel only they have a monopoly over wisdom and the truth. At a time when the popular expectation is for decisiveness and speed, democracy encourages both prevarication and delay. Yet, as someone rightly remarked, a more agreeable alternative to democracy hasn’t yet been thought of. This may be a reason why, say during war, almost all operational details involving the military and even the management of the home front are kept out of scrutiny. During both the Wars of 1914-18 and 1939-45, Britain, which valued its home freedoms (never mind the larger Empire), put in abeyance the principle of habeas corpus for selected ‘subversive’ individuals such as Sir Oswald Mosley. There was large-scale removal of ‘enemy aliens’ to inhospitable internment centres. Additionally, there were severe restrictions on ordinary individuals that included draconian rationing of food and clothing, restrictions on travel and compulsory requisitioning of property. The punishment for those who violated the rules was extremely severe and, in some cases, disproportionate. Many of these restrictions triggered a great deal of public resentment and contributed to a series of government defeats in the by-elections held during the course of the War but the larger principles of national security and greater public good prevailed over the disquiet over the erosion of democratic principles. The battle against Covid-19 may not be exactly comparable. However, the battle against this deadly virus has involved taking steps that would have never been countenanced in ‘peace time’. It is undeniable that the initial 21-day lockdown that hardly gave people time to make arrangements was draconian. It imposed restrictions on movement, affected livelihoods and was involuntary. The suddenness of the decision took even state governments by surprise and some chief ministers were understandably peeved at the lack of consultations. Although the power of the Centre to take decisive steps to manage pandemics is legally sanctioned, the lockdown can perhaps be faulted for offending the ‘spirit’ of democracy. Certainly those who described the panicky trek of some migrant workers back to their villages as a ‘humanitarian disaster’ saw it that way, and they attacked the prime minister, Narendra Modi, for it. However, the more relevant question is whether or not this precipitate measure corresponded to the larger public good. In his statement in Parliament, the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, argued that the 21-day lockdown “successfully blunted the aggressive progression” of Covid-19. He estimated that apart from giving India the time to bolster its health infrastructure, the lockdown “prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths.” As with most counterfactual estimates, the minister’s assertion cannot be rigorously tested. However, two things are clear. First, the lockdown was in the nature of a pre-emptive strike since the spread of the virus was dependent on human contact. Secondly, the lockdown was based almost entirely on the then existing expert opinion of medical scientists. It is conceivable that in future days, lockdowns will be seen as exaggerated responses and not commensurate with the economic costs of disruption. However, at the time the decision was taken, scientific opinion indicated that a surgical strike was the most effective way to keep the virus from multiplying. Under these circumstances, the choice exercised by Modi was to unhesitatingly prioritize the public good over democratic niceties. It is for the people to judge if he was right or wrong. Likewise, criticism has been heaped on the government for rushing through 25 pieces of legislation during a truncated monsoon session of Parliament. Most of the bills had been promulgated as ordinances and Parliament merely ratified them without exhaustive discussions or reference to select committees. Consequently, this Parliament session, too, has been debunked in some quarters as a farce and a murder of democracy. In judging the undeniable haste with which Parliament conducted its business, the context and the choices before the government are important to consider. By the beginning of April this year, the global severity of the pandemic and the magnitude of disruption were slowly becoming apparent. With the total disruption of normal life, the first choice before the government was stark. Taking into account the suspension of normal life, should the government have suspended all ‘normal’ politics and assumed the role of a caretaker administration, doing the barest minimum? Alternatively, considering the emergence of fresh, difficult challenges, should it have assumed a greater proactive role, despite the fact that many of the forms of democracy were impossible to sustain in the time of pandemic? In the face of the widespread economic dislocation resulting from the pandemic, should it have let the crippled market find a new equilibrium or should it have intervened with rescue packages and overdue reforms? These challenges were not unique to India. Every government in the world has faced it and broadly responded with interventionist strategies that range from short-term protection of vulnerable jobs and bolstering public health infrastructure to undertaking structural reforms in different spheres. India, on its part, faced an additional challenge of China attempting to redraw the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. There were two choices before the Modi government. The first option was to quietly acquiesce to this aggression on a specious plea that ‘not a blade of grass’ grows in some of the uninhabited zones of contention. Indeed, there have been strategists who, under earlier governments, favoured tacitly accepting China’s hegemonic role in Asia on the ground that India couldn’t afford opening a second front. Alternatively, it could respond with a show of military determination — despite the huge additional costs involved — and diplomatic nimbleness. It could also — as has been done — retaliate in a limited way by making access to the Indian markets inhospitable for Chinese companies. This too has been done under the cloak of data protection and national security. The larger point to note is that Parliament witnessed only a truncated debate on the economic initiatives taken after the pandemic and merely noted a statement by the defence minister, Rajnath Singh, on the Sino-Indian tensions. In effect, Parliament, meeting under extraordinary circumstances, acquiesced to the principle that circumstances warranted the country putting its faith in the executive. Meanwhile, on the streets, an agitation of big farmers demonstrated that the josh of democracy remains unaffected, never mind what the Modi-haters say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Artistes demand lifting of Covid restrictions||Artistes under the banner of Bhartiya Sanskriti Kala Vikas Manch on Thursday walked in a rally in Sakchi and later staged a sit-in at the district collectorate demanding that the administration allow them to function and operate their businesses. Led by Daljit Singh Parwana, the president, and Ashutosh Tiwari, the general secretary of the cultural outfit, around 100 artistes, including singers, musicians and actors who perform in plays, held placards and banners highlighting their demands and marched to the district collectorate from the Ambagan grounds in Sakchi, covering a distance of over 1km. A delegation of the outfit wanted to meet deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar to hand over the memorandum highlighting its demands. But since they were refused, the protesting artistes squatted at the entrance of the deputy commissioner’s office. After about two hours, they were allowed to enter the deputy commissioner’s office to submit the memorandum. “The coronavirus-induced lockdown has wreaked havoc with our livelihood. All of us have been rendered jobless. We sit idle in our homes as we are unable to operate due to the restrictions. While the government has allowed the re-opening of malls and hotels, we want the restrictions imposed on us to be lifted too as it is a question of our survival,” said Tiwari. He demanded the re-opening of art galleries and that singers and musicians be permitted to perform at weddings and other events. A senior member of the outfit, a folk artiste, said: “The folk fraternity from Jharkhand has given me a lot of love and respect. They are continuously sharing their problems with me in these trying times. They do not have any money or essentials at home. Whom do I approach to highlight their plight?” He pointed out that he has a dozen folk artistes, including four instrumentalists, in his troupe and most of them are landless and depend on their art for livelihood. “They depend on monthly programmes which have not been taking place ever since the lockdown was imposed,” he said and rued that electronically generated rhythms are already overtaking folk traditions and the pandemic has only added to their problems. Another member of the organisation said: “It’s high time that the government thinks about us and provides some incentives.” There are about 4,500 artistes in Jamshedpur who have been affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro declared smoke-free||Bokaro was on Thursday declared the second smoke-free district in Jharkhand after Ranchi. Bokaro achieved the smoke-free tag following a survey by the government in compliance with various sections of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (Cotpa 2003). The survey was conducted in all the 24 districts of the state. A declaration was signed by the senior administrative officials of the district at a meeting of the District Tobacco Control Coordination Committee (DTCCC) held at the Collectorate Hall. Deputy commissioner, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh appealed to the residents to keep the entire district smoke- and tobacco-free. Deepak Mishra, executive director of Socio Economic and Educational Development Society (Seeds), made a presentation showing how the state government and Seeds jointly run tobacco control programmes in all the districts. Seeds is a technical partner of the state government for tobacco control. Under the existing tobacco control programme, surveys are conducted from time to time to assess the status of compliance with various sections of Cotpa 2003, including Section 4 (ban on smoking in public places). Based on the compliance report, districts are declared smoke-free. In this sequence, Ranchi on Wednesday was declared the first smoke-free district in the state. Mishra said that “on the basis of the survey, we have found that Bokaro has complied 93.5% with Section 4 of Cotpa 2003, which is better than most other districts”. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said the campaign to make Bokaro a smoke-free district has been on since 2016-17. Today, after almost four years, the district has got the distinction of being smoke-free. The deputy commissioner appealed to all the residents to help keep the district smoke-free and keep the town completely free of tobacco. Future generations can be protected from the ill effects of tobacco, he said. He directed all the members of the anti-tobacco squad to carry out regular raids and stop shops from selling tobacco products within 100 yards of educational institutions. Singh said: “I am very happy to declare Bokaro a smoke-free district.” He said that “the general public, educational institutions, the media, district-level officials, subdivisional-level officers, block-level officials, the Chas Municipal Corporation and all the officials of the health department should ensure that Bokaro remains smoke-free”. He said that smoking is a dangerous habit. “Smoking publicly is very unsafe. Running the tobacco control programme as a campaign has yielded very good results,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM to field Hemant’s brother Basant in Dumka||Chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant will be the grand-alliance’s official candidate for the November 3 byelection in Dumka, the JMM announced on Wednesday. Basant (42), youngest of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren’s four children, who is chief of the party’s youth wing, will file his nomination on October 12. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Following extensive deliberations across within the party, and on the guidance of party supremo Shibu Soren, JMM has decided to field Basant Soren for the Dumka byelections.” Bhattacharjee said the JMM’s coalition partners — Congress and RJD—would  actively take part in the election campaign to ensure victory of the candidate. “It has been decided that he (Basant) will file his nomination on October 12. Senior party leaders including JMM working president Hemant Soren will be present at the time,” he said. The party general secretary claimed that the decision to field Basant in Dumka, a JMM bastion and a prestigious seat from where Soren Senior began his political career, was based on popular demand by local residents and party workers. “Last month, Hemant undertook a three-day tour of Dumka to assess the ground situation. He also held extensive meetings with regard to the bypolls. Based on the feedback from the ground, the party has decided to field Basant Soren as our candidate,” Bhattacharjee said. Basant contested the 2016 Rajya Sabha as a JMM candidate but lost. Despite having the necessary numbers, he lost after a couple of MLAs remained absent during voting that saw cross voting by two MLAs. As a result, the then ruling BJP-led government clinched both seats. Bhattacharjee, however, said that the tables had turned this time and the party was hopeful of clinching both the seats in the coming byelections. Along with Dumka, voting will also be held in Bermo on November 3. While Dumka fell vacant after Hemant vacated it to retain Barhait after last year’s Assembly polls, election in Bermo was necessitated after the demise of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May this year. The Congress party is expected to announce its candidate for Bermo in the first week of October. Rajendra’s son, Jai Mangal Singh, is said to be the frontrunner for a ticket as the grand alliance’s candidate. BJP silent on candidates Opposition BJP, however, is yet to reveal its cards. But party insiders claimed that former Dumka MLA Louise Marandi, who lost to Hemant in 2019, may get another chance. The party is currently busy wooing AJSU-P, its estranged ally, to put up a united fight. In last year’s Assembly polls, both BJP and AJSU-P had fought separately after their relationship suffered a jolt over lack of consensus on seat sharing, giving an edge to the JMM-Congress-RJD’s grand alliance. A BJP insider said, “We are trying to put up a united fight along with AJSU-P in both the seats this time to defeat the ruling dispensation. Fighting individually will lead to a split in votes. “In the 2019 Assembly polls, the JMM-Congress-RJD combine got 62 lakh votes while AJSU-P managed 7 lakh and BJP close to 52 lakh votes. Had we fought together, we could have managed to prevent a split and defeat the grand alliance.” The House numbers Currently, the ruling coalition has 47 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 79. JMM has 29 MLAs, Congress 17 and RJD 1. Two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) _ joined the Congress after the 2019 Assembly polls, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU-P has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cross country, junior championship on the cards in East Singhbhum ||Athletes of the state who are hitherto sitting idle owing to the lockdown can look forward to getting back to competition fold in the coming months. The East Singhbhum District Athletics Association (ESDAA) has lined up two competitions – district cross country and junior championship. Depending on the Covid-19 situation in the steel city, the twin events will be conducted in November and December. While the cross country is scheduled in November, the district athletics meet is slated to be staged in December. The events are aimed at helping athletes slip into competition groove keeping in mind the state/national cross country and national inter-district athletics championship which are scheduled in January and February next year. According to ESDAA president Mathura Nath Purty, most athletes from district are off training due to the lockdown. “Some were connected with our online training programmes. But it is not enough to help athletes perform up to expectations in competitive events. It is essential they again get a feel of the competition. Our athletes can get this feel in the upcoming district meets and help in their respective preparations,” he explained. The district body has planned to stage the junior meet at Sumant Moolgaokar Stadium in Telco. It has also planned a training camp in October. “It is essential to bring our athletes back to training mode. But we would go ahead with the programmes only when the Covid-related situation in the district improves. It would not be a wise idea to put athletes at risk,” an association functionary said. Athletes from East Singhbhum have won a lot of titles while representing Jharkhand in national competitions. Meanwhile, ESDDA has re-constituted its executive committee in view of the upcoming district events. Jiren Xavier Topno (chairman), M.N. Purty (president), Keshwar Sahu, Gurbari Hembrom, Vijay Singh, Arun Prakash Dutta, Suchinder Kumar Singh (vice-presidents), Ravindra Nath Mahto (secretary), Birdhan Marandi (joint secretary), Abhay Kumar, Sarwan Kumar, Sunita Purty, Suprabha Panda (assistant secretaries), Rajkumar Banra (treasurer) and Sidhu Kisku (assistant treasurer) are the office bearers of the panel. Former international Saroj Lakra has been made the co-chairman of the selection panel while  RP Verma is the convenor. Shyam Kumar Sharma, Shanti Choudhary and Shankar Hembrom have been selected as members of this panel. The coaching panel will be headed by Jagatpal Singh while Arvind Kumar will be the co-chairman. Sanjiv Kumar is the convenor whereas as Sidhu Kisku and Chetan Majhi will be the members. The technical committee comprises Ranjit Kumar Singh (chairman), Jahanara Begum (co-chairman), Abhay Kumar (convenor), Iqbal Singh and Nimai Mahto (members).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||My Saheli to help women passengers feel safe on trains||South Eastern Railway has introduced a new initiative titled My Saheli to ensure women passengers feel safe while travelling in trains. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said Operation My Saheli (friend) will ensure security to women passengers during the entire part of their journey once they board a train. As a pilot project, My Saheli has been introduced on three long-distance trains. They are the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special and Howrah-Mumbai Special that travels via Tatanagar. The third train is the Howrah-Yeshvantpur Duronto Special. The CPRO said teams of women sub-inspectors belonging to RPF interact with women passengers in the train at the originating station, briefing them about necessary precautions. They are also provided emergency contact numbers. The women sub-inspectors make a note of their seat numbers and contacts of a specified number of women passengers from all coaches and remain in touch with them throughout their journey. Information is also passed to all scheduled stops and the destination station so that RPF can attend if any woman faces a problem. During night-time, RPF personnel have been asked to be present outside during train halts at night between 11pm and 6am Director of Tatanagar railway station H.K. Balmuchu said the new initiative would provide security in the real sense to women passengers from originating station to the destination. "In case of any unforeseen event, like dacoity, accident, agitations, hold-up of trains, etc, women passengers can be contacted easily. We can get a real-time picture of the situation and can help all passengers immediately," he said. The new initiative was being undertaken under the framework of  the Nirbhaya Fund, so it does not involve any additional expenditure. Balmuchu said that based on feedback on the pilot run, My Saheli may be extended to other long- distance trains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Fitness enthusiasts of Dhanbad take to cycling||Fitness enthusiasts of Dhanbad, who have been denied the pleasures of playing badminton ever since the imposition of a lockdown in March, have now taken to cycling as a way of keeping in shape. Meet Santanu Chaudhary, traders Satyam Lala and Manish Gulutia, Kunjan Sharan and Pranay Purbey, a radiologist, who are cycling for more than 90 minutes a day through various areas of Dhanbad to stay active and fit. Satyam Lala, a resident of Ajanta Para, said, "All of us used to go on morning walks at the Railway Ground or Golf Ground, besides playing badminton at the Dhanbad District Indoor Stadium. Suddenly, that stopped.” The group was “locked in” for more than 45-50 days. “Then we decided to go cycling. It is the best way to carry out physical exercise and maintain social distancing. We keep a distance of 6 feet between each cycle,” Lala, a trader by profession, said. All members of the group bought new cycles in May. Santanu Chaudhary said, "We begin our cycle rounds at 5.45am and return home by 7.30am. All of us assemble at Luby Cirular Road and go on our bikes through various lanes and bylanes. We avoid roads that have traffic." Manish Gutgutia, a Bhuli Road-based trader, said since Covid cases were on the rise, they weren’t feeling comfortable about demanding that parks and playgrounds be opened. “Cycling seemed the best option to stay fit and also maintain social distance,” he said. Kunjan Sharan, who is a government official, said Dhanbad roads used to be narrow. “But now many roads have been widened and there is enough room to cycle without the risk of accidents,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro residents protest against Hathras rape||Several residents staged a protest against the Hathras rape case in Bokaro. Members of All India Democratic Youth Organization burnt effigy demanding death sentence against the accused in Siwandih. A protester said the accused should be hanged till death. Dhanbad police on Wednesday seized cash worth Rs 91.35 lakh from a car travelling towards Asansol in West Bengal from Gaya in Bihar. Police brought the four people travelling in the car to Barawaddah police station for further interrogation. Cash worth Rs 3.5 lakh was stolen from the cash counter of State Bank of India, Jharia Bazar branch on Monday afternoon. The incident took place, when Koiribandh resident, Sanjay Harijan, withdrew the money his father’s account and handed over the money to a bank employee to be deposited in his own account and left the counter. The employee left the money on the counter unattended for a brief time. When he returned to the counter he found the money missing and immediately informed the bank manager, who in turn informed Jharia police. A total of eight Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday from Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the discharged patients have been provided health kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. Singh said the paid isolation facility available at Wedlock Greens Hotel will end from September 30 at the request of Hotel authorities. The paid isolation facility in King's Resort at Govindpur will continue. Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad who visited the heavily congested Purana Bazar locality expressed serious concern over the encroachment in the market and instructed shop keepers to remove them at the earliest. The officer instructed the shop keepers to maintain social distance in view of upcoming festive season and added that a Covid testing camp will be organised for them. Three people donated plasma at the PMCH blood bank based plasma therapy centre on Wednesday. Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that people are gradually coming forward to donate plasma and on October 1 a total of 20 people will be donating their plasma. Arun Kumar Sao, a police constable and Dhanbad’s first plasma donor was felicitated on Wednesday. Ramgarh District Judge awarded life imprisonment on Wednesday to Naresh Mahto for poisoning his wife to death. On September 24, the court convicted the accused husband on the basis of evidence. Janaki Mahto, the father of the deceased, had lodged an FIR against his son-in-law at Patratu police station in connection with the death of his daughter. He had mentioned in his FIR that his daughter was killed by poisoning, for not giving Rs 50,000 as dowry. After registering an FIR, the Patratu police found poison in the SFL investigation report of the deceased. A truck carrying jaggery from Raipur to Patna overturned on the state's highway (NH-33) near Patel chowk in Ramgarh on Wednesday injuring the driver and cleaner. The driver Ravindra Kumar steered the vehicle to a safer side after realising the brakes had failed. Ravindra and his co-passenger Pankaj Kumar sustained injuries but are out of danger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two Jamshedpur girls allegedly abducted by their lovers||Two girls, including a minor, were allegedly abducted by their lovers in two separate incidents. In one case registered with the Birsanagar thana, the police succeeded in tracing the girl and her lovers from NH-33 leading to Hazaribagh with the help of the Hazaribag police on Wednesday. In the other case, registered with the Telco thana, a police team has rushed to Ranchi after receiving information about the girl’s whereabouts. According to police, Sangeeta Kumari (21), a resident of Zone No 1-B in Birsanagar went missing from her house on Tuesday morning. Family members suspected that she eloped with her boyfriend Vishal Kamath (from Parsudih) and lodged an FIR against him. "We came to know that the couple were on NH-33 close to Hazaribagh.  We then contacted Hazaribagh police and alerted them, giving details about the girl's appearance. They immediately started checking incoming vehicles and ultimately traced the girl and her lover on Wednesday morning.  They were in a car, and heading toward Hazaribagh town," Rajiv Kumar Jha, OC, Birsanagar thana, told The Telegraph Online. Hazaribagh police took both in custody and handed them to Birsanagar police in the afternoon. A 16-year-old girl, resident of Prem Nagar in Telco, was allegedly abducted from the marketplace on Monday evening, leading the girl's father to lodge an FIR with the Telco thana on Tuesday. Family members were aware of her boyfriend Sunil Sahni, and searched at his house in Burmamines, finding he was missing too. OC, Telco thana, Akhilesh Mandal said that they put the couple’s cell phones under surveillance, but could not trace their whereabouts. He said the girl called her father on Wednesday morning and told him that she would not return home and stay with Sahni after marrying him. "During the course of the conversation, the girl mentioned that she was ]in Ranchi. We have sent a team of police officials to Ranchi," Mandal said while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Bokaro couples start oxygen bank for patients||A group of 18 young couples have pooled in funds to start an oxygen bank for the economically challenged Covid patients in home isolation. This is the first oxygen bank in the district. The oxygen cylinders will be provided for free on prescription of a doctor. The group known as ‘Bokaro Midtown Couples’ has also arranged for a vehicle service ‘Muktivahini’ that will be used to carry the dead bodies of Covid patients to the burning ghat. The district had 472 active cases till Wednesday morning. Of these, there are about 160 patients in home isolation. Since March there were 3831 persons detected positive. Of them, 3333 residents were cured and 26 patients have died. “The recovery rate in Bokaro is above 90 per cent,” said Dr Ashok Kumar Pathak, a civil surgeon. The oxygen bank was inaugurated by director of Bokaro General Hospital, Dr A.K. Singh. BGH is a dedicated Covid hospital in Bokaro. Singh said that timely delivery of oxygen cylinders to Covid infected patients will prove to be very helpful in saving their lives. “Making oxygen cylinders available to the needy persons is really a praiseworthy step. It will help in providing relief to the Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Singh. Subhash Jain, a member of the group said, “We have purchased 10 oxygen cylinders at present. If needed, we will purchase more in second phase.” Former president of the group, Sajan Kapoor said, “it is a small step to serve the society in this time of crisis. We have assessed that people, especially positive patients, are facing problems in getting oxygen. The cylinders will be issued to the patients on prescription of a practising doctor.” The group has also floated a mobile number 9431164552 on which residents can call for oxygen cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
