02-10-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown diaries||Ranjana Sarkar I am spending my time cooking, drawing, singing folk songs and Rabindrasangeet, reading the travel companion Bhramansangi, playing carrom and ludo, and chatting with my friends and son. My son has gone to Japan to study. He is an animator and a good singer also. I send him mails and call him on WhatsApp. Like I mentioned, I like cooking and my signature dish is kebab. This week I made Shammi Kebab, Galouti Kebab and Chicken Chapli Kebab. I have also travelled to Japan, China, Bangladesh, Europe etc and am writing on my experiences which is supposed to be published in our office magazine. I do exercise and pranayam everyday. I work at an insurance company as a stenographer and go to office thrice a week in the lockdown period. I go to the market once or twice a week. I am watching TV programmes, especially musical ones, participating in Sananda club digital workshops, contacting friends and relatives and, above all, praying to the Almighty for a better world. Krishna Nandy I have five grandchildren but they all live in different parts of the world. They have a set of clothes here in Salt Lake but the kids always outgrow them by the time they visit a second time. Initially I would distribute the clothes but now I’ve run out of kids who would receive them. So this lockdown, I put needle to thread and got creative. I cut their trousers, stuffed them with cotton and made dolls. I made fairy tale characters like Goldilocks, Rapunzel and Cinderella as well as animals like cats and turtles. I never learnt sewing. It was a hobby that I never had time for.  But six months at home has given me ample opportunity to try my hand at it. My grandchildren are still too young to realise their clothes are being recycled but their parents are appreciating my efforts a lot. Amal Sengupta During the lockdown, there are plenty of things to do like gardening, photo framing, watching TV, listening to music, virtual tour and travel planning — all of it just by using the internet. I am fond of travelling and this is the first summer after so many years that we are home. Last summer, we visited South America. Travelling is an interesting part of our lifestyle and we are enriched with knowledge to learn more about our planet. So we try to plan our family vacations mainly to cover the natural wonders. For this year, we had booked tickets to the Scandinavian countries but of course, it did not mature. So virtual tour is the solution. This is the simulation of an existing location with the help of sequential videos and/ or still images. Other elements like music, sound effects, floor plans etc could also be used. Rupkatha Das To overcome the boredom of being home, I tried learning new skills. As of now, my greatest achievement is having learnt how to sing. At least I don’t sing like a crow now! Next, I learnt to make chocolate milkshake and I dare say I can also dance beautifully. I’ve lost a lot of weight too and I’m happy about that! I’m also busy with school assignments, surprise tests and projects but my biggest challenge was helping mom with chores. She made me wash all the dishes and I loved doing it, even though I don’t help her more often. Bhawna Shah I am using the lockdown for several creative pursuits. For instance, on Environment Day, I made a leaf dress for my daughter. I’m sharing the steps so you can try it too.  Mother Nature Eco Leaf Dress:  Materials required: 1. Leaves of different plants and of different shapes. 2. Strapless tube top 3. Shorts 4. Ribbons 5. Scissors 6. Ruler 7. Jute thread 8. Needle (8.5”-10” size) 9. Green cloth 10. Two-hole punch 11. Glue gun with glue stick  STEP 1: Measure the size of your tube top and shorts and cut the green cloth accordingly. STEP 2 : Wrap the jute thread on the stem of a leaf for easy sewing on the cloth.  STEP 3: Hand-sew the leaves of different sizes as an abstract art with the jute thread on the measured cloth according to your pattern for both the tube and shorts.  STEP 4: Sew all the leaves on the cloth and use glue gun to paste if needed.  STEP 5: STEP 6:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Khuti Puja 2020||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Best Puja writings||This has been an unprecedented year with unprecedented consequences. Which is why we had held back the results of the 14th The Telegraph Super Souvenir Awards in the hope that things would normalise and we could hold the prize distribution ceremony as always with all the winners in attendance. But that is not to be. With Durga Puja 2020 knocking on our doors, there is no point waiting further. This edition of the contest was otherwise a successful one, drawing the highest number of participation in its history. Which goes to show that more and more pujas in Salt Lake are becoming confident enough about their printed output to want to take part in the contest while pujas in New Town are becoming organised enough to bring out their souvenirs. We have decided to add a couple of more categories for this year — Best Travelogue and Best Memoir — as we wanted to accommodate more participants on the awards list. Our sincere thanks to each housing complex and block for sending in your puja souvenir. Hope you continue to do so every year. And congratulations to each and every winner. Those featuring on the winners’ list are requested to send a mail to saltlake@abpmail.com with their contact numbers or call us on Tuesday or Wednesday evening at 22600115 before 10pm. Salt Lake FE Block Residents’ Association Why: The souvenir is increasing in bulk with every year. But the ratio of reading material and advertisements has been maintained. The articles are on subjects as varied as global warming and Kashmir plebiscite, India’s education system and varieties of tea... Other than several travelogues, memoirs and poems, there is even crossword puzzle and sudoku as leisure activity. Children of the block have been given space to share their writings and sketches. Another thoughtful section is a column that is used as a filler at the conclusion of longer articles on Puja memories and reflections of former presidents of the block association, who are now senior citizens. In a nod to technology, the souvenir also has a downloadable e-version. Best Editorial Winner: Gora Roy, secretary, Salt Lake CF Block Residents’ Association Why: The theme of pollution that the block’s puja pandal had showcased was explained in a refreshing manner — through a slice-of-life fictional account. It successfully brought home the message of how many of us unwittingly contribute to pollution, without being preachy.   Special mention: Satyaban Roy, convenor, souvenir sub-committee, New Town AA1B Sarbojanin Durgotsab Committee and Ishwar Mukherjee, editor, Utsab Bichitra, Purba Samabay Abasan (Cluster XIII, Purbachal Abasan) Best Poetry Winner: Sarbani Banerjee of East Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association for Pratichi O Aro Duti Why: The poet’s voice is strong, without being strident. A voice that articulates the poet’s thoughts through well-crafted words that are devoid of fluff, yet leave behind an impact through vivid imagery. Special mention: Purba Kar of CD Block, New Town, for Chithi and Asim Das of East Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association, New Town, for Amar Kono Tara Nei. Best Travelogue Winner: Susmita Bhaduri of Sanjeeva Town The Bungalow Estate For Ektu Ushnotar Jonyo, Uttar Golardhe Why: The account has the right balance of personal information and description of places visited. While the remote destination, Iceland, is itself exciting, piquing readers’ interest by its very mention, the journey turns out to be even more entertaining as the author’s pen is generously dipped in a pot of humour. As she describes how she chased the northern lights or revelled in the idyllic settings where Shah Rukh Khan and Kajol had shot the Dilwale song Rang de tu mohe gerua, the reader senses and shares her enjoyment and awe. Special mention: Sekhar Basu of JC Block forbHollywood-er Jaadu Durgo. Best Fiction Winner: Bibha Roy Chowdhury of FE Block for Udbastu Why: The narrator’s tale of being uprooted from a life of affluence across the border gets intertwined with that of a rustic woman’s, with life throwing both together in a refugee colony. The twist in the plot is unexpected yet believable because of the sincerity that rings in each voice that the author gives life to. Special mention: Kumkum Chattopadhyay of East Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association for Rong Bahar. Early Bird Winner: Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee, BE (West) Why: The souvenir landed on our desk the day before Mahalaya when many other blocks possibly were yet to send out a call for articles. Despite being so punctual about publication and distribution, the block has taken care to enrich the souvenir with quality articles. The printing and binding quality is also of a high standard. Best Memoir Winner: Tandra Goswami of FE Block for Amar Chhotobelar Saatkahon Why: A glimpse into an idyllic life, on which time and circumstance have drawn the curtains forever, a life of harmony and brotherhood in erstwhile East Pakistan, where a school’s Muslim teacher did not accept prasad yet sponsored sweets for Saraswati puja, where students sung Bengali songs to celebrate Pakistan’s independence day in school, where swimming and boating lessons for a child were mandatory for survival and could even be supplemented by horse riding lessons by the friendly village police inspector. And which also is a testament to how this paradise was lost to the poison of radicalism and division. Special mention: Rita Das of BE 98 (BE East) for Hostel Jiboner Tokjhal Mishti. Best Essay Winner: Saptarshi Chowdhury of CD Block, New Town, for Messbarir theke soja Baithakkhana Bazar. Why: The boarding houses of central or north Calcutta, which are now merely shadows of a bustling past, have played a key role in nurturing our artistic heritage. The author’s easy familiarity with both the locality and the literary works that were born in these quarters enrich the reading experience. The writing style is lucid and engaging. The mention of publications as sources of information lends authenticity to the account. Special mention: Sonali Roy of BE Block (BE West) for Swad O Sadhyo. Best Cover Winner: DL Block Residents’ Association Why: The cartoonish treatment of the goddesses seated on their mounts makes the cover stand out. The use of colours is apt. That the illustration is an original art work, credited to resident Indrani Bhattacharya, also is noteworthy. Special mention: Salt Lake BE (East) Puja Committee and BL Block We have selected the three best pictures among those published in the “Click Your Township” column in the months since last year’s result. The snaps are a testimony to the wealth of photographic talent in the neighbourhood. Congratulations to -||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Teachers’ Day celebrations go online||St. Francis Xavier School “Our respect for teachers has increased immensely during the last six months. In fact, they are my lockdown inspirations,” said Priyangshu Dutta, who, despite the burden of studies in his final year at school, decided to perform for them in his school’s Teachers’ Day programme. St. Francis Xavier School celebrated the event online and Priyangshu Dutta sang the song Tu na jane aas paas hai khuda from the film Anjaana Anjaani. “I used my mother’s phone to relay  the accompanying music and sang into my own phone that aired the show live on YouTube,” said the classical singer who wants to study sound engineering after school. Rishiraj Roy had half-yearly exams knocking on the door but still took a couple of hours out to compere the event. “Extra curricular activities are as important as studies and I’ve conducted events several times before in school,” he said. “I was nervous about technical glitches and the fact that parents had been invited to watch the show this year too. Instead of applause, this time I received clap emoticons as praise,” he smiled. Two videos were shared — one on Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the educator in whose honour Teachers’ Day is celebrated, and the second was a personalised one with pictures of teachers with students and voice messages by students in English, Hindi and Bengali. “We were up till midnight perfecting the presentations,” said Snigdha Bhattacharjee, who read out a speech for the show. “We miss our classrooms and technology cannot replace the warmth of a teacher,” she said. “Teaching is a profession highly respected by society and the nation and, in fact, no other profession can give us such a high level of satisfaction,” said Anil Srivastava, the officiating principal, in his address. “Today is the day I get to sit back and see what we have achieved through all of you.” The teachers received praise from Ajay Chopra, secretary and administrator of the school. “Teachers, this year you have outdone yourselves! Not only have you taught the students despite the challenges, but you have become students yourselves, learning new technology undaunted.” Quoting Haim Ginott, the Israeli educator, he said that teachers were expected to reach unattainable goals with inadequate tools. “But the miracle is that they sometimes accomplish this impossible task. You, teachers, have outdone yourselves during the lockdown and I’m proud of you. You have worked not as employees but as partners of this school,” said Chopra. The school was one of the first to start teaching online, as early as April 1, he pointed out. Bidhannagar Govt High School Two days were more than enough for students of Bidhannagar Government High School to plan a special surprise for their teachers on September 5. Seventeen students of Class XII came together to prepare a video of their cultural activities, nearly an hour long, and posted it on social media. “Since this is our final year in school, we really wanted to express our love and respect to our teachers. We thought of the idea quite suddenly and decided to surprise them on the occasion,” said a student, Bidisha Saha. The video began with Gairika Dutta singing guru vandana, followed by a speech by Annwoy Roy Choudhury. “We are excited to be performing even during the pandemic,” said Annwoy. Teachers have been our guiding force throughout our school lives and now when we are ready to walk out of here, we wanted to express our gratitude.” Soma Sikdar danced to Mamo chittey, Trisha Halder to Mon ta re (from the film Lootera) and Ahana Biswas performed guru vandana. “The lockdown is making us try new things. I have done several dance videos before but this is my first time dancing for the teachers. My sister taught me the moves and helped me record the video,” said Asmita De, as she danced to the Rabindrasangeet Amar hiyar majhe. Tanisha Saha has been studying in this school for just a year but already calls it her second home. “I came to this school last year but the teachers  made me feel like I’ve studied here for years. This may be our last celebration as school students so I am glad we made the most of it.” Anisha  Sharma and Soumili Das contributed with artwork. Anisha  made two paintings — a pencil sketch of Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and a digital painting for the teachers, while Soumili displayed her calligraphy. “I have learnt calligraphy and tried it out during the lockdown. I used a brush pen for it,” Soumili said. Santarpan Pal said the teachers were taken by surprise when they uploaded the video and sent them the link. “They had no idea we were planning this and we too were nervous as this was our first attempt of celebrating an occasion digitally,” said the boy who anchored and edited the video. Madhurima Sen, a teacher of English at the school, was delighted with the tribute. “The thought, the choice of words in the narration, the selection of Tagore songs and the overall sensibility that the programme portrayed made us hopeful about the next generation,” said Sen, adding that she had posted her coments in the WhatsApp group comprising the participating students that was created for the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Coronavirus cases creep up again||Corona cases have gone up in Salt Lake and adjoining areas, including Teghoria, Kaikhali and parts of Rajarhat, over the past couple of weeks. Fresh cases are being reported from all three sectors of Salt Lake. An FD Block resident said that at least four neighbours had tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. Piyush Agarwal, the resident, said that all those who had tested positive were now in self-isolation in their respective houses. A resident of EE Block said that a 72-year-old neighbour had tested positive for Covid-19 after he went for a rapid antigen test (RAT). The resident had himself undergone a rapid antigen test a few days back and had tested positive. Another resident of CJ Block said that several of her neighbours were in home quarantine. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said that the number of people in home quarantine had gone up manifold over the past few days. The number of people in Salt Lake hospitals has also increased but since a lot of people from outside also get admitted here, the official said that they could not confirm whether they were all residents of Salt Lake, Rajarhat and the immediate neighbourhood. Another official said that the Covid curve in areas under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation would flatten out once the transmission rate dropped to 1 per cent and the number of new cases would start to decline gradually once the rate fell below 1 per cent. Despite the rise in the number of cases, only Duttabad remains a containment area where the restrictions like social distancing and wearing of masks in public are hardly maintained. Till Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 patients stood at around 7,500. Around 50 persons have died due to the disease. “We are doing everything we can to stop the spread,” said a civic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 strikes SOS Children’s Village||Eighteen residents of SOS Children’s Village in BK Block and their youth hostel in Baguiati had tested positive for Covid-19 and have recently recovered. SOS Children’s Village is an international organisation for orphaned and neglected children. The West Bengal branch of the group, based in Salt Lake, has 15 houses comprising of seven to 10 children, ranging in age from infancy to mid-20s. Looking after them are employees who take up the roles of “mother”s. The head of each house is a “mother” who has an “aunt” to assist her. “It all began when an ‘aunt’ fell ill and tested positive in last week of August,” said Sonali Das, secretary of the centre. “We were worried but received a lot so support from mayor Krishna Chakraborty and the health department.” The corporation sent teams to conduct Covid tests of all residents of the village as well as their youth hostel in Baguiati. Boys above the age of 12 years are sent to this facility while adolescent girls continue staying in BK Block. The test results found two boys, four girls, two youths of the Baguiati hostel, two ‘aunts’ and seven members of the staff at BK Block infected. “The matter was intimated to the child welfare committee and the district social welfare officer, North 24- Parganas immediately. The corporation sanitised the village on September 5 and 10 and internally we continued sanitisation on a daily basis,” said Das. Except for the first “aunt”, all were asymptomatic. Nonetheless they were isolated in separate houses. As per the advice of their paediatrician, their temperature, pulse and oxygen saturation were monitored throughout. They were given vitamins and nutritious diet like khichudi of Gobindobhog rice, chicken soup, custard, corn flakes and energy drinks, according to officials. The patients were served in disposable plates and cups by two nurses in personal protective equipment. After 17 days of isolation, health workers repeated the tests, and on finding them negative issued them fitness certificates, after which the children returned to their family homes in the village. “No more cases were found thereafter. While we can never be sure how the first ‘aunt’ contracted Covid, it is true that some aunts and mothers have been visiting markets,” said Das. “Now that everyone has recovered some ‘mothers’ are looking forward to Puja shopping. But I am dead against this. It is with stringent protocol that we have brought the Covid situation under control. Going to a crowded market like Hatibagan will put everyone’s health at risk again,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Amphan, lockdown ruin butterfly release target||There were plans to release 10,000 butterflies into the eco-system in 2020 but the target will be missed because of the combined jolt of the lockdown and cyclone Amphan. The authorities shared how the butterfly dome at Eco Park was damaged during Cyclone Amphan. The dome is a special structure that blocks 35 per cent of the sun’s rays, a condition required for multiplication of the species. Its net had been brought from Hyderabad but was blown away by the cyclone. As many as 400 butterflies that were breeding within the dome also flew away or perhaps even perished. “Also because of the lockdown, we could hardly work in the laboratory,” said Arjan Basu Roy of Nature Mates, a wildlife conservation and research agency that looks after the butterfly park. About 9,000 butterflies had been released in 2019, he said. The dome has now been restored and breeding has started with renewed vigour. The Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), which runs Eco Park, has commissioned a book on the butterflies of the park. The announcement was made at a programme to mark Big Butterfly Month at the venue on September 20, where it was revealed that 103 species of butterfly could be spotted there. September is observed all over India as Big Butterfly Month and the event was organised by Nature Mates, in collaboration with Hidco. Nature Mates has been maintaining the butterfly garden at Eco Park and on the day gifted visitors seeds and potted plants that would facilitate butterfly breeding. This in turn would aid large-scale conservation of the environment. “After honey bees, butterflies are the most effective pollinators in the eco-system. Butterflies are also eaten by spiders and lizards, hence butterfly conservation helps rear other insects while simultaneously also conserving the plants on which they breed. We have a couple of Tiger Butterflies and our slogan is that if you save the smaller tigers in the eco-system, the bigger tigers in the forest will also be saved,” said Sarika Baidya, PhD scholar at Nature Mates. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen was chief guest at the event, which was also attended by an Indian Forest Service (IFS) official Sumita Ghatak, along with several Hidco engineers and the entire team of Nature Mates. “New Town is known as a Smart City but we also believe in nature conservation. There are places like Pnyacha More and Rongeen Gondaar More which have not been renamed to suit the urban lingo. It retains the local flavour of the region,” said Sen. “We want to usher in development but not at the cost of nature. We believe in inclusive survival strategies which have led to projects like hibiscus garden, rose gardens and bee-keeping at Eco Park. In a recent survey conducted by the state biodiversity board, it was found that there are hundreds of species of earthworms that are typical of this region alone,” Sen said. The first butterfly garden by Nature Mates was in Banabitan, Central Park, in Salt Lake. Others were added in Rajabhaatkhawa in Buxa Tiger Reserve and Ramshai in Gorumara National Park. There is also a thriving butterfly garden at Senchal Wildlife Sanctuary in Darjeeling. The forest department has been actively working on butterfly conservation since 2010 along with Hidco which has helped set up the butterfly garden in Eco Park. The domain enclosure at the park sometimes records footfall of 25,000-30,000 a year which also goes on to show how popular the butterfly garden is. The West Bengal State University has also introduced a chapter on butterfly life cycle which brings students to Eco Park and work on projects. This also promotes conservation and spreading awareness. “The Big Butterfly Month (promoting butterflies that are larger in size) is also observed in countries outside India. It is a drive to spread awareness about breeding butterflies and making people aware how a small step today can make a big difference tomorrow. We actively maintain butterfly count in both Calcutta and north Bengal. At a primary level, we found 330 different species of butterflies out of which several were never seen before in a limited area of 80 square feet where they were bred. As per our records, of the total number of species of butterflies found in India, 50 per cent are in West Bengal,” said Ghatak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Push to get free Covid tests done for puja workers in New Town ||The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation has advised Durga puja organising committees in New Town to get their puja-related personnel tested for Covid-19 before allowing them to join work. “Please get your pandal construction workers, dhakis and priests tested so that they don’t end up infecting others,” said a Hidco representative, attending a pre-puja meeting. “The test is being done free of cost at the Utility Building, opposite Route 260 bus stand, from 10am to 1.30pm daily except Sunday,” he informed. The message was delivered to organisers at a meeting at Rabindra Tirtha organised by the New Town police station for pujas in areas under the three police stations in New Town on September 24. It was one of the meetings that community puja organisers in Salt Lake and New Town were called to on the day in the respective townships. They watched the chief minister’s address to puja organisers across the state being telecast live on the big screen from Netaji Indoor Stadium and were then given localised briefings by police and other officials. “For this meeting, representatives of the 117 officially permitted pujas under our three police stations had been called,” a police officer said at the New Town event. The 180-seater Rabindra Tirtha was packed to capacity. The suggestion for Covid-19 tests was welcomed by the audience but also raised questions. “Our priest comes on Sashthi morning. So does our dhaki. What if either of them tests positive? Where will we get a substitute at the eleventh hour?” Sharmistha Bhattacharya of Aponjon housing estate in Dhalipara, Rajarhat, asked on the microphone. It was suggested that both priest and drummer be called a day in advance this year. Many organisers requested the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company official present on stage to bring down the minimum load capacity for individual pujas. “Our budget will be one-third this year. Please reduce your minimum security deposit. Otherwise, a lumpsum amount stays stuck with you,” urged a representative of Rupashree housing complex. “You apply. We will consider your request if the load is less,” the official said. A representative from Moonbeam Housing Complex wondered if permission needed to be taken for using lights from the complex’s own electric meter. “Our lighting will be minimal this year,” he argued. “You need to take a separate connection. It will not do to pull the connection from the housing mains,” the power utility engineer said. Another electricity-related query came about refunds. “We are supposed to get a refund on last year’s payment,” said a representative of Sankalpa 4, wondering how the refund could be claimed. “You need to apply at our office located next to Axis Mall,” said the official. Inspector in charge of New Town police station Atanu Ghosal pointed out that a thana-level meeting would be held closer to the Pujas where specific problems would be sorted out. At a similar event at Dishari Bhavan in Salt Lake, Somdeb Bandyopadhyay, inspector in charge, Bidhannagar north police station, addressed organisers of pujas in his jurisdiction. “Last year, a puja committee had erected an advertisement gate on the lane from the First Avenue to their pandal. This is illegal and dangerous and we had to go pull it down in the middle of celebrations. Such incidents leave a bad taste in the mouth and even we don’t want to ruin the festive mood. So please keep these norms in mind and do not install gates,” he said. The police enquired if 2020 happened to be a jubilee year for any puja in the sector and indeed, Shyama Das of Vidyasagar Niketan said it would be their 50th. “We must be the oldest puja of Salt Lake and we had plans to commemorate the milestone but with the pandemic going strong, we have to play it down. We shall follow all guidelines set by the government and not try to attract too much footfall.” Bandyopadhyay enquired about the crowd-puller that AE Part 1 has emerged as in recent years. The organisers assured him that despite opting for a theme this year, their scale would be low. “Just ensure your exit gate is double the width of the entry gate,” said Bandyopadhyay. His instruction to Labony Estate was to open — not all but — only two gates to visitors. “Every block must keep making announcements about wearing masks. Your electric wiring system must be fool proof too. Any short cuts will lead to accidents,” said Bandyopadhyay. Much time went in repeating the names of blocks as those like EC and AC sounded similar from behind masks. Deputy commissioner K.U. Ganpat addressed the residents too. “Every year, meetings are held at the thana level but confusion arises when committees get contradictory or unverified information from other sources too. Moreover, this year fake news had spread on social media about the Pujas being cancelled altogether. But once the chief minister announces the regulations once and for all today, there will be clarity,” he said. At both meetings, the audience broke into applause when the chief minister announced an assistance of Rs 50,000 to all pujas. “We expect no sponsorship or souvenir ads this year so this amount will help us immensely,” said Aloke Datta of Shyamali Abasan. “We’re really feeling like the chief minister is by our side in these times of trouble.” Bandyopadhyay said that another pre-puja meeting would be held in presence of fire brigade and power utility officials. To this Arunabha Hazra of CD Block wondered if it would be wiser to hold it over Zoom. “Unfortunately, puja organsiers from the added areas are not familiar with the app so we shall have to hold it in person,” the officer explained. He reminded everyone about a WhatsApp group police had started with puja organisers last year. “It would be revived this season. Do inform us about any changes in committees,” he said, “and also in case you are shifting the venue of your puja from the park to the community hall or changing your immersion ghat.” saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Red tape holds up Salt Lake property transfer||Lease-holders of Salt Lake trying to transfer houses to buyers claim they are facing unusual delay in getting approval from the state urban development department authorities. Pankaj Rudra (name changed) submitted papers to sub-lease the second and third floors of his Sector II house in mid-2018. “Thereafter the authorities came and checked the house, the buyer and I got called for an interview in November 2019 but we are still waiting for the go-ahead from the department,” he says. Plots in Salt Lake are not freehold. They were given out on 999 years’ lease decades ago and there was no provision for sub-leasing them out to third parties. But illegal transfers were an open secret and the government realised it was losing money. So in 2012, the rules were amended allowing a lessee to transfer his rights against a fee of Rs 5 lakh per cottah to be paid to the government. “My three-storeyed house is built on more than 4 cottahs of land but since my children are settled abroad my wife and I have shifted to the ground floor and we want to sub-lease the upper floors out,” said Rudra. “But we are waiting for more than two years for government sanction. This is ridiculous! If the legal process takes this much time people will again resort to illegal means to sell their houses.” Similar is the case with the lease-holder of a Sector III, who had filed his papers in June last year. “My interview happened in December and I was told that I would get the approval in a month. But there has been no response from them. They don’t even pay heed to phone calls so I would go over to their Nagarayan Bhavan office every two weeks to enquire. And once the pandemic struck it was a perfect excuse for them to delay the work even longer,” said Sumit Sen (name changed), who lives in New Town and wants to sub-lease his Salt Lake flat. “I even wrote to the state grievance cell but again got no response.” For Rudra, this is the second blow in a row. “I had got a good buyer a few years ago but then demonetisation happened and he ran out of cash to pay me. The deal fell through but the person who wants the sub-lease now has even paid me an advance. How long will he have to wait?” he says. “What with the pandemic raging, the government is in dire need of funds. Here we are ready to pay but they are dilly-dallying!” Tamal Aditya, a broker working in Salt Lake for the past 20 years, says the paperwork for transfer of plots  typically takes four to five months. “But if a top official gets transferred, work could get stalled for a good six months. Like every other sector, 2020 is terrible for the real estate. Prices have fallen so potential sellers are lying low. Potential buyers don’t have cash in hand either,” he says. “In such a scenario, if the formalities were carried out in time at least the pending transactions could be completed.” Senior officials of the urban development department said there had been a delay due to the lockdown but that they were clearing the pending files as fast as they could. “Only last week we cleared four or five cases. Instead of using hard copies of documents, we have started scanning them now but it is taking time as land transfer files are voluminous,” an official said. They have even started video conferencing instead of asking candidates to physically come over for the interviews “But before the interviews, different bodies like the police and corporation need to make independent visits to the houses to verify the claims made in the documents. This can take time,” said another official. “Sometimes the documents submitted are insufficient too. Plus we are short-staffed now as not everyone can come to office without trains running. They are doing the best they can from home.” The officials assured lease-holders that their papers would be processed soon. “They need not worry,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Dupe cuffs on two in New Town||Two men were arrested in New Town on Thursday for allegedly duping people by selling a “magic” colour that they told customers could turn a piece of paper into a Rs 2,000 note. The duo had also allegedly given people photocopies of US dollars in the guise of exchanging foreign currency, police said. The accused have been booked for cheating, fraud and criminal conspiracy. Photocopies of US dollars were found on the two, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Repairs on six Calcutta bridges after Durga Puja ||Five bridges on Calcutta’s northern outskirts and the Belgachhia bridge near RG Kar hospital will be repaired after Durga Puja. The PWD maintains all the bridges. A recent health check on the bridges showed some haven’t had any serious repairs in almost a decade. Apart from the Belgachhia bridge, the others are the rail overbridges at Belghoria, Sodepur and Madhyamgram and the bridges at Birati and Barasat. The expansion joints and bearings of these structures have not been replaced, leaving the bridge spans hard and immobile, with little or no scope for oscillation, the health checks have shown. The state government had engaged consulting agency Rites to study the health of some of the bridges and flyovers maintained by the PWD. The decision to carry out repairs follows specific recommendations by Rites, a PWD official said. “At Belgachhia, the joints between two spans, known as articulation joints, will be repaired and cleaned so that the decks can start regaining their oscillation,” the PWD official said. “Similarly, at Belghoria and Sodepur we will check the bearings that hold the structures.” The Belgachhia bridge has emerged as a key link for heavy vehicles headed for Shyambazar from further north. The PWD has removed 300mm of the concrete top that used to hold the tram tracks to reduce the load on the structure. Since the bridge will have to bear heavy vehicular load for at least the next two years till the new Tallah bridge is built, the repair of the joints is vital, a PWD engineer said. The bridges at Belghoria, Sodepur, Birati and Madhyamgram are key links in connecting Jessore Road in the east and BT Road in the west. “There are a few cracks in some of these bridges… they need micro-concreting and repairs to enhance the longevity of the structures. We will have to remove some encroachments around these bridges before starting the repairs,” a PWD official said. Officers of the Barrackpore commissionerate said the police would hold meetings with PWD officials as the repairs would entail traffic blocks and diversions. “We would like the repairs to be carried out in phases. Barasat draws a huge crowd during Kali Puja. So even that would have to be taken into consideration,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Inside furniture: stolen Rs 7 crore from NRI ||Two men were arrested in the city earlier this week in connection with illegal money transfers from an NRI’s bank account to several bank accounts in Calcutta, police said. Around Rs 7 crore, believed to be the money from the transfers, was found stashed inside furniture in a Behala home, the police said. Cops in London had investigated the NRI’s complaint and found the money had been transferred into a private bank account in Calcutta and thereafter to at least 35 accounts —nationalised as well as private — across the city. The private bank lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station on August 11 on being alerted about the fraud by the London cops, the police said. Based on the complaint, officers of the anti-bank fraud section in Lalbazar started investigating the matter and found at least four men often called NRIs to tell them that their debit cards would be blocked for want of KYC documents. “They used to send the NRIs a link and ask them to key in their details through the link. Since it was a phishing link, the banking details of the cards used to get compromised,” an officer said. The NRI who had reported the matter apparently lost Rs 85 lakh this way. During investigation it became apparent the gang had cheated several people and the money could run into crores. Cops have arrested Gourab Sathwani and Arun Shaw in this connection. At least two others involved in the racket are at large, the police said. Their modus operandi has an uncanny similarity with the Jamtara gang who target people across the country on the phone, posing as bank officials. “Just like the Jamtara gang who transfer money through multiple e-wallets and accounts before withdrawing it from an ATM, this gang, too, followed a similar process. One of them was identified in the CCTV footage of an ATM kiosk where money used to be withdrawn regularly,” an officer said. The two have been booked for cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Based on their statement, cops on Wednesday searched a flat in Behala and seized Rs 6.95 crore hidden inside cupboards, mattresses and chair cushions. Both have been sent to police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Phoolbagan Metro station starts Monday||The Phoolbagan station of the upcoming East-West Metro corridor is likely to be opened for commercial runs from Monday, Metro officials said on Thursday. “The nod from the rail safety commissioner had come in June. But there were a few specifications that had to be fulfilled. The station is ready now and should be inaugurated on Sunday and become operational from Monday,” an official said. Commercial services started between the Salt Lake Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations, the only operational stretch of the East-West Metro corridor, on September 14. The passenger count on the East-West route has been dismal, though, hovering close to 100, a little more than the number of daily trains (74). On Wednesday, the East-West passenger count was 125. Metro officials hoped the number would go up once Phoolbagan station started operations. “A large number of commuters headed to Sealdah and further west will benefit when the route extends till Phoolbagan,” a Metro official said. Once fully operational, the East-West Metro will connect Salt Lake and Howrah. East-West Metro now runs between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations, a distance of 5.5km with six overhead stations on the stretch. Phoolbagan, the first underground station on the route, is around 1.7km from Salt Lake Stadium. The Phoolbagan station has been built 18m under the ground. At 140m long and 12m wide, the platform is around 30m shorter than the existing ones on the North-South route to match the length of the six-coach rakes. But it has been built to handle 300,000 passengers every day. Howrah station’s capacity will be higher at 450,000 and Sealdah station’s the highest at 500,000. On the existing Noapara-New Garia Metro route, Esplanade station handled 53,000 passengers every day before the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta University students cross rivers to bridge divide||Many students who lack Internet connectivity at home have rented rooms or temporarily shifted to relatives’ houses to write the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams of Calcutta University, which began on Thursday. The reason why the students had to shift out of their homes is the UGC’s order that the answer scripts will have to be uploaded within half an hour of the completion of the day’s exam. The temporary accommodations are close to the examinees’ respective colleges and they can submit the scripts to the institutions minutes after the end of the test. Since tests cannot be held in colleges amid the Covid pandemic, the university decided that the colleges would upload the questions on their websites. In places like Sagar and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas, many students had to cross several rivers to bridge the digital divide, a yawning gap staring at the face of educational institutions during the pandemic like never before. Students of Sundarban Mahavidyalaya (Kakdwip) and Sagar Mahavidyalaya —over 105km away from College Street, the headquarters of CU — crossed the Kalnagini, Muri Ganga and Baratala rivers to write the paper. They plan to do so on every exam day. “After writing the two-hour test, they handed us the scripts and took a ride back home on mechanised boats,” said Prabir Kumar Dash, the teacher-in-charge of Sundarban Mahavidyalaya. Many of the examinees are writing the papers at relatives’ houses, while others have rented rooms, individually or in groups. The rent for one such room is Rs 400 for the duration of the exams, which will continue till October 8. “Many of their parents earn close to Rs 3,000 a month. A part of it is now going into paying the rent,” said a college teacher. Why could they not write the test and upload scanned copies of the answer scripts from home? “Many of the students are children of fishermen or peasants. They cannot afford a smartphone. Their financial condition has worsened after Amphan. Besides, the storm has severely disrupted telephone networks in these areas,” teacher-in-charge Dash said. Some of the students, who submitted the scripts offline at Sundarban Mahavidyalaya, had to visit the college to take print-outs of question papers before the start of exam. At Sagar Mahavidyalaya, which is on Sagar Island, more than 100 of the 336 students went to the college to submit answer scripts. Teacher-in-charge Prabir Kumar Khatua said they had made separate counters for receiving the scripts offline. “These students cannot afford smartphones. The connectivity in these areas is not robust. So they thought it would be safer to rent a room or take shelter at relative’s houses closer to the college in order to be able to submit the scripts,” said Khatua. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said the exams were smooth. The tale of two colleges highlights how bad the situation would be for students once regular classes start on digital platforms. The first-year classes could begin in December on online mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Protest against Hathras horror, Babri acquittal||The horror of the Hathras gang rape and the events that followed would seem exaggerated in films but were part of the reality in India, a teacher said at a protest meeting in Calcutta on Thursday. “First the horror of the assault, then cops burning her body in the dead of the night without her parents. Had this been a film, we would have called it exaggeration. But this has become the reality,” said Subhanil Chowdhury, who teaches economics at the Institute of Development Studies. The meeting, attended by “democratic-minded citizens”, demanded justice for the Hathras victim and slammed the “unjust acquittal of the conspirators” of Babri Masjid demolition. The protesters met near the Park Street Metro station under the Park Street flyover and walked till the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. On the eve of the 151st birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation, the marchers called for unity among citizens to fight the “politics of hate and violence”. “It is important to realise why we are on the road. Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992…. Around 3,000 Indians were killed in riots in the run-up to and after the demolition. Today, those behind the atrocities… have been acquitted. If people responsible for the death of 3,000 Indians go scot-free, then we — you and I — can get killed anytime,” said Faridul Islam of the No-NRC movement. Members of a string of organisations that were at the forefront of the rallies against the troika of Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens in the city before the pandemic attended the meeting on Thursday. The participants shouted their lungs out. Slogans of “hum ek hain” rang the air as the protesters marched along JL Nehru Road and Mayo Road. One of the posters depicted a severed tongue. The Hathras victim had her tongue severed, allegedly by her tormentors. “Whose tongue is it? Cannot say? Could it be yours?” asked the poster. Kasturi Basu, a documentary filmmaker and activist, spoke of the “state of Indian judiciary”. “A special CBI court was about to deliver its judgement in a 28-year-old, extremely important case. Our judicial system has become such that before the judgement, people presumed that all the accused would be acquitted. Why? Because in an earlier verdict, the Supreme Court gave permission to build a Ram Mandir from the rubble of a mosque that was demolished by a criminal conspiracy, by an assembly of thousands.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Comorbidity survey ends, more planned in Calcutta||The first comorbidity survey among Calcuttans came to an end on Wednesday with over 7.69 lakh households out of the targeted 10 lakh covered. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said such surveys would be conducted in regular intervals to keep the data updated. The data from the first survey, which was launched to further fine-tune the state government’s Covid response, is likely to be digitised before Durga Puja. “We have ended the survey for now. The work to digitise the data is underway and we are targeting to complete the digitisation before Puja,” Hakim told Metro. “We will keep updating the data with repeat surveys in regular intervals.” About 98,000 household data have already been uploaded, said a CMC official. This is the first time data on Calcuttans with comorbidities — medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cancer and COPD — will be available with the CMC and the state health department. “The finding will serve as a critical input in the framing of health policies,” a doctor said. “The survey will also help the authorities tailor individual responses…. Covid patients with comorbidities have a higher chance of turning critical compared with those who do not have any comorbidity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Back-and-forth on Covid test rate cap||A health department order capping the rates of the Covid-19 test by the RT-PCR method at Rs 1,201 was circulated among private hospitals and laboratories on Thursday afternoon. In the evening, another order was issued stating that the earlier order had been “kept in abeyance till further order”. Officials said the government was reviewing the existing cap on the test rates — Rs 2,250 — and would bring it down. Sources said the day’s first order was greeted with protests from private healthcare units. Also, senior government officials felt that the rate was unrealistic and many private laboratories could either stop the test or reduce the number of samples tested. “...after careful consideration of different aspects, the undersigned is directed to fix the rate of RT-PCR COVID-19 testing for the private laboratories, as under,” stated the first order and mentioned the rate as Rs 1,201. The order was dated September 28. “Due to unavoidable circumstances, the order (mentioning the memo number and date) has been kept in abeyance until further order,” said the second order. “The earlier order was internal and was not meant to be circulated. It was a mistake,” said a senior health department official. Later, health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said the government would bring down the cap. “We are reviewing the rates of RT-PCR testing for Covid-19 for private laboratories to bring them down further. It will be decided soon,” Nigam said. According to sources, the government was looking at rates between Rs 1,400 and Rs 1,600. In the last week of June, the government had capped the rate for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at Rs 2,250 for private laboratories and hospitals. Before that there were reports that some of the private units were charging Rs 4,000 or even more for the test. Health department sources said the state government was planning to bring down the test rates further because of a drop in the price of testing reagents. Also, some of the states have capped the rates at Rs 1,600. “The recent rates quoted in the tenders by the companies that make the RT-PCR test- ing kits have  been much less compared to what they used to be earlier. So, we feel that the private laboratories, too, should bring down the rates,” said a health department official. An official of a private laboratory that conducts Covid tests in Calcutta agreed that the rates of testing kits had come down in the past few months. “The cost of extraction kit has come down from Rs 350 to Rs 200. The testing kit price has come down to Rs 350 from Rs 700,” he said. “You also need to consider the cost of personnel, PPE and other gear and infrastructure. The samples have to be stored at -70 degrees centigrade, for which power consumption is huge.” Some private hospitals said Rs 1,201 was not viable and that they would stop conducting the Covid test if they were forced to accept the rate. “The government buys reagents in huge volumes and so can negotiate a cheaper rate. But private hospitals buy them on a much smaller scale and so the prices are higher. Also, we had to spend a huge amount on setting up the infrastructure,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “We want to help common people but the rate has to be viable. The fact that many of the healthcare units are collecting samples from home also needs to be considered,” he said. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said the government should consult a professional agency before bringing down the rates. Passengers on the Kolkata Heritage River Cruise of the West Bengal Transport Corporation during its first run on Thursday. A ticket for the 90-minute ride on the Hooghly at 4pm and 6pm (Monday-Friday) will cost Rs 39. On weekends and holidays, the services will be available at noon and 2 pm as well. The cruise will begin and end at the Millenium Park jetty. Passengers will be provided with drinking water and a heritage navigation brochure for free. Food can be bought on the vessel, which will have a dedicated selfie booth. “The idea is to make the heritage river cruise experience affordable and popular among the youth,” Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the WBTC managing director, said. “The tickets will be available at the jetty for now. Gradually, it will be available online.” Those on the vessel will get to see Mayer Ghat where Sri Ma Sarada, wife of Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa, used to visit daily. Ma Sarada stayed near this ghat from May 23, 1909 to July 20, 1920. They will see Nimtala ghat where Rabindranath Tagore, Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray, and Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose among other luminaries were cremated apart from Armenian ghat that was built in 1734, the Eastern Railway Headquarters Building, the BBD Bag rail station and the Chandpal ghat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Business||Changes in rules in the way we use credit cards and a lot more||October 1 isn’t a special day in the government’s calendar, but this year it was a day for changing the rules on everything from driving licences and credit cards to insurance claims, foreign remittances and GST procedures. In other words, these were changes that affected a large swathe of the population. Some changes were a recognition of the fact that our lives have moved online in a huge way. In the world of banking, new rules have been introduced for customer protection and there are also new taxes on certain transactions. Let’s look at the changes that have been introduced: More people are using credit and debit cards in India than ever before. And credit cards frauds are growing at an even faster pace.  So now a host of new rules have been introduced to protect users. Credit and debit cardholders can opt for which services they want on their cards. You can, for instance, specify that your card can only be used for credit card transactions. Similarly, you can specify whether the card can be used for e-commerce payments and other online transactions. Importantly, you can also specify whether your card should be valid for international transactions. You can change those specifications whenever you decide. For drivers, the government has recognised how much of our world has gone online. So now you don’t have to have all your car papers and driver’s licence physically in the car. It will be sufficient if you can display them on your phone and show that they have been validated by government sites like Parivahan or Digi-Locker. These documents include insurance, a driving licence, vehicle fitness and pollution checks. In cases of traffic offences, police can seize your documents electronically but cannot demand that they be produced on the spot. Also, you can use the map-reading facility on your phone when you’re at the wheel. But you’re in for hefty fines if you’re caught talking on your phone or replying to messages. Says the government order: “Use of handheld communications devices while driving shall solely be used for route navigation in such a manner that shall not disturb the concentration of the driver while driving… the use of mobile phone is only permitted for navigation purposes only and no other task while driving”. One grey area is the use of Bluetooth or hands-free. But it’s fairly safe to assume the police believe that anything that distracts a driver is banned. It’s a moot question, though, whether a court could convict drivers on anything that isn’t specifically prohibited. If you’re planning on a holiday abroad (there may not be many travellers to foreign shores in these pandemic times) be prepared to pay up 5 per cent on all foreign tour packages – unless you can show that the money has already been subjected to TDS (tax deducted at source). If you’re sending money abroad for other purposes, the 5 per cent tax will kick in only after a Rs 7-lakh lower limit. If, by any chance, you don’t have PAN or Aadhaar Card, then you’ll have to pay 10 per cent tax. Parents planning to send their children abroad can breathe easy. Foreign remittances funded by loans will only be subject to a 0.5 per cent tax for amounts over Rs 7 lakh. Indian citizens are currently allowed to send $250,000 abroad. Insurance companies are sure to be studying the wide range of new provisions with great care.  For starters, more illnesses will be covered by insurance (ones not covered will drop from 30 to 17). Certain mental and genetic illnesses, oral chemotherapy and stem cell therapy could now be covered. Premiums are expected to climb as a result, possibly by up to 20 per cent. In a nod to the developments of the last six months, telemedicine charges will also be covered if you have OPD coverage. Also, insurers cannot refuse claims made by people who have paid premiums for eight years. The pandemic has sent e-commerce sales soaring. But now, e-commerce operators will have to deduct 1 per cent on the gross amount of all goods and services. Also, a tax of 0.1 per cent will be levied on all transactions of over Rs 50 lakh. Both these provisions are subject to various exceptions and there appears to be considerable room for interpretation of these new levies that were introduced in the Finance Act 2020. Also, the new taxes may have the effect of discouraging smaller players from moving online. Expect plenty of legal battles over these provisions. It’s been said that the GST taxes introduced in 2017 wouldn’t really be effective until it they were backed by e-invoicing that would allow authorities to trace transactions at different levels. E-invoicing is mandatory for players with sales of Rs 500 crore and over. But it has also been the toughest to implement. Even now, the government has been forced to give a one-month grace period to players who haven’t been able to get ready for the new online regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Calcutta HC declines to stay trial court order restraining Harsh Vardhan Lodha||A division bench of Calcutta High Court declined to stay an order of the trial court which had restrained Harsh Vardhan Lodha from holding any office of the MP Birla Group entities. The bench, however, clarified that the restriction on Lodha during the pendency of the suit would be “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB (Priyamvada Devi Birla).” A court appointed committee of administrator pendente lite is in charge of the estate which was bequeathed to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh, by a purported will of late Priyamvada in 2004, leading to a string of legal cases between the Lodhas and the Birla family. Taking a cue from the observation, the Lodha camp was quick to claim that the division bench provided “significant relief” to Harsh Lodha to continue to hold offices of the MP Birla Group entities, which include four listed manufacturing companies. The Birlas were equally prompt to dismiss any suggestion that the division bench offered a leeway to Lodha, arguing that Thursday’s order in fact had enlarged the scope of the trial court judgment by asking Lodha to “abide by” the directions of the single judge.  Harsh Lodha is a director and chairman of three cable companies and the flagship cement maker Birla Corporation. He has not demitted office even after the trial court on September 18 restrained him from holding office. Debanjan Mandal, partner of Fox & Mandal, argued that multiple orders of the high court held that the estate is the owner of the shares of companies as mentioned in the schedule of assets filed by the APL Committee. According to that, the estate is only a minority shareholder in all manufacturing listed companies of the MP Birla group. “Our client wasn’t, in the first place, reappointed as a director in these companies on the strength of the estate of Priyamvada Devi Birla,” Mandal said. “So the order paves the way for his continuing to hold offices in these companies as he was doing uninterruptedly from before the death of Priyamvada Birla”. The Lodha camp also argued that the division bench, comprising chief justice T.B. Radhakrishnan and justice Shampa Sarkar, also paved the way for Lodha to continue to be in the trust and societies of the group. Apart from holding over 14 per cent share in BCL, they control several public institutions such as Belle Vue Clinic, Bombay Hospital and South Point School. “There is no concept of shareholding in trust and societies, and, therefore, there is no question of Lodha being restrained from holding any office in the trusts and societies. He holds office in these entities not on account of any shareholding of the estate of PDB but by appointment by the trustees/managing committees,” Mandal said. N.G. Khaitan, senior partner of Khaitan & Co and counsel for the Birlas, threatened to file a contempt of court against all those who would allow Lodha to continue in office. “If he (Lodha) ever chairs a meeting of BCL or any other companies of MPB, all the board members will be committing a contempt of court,” he said. According to him, the division bench concurred that PDB’s estate has “controlling interest” in all companies and trust and societies of the MP Birla Group. He referred to the following observations of Thursday’s order: “Obviously, therefore, the controlling interest is definitely referable to the shareholdings. In the case in hand, it truly is part of the estate of PDB.” “This clearly shows that controlling interest is truly a  part of the estate of PDB, which is now under the management of the APL Committee. This means that the entire promoter block of the listed companies are part of the estate,” Khaitan said. Since the APL committee had called for Lodha to be ousted from the board of all companies, he could not continue any more “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB”. Khaitan said Lodha had in the past admitted in various courts that the estate is in control but changed tack two years back when APLC started taking decisions against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Mubadala Investment Company to invest Rs 6,247.5 crore into RIL retail arm||Reliance Industries (RIL) on Thursday announced that Mubadala Investment Company (Mubadala), the Abu Dhabi-based sovereign investor, will invest Rs 6,247.5 crore into its retail arm. The investment values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.285 lakh crore. Mubadala’s investment will translate into a 1.40 per cent equity stake in Reliance Retail Ventures on a fully diluted basis, RIL said in a statement after market hours. This marks the second significant investment by Mubadala in a RIL subsidiary after the $1.2 billion investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year. After the latest investment, RIL has now raised almost Rs 25,000 crore in its retail subsidiary. “I am happy to welcome Mubadala as a valued investor in Reliance Retail Ventures. We value the partnership with a knowledge-rich organisation like Mubadala... Mubadala’s investment and guidance will be an invaluable support in this journey,” Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL, said while commenting on the latest transaction. Ahead of the announcement, shares of RIL settled with a marginal loss at Rs 2,225.05 on the BSE. The RIL scrip now has a market cap of more than Rs 15 lakh crore. “RIL has monetised $26 billion in assets year-to-date in telecom, retail and energy. While asset monetisation may continue, we see capital allocation, recovery in energy margins and execution in retail being key to outperformance,’’ a note by Morgan Stanley said. The brokerage has an overweight rating on the stock. Its analysts added that with industry consolidation picking up pace in telecom, retail, and global refining, RIL will emerge stronger post Covid-19 and margins will surprise as pricing power rises. “We are pleased to deepen our relationship with Reliance Industries through this investment in Reliance Retail Ventures. “Their vision is the inclusive transformation of India’s consumer economy through the power of digitisation, creating opportunities and market access for millions of small businesses across the country, and we are committed to supporting the company’s continuing development,’’ Khaldoon al Mubarak, managing director and group CEO, Mubadala Investment Company, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||RBI sets ways and means advances (WMAs) limit at Rs 1.25 trillion||A day after the Centre decided to cap its borrowings at Rs 1.2 trillion (lakh crore), the RBI has set the ways and means advances (WMAs) limit at Rs 1.25 trillion for the second half of the fiscal. WMAs are temporary advances given by the central bank to the government to tide itself over any mismatch in receipts and payments. The limit for the Centre was raised to Rs 1.2 trillion in the first half. But on April 20, it was jacked up to Rs 2 lakh crore. Last year, the limit was set at Rs 75,000 crore for the first half and Rs 35,000 crore for the latter six months. The interest on a WMA loan is at the repo rate which now stands at four per cent. There is a provision for an overdraft at a rate of two per cent above the repo rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Manufacturing activity expands at its fastest pace this fiscal||The country’s manufacturing activity expanded at its fastest pace this fiscal in September as the economy opened up after the nationwide lockdown. Demand and output both rose even as layoffs continued, a survey showed. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) increased from 52.0 in August to 56.8 in September. The index was at its highest since January 2012. “Manufacturing continued to move in the right direction, with PMI data for September highlighting many positives. After restrictions were lifted, factories went full steam ahead for production, supported by a surge in new work,” Pollyanna de Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said. In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode after remaining positive for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “The jump in September’s manufacturing PMI reading to its highest in over eight years is a much-needed sign that the recovery is on. But with India now a virus epicentre, containment measures are likely to remain in place for a long time yet, which will dampen manufacturing prospects,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. “The figures suggest that activity and sentiment have improved in September 2020 ... a fragmented recovery is underway. We expect the contraction in GDP to narrow to 12.4 per cent in the second quarter of 2021,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Goods and Services Tax collection touches highest level so far this fiscal ||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection touched its highest level so far this fiscal in September at Rs 95,480 crore as the unlocking of businesses lifts  demand and factory activity. The spike in collection comes ahead of the GST Council meeting on Monday where the issue of compensation to states and the borrowing options given by the Centre are likely to be debated. Also, the Comptroller and Auditor General’s criticism of the Narendra Modi government for short crediting Rs 47,272 crore of compensation due to the states is expected to be raked up during the meeting. “The gross GST revenue collected in September 2020 is Rs 95,480 crore of which central GST is Rs 17,741 crore, state GST is Rs 23,131 crore, integrated GST is Rs 47,484 crore (including Rs 22,442 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 7,124 crore (including Rs 788 crore collected on import of goods),” the finance ministry said in a statement. The revenues for the month are 4 per cent higher than the total GST collection in the same month last year. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said, “A modest increase of 4 per cent in the GST collections compared with the previous year indicates that the economic recovery process is underway, with some key large states also reporting increased collections. If the present trend continues, we should be hopeful of significant increases in the coming months.” After contracting for six months in a row, the country's exports grew 5.27 per cent to $27.4 billion in September, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Auto majors see double-digit growth with passenger vehicle sales||Auto majors Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai Motor led the recovery march of passenger vehicle (PV) sales in the domestic market in September, posting high double-digit growth ahead of the  festive season. Tata Motors, Honda, Skoda and Kia Motors also reported a rise in September sales. Sales, however, fell at Mahindra & Mahindra and Toyota Kirloskar Motor.  But the duo said demand was picking up and there was a lot more confidence among  the dealers. Market leader Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) said its domestic sales increased 32.2 per cent to 1,52,608 units last month from 1,15,452 units in September 2019. The company’s sales of mini cars, comprising the Alto and the S-Presso, stood at 27,246 units compared with 20,085 units in the same month last year, up 35.7 per cent. Sales of compact cars, such as Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, rose 47.3 per cent to 84,213 units against 57,179 cars in September last year. Shamsher Dewan, auto analyst, vice-president, Icra, said, “It is expected that a low base, upbeat rural sentiments and increased preference for personal mobility would support retail demand in the festive season. Nonetheless, the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic persists and recovery is expected to be gradual at best.” Hyundai Motor India posted a 24 per cent growth in sales at 50,313 units against 40,705 units sold in the same month last year. The new Creta, Venue and Nios generated demand for the Korean brand. “The green shoots of recovery are clearly visible with sales improving month-on-month as well as year-on-year,” Hyundai Motor India’s director (sales, marketing and service) Tarun Garg said in a statement. Tata Motors’ domestic sales were up 13 per cent to 1,06,888 units from 94,454 units last year. Kia Motors registered sales of 18,676 units, up 147 per cent, from 7,754 units sold in the same month last year. This is also Kia’s highest-ever monthly sales since it entered the country a year ago. Kookhyun Shim, MD and CEO of Kia Motors India, said, “The Indian auto market is recovering at a better-than-expected pace and we are progressing according to our defined plan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
02-10-2020||India||Protests erupt at Jantar Mantar for Hathras rape victim  ||A massive protest erupted in Delhi on Friday evening as hundreds of civil society activists, students, women and political leaders gathered at Jantar Mantar to demand justice for a young Dalit girl who was brutally murdered after being allegedly gangraped in Hathras district. Wearing masks and raising slogans against the UP administration for its blatant disregard for the rule of law, the gathering demanded justice for the 19-year-old victim and asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to resign. The protest was to be held at India Gate but had to be shifted to Jantar Mantar owing to the prohibitory orders in place in the Rajpath area. Several political leaders, including those from the Aam Aadmi Party and the Left, joined the protest. Most of them said they were outraged over the way UP police cremated the body of the victim, who died in Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital, a fortnight after she was allegedly raped by four upper caste men. The woman's family has alleged that the police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. But local police officers have said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". "What is happening in UP is goondaraj," lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan said. "The police have surrounded the village, are not allowing Opposition leaders and mediapersons to enter it and have taken away the mobile phones of the family members of the victim." Bollywood actor Swara Bhaskar, Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad, AAP MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj, Left leaders Prakash Karat and Sitaram Yechury also attended the protest. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said the Hathras incident "brings out the complete breakdown of anything called “rule of law". "It's not just that a rape happened, or that she was killed which is worse. There is a political patronage right from the beginning... The Uttar Pradesh administration is out there to ensure that this news doesn't come out," he said. Yadav alleged that the family was denied even a decent cremation for the victim, which even criminals are entitled to. Calling what happened a "shutdown of democracy", he said, "The UP government has no basis to exist anymore''. Azad demanded that a fast-track court be set up to hear the case daily. "The culprits should be punished as soon as possible so that others get scared before committing such crimes. We will go to Hathras and till the time the matter doesn't come to Delhi, there is no chance of getting justice," he said. Bhaskar said people from different groups have gathered at Jantar Mantar, which shows how enraged people are. "It is time we start fighting against the rape epidemic. Today, we are standing against it here and we have to win," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||UP govt committed to women's safety, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said his government is committed to women's safety and those who even think of harming their self-respect will face total destruction. "Total destruction of those who even think of harming the self respect of women in UP is inevitable," Adityanath said in a tweet in Hindi. Such people will get exemplary punishment that would be remembered by future generations, he said. "They will get such a punishment that it will set an example. The UP government is committed to the safety and development of mothers and daughters," he said, adding that "this is our resolve and promise." The Uttar Pradesh chief minister's statement comes days after a Dalit woman was gangraped in Hathras by four men. She died at Delhi's Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday morning. The TMC on Friday alleged that their MP's were manhandled while on their way to Hathras to meet the victim's family. Condemning the incident, TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government has let loose a reign of terror and "crossed all limits of decency". "Is it a democracy? MPs are being heckled and pushed to the ground. How come police officers have this audacity to heckle members of Parliament? The state government, which has failed to protect to a Dalit girl and is busy hushing up the matter, is now using brute force against opposition," he said. Yogi Adityanath's declarations come amid concerted pressure on his government over a spate of horrific crimes against women; in the days following the Hathras tragedy - which occurred September 14 - at least two other assaults and alleged rapes - one on a eleven year old girl - were reported from the state. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who today demanded answers from Narendra Modi and earlier told ndtv.com "don't expect justice in Uttar Pradesh", has been among those most vocal of those critics. On Thursday he demanded President's rule in the state, alleging "failure of constitutional machinery". The family of the young woman from Hathras has alleged multiple lapses from UP Police throughout the case, including not adding a rape charge against the four accused - all from the so-called upper castes - until a formal statement was made. The police also triggered outrage after rushing to cremate the women's body at 2.30 am, after allegedly locking up her family in their homes and preventing them from saying a final goodbye. Apart from opposition leaders like Rahul Gandhi, who slammed the UP government for "showing Dalits their place", Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and BSP chief Mayawati, prominent personalities and celebrities have also hit out at Yogi Adityanath government. "Law and order in UP has deteriorated to a great extent. There is no semblance of safety for women. The criminals are committing crimes in the open," Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Tuesday, tweeting: "@myogiadityanath you are accountable for the safety of women in UP". The Allahabad High Court has also taken notice of the case and has summoned top officials of government and police to appear before it on October 12. In its notice, the court said the matter was of "immense public importance... involves allegation of high-handedness by state authorities, resulting in violation of basic human and fundamental rights". Amid all the outrage, Yogi Adityanath also said that a three-member panel has been set up to investigate the crime and a report is expected within a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||Congress ready with draft to counter Centre’s farm laws||The Congress has prepared a draft model law that will be legislated by party-ruled states in order to annul the Central farm laws. Sources said on Friday that the model law has been drafted and will soon be sent to Congress-ruled states to replicate it in their state assemblies. The Congress claims that rules under Article 245(2) allow a state legislature to enforce laws "repugnant to the Parliament law", a provision used by the BJP earlier against the central land acquisition Act. The model law brought by the Congress will be called the Protection of Farmers Interest and Farm Produce (Special Provisions) Bill that has been cleared by party MP and legal expert Abhishek Singhvi. The model law shall declare "null, void and inoperative" anything that is inconsistent in the three central legislations with the state law. It will also include a provision to ensure that no farmer shall be paid below the minimum support price (MSP) for the price of the produce. The draft model bill seeks to ensure safeguards for farmers including the minimum support price regime and the framework under the APMC Act to protect their interests. The move comes days after Congress chief Sonia Gandhi asked states under party's rule to enact legislations to bypass Centre's three farm-related laws that have triggered protests by farmers. The move also comes ahead of tractor rallies to be taken out by the Congress in Punjab and Haryana from October 4, in which party leader Rahul Gandhi will participate. The rallies are part of Congress agitations against the farm legislations. The Congress is strongly opposing the three legislations and it has launched countrywide protests in each district and Vidhan Sabha constituency on Gandhi Jayanti. The Congress president had advised Congress-ruled states to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to "negate anti-agriculture central laws" that "encroach" upon the state's jurisdiction under the Constitution. The sources said that while Congress-ruled states are set to pass the law, some of the non-NDA ruled states are also likely to pass it, as they are opposed to the central farm legislations. Parliament had passed The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 during the Monsoon Session and the president granted his assent for them. The laws seek to liberalise the agriculture sector and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country they want at a better price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||SP workers protesting Hathras incident lathi charged by police in Lucknow ||Samajwadi Party workers were on Friday lathi charged by the police in Hazratganj area here while they were taking out a protest march against the Hathras gangrape and farm laws. The march which started from the party office was supposed to end at the Gandhi statue in the city where the MLAs and senior party leaders were scheduled to begin a 'maun vrat' (vow of silence). However, the protesters were stopped at Hazratganj crossing, where police had put up barricades. As the SP workers insisted on being allowed to move ahead, a heated argument ensued between the two sides following which police personnel resorted to lathi charge to disperse the crowd. "Today, by arresting party MLAs and senior leaders, going to sit on 'Maun Vrat" and dharna for 'Hathras ki beti', government suppressed the voice of truth in a violent way on the birth anniversaries of Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. This is condemnable," the party's national president Akhliesh Yadav said. We demand an FIR against the District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police of Hathras, he said. "Stopping of peaceful foot march of SP MLAs and leaders on the directives of the chief minister is murder of democracy," the party said. However, the state police said that the action was taken to maintain the state's law and order. "We have detained SP workers including some MLAs. They have been taken away from the spot (Hazratganj)," a senior police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||TMC MPs manhandled and stopped from meeting Hathras victim's kin||The TMC on Friday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government for unleashing "jungle raj" in the northern state, after its four-member delegation was stopped from meeting the family members of Hathras gang-rape victim. The BJP unit of Bengal, however, asked the TMC to stop "politicising the death" and take a look at its own track record when it came to tackling crimes against women. A statement issued by the party said the delegation, led by the party's Rajya Sabha MP Derek O' Brien, wanted to meet the family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, and express their solidarity with her grieving parents. Dr Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mondal and Mamata Thakur, all parliamentarians, were the three other members of the delegation. Condemning the incident, TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government has let loose a reign of terror and "crossed all limits of decency". "Is it a democracy? MPs are being heckled and pushed to ground. How come police officers have this audacity to heckle members of Parliament? The state government, which has failed to protect to a Dalit girl and is busy hushing up the matter, is now using brute force against opposition," he said. Television visuals showed O'Brien, dressed in white, being pushed to the ground when he tried to move ahead, despite being told not to do so by the police. "Those who tried to project themselves as champions of 'Beti Bachao' (campaign) are now trying to intimidate the family members of the girl. A jungle raj prevails in Uttar Pradesh. It's a shame," he said. Senior TMC leader Sougata Roy said the UP government was trying to "hide the truth". "The Yogi Adityanath government is trying to hide the truth, which is why it is stopping the media and the opposition party leaders from meeting the family members. Our MPs were unarmed and they just wanted to meet the family, what is wrong in it? They so afraid that they had to issue prohibitory orders... We condemn it," Roy said. The party's official Twitter handle said its MPs are staging a "dharna around a kilometre away from victim's home, after being manhandled and roughed up by the UP police". State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, slammed the TMC for trying to "politicise" the issue. "The TMC should stop this drama. What is its track record in dealing with crimes against women? They (TMC leaders) should first look at their own track record and then lecture others. The UP government has taken action to deal with the situation," he said. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and around 150 of their party workers were briefly detained in Greater Noida on Thursday for alleged violation of prohibitory orders while walking towards Hathras to meet the family. The 19-year-old was allegedly raped by four upper- caste men in Hathras on September 14. She was referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday.Her subsequent cremation in the dead of night at Hathras, allegedly under police pressure, has led to an outrage over the law and order situation in UP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||SC rejects  PIL on Centre’s Covid ‘mishandling’||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected a PIL filed by retired bureaucrats alleging gross mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic by the Centre as the number of those infected by the virus has crossed 63 lakh in the country. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, through whom the petition has been filed, told a bench headed by Justice L. N. Rao that on February 4, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued an advisory, but international passengers were not screened until March 4. Bhushan said the “Namaste Trump” event was allowed to happen on February 24 and one lakh people had gathered at a stadium despite the advisory that crowding should be avoided. He submitted that experts had advised against a full lockdown due to which the GDP contracted by an unprecedented 23 per cent, while crores of jobs were lost and the economy destroyed. Bhushan contended that the government has been unable to control the pandemic and according to official figures, the virus has infected over 63 lakh people. The lawyer claimed that the government unilaterally announced the lockdown without consulting the experts. He said before the imposition of the lockdown, no steps were taken to procure personal protective equipment (PPE) kits because of which several doctors lost their lives. He said several policemen have also lost their lives to Covid and added these issues require inquiry. Bhushan said, according to figures, over two crore salaried people have lost their jobs. He also referred to the issue of migration during the lockdown and said that the infection has spread across the country. The bench said this is a matter for public debate, not for the court and “we are not inclined to interfere”. It added that these are matters for the government to look into and the authorities should be given the latitude. The petition filed by a group of petitioners, including retired bureaucrats, alleged that the Centre failed to undertake timely and effective measures for containing transmission of the virus and an independent inquiry by a commission, appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952, was essential to inquire into the “lapses”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||In Covid battle, signal to deploy horse sense  ||India’s health research agency on Thursday signalled its intention to use antibodies extracted from horse blood to treat patients with severe coronavirus disease, planning to extend a decades-old strategy used against tetanus, rabies and snakebites. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Hyderabad-based company Biological E have developed “highly purified antisera” — serums loaded with antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 — for possible use on patients, the ICMR announced. The equine — or horse-derived — antisera are expected to serve as a fast-acting therapy for patients with severe Covid-19 but would need to be evaluated through human clinical trials, a senior ICMR official told The Telegraph. Horses have to be exposed to the infection for them to develop antibodies in their bloodstream. Researchers in Argentina and Brazil are also pursuing equine antisera. Studies in Brazil have suggested that equine-produced serum is superior to the convalescent plasma extracted from patients who have recovered from Covid-19. “We expect equine antisera to be a standardised product with antibody concentrations much higher than those present in convalescent plasma,” the ICMR official said. While antisera and convalescent plasma both contain virus-neutralising antibodies, researchers expect the antisera to be more effective because of higher antibody concentrations. A nationwide trial on convalescent plasma conducted by the ICMR earlier this year had not found any effect on either mortality or severe coronavirus disease. Some scientists have speculated that the lack of effect could have been a result of low antibody concentrations in the plasma. The ICMR official said the clinical trials on the antisera were likely to be conducted only on patients with moderate to severe disease but did not specify any timetable for the trials. “There is no vaccine against Covid-19 on the horizon yet — the antisera strategy has been used against diphtheria, tetanus, rabies and snakebites. This could be tried against Covid,” asenior clinician-researcher said. The antisera therapy is designed to work like a medicine. While the body’s immune system begins to mount an attack shortly after the viral infection, researchers say, if the viral load is particularly large, there is a window of time before the immune system can clear the virus. The antisera represents a potential complementary strategy to treat Covid-19 which currently relies primarily on supportive therapy, steroids, oxygen and experimental medications such as the anti-virals remdesivir and favipiravir and anti-inflammatory drugs. Brazilian researchers had in August published a report showing equine antisera as superior to convalescent plasma. They had estimated that because one horse can be bled around six times a year without causing the animal any suffering, they could produce 100,000 ampoules, or doses, per year relying on 80 horses. While equine antisera containing a mix of antibodies has been in use as therapy in other infections, some scientists have underlined that research groups across the world are trying to develop “monoclonal antibodies” — a superior alternative to the equine antisera that may be associated with side-effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||NHRC seeks Centre’s explanation over freezing of Amnesty’s accounts||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday sought an explanation from the ministry of home affairs over the Centre’s decision to freeze the bank accounts of Amnesty International, bringing all its human rights activities across the country to a halt. Taking suo motu cognisance of news reports, NHRC chairperson and former Chief Justice of India H.L. Dattu directed issuance of notice to the home secretary and ministry of home affairs, calling for their comments on the allegations levelled by Amnesty International that the complete freezing of its India bank accounts has halted all the work in which it has been engaged in the country. “The commission has carefully examined the contents of the news report. The Amnesty International is a reputed non-governmental organisation raising its voice globally whenever there is an incident of violation of human rights. The allegations levelled by the organisation are serious in nature and have been strongly answered by the government agency. “Any kind of difference of opinion may be a subject of investigation and decision by the competent court. The commission finds it necessary to go through the matter, analyse the facts and reach a conclusion in the interest of human rights friendly environment in the country,” the NHRC said, while seeking the government’s response within six weeks. In a statement on Tuesday, Amnesty International had said it has been compelled to let go of staff in India and pause all its ongoing campaign and research work. It was alleged that this is the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations. Amnesty International had claimed that on October 22, 2019, it had testified at the US Congressional hearing on human rights in South Asia, with specific focus on Jammu & Kashmir after the Indian Parliament on August 5, 2019, pushed through constitutional changes that divested Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and reorganised it into two Union Territories. On August 28, the rights group released an investigative brief on the alleged complicity of Delhi police in communal riots in the national capital in February 2020. Amnesty International had claimed that 53 people had died in the riot while Delhi police rebutted the claim, saying the report was lopsided, biased and malicious. Amnesty International has reportedly accused the government of suppressing the speech and demanded the release of activists Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Sudha Bhardwaj, Surendra Gadling and others who were arrested in connection with the January 2018, caste clashes in Bhima-Koregaon near Pune. It is also mentioned in the news report that this is the fifth time when Amnesty International is closing down its office in India. The Union home ministry had, however, rejected the allegations saying the   stand taken by the Amnesty International is unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth. The organisation has been accused of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations, and “interference in domestic police debates” despite being funded by foreign donations. The rights group has reportedly denied the financial violations charges and has said they have been in full compliance with all laws. It also said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has been investigating the rights group since October 2018, when they raided its office in Bangalore and the accounts of the organisation were frozen. In 2019, the income tax department wrote to the office bearers of the organisation seeking their clarifications on the subject. It is also mentioned that in November 2019, the CBI has filed a case against the Amnesty International alleging that it has received Rs 36 crore in funding without the mandatory permission required under the FCRA. The investigative agencies have also reportedly alleged that the fund raising model of Amnesty International India was in violation of the FCRA that amounts to money laundering. The organisation has also been blamed for their activities, which are in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. The organisation has reportedly stated that their harassment by the government is a result of their unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and in Jammu & Kashmir. The charges of the organisation have, however, been denied by the BJP alleging that the organisation was raising funds from abroad in contravention of the Indian laws. They have also stated that there has been shifting money transfer to the companies and there is suspected flow of money into the trust of Amnesty International.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Gujarat government’s Covid economic slowdown excuse flops ||The Supreme Court on Thursday rebuffed the Gujarat government’s invocation of “internal disturbances” and “public emergency” to curb workers’ rights in Covid-19 season, ruling that the pandemic-induced economic slowdown did not amount to any such exigency. The court quashed two notifications issued by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state that had allowed factories to deny overtime pay and adequate rest to their workers. “Even if we were to accept the respondent’s (Gujarat government’s) argument at its highest, that the pandemic has resulted in an internal disturbance, we find that the economic slowdown created by the Covid-19 pandemic does not qualify as an internal disturbance threatening the security of the state,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph ruled. It said the workers were the worst victims of the Covid-19 outbreak and that the notifications’ intent seemed to be to reduce “overhead costs of all factories” and “capitalise on the pandemic to force an already worn-down class into the chains of servitude”. The bench directed that “overtime wages shall be paid... to all eligible workers who have been working since the issuance of the notifications”. The April 17 and July 20 notifications, issued under Section 5 of the Factories Act, had exempted factories “from various provisions relating to weekly hours, daily hours, intervals for rest etc for adult workers” between April 20 and October 19. The Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha and another trade union had challenged the notifications. Writing the judgment, Justice Chandrachud acknowledged that the pandemic had burdened the country’s public health infrastructure and reduced economic activities. “However, it has not affected the security of India, or of a part of its territory, in a manner that disturbs the peace and integrity of the country,” he wrote. “The economic hardships caused by Covid-19 certainly pose unprecedented challenges to governance. However, such challenges are to be resolved by the state governments within the domain of their functioning under the law, in coordination with the central government. “Unless the threshold of an economic hardship is so extreme that it leads to disruption of public order and threatens the security of India or of a part of its territory, recourse cannot be taken to such emergency powers, which are to be used sparingly under the law.” The court said that under Article 352, an internal disturbance must be of the order of an armed rebellion threatening the security of India to merit the proclamation of an emergency. Similarly, to warrant President’s rule in a state under Article 356, the internal disturbance must be serious enough to prevent the state’s governance in accordance with the Constitution. “The power under Section 5 of the Factories Act can be exercised in a ‘public emergency’. The explanation states that to constitute a public emergency, there must be a grave emergency. The emergency must be of such a nature as to threaten the security of India or a part of its territory,” the court said. “The threat to the security of India or a part of the territory must be caused by war, external aggression or an internal disturbance. The expression ‘internal disturbance’ cannot be divorced from its context, or be read in a manner divorced from the other two expressions which precede it.” Justice Chandrachud said the notifications were an “affront” to the workers’ right to life and right against forced labour and legitimised their subjection to onerous working conditions at a time their feeble bargaining power stood further whittled by the pandemic. “Clothed with exceptional powers under Section 5, the state cannot permit workers to be exploited in a manner that renders the hard-won protections of the Factories Act, 1948, illusory and the constitutional promise of social and economic democracy into paper tigers. It is ironical that this result should ensue at a time when the state must ensure their welfare,” he wrote. “A worker’s right to life cannot be deemed contingent on the mercy of their employer or the state. The notifications, in denying humane working conditions and overtime wages provided by law, are an affront to the workers’ right to life and right against forced labour that are secured by Articles 21 and 23 of the Constitution.” The judgment said the Indian Constitution was born out of a “transformative vision” to achieve social and economic democracy, and labour welfare was an integral part of that vision. “The need for protecting labour welfare on one hand and combating a public health crisis occasioned by the pandemic on the other may require careful balances. But these balances must accord with the rule of law,” it said. “It cannot be interpreted to provide a free rein for the state to eliminate provisions promoting dignity and equity in the workplace in the face of novel challenges to the state administration, unless they bear an immediate nexus to ensuring the security of the state against the gravest of threats.” The state government had through solicitor-general Tushar Mehta argued that the pandemic was a “public emergency” as defined in Section 5, and had disturbed the “social order of the country” while threatening the even tempo of life in Gujarat. The pandemic had caused “extreme financial exigencies” in the state and the lockdown slowed economic activities, leading to an “internal disturbance” in the state, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||India warns critics over Amnesty||India on Thursday said it expected foreign governments not to condone the contravention of Indian laws by any entity, pushing back on the criticism that New Delhi had been receiving from world capitals for the closure of Amnesty International India earlier this week. Amnesty India had cited “incessant witch-hunt” by the Narendra Modi government as the reason for halting its operations. Referring to the home ministry’s explanation that it acted against Amnesty India for violating Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) norms, foreign ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “NGOs are expected to adhere to all our laws, including in respect to foreign funding, just as they presumably would in other countries, including in the US and the EU. We also expect that other governments would not condone contravention of Indian laws by any entity.” Amnesty International, a Nobel Peace Prize-winning human rights organisation, has denied any FCRA violation. The home ministry has said Amnesty is free to continue humanitarian work in India, provided it does not interfere in domestic political debates as Indian law does not allow entities funded by foreign donations to do so. The US, UK and the European Union have expressed concern at the closure of Amnesty International India, as have a large number of international human rights organisations. While the UK and the EU have taken the matter up with the external affairs ministry through diplomatic channels in New Delhi, a US state department official told reporters in Washington on Wednesday that the issue had “received attention at the highest levels of our government”. According to this official, not only was the US government following the development very closely, the matter was also being raised by members of the US Congress. “We look forward to a response and a resolution to a situation that’s consistent with international principles and the rule of law,” the official said. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, a bipartisan federal government body, too has voiced concern. The USCIRF said in a tweet that it “is concerned by reports of the halting of operations of @AIIndia, particularly since it appears related to Amnesty’s investigations into and reporting on religious freedom violations in India”. On Wednesday, 15 international human rights organisations had condemned the Indian government’s actions against Amnesty India and pledged to continue support for local human rights defenders and outfits against crackdowns. The 15 organisations include Human Rights Watch, Global Indian Progressive Alliance, International Commission of Jurists, Hindus for Human Rights and South Asians for Human Rights. In a joint statement they said the actions of the BJP government against human rights defenders, academics and student activists “increasingly mimic that of authoritarian regimes which do not tolerate any criticism and shamelessly target those who dare to speak out”. Amnesty International India’s executive director, Avinash Kumar, had said in a statement announcing the closure on Tuesday: “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voice against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent.” The Union home ministry had in a statement dismissed the allegation of witch-hunt and said that successive governments had rejected Amnesty’s repeated applications for permission to receive foreign funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Supreme Court sets timetable for airline ticket refund||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed airlines to refund within three weeks to all passengers, domestic and international, the prices of tickets cancelled during the lockdown between March 25 and May 24. The court said that for tickets cancelled during the pandemic but outside the lockdown period, an airline would be allowed in case of “financial distress” to offer a credit shell that a passenger would be able to cash till March 31 next year. The passenger will be able to use the credit shell, the value of which will be the same as that of the fare plus a monthly interest, on any route of their choice or transfer the voucher to some other person or travel agent. If the credit shell is not used by the deadline, the airline will have to refund the price of the cancelled ticket to the passenger. Some airlines had wanted the credit shell facility to be extended till March 31, 2022, but the court rejected the plea. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directives while disposing of petitions filed by the NGO Pravasi Legal and others challenging airlines’ refusal to refund the fares for tickets cancelled during the pandemic. “If on account of financial distress, any airline/ airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell, equal to the amount of the fare collected, in the name of the passenger when the booking is done either directly by the passenger or through travel agent so as to consume the same on or before March 31, 2021,” the court said. This facility will be available only if the flight cancellation is outside the lockdown period, the court made it clear. “It is open to the passenger either to utilise such credit shell up to March 31, 2021, on any route of his choice or the passenger can transfer the credit shell to any person including the travel agent through whom he/ she had booked the ticket and the airlines shall honour such a transfer by devising a mechanism to facilitate such a transfer,” Justice Reddy said. For tickets booked or transferred to a third party through an agent, refund or credit shell transactions will have to be done through the agent. Also, the money will be refunded to the account from which the airline had received the booking amount. Airlines opting for the credit shell will have to pay an interest of 0.5 per cent on the ticket amount every month for tickets booked between March 25 and June 30. The interest rate for subsequent months till March 2021 will be 0.75 per cent. The court said the suggestions and formulations, arrived at during a meeting of the civil aviation ministry and the directorate-general of civil aviation, were acceptable to the majority of the stakeholders and would have to be implemented in letter and spirit. “We also feel that such formulations are workable solutions in these peculiar circumstances which are prevailing in the country,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Near Delhi, Opposition tastes what China didn’t||Uttar Pradesh police roughed up Rahul Gandhi on Thursday while preventing him from meeting the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim, a day after the force had burnt the Dalit girl’s body while locking the parents up. “You pushed me; you hit me with a lathi. I fell down,” Rahul, who suffered minor injuries to his hand, was heard screaming at officers. Rahul was pushed to the ground while scores of party leaders were injured in a baton charge as the police used force to stop a Congress team on its way to Hathras. The police later arrested Rahul along with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other senior politicians. This was Rahul’s first outing amid the Covid-19 restrictions, and it triggered drama on the streets while generating considerable political impact. Congress leaders voiced outrage at the police behaviour and the “low-level politics” of the ruling BJP. They condemned the manhandling as an attempt to intimidate Rahul. Congress ally Sharad Pawar too castigated the police. Congress chief ministers Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) described the police’s misbehaviour with Rahul as “dangerous” for democracy. Alleging the BJP was throttling democracy, former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said: “While the Hathras horror is the direct and disastrous consequence of Yogi’s complete misrule, let’s not forget its foundations — NaMo-cracy.” Rahul is scheduled to visit Punjab on Saturday to participate in the farmers’ agitation. He won’t be facing any physical obstruction in the Congress-ruled state where Amarinder has extended full support to the protests. Rahul may also visit BJP-ruled Haryana. Apparently rattled by the outcry over the Hathras atrocities — the alleged bid to protect the accused, denial of adequate treatment to the girl, and the burning of her body without the family’s consent — the Yogi Adityanath government had acted swiftly on learning that Rahul and Priyanka intended to visit the village. It sealed the borders of Hathras and prohibited assemblies under Section 144. While it was widely expected that the Congress team would not be allowed to enter Uttar Pradesh and might be stopped at the Delhi-Noida border, it was eventually able to travel around 50km inside the state. With the word having spread since morning, over 100 vehicles carrying Congress workers joined Rahul’s convoy, which was stopped after Greater Noida. Police officers requested Rahul to return as Section 144 was in force but he insisted on visiting Hathras. He said he was ready to travel alone to avoid violating the section and asked under which law he was being stopped. Rahul asked: “Will only Narendra Modi walk freely in India? Nobody except RSS-BJP has the freedom to go anywhere? Is meeting the family of a rape victim a crime?”He managed to cover 10km along the Yamuna Expressway on foot despite several attempts by the police to stop him. With the crowds swelling, the police finally used force. During a scuffle between Congress leaders and policemen, an officer pushed Rahul and the MP fell. Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was heard shouting: “You beat up Rahulji. Who ordered a lathi-charge?” Rahul was accompanied, apart from Priyanka and Lallu, by K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala, Adhir Chowdhury, Jitin Prasada, P.L. Punia, Sushmita Dev, Deepender Hooda, B.V. Srinivas and others. Congress leaders said at least a dozen party workers had received serious injuries in the baton charge. Priyanka said: “Let them treat us with brutal force but what they did with the Dalit family cannot be tolerated. The government which invokes Hindu religion at every stage didn’t allow the parents to conduct the last rites of their daughter.” Around 3.40pm, the police lifted Rahul and Priyanka off the Yamuna Expressway along with the other leaders. While Rahul and Priyanka and a few senior leaders were taken to the Buddha International Centre in Greater Noida, the rest were whisked away to Surajpur police station. They were later brought to the Delhi-Noida border in the evening and set free. Rahul tweeted during the agitation: “You don’t abandon your own in times of misery. The jungle-raj in Uttar Pradesh has acquired such dimensions that even the intention to meet a grieving family scares the government. Honourable chief minister, don’t get frightened.” In another tweet he said: “BJP’s objective is not beti bachao. It is suppress facts and save government.” Priyanka tweeted: “An arrogant government is demonstrating its brute power over the dead bodies of innocent girls. Instead of fighting injustice, the government is inflicting injustice. We will continue our struggle for a safe and secure society for women where they can live freely and pursue their dreams.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Dad’s ambition can’t decide army selection: Delhi High Court||A father’s ambition does not define the standards of selection as a commissioned officer in the Indian Army, Delhi High Court has held while refusing to direct the Indian Military Academy (IMA) to take back a candidate who was found unsuitable for the military lifestyle. The candidate, son of a lieutenant colonel and a fourth-generation career seeker in the army, had joined the IMA in July 2017 for pre-commissioning training. However, he was ordered to be withdrawn from the academy in November 2019. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon noted that the candidate’s father, a serving senior army officer, had made a fervent plea to consider the case of his son leniently. The father had said commissioning of his son as an army officer would mean a lot to him as it would be the fourth generation from his family to join the force. “While it may be possible for us to sympathise with the Lt Col, it is not a father’s ambition that defines the standards for selection as a commissioned officer in the Indian Army,” the high court said. The bench noted that the records had revealed that the candidate was finding it difficult to settle into the regimented and highly disciplined lifestyle at the IMA. He used to absent himself from training and special and critical events by malingering or reporting sick and it was this absenteeism and lying that led to him being punished several times and the constitution of an honour code committee against him, the court said. The bench said it was amply clear that the petitioner was not suited to a military lifestyle and possibly the desires of his father had pushed him into choosing the profession, adding that he had struggled to meet filial expectations. “The father would be well advised to allow his son the freedom to choose his life path and allow him to blossom forth in whatever he so chooses, which is certainly not the Indian Army,” the court said in the judgment. “The petitioner and his father would do well to accept the decision of the IMA gracefully and utilise all the learning in the two years spent by the petitioner at the IMA to work towards a bright future in any other chosen field. There is no merit in the present petition which is accordingly dismissed,” it added. According to the petition, the candidate had said he should have passed out after completing his course as a commissioned officer in a year and a half, by the end of 2018. He said he was subjected to ragging and punishments for various infractions from the beginning of the first term. The candidate was served a showcause notice a week before the second term came to an end in May 2018, asking why he should not be relegated for having accumulated 60 restrictions in two terms. He had to repeat the second term in the next two sessions. The candidate had claimed that despite his sincere and best efforts, he was unnecessarily targeted and singled out by his company commander. Regarding the final physical training tests, the petitioner said he was made to stand outside the battalion duty officer’s room with 40kg of sand and bricks filled into a pack for three hours from 11pm. The candidate said his exhaustion as a result had led to him failing to clear three subsequent tests. In November 2019, he was handed more punishments after which his name was withdrawn from the IMA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||3 soldiers killed in Pakistan ceasefire violation||Three soldiers were killed and five injured in separate incidents during shelling by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian troops gave a “befitting” response, a defence spokesperson said. The shelling, which had picked up after the flare-up on the Line of Actual Control with China, has intensified in the past two days, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Alliances are raining down on poll-season Bihar ||Alliances are sprouting like mushrooms in poll-bound Bihar. The state has never before witnessed so many tie-ups in any elections. Four new alliances have come up in the recent weeks, while a couple more are expected to be constituted in the coming days, indicating a churn in state politics. At present, there are six alliances contending to attract the voters. There were just two alliances in the state till around a month ago — the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) consisting of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), the BJP and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP (Lok Janshakti Party); and the Opposition Grand Alliance led by Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and a few smaller parties. However, four new alliances have come into existence since then. With elections approaching, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi rushed in to form the United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA) with former Union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav’s Samajwadi Janata Dal (Democratic). It was followed quickly by Bhim Army’s Azad Samaj Party tying up with Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) to form the Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA). The Social Democratic Front of India (SDPI), the political outfit of Popular Front of India (PFI), and Bahujan Mukti Party are its members. Then, former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha led his Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) into an alliance with former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). A lesser-known Janwadi Socialist Party is also a partner. The alliance is yet to be given a formal name. Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha is heading a 20-party United Democratic Alliance. Several individual leaders, who were popular among the masses at one time or another, are also with this alliance of smaller parties, which intends to contest all 243 Assembly seats in the state. Though boasting of several parties as members and a few senior, well-known politicians, the new alliances cannot be said to present a strong alternative to the NDA or the Grand Alliance. Taking the 2015 Assembly election results and the performance of political parties into account, each of the newly formed alliances have less than 5 per cent votes with them. Taking into account the vote percentage of the individual parties in the previous Assembly elections, the NDA has a claim on 45 per cent of votes, while the Grand Alliance has a share of around 27 per cent votes. However, these two major alliances have seen upheaval in the recent years with Nitish’s JDU quitting the Grand Alliance to join the NDA, and a few other smaller parties changing sides. Political analysts are viewing this as a manifestation of gross opportunism in parliamentary democracy where politicians are focusing on politics without principles and ideology and treating it as a career option. Former director and professor of Patna-based A.N. Sinha Insitute of Social Studies, D.M. Diwakar, said: “The new alliances are an example of politics without principles and how parties without a strong set of ideology find it easy to shift from one side to another. The leaders who formed these alliances did so when they did not get a place in the NDA or Grand Alliance as per their fancy.” Interestingly, all the new alliances are clear about one thing. They are against the BJP and the NDA. This will ultimately benefit the party or the alliance they are opposing. “The BJP or the NDA will benefit from these new alliances because they will divide the secular votes. This scenario will ensure that the present ruling dispensation is able to beat the anti-incumbency factor and return to power. There are indications that BJP’s hand could be there in the creation of some of the alliances,” Diwakar said. Apart from the six alliances, the Left parties could also form a separate alliance to contest the polls as they are not happy with the seat-sharing proposals of the Grand  Alliance. Plurals, a party formed in March and led by a London School of Economics passout Pushpam Priya Choudhary, is also in the fray. The Bihar polls will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will come out on November 10 and they will show the exact influence of the new alliances on Bihar polity and elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections: Clock ticks as RJD-Congress ties turn frosty||The alliance between Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress was on the brink of collapse and there was no communication between the two parties over the past few days even as the election process formally started on Thursday. Senior leaders of both the parties appeared extremely pessimistic about a last-minute deal and privately conceded that the ties had strained inexplicably after a broad understanding much earlier to fight the election together. The Congress has already started working on Plan B, asking senior leaders to suggest names for all the 243 Assembly seats. A senior Congress leader told The Telegraph, “We are completely bewildered by the RJD’s attitude. We still want the alliance, as a break-up at this stage will be like giving victory to the BJP on a platter. It is not about the number of seats, it is about attitude. The RJD has not been talking to us, they are threatening us through media. Even now, the alliance can be salvaged, if they don’t have any hidden agenda.” The RJD leaders spoke of unreasonable demands by the Congress and conceded that the relations were strained. “I stay positive,” a senior RJD leader said, while admitting a crisis. The RJD believes that the Congress should have accepted the offer of 58 seats. The Congress says the exit of Nitish Kumar first and Upendra Kushwaha later freed up a large number of seats and there should be reasonable distribution. If the issues are not sorted out within the next two days, both the parties will fight separately. Leaders of both the parties hope a talk between Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Yadav will finally clinch the deal. Bihar in-charge of Congress Shaktisinh Gohil is going to Patna on Thursday night as party chief Sonia Gandhi will kick-start the campaign on Friday through a virtual rally. There are chances that Gohil will also give the party symbol to sitting MLAs, allowing them to file their nominations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Odisha Assembly passes Epidemic bill ||The Odisha Assembly on Wednesday passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill 2020 that envisages a fine upto Rs 1 lakh and imprisonment up to two years or both for anyone violating the Covid guidelines. Though the Opposition maintained it was too harsh and demanded that the quantum of punishment be reduced, the government said that it was necessary at this point to check the rising number of Covid patients. The Opposition accused the government of bringing the amendment with the sole purpose of silencing people who were criticising the government for its failure in Covid management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
02-10-2020||India||Bid to save musth elephant||A dozen forest officials and 20 Gajabandhus have been on their toes round the clock for past three days in the dense forests of Athgarh, about 65 km from here, to save a musth tusker from suspected poachers and angry villagers whose crops it has damaged. The tusker has caused largescale depredation in the Athgarh-Angul belt. A male elephant in musth is characterised by extremely aggressive behaviour because of a steep rise in its testosterone levels. Gajabandhus are village volunteers who help forest officials save elephants in danger, especially when they come in conflict with human beings after straying into habitations such as villages in search of food. An elephant in musth can be dangerous both to human beings and other elephants and cause widespread damage to crops and property. Divisional forest officer (DFO), Athgarh, Sasmita Lenka said, “Musth is a periodic condition in (bull) male elephants characterised by highly aggressive behaviour and accompanied by a large rise in their reproductive hormones. The testosterone levels in an elephant in musth can be on an average 60 times greater than in the same elephant at other times.” Forest officials usually tranquilise such elephants and even put them in rehabilitation centres. In January, forest officials had to tranquilise a musth elephant (a tusker) near Telkoi in Jajpur district after it had trampled four people including a 60-year-old woman to death and caused widespread damage to crops. Forest officials said there were reports of tuskers in musth being tranquilised every year. “People are demanding tranquilisation of this tusker. There is resentment against him because of the damage he has caused to the paddy crop. But we need to understand the biological phenomenon and give such elephants space to live. Our effort now is to push this tusker back to the dense forest without causing any harm to him,” said the DFO. Scientific investigation has revealed that musth is a problematic condition because even the most placid elephants become highly violent toward humans and other elephants during this period. Their food behaviour also changes. “One can easily identify a musth elephant. There is a secretion over his ear and eye. It is prominent. The animal stands away from the herd. It feels restless. During this period it likes food that contains a lot of water. Feeding it herbal products like nishadal and dhala kaincha is good during this period when it also needs more frequent bathing. Some people mistake such behaviour among elephants as signs of madness and try to kill them. We are trying to make people aware of this biological phenomenon,” said the DFO, adding that musth elephants become normal after sometime. The officer has issued necessary instructions to the deputy ranger office, Khuntuni Range, through a letter on the issue. “A programme should be chalked out at your level to strengthen protection and anti-depredation duty round the clock so as to avoid further complaints. Any deviation will be viewed seriously,” the communication said. Lenka has also asked for the crop damage report following proper assessment for sanction of the compensation amount to the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
02-10-2020||India||Nod for secure link to forward areas for Indian Army||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Thursday cleared a long-pending project worth Rs 7,796 crore to establish a secure communication network for the Indian Army that will include modern optical fibre cable links to forward areas. In a statement, the defence ministry on Thursday said that the new Army Static Switched Communication Network (ASCON) will provide a “big boost to the operational capability of the defence forces”, given the current operational situation on the border with China in eastern Ladakh where the armies of the two countries have been locked in a stand-off since May. The project will be implemented by the public sector company ITI. “The project would augment the communication network of Indian Army in the sensitive forward operational areas which in turn will provide a major boost to the operational preparedness of the Indian Army especially keeping in view the current operational situation at LAC (Line of Actual Control),” said a statement from the defence ministry. The project is a big opportunity for the public sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
02-10-2020||India||Bhushan to Delhi Bar: Protect, don’t punish||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan has asked the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to drop the disciplinary proceedings against him, saying his conviction for criminal contempt of court over two tweets was a “fundamental assault on the freedom of speech” which the regulatory body is supposed to protect as it involves the “dignity, freedom and independence of the Bar”. Although the Supreme Court on August 31 had let off Bhushan with a token Re 1 fine or three months’ imprisonment if he fails to pay the money, the BCD had decided to initiate contempt against the lawyer for his two tweets. The Bar Council of India and the respective state bar councils are the regulatory body for advocates and legal education in India. Responding to the showcause notice issued to him on September 21 by the BCD through its secretary Ajayinder Sangwan, Bhushan’s said: “…the Supreme Court judgments holding me guilty of criminal contempt and further sentencing me for the same are a fundamental assault on the freedom of speech and independence of the Bar. The Bar’s independence has been protected by the statutory Bar Councils established under the Advocates Act, 1961. The Bar Councils have been made completely independent of the Government as well as the Judiciary, so that they can protect the dignity, freedom and independence of the Bar.” He added: “I submit that the Bar Council should stand in solidarity with the rights of the members of the legal profession, and not take cognisance of the judgment of Supreme Court which have severely constricted and abridged the freedom, rights and dignity of the members of the Bar and also ordinary citizens. Freedom of speech and expression of lawyers is critical so that the members of the legal profession remain independent and can voice their opinion about the functioning of the courts without any fear or favour. “It is for the same reason that the administration and functioning of the Bar Council of India as well as the State Bar Councils have been kept completely independent of the government and the judiciary.” Bhushan said the two tweets are within the limits of freedom of expression of a member of the Bar and there is nothing in them which could be termed as contemptuous. “The judgment of the Supreme Court holding me guilty, after disregarding my defence of truth, is thus fundamentally flawed, and an assault on free speech. This judgment would have the effect of criminalizing any criticism of the functioning of the judiciary and would have a chilling effect on the right of lawyers and citizens to voice their opinion,” Bhushan said. He said it is a settled law that the Supreme Court or high courts have no power to bar a lawyer from his right to practice while holding him guilty of contempt. This is because that is the sole domain of the Bar Council concerned to apply its own independent mind and come to conclusion whether indeed the advocate has committed an act which the council feels is professional misconduct worthy of suspension of right to practice law. “Thus, it is submitted that the BCD is not at all bound by the judgment of the Court holding me guilty, and in fact has to form its own independent opinion as to whether my two tweets amount to any professional misconduct.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
02-10-2020||India||UP probe team blames Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s family||The special investigation team that visited the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s home on Wednesday and Thursday seemed keener to blame the family for the police’s lapses than listen to their complaints against the force, her father said. The SIT, headed by state home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop, “kept asking us the same question —  why we didn’t mention in our September 14 complaint that my daughter was not only thrashed and had her tongue chopped off but was also gang-raped,” the father said. “We kept replying that we had done so in our application and don’t know why the police changed it.” Piyush Mordia, inspector-general of police, Aligarh range, had on Wednesday confirmed that the police had initially registered a case of attempt to murder, adding the charges of molestation on September 19 and gang rape on September 22. The family says the gang-rape charge was added under pressure of public protests. Mordia, however, had said the medical report had not confirmed gang rape and that a forensic laboratory was now examining the evidence. The father said the three-member SIT —  which included a senior police officer and a bureaucrat —  hadn’t asked the family any questions on the “police’s burning of my daughter’s corpse after locking us inside our home”. “The SIT members ignored our question why they were not taking any interest in our statements that the police had initially tried to save the accused and later traumatised us after my daughter’s body was brought to the village,” he added. The father had had to step out of the village to meet reporters because the police had blocked the kachcha road with their cars to keep out all “outsiders”. When the SIT first visited the family for an hour on Wednesday evening, it had “forgotten to ask some important questions because of the presence of outsiders there”, a police officer said on Thursday afternoon. “So we have been asked to block the roads leading to the village today.” On Wednesday, some journalists and curious onlookers had gathered outside the victim’s house while the SIT was questioning the family inside. Four men have been arrested on the charge of gang-raping the 19-year-old Dalit victim, cutting off her tongue and breaking her spinal cord on September 14. She died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29, after which the police allegedly hijacked her body and cremated it without the consent of the family, whom they locked inside their home. On Wednesday night, the police registered cases against 145 people who had participated in a protest in Hathras town against the atrocity and the police’s lapses. They have been charged with rioting, use of criminal force to deter public servants, rash acts to endanger human lives and damaging public property. The protesters had stoned the police in retaliation to a baton charge. “We have formed teams to arrest those who took the law into their own hands and targeted police vehicles,” Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Veer said. Undeterred, protesters gathered across the district on Thursday to demand punishment for the policemen who had delayed the arrests of the four upper-caste accused. Sweepers in Moradabad, about 100km from the victim’s village, blocked the national highway to Delhi for several hours with mounds of garbage. The victim was from their caste. Congress workers held protests in every district of Uttar Pradesh demanding the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Adityanath has failed to provide security to people. A large number of girls have been brutalised and killed in the three years of BJP rule. We want the chief minister to step down,” state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
02-10-2020||West Bengal||CM highlights UP girl’s agnipariksha||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday drew a parallel between Sita’s agnipariksha and forcible cremation of a Dalit girl who had allegedly been gang-raped in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh as the Bengal chief minister questioned the saffron camp’s track record in the protection of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Mamata pulled no punches in the offensive she mounted on the BJP over the Hathras incident — now an issue with pan-India resonance — in an apparent bid to erode the saffron camp’s credibility as a claimant to the Bengal throne. “Sita-ma had to go through an agnipariksha and now in UP, a girl was raped and after she died, her body was set on fire. We are surprised to see the ill-governance in the state, where no proper investigation was done,” Mamata said at a public meeting in Purba Dhantala near Siliguri. Mamata’s repeated assertions on law and order, said sources in her party, were in view of a key poll plank of the BJP for Bengal, where it promises to ensure a “return” of the rule of law by ending her alleged reign of lawlessness and terror. “In our state, (in cases of crimes against women) we have taken steps within 72 hours of the crime,” Mamata said. There were indications at the start of the day that Mamata would come out all guns blazing on the issue as she tweeted a statement of condemnation in the morning. “Have no words to condemn the barbaric & shameful incident at Hathras involving a young Dalit girl. My deepest condolences to the family. More shameful is the forceful cremation without the family’s presence or consent, exposing those who use slogans & lofty promises for votes,” she wrote on the microblogging site. Seeking to mock a 2018 exercise by the BJP where leaders dined at homes of Dalits and tribal people to garner support, Mamata said Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were among those facing the most torture in the country. “Ahead of the elections, they (BJP) pretend to be sympathetic towards Dalits, adivasis and minorities. They bring food from outside and dine with Dalits, which is nothing but a political stunt. But after the elections, it is the Dalits who are being tortured,” said Mamata. She brought up some unfulfilled promises of the BJP, made for north Bengal. “They had promised to reopen seven tea gardens in north Bengal and had made lengthy assurances to the Rajbanshis ahead of the elections. None of those has been fulfilled. This is because they only make false promises and ahead of the elections, they will come up with such promises again. We do not make any fake commitments and I feel that those who could not keep their words should stay away from politics,” said Mamata. In the Lok Sabha elections last year, the BJP had managed to bag the support of a considerable portion of the tea garden population and the Rajbanshi community, which helped the party win seven of the eight north Bengal seats. In north Bengal, there are at least 30 Assembly seats where support of these people decide the results. “Her high-pitched verbal attack on the BJP indicates that in her head, the campaign for 2021 has been launched,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
02-10-2020||West Bengal||‘NIA framed 9’||Bengal minister of state for library services Siddiqullah Chowdhury on Thursday termed the arrest of nine persons in Kerala and Murshidabad for alleged links with al Qaida as “a framed exercise” by the NIA. “The NIA has framed these youths to malign the Muslim community. The plan to show Muslims in poor light has been hatched in Delhi and the BJP government is setting a bad example as a result. They have no prior record,” Chowdhury told reporters in Berhampore. The minister went on: “They (BJP) are spending loads on the media so as to turn stories to their advantage. This is hurting the state and the country. If there was no lockdown, we would have held demonstrations.” NIA officials had claimed that bomb-making materials and terrorist manifestos had been seized from the nine people arrested on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Chowdhury said the NIA had ruthlessly conducted a nocturnal operation and nabbed the innocent youths. “It is a total lie,” he added. Asked if he was making his claims in his capacity as a minister, Chowdhury replied in the affirmative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Gandhi statue to counter ‘hate’||A Trinamul Congress-run civic body in Sainthia, Birbhum, spent around Rs 12.5 lakh on a statue of Mahatma Gandhi and a model of the Dandi march ahead of his 151st birth anniversary on Friday. Sources in Trinamul attributed the move to a renewed focus on the Father of the Nation and his inclusive humanism in a bid to counter the saffron camp’s propaganda. Party sources said it was just one example out of many across Bengal, within a week of the bicentennial celebrations of another humanist icon, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. Biplab Dutta, chairman of the board of administrators of the Sainthia municipality, said Gandhi stood for non-violence, brotherhood, amity. “These are important, now more than ever, in our nation being ripped apart by hatred and intolerance. The BJP has been trying to appropriate Gandhi, like so many other icons who stood against the saffron camp and its ideological framework, but they do not respect him,” he said. Trinamul, said sources, would use October 2 to remind people of Gandhi’s views on communal harmony and underscore the differences between his philosophy and that of the BJP. The Gandhi statue is a seated one, at the Union crossing area of the town. The Dandi march model has been set up near the town’s Sashibhusan Dutta Girls’ High School. The civic body spent Rs 2.5 lakh on the Gandhi statue and Rs 10 lakh on the Dandi march model. Trinamul leaders said that the model of Gandhi’s historic 1930 Dandi march against oppression and injustice were relevant in the BJP regime. Asansol municipal corporation distributed complimentary copies of Gandhi’s autobiography, The Story of My Experiments with Truth, last year. It will do so this year too. “We ordered 6,000 copies of the book in English, Hindi and Bengali. They will be distributed among young boys and girls. At a time the BJP is trying to appropriate the icon while conveniently sidestepping the main beliefs he stood for, the book will help people understand Gandhiji better,” said Jitendra Tiwari, Asansol mayor and Trinamul’s West Burdwan chief. Civic bodies in Arambagh in Hooghly, Kalna in East Burdwan and Rampurhat in Birbhum, will also host events on Gandhi Jayanti. The BJP too has lined up events to mark the occasion in a bid to try and use it to drum up support for the controversial farm legislation passed by the Narendra Modi government. Bidyasagar Chakraborty, the BJP’s Purulia unit chief, alleged Trinamul was “trying to mislead the people of Bengal” on the new farm laws. “We have planned a march with photographs of Gandhiji, in support of the legislation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Shah to visit Bengal before Puja, says Dilip||Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Bengal before Durga Puja and hold meetings with BJP workers to prepare them for the Assembly elections, said the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh. “We have requested Amit-ji to visit Bengal before the puja and hold meetings with party workers to energise them...We are working on the date,” said Ghosh. On Thursday, Shah held a meeting with Bengal BJP leaders like Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy, the party’s in charge for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, co-minder Arvind Menon, national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and former national secretary Rahul Sinha in New Delhi. BJP national president J.P. Nadda was present at the meeting. Nadda is also likely visit Bengal soon to meet party workers, Ghosh said after Thursday’s meeting. According to BJP sources, Mission Bengal is close to Shah’s heart and he takes keen interest in the nitty-gritty of politics in the state. “In our party, the final call on any matter is taken by the party’s president. Though Nadda-ji took over as president in January 2020, Amit-ji has always taken interest in Bengal. He has been overseeing the affairs of the state for the past few years,” said a source. The source said the Bengal leaders were looking forward to Thursday’s meeting as they couldn’t reach Shah over the last month or so because of his illness. “Today, we spoke to him about recent developments in the state... All of us told him that his visit would create the right momentum for us to prepare for the next year’s polls,” the source added. A section of the party thinks the state unit’s excessive dependence on national leaders like Shah is harming the BJP’s prospects in the state. Multiple leaders this correspondent spoke to said that the fact that Shah and Nadda would have to come all the way from Delhi to encourage workers proved that the party still lacked a face in Bengal. “Dilipda has gained much popularity over the past few years. But the fact that we are so dependent on Delhi leaders even a few months before the polls proves that we are not fully prepared for the battle,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid kills MLA, total toll 5,000||The Trinamul Congress lost its third sitting lawmaker to Covid-19, as Bankura district’s Indas MLA Gurupada Mete died on Thursday evening, the day the pandemic’s toll crossed 5,000 in Bengal over six months after the first death was reported in the state on March 23. Fifty-nine Covid-19 deaths were reported in Bengal in 24 hours till Thursday 9am, taking the total toll to 5,017. However, since the 51-year-old MLA breathed his last in the evening, his demise would be accounted for in Friday’s toll. Mete died at a Howrah hospital. “Deeply saddened by the passing away of  @AITCofficial Bankura District Coordinator and two-time MLA Gurupada Mete,” tweeted chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “His unparalleled devotion to serve the citizens of Bengal will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family and closed ones (sic),” she added. Mete was among 15-odd Trinamul MLAs out of around 30 sitting members of the Assembly who got infected so far. Before him, the pathogen claimed the lives of Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty also died of Covid. In Bengal, the virus so far also infected five state ministers, Suvendu Adhikari, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra, and four parliamentarians, Locket Chatterjee, Sukanta Majumdar, Jayanta Roy and Shanta Chhetri. On Thursday, Bengal reported 3,275 new cases and 2,996 recoveries, taking the total number of infections to over 2.6 lakh, of which nearly 2.29 are recoveries. Among the deaths, the state government reported 4,269 or 85.1 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Of the 59 deaths reported till Thursday 9am, 11 persons succumbed in Calcutta and 15 in North 24-Parganas. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.92, trailing behind the national rate of 1.56 per cent. However, the state’s recovery rate is now 87.87, ahead of the national rate at 83.53 per cent. The state logged 43,854 tests, which took the total past 32.71 lakh, at 36,348 tests per million people. Fairly high testing numbers, coupled with the plateau in cases being detected, dragged the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.96 per cent now. The state reported 35.45 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.79 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, 4,072 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||12,000km Bengal road repair begins||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced and launched a scheme under which 7,000 stretches of roads with a combined length of 12,000km would be repaired in four months. Mamata launched Pathashree Abhijaan at Purba Dhantala near Siliguri while wrapping up her visit to the city. Purba Dhantala is in the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat represented by tourism minister Gautam Deb. “On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary, our government is taking up the project to repair 12,000km of roads across the state,” said Mamata. She went on elaborating on the development of road infrastructure in the state after Trinamul had come to power in 2011. According to her, the total length of roads in the state was 92,023 km till 2011. “We could increase the total length of roads in the state to 3.16 lakh kilometres in the past eight years, which means an increase of 244 per cent,” said the chief minister. Mamata said the road repairs would have to be completed by January next year. “If any discrepancy is noticed in executing the project, we will take appropriate actions,” the chief minister said. According to a survey, sources in the state government said, a total of 17,000km of roads in the state need urgent restoration and repairs. Of them, 7,000km of rural roads are maintained by the panchayat department and the remaining by the state public works department. A total of Rs 1,900 crore was estimated to be required for the repair of 12,000km roads. The state government plans to take up the repair of 12,000km of roads initially. “A majority of these roads were built under the PMGSY scheme in rural areas more than five years ago. As the maintenance liability of the contractors is usually for five years, the state has to repair the roads now,” said a senior official. As most of these roads are in rural areas, the ruling establishment is keen on repairing them immediately, considering the coming Assembly polls. Once these roads are repaired, the state government would consider taking up repairs on the remaining 5,000km of roads. “These roads are mainly semi-urban or district roads and can be repaired later as their condition is not so bad,” said the official. During the launch of the road repair project, Mamata also handed over Rs 3 crore to the namasudra welfare board and Rs 10 crore each to the Terai Dooars development and cultural board and the state tribal development and cultural board. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP, CPM leaders voice discontent||Three elected representatives — two from the BJP and one from the CPM — articulated their grievances on a number of issues during the four-day visit of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to north Bengal that ended on Thursday. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, pointed out that Mamata did not address some prominent issues of the hills, Neeraj Zimba, the Darjeeling MLA who won last year’s bypoll on a BJP ticket, sent a letter to Mamata stating his privilege as a peoples’ representative had been violated as he was not invited to the review meeting at the branch secretariat Uttarkanya here. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri, alleged that the state was not keen in developing the city’s infrastructure. “I welcome the state’s decision to construct homes for tea garden workers but simultaneously want to know why their minimum wages have not yet been fixed. Also, she (Mamata) provided funds to the GTA but did not address the demand for permanency of GTA employees and those working in Darjeeling municipality,” said Bista. The MP also pointed out that land rights of hill residents were pending, an issue flagged by various political parties these past few months. On Wednesday, Binay Tamang, who heads a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and is an ally of Trinamul, had raised the issue at the administrative review meeting. However, such assertions from Bista indicates that the BJP, while highlighting some longstanding demands the state government is yet to meet, wants secure the maximum possible Assembly seats in north Bengal. Zimba, on the other hand, wrote to Mamata that he was registering his protest that despite being an MLA of Darjeeling district, he was not invited to the review meeting. “As an elected MLA, it is my constitutional right and my responsibility to partake in any discussion regarding the development issues of my constituency. However, by not extending me the invitation, your administration has clearly violated the constitutional privileges of an elected lawmaker of the House,” he wrote. CPM MLA Asok Bhattacharya, also the chairperson of the board of administrators in Siliguri Municipal Corporation, was invited to the review meeting but did not attend it at Uttarkanya on Wednesday as a “silent protest.” “It is a silent protest against the state government that has deprived residents of Siliguri from development and has also put a virtual financial embargo on the local civic body. Also, I came to know that a number of other MLAs have not been invited. This is yet another reason why I did not go,” the CPM veteran said. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Newborn dies, dad blames nurses||A newborn at Murshidabad’s Jangipur Superspecialty Hospital  was declared dead by doctors within minutes of the delivery on Wednesday night, leading the father to lodge complaint of culpable homicide against nurses on duty for allegedly not responding to the mother’s cries for help for over 30 minutes during labour. Sources said mother Chumki Khatun, 26, was rushed to the hospital around 5pm on Wednesday and told by doctors to wait in the maternity ward as “a normal childbirth” was imminent later in the day. “My wife and mother-in-law were in the ward for at least four hours before my wife went into labour. During my wife’s labour, my mother-in-law called out repeatedly for the nurses but she was asked to wait till dinner time was over,” alleged Jahid Hossain, 30, Chumki’s husband and a farmer from Suti’s Debipur, on Thursday. Jahid said that his wife eventually delivered a boy around 11.30pm, more than 30 minutes  after going into labour, in the presence of her mother. However, the nurses did not come till the last moment, and only after the baby was delivered did the doctor arrive, he alleged. “The doctors declared my baby dead within minutes of birth. This happened because of the negligence of the nurses,” said Jahid. Jahid filed a formal complaint with hospital superintendent Sayan Das on Thursday morning demanding charges of culpable homicide against the nurses on duty on Wednesday night. Hospital superintendent Sayan Das said he received the farmer’s complaint. “I will launch a formal inquiry into the incident on Friday and if required refer the matter to Behrampore’s chief medical officer,” superintendent Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Campus exam tests Covid rules||A girls’ college in Birbhum’s Bolpur allowed at least 100 final-year under-graduate students to take on-campus examination in violation of Burdwan University norms and Covid-19 protocol on Thursday. Along with other colleges affiliated to Burdwan University, online examination for UG students of Purnidevi Girls’ College in Bolpur began on Thursday. Sources said instead of arranging for online test for all the candidates, the college authorities defied the examination norms of the varsity and asked around 100 final-year UG students to go to the campus and write the exam. A section of teachers and non-teaching employees had objected to the move but their opposition was overruled by the college authorities. “It (on-campus test) was held in total violation of Covid protocol. We don’t know who will take the responsibility if any student or teacher takes ill. The college authorities took the decision by keeping us in the dark,” said a governing body member, who refused to be named. According to the guidelines of the state government as well as Burdwan University, question papers have to be sent to the students through email or WhatsApp 30 minutes prior to the start of the exam. The examinees will then write on answer sheets and submit the scanned copies online to an address pre-decided by the college authorities. Those without access to Internet can submit the answer sheets physically at the college by following Covid protocol. “The guideline is that if anyone fails to submit the answer sheet online, he/she can come over to the college and physically hand it over within a stipulated time by maintaining Covid norms. But there is no provision to ask students to come over to the college to take the test,” a teacher of the college said. The college authorities, however, said they allowed only those students living in remote areas or without access to Internet to go to the campus to take the test. “There are many students who come from remote areas like Illambazar and Joydeb villages and they do not have the facility to take online exam. They were allowed to take the examination offline at the college, while others took the test online,” said Chandranath Sinha, the president of the governing body of the college. Sinha is also Trinamul’s Bolpur MLA and fisheries minister. Principal of the college Sunil Baran Mondal, however, denied that offline examination was arranged on the campus but tried to skirt an answer when asked why so many students were present at the college during the exam. Educational institutes across the state remain closed because of Covid protocol. “No student came physically to take the examination. Some students had come for the work they had at the college library,” said Mondal. Burdwan University officials said there was no provision for students to take the exam at the college. “We have come to know about the incident at Purnidevi Girls’ College in Bolpur and will find out whether the college authorities allowed students to take on-campus examination,” said Abhijit Mazumdar, the registrar of Burdwan University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||NBU online exam starts with tech snag||Students appearing in the final exams of their undergraduate courses under the North Bengal University (NBU) faced a technical glitch on the first day of the online exam on Thursday, forcing varsity authorities to rethink the mechanism of circulating question papers. As hundreds of students sat at homes to write their papers, they found it tough to download the question paper from the varsity website. “Question papers were uploaded only on the varsity website. The portal could not take the load when hundreds of students logged in at the same time to download questions. This led to delay and many students became tense as minutes ticked by,” said Biswajit Sarkar, a former general secretary of the students’ union of Siliguri College. Sources said according to the University Grants Commission norms, the question papers of each online exam should be uploaded on the website of a university 15 minutes before the start of the exam. Later on Thursday, NBU authorities came up with a new plan to resolve the problem. “To make the exam process easier, it has been decided that from tomorrow (Friday), question papers would also be made available on websites of all affiliated colleges, along with the varsity’s official website,” said an NBU source. A faculty member of Siliguri College, Amitava Kanjilal, accused of promising an undergraduate student high marks in lieu of money, appeared on Thursday before an inquiry committee constituted by the college to probe into the allegation. Earlier, he had been served a showcause by college authorities. Kanjilal spoke to inquiry panel but not to the media. A member of the committee said they would soon prepare a report and submit it to the college governing body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Delayed by Covid, bike race in November||The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) here has decided to organise the second edition of Tenzing Norgay Mountain Biking (MTB) challenge next month with the organisers including a virtual cycling for those who cannot travel to Darjeeling. The bikers’ race will end at Tiger Hill, famed for its sunrise. “This year we have decided to flag of the race from Mungpoo, which is famous for its association with Rabindranath Tagore and the cinchona plantations, and finish at Tiger hill,” said Group Captain Jai Kishan, who is the principal of the HMI. Mungpoo is perched at an altitude of 3700 feet and cyclists will pass though Chatakpur (7,800 feet) to reach Tiger Hill at an altitude of 8,441 feet covering a mostly uphill route of 35km. Entry forms can be downloaded from tenzingnorgaymtb.com and the event carries a total prize money of Rs 1.5 lakh. Riders below 18 years must bring along a letter of consent signed by their parent or guardian, the principal said. The organisers have decided on three categories, virtual, open and cyclothan. “On November 1, we will organise a virtual cycling where participants can record their details in any fitness app anywhere in the world and submit details to us. This is because many participants might not want to travel now (amid the ongoing pandemic situation),” said Kishan. Last year over 150 participants from not just India but also from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh had participated in the events. The other two categories, open race and cyclothan (fun ride), will be held on November 2. The routes will be the same — Mungpo to Tiger Hill via Chatakpur. Outstation participants are required to submit a Covid test report which is not older than three days. The event was started by HMI last year to commemorate the 105th birth anniversary of Tenzing Norgay Sherpa, who along with Sir Edmund Hillary, was the first to climb Everest on May 29, 1953. This year the organisers could not hold the event on May 29 amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. But now with the phased Unlock across the country, many curbs are being eased. Tourism, the mainstay of the hill economy along with tea, is also being encouraged. The HMI will also open to tourists from Friday. “We are organising this (mountain biking) event to remember our legend and also to promote adventure sports, which will also help tourism in this region,” said Kishan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||NIA makes fake note arrest||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) team arrested an alleged fake note peddler from Baishnabnagar area of Malda district on Wednesday night. Sources said Tausif Alam a.k.a. Bulo Sheikh of Mohanpur under Baishnabnagar police station was summoned to the NIA office at the NTPC township in Farakka and later taken to Calcutta on Wednesday night. He was arrested allegedly in connection with an old fake Indian currency notes (FICN) peddling case filed in Uttar Pradesh last December. Malda SP has been informed. “One Mohammed Murad Alam, from Katihar district in Bihar, was arrested for carrying FICN of around Rs 2.5 lakh from a place in Ghaziabad last year. While interrogating him, it was revealed that (Tausif) Alam alias Bulo was actively involved in smuggling FICN to India from Bangladesh. After primary evidence was found against him (Bulo), he was arrested,” said a source. NIA sources claimed that Bulo played a key role in smuggling FICN from Bangladesh that would be distributed across India through his agents. Bulo, a police officer said, had also served as a migrant worker in various states. “The NIA officials have communicated to us in writing that they arrested Alam (Bulo) in connection with an old case of FICN peddling,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||North East||Youth leader held, BJP targets Congress||The arrest of Diban Deka, one of the main accused in the question paper leak case on Wednesday night, has led the ruling BJP rake up the “Tihar days” of Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora to blunt the Opposition Congress’s attack against the state government’s alleged lapses in holding the cop recruitment test. Guwahati police’s crime branch apprehended Deka, a youth BJP leader, near Pathsala town in Barpeta district, around 85km from here, at 11.45pm on Wednesday. Deka was with his wife. He was detained and brought to Guwahati under a “strong” police escort by crime branch officers and lodged in a police lockup after medical examination. Deka has been produced in a “competent” court in Guwahati and remanded to five days in custody of the crime branch, city police said. Deka and another suspect, former deputy inspector-general P.K. Dutta, were on the run since September 20 night, the day the sub-inspector recruitment exam had to be cancelled following the paper leak 12 minutes before the start of the test at noon. Deka and Dutta are allegedly involved in holding mock tests a day before the exam, among others. Altogether 29 people have been arrested by the police so far in connection with the case, including eight by the CID, 10 by the crime branch and nine by Nalbari police, sources said. Within hours of his arrest, Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass announced the suspension of Deka from the primary membership of the party. Several senior leaders had denied Deka’s link with the party and showcased his arrest as its commitment and that of the BJP-led state government to zero tolerance against corruption while attacking the Congress. BJP leaders Padma Hazarika, Lakhya Konwar and Rupam Goswami not only launched a counter-attack against the Congress on Thursday but also chose Bora as a special target, raking up his “Tihar background” in a CBI bribery case. The attacks will only grow in the coming days with the resumption of hearing in the 2000 Daniel Topno murder case on October 5. Bora has been acquitted in the bribery and Topno murder cases but the CBI has contested the acquittal in the murder case. Reacting to the paper leak case, Sootea legislator Hazarika and BJP chief spokesperson Goswami raked up Bora’s Tihar background. “Bora has no moral right to raise issues related to corruption. Why did he go to Tihar? Our government has acted swiftly to arrest the accused,” Goswami said. Another BJP spokesperson and member secretary, students’ and youth welfare, Lakhya Konwar, went all out at a news conference against Bora for accusing chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal of being involved in the paper leak case. “But we want to ask who has had the experience of going to Tihar jail... in a CBI bribery case related to the Topno murder. It is not the chief minister, it is Bora. Our government has acted on its own in the case. It did not wait for anyone to file a complaint. Bora also has no moral right to demoralise the police force which has acted swiftly and effectively in the case,” Konwar said. Thursday’s counter-charge has left the Congress rattled because it has been gearing up to step up its attack in the case. “Our president has been acquitted in both cases but the resumption of hearing in the Topno case is certainly not good news as it has come just months before the state polls_. We don’t know how long the case will run or what will be the outcome but our rivals will flag the court case to blunt our attack,” a Congress leader said Topno, a tea community leader who had contested the 1996 Assembly polls against Bora from Gohpur, was killed by unidentified assailants on September 27, 2000. The case was handed over to the CBI which named Bora as an accused. The Kamrup (metro) sessions court acquitted Bora in 2014 for want of evidence but the CBI contested the order on May 29, 2014, in Gauhati High Court, which registered the case on June 3. But there was no hearing for over six years till one Pabitra Hazarika filed an RTI application, seeking information about the case. The court then listed the case for February 24 this year but hearing could not be held that day. It has now listed the case for October 5., the day the Congress has announced the gherao of offices of superintendents of police in the districts in connection with the paper leak and job racket case. Bora has said that the cases were a political conspiracy against him. “It is a political conspiracy. It’s a case of 2000 when the AGP was in power. One of my opponents had then framed the case against me. Now the BJP is behind this,” Bora had told The Telegraph in February. PCC spokesperson Imdad Hussain countered the Tihar barb by pointing out that even Union home minister Amit Shah was arrested in a murder case in 2010. “He (Shah) was also charged by the CBI. This is no issue. Our president Bora sir will give a detailed counter,” Hussain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
02-10-2020||Opinion||Tread carefully: Durga Puja with caution||Sir — In view of festivals in general and Durga Puja in particular, one would like to appeal to the state governments, the puja organizers as well as all right-thinking citizens to understand some hard but realistic facts related to our fight against the ongoing pandemic. Unlike other countries, India — especially owing to its religious and cultural diversity — observes a large number of festivals spanning the entire year. But at this point, congregations — this is common to most festivals — are likely to pose a serious hurdle in countering the spread of the coronavirus. Even the strongest of measures will prove to be ineffective if large gatherings are allowed, especially during Durga Puja, which continues for several days. Social distancing will be impossible in effect, and norms prescribed for the containment of the pandemic will end up being violated, making the situation worse. The foremost priority right now should be survival. People would be expected to try every possible means to this end, even at the cost of sacrificing religious sentiments and merriment. Satyananda Bhattacherjee,Kharagpur Sir — Festivals have always been an important part of Indian life. But with Covid-19 hitting the country hard, alongside the lockdown, for the past six months, several problems have reared their heads, robbing people of the joy of celebrations. The country has incurred huge losses, be it in terms of education, the economy or human lives. New cases are being detected every day, especially since Unlock 4.0 was declared. Shopping complexes, cinema halls, markets and temples have now reopened and transportation has come into effect, following guidelines — social distancing and wearing of masks being the topmost priorities. But is not the joy of celebrations largely diminished if people cannot come together to enjoy themselves and honour the day? With social gatherings being limited to 100 people at once, Durga Puja celebrations this year will surely be less grand than usual. But it should be kept in mind that mass gatherings could affect the Indian population on a large scale. This must be avoided. Nilakshi M. Daimary,Bongaigaon, Assam Sir — The chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, has announced a slew of doles, including a grant of Rs 50,000 to each registered Durga Puja organizer in the state. This decision is welcome. There are reportedly around 37,000 registered organizers in Bengal. Organizing the puja this year has become a major challenge for them in the absence of advertisements and difficulties in collecting subscriptions from individual households. Banerjee’s announcements have brought some relief to artisans who are bound to have received fewer orders this year. With this financial support, the construction of puja pandals are now expected to gather pace. However, the government has also stressed upon the need for crowd control and physical distancing. Hence, all puja committees must take proactive measures to prevent overcrowding and ensure that social distancing protocols are maintained. Durga Puja revellers should also pay attention to these rules. Controlling the spread of the virus cannot solely be the responsibility of government agencies and the puja organizers. One would also like to request the police to issue necessary festival guidelines for a safe celebration this year. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Durga Puja is one of the biggest festivals in India, especially in Bengal. Apart from paying homage to the goddess, the festivities include meeting friends and family and having a good time. But given the current situation, it seems that following the same traditions will be difficult this year. With just about a month to go for one of the biggest annual extravaganzas, preparations have begun, albeit on a lower scale, as organizers chalk out safety plans to avoid a further spread of Covid-19. We all must adapt to the changing circumstances for the sake of the safety of all citizens. Nili Ghosh,Calcutta Hour of need Sir — As expected, the pandemic has affected the economically weaker sections of society the worst. Even with restrictions being relaxed, most street vendors are struggling to sell their wares, in spite of great efforts. This is partly because big companies have now entered the market, pushing them further to the margins especially during the lockdown: many people now order even groceries online. Since government policies have hardly alleviated the plight of the poor, the common people should stand by them. People should buy more products from street vendors, and without haggling over the price. Shilpa Nandi,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Life Line: Differences in Indian life spans||The key to living a long life can be found not in philosophy but in hard data. Life expectancy has been a vital part of the discourse on health in India, with markers such as health coverage and hospitalization costs being integral to the mapping process. Last year, however, researchers had widened the scope of the assessment by outlining a set of social indices — these included caste, education, religion and wealth — which appeared to have a notable bearing on the life span of Indians. The latest data put out by the census and registrar general’s office, too, finds startling correlations between citizens’ life expectancy and factors such as gender, areas of habitation and state performance. On the face of it, the data might seem encouraging — at 69.4 years, the average life expectancy of Indians reflected a jump of almost 20 years from 49.7 between 1970-75. A closer look, however, reveals that the improvement over the last decade has been a mere 0.4 years. This ought not to be surprising, given the fact that poverty and embedded social inequalities, which are known to adversely affect longevity, have intensified. What, then, are the implications of such a nominal increase as well as the vast difference between the life spans of Indians in different regions and between genders? The data reveal that traditionally poorer states such as Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand have a lower life expectancy than Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The infant mortality rate has to be taken into account as well. The first year of a child’s life, ridden with risks on account of illness, poor immunization and malnutrition, has a decisive impact on longevity. Kerala’s IMR is seven per 1,000 live births, while it is 48 and 43 in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. The consequences for the girl child are starker. Even though India managed to reduce child mortality by 4.4 per cent annually from 1990 to 2018, the average life expectancy at birth for boys exceeds that of girls in Bihar and Jharkhand, revealing skewed attitudes — societal and administrational — towards nutrition and healthcare of girls. Given the variations in data, policy interventions cannot be unimaginative. They must mould strategies according to the prevailing ground realities so that targeted campaigns to improve longevity can confront the associated challenges pertaining to societal prejudices and health infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Same old: Misogyny crossed with caste hatred||There is a surreal quality in the unceasing crimes against women as in their cruelty. Sharpening laws, people’s protests or routine pieties from politicians make little difference. The cruelty is exacerbated when misogyny is crossed with caste hatred or class dominance. Uttar Pradesh is reputed for sexual crimes of extraordinary violence, perpetrated often on Dalit women. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau show that, in 2019, the state led in the number of crimes against women, in crimes against girl children and in crimes against members of scheduled castes. The recent death of the 19-year-old girl, gang raped and fatally injured in Hathras allegedly by high-caste men that she named before her death, led to public protests. That matters little. One of the features of rapes in UP is the behaviour of the police and other powerful elements in the aftermath. A rape survivor’s father can be taken into custody and allegedly killed, the car carrying the survivor and the her lawyer can collide with a truck with blackened plates and two of the girl’s relatives die — the accused in that case was a former Bharatiya Janata Party member of the legislative assembly — or a survivor can be set ablaze when out walking. The police, according to reports such as that from the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights, delay in registering rape complaints if the complainant is Dalit. In the Hathras case, the family said that the police cremated the girl at night without the family’s consent, while keeping its members locked up in their house. An uncle alleged that he was forced to attend so that the police could show the family’s presence at the cremation. In the first 10 months of Yogi Adityanath’s regime from April 2017 to January 2018, rapes jumped 26 per cent over the previous 10 months under Akhilesh Yadav’s rule. Rapes, especially of Dalit women, indicate not only misogyny and caste domination, but also the administration’s abuse of power. The chief minister’s directions to display the names of those ‘involved’ in crimes against women at prominent crossings and have women police punish such criminals show that he believes women are fools. Meanwhile, another gang rape and subsequent death of a Dalit woman has been reported from UP’s Balarampur. Another addition to the NCRB statistics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Health, justice and a virus||Adam Smith is often referred to as the ‘father of capitalism’. He probably wouldn’t think of health being bought and sold daily under the supervision of the ‘invisible hand’. The primary reason being health and, correspondingly, healthcare are not private goods. It often takes someone or something — a virus like that of Covid-19 — to remind the champions of the free-market economy that health is contagious, and with externalities, the market fails. That my health is determined by my neighbour’s health status or, for that matter, my mailman’s health status. The man who served me food at my eat-out joint yesterday needs to be protected against the virus in order to protect myself. There is no benevolence involved; nor any act of altruism. The sheer negative externalities necessitate the establishment of smarter mechanisms to allocate healthcare beyond the market’s reach. Health, however, is not a typical public good like roads and army, as Paul Samuelson (1954) would put it. The limited resources ensure competition between citizens and the major criterion of non-rivalry is not met. The Rawlsian theory of social justice would suggest that health is a basic right, but in this era of corporate dominance the idea of basic rights varies from economy to economy, from country to country and, within country, from administration to administration. Richard Musgrave (1957) had coined the term, merit good, and like education, health falls rightly in that category. The need for such a good is more than the market is willing to pay for; hence the government needs to intervene. Why? Because health not only has externalities but also the real trouble lies in the underlying nature of the commodity. Healthcare is part experience and part credence. It is unlike you and me buying a television. Rather, the actual utility is known long after you make the payment or maybe never known at all. Such complexities make it hard to explain health in simple economic terms. Even if there was no market failure, there might be a problem with lower-income people being crowded off the market and when they are not buying health through healthcare, they are endangering themselves and also those who could and have afforded the same. Keeping that in our mind, let us throw a birds-eye look at the current situation. America was great or at least made great as touted until the onset of 2020 when suddenly a virus brought it down to the realities. If getting affected by the virus disproportionately does not tell much about your preexisting health status, then what more can it tell? The Covid-19 mortality in the United States of America is high. So what good an economy is if the economic agents are not healthy enough to withstand the virus onslaughts? Or is it that health is hardly a marker for economic well-being? That money and years of life are unrelated; that economic gains imply get rich and die young. Or is it that a great economy entails some to be rich and reap the gains while others languish in poverty and ill-health? Economists have long held that income and health are correlated. If it is valid at the individual level, then it should be valid at the societal level. However, something is missing from the otherwise perfect puzzle. A major conclusion can be drawn, and that is America was not great to start with, or at least by the existing health standards and, by corollary, the economic standards. It is rather paradoxical that the current political debate embraces a trade-off between health and economy. It only shows how myopic we are. Didn’t we grow up learning health is wealth? At the crux of the debate lies the value of the economic agent. A sick and dead economic agent is a deadweight loss to society. So, what is the benefit of opening the economy and placing your resources (workers) at risk? The answer is simple. Opening the economy is rather important as shut down fails to generate income. Simply said, the choice is between today’s income as compared to tomorrow’s income, or shall I say that the choice is between short-run gains as compared to long-run losses. For a matter, I understand the different incentives that are faced by the two sides. But it is more than that. The incentive is structured with the political reality in the background. And now public health has become a political question. The reason I used the word myopic is simply because the debate is wrongly posed as one between economy and health. As a society, we should know that the economic costs of lost lives easily outweigh 3-5 months of lost income. Let us tie it all back. The gamut of the problem lies in the valuing of health and the very opinion one holds on social justice. If the right to healthcare is being seen as social justice, then government intervention is justified and economic gains ought to be measured not only in current money terms but also in future money terms. The problem lies in the imperfection and incompleteness of our information set. We are rather myopic and think justice lies in the freedom of rights; rights to call to work during a pandemic, rights to not wear masks. How many lives will it cost to achieve justice for all? The author is a public health expert and economic consultant||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Hidden melancholy||All tennis fans know by now that at the US Open, Novak Djokovic, usually so skilled at hitting the ball, sent one in an unforeseeable direction. It is just possible that he was not looking. But it certainly hit a line judge in the throat, who collapsed. Fortunately, the line judge was not injured. Later, Djokovic made sure that she was alright and perhaps — who knows? — even sent her some flowers. Although he argued his case for 10 minutes, the number one seed was disqualified. The Official Grand Slam Rule Book, which deals with these events, is quite clear on this point, and Djokovic was charged with “unsportsmanlike conduct”. The rules also set out that “The Referee in consultation with the Grand Slam Chief of Supervisors may declare a default for… a single violation of this Code.” The conclusion was inescapable. There was nothing controversial about the decision to send Djokovic home on this occasion, and he is not the first player to have endured such a fate at a Grand Slam. Precedents include John McEnroe at the Australian Open (1990), Carsten Arriens at the French Open (1995), Jeff Tarango at Wimbledon (1995), Stefan Koubek at the French Open (2000). Again, Richard Gasquet during the qualifiers of the US Open (2004) and Serena Williams, who lost the final of the US Open (2009) after earning a penalty point at match point against her. This was not the first time either that Djokovic had been confronted with disciplinary matters during the course of his career. He could have been defaulted at the French Open against Tomás Berdych (2016, the year he won) for throwing a racket, which miraculously missed a line judge, or at the Masters Tournament in London (2016) for throwing a ball in the stands but, fortunately, not hitting any spectator. Of course, 2020 has not been a very good year for Djokovic. He organized exhibition matches in the Balkans in June where a few players (including himself) ended up testing positive for Covid-19 after partying and not respecting physical distancing. Just before the US Open, he launched his own players’ union, the Professional Tennis Players Association, in direct opposition to the ATP. The point is not whether Djokovic ‘had it coming’ or whether he courts controversy. Neither is it to decide whether Djokovic has a temper worse than, say, Roger Federer (he probably has one) or Rafael Nadal (who regularly receives code violations for taking too much time between serves). It is not even to rule whether such conduct is unworthy of such a champion (Djokovic ended up apologizing and promising to reform), or how tennis has dealt with the antics of a long list of players — from Ilie Nastase to Nick Kyrgios (who said that if he had done the same, he would now be serving a ban). Nor is it about the decay in standards of behaviour since the good old days. What has changed, though, are the ways in which the actions of tennis players are instantaneously scrutinized by all forms of media, from personal Instagram accounts to journalists in the stands, from private videos going viral on social media to live television coverage. While this may be true of other sports, the facts that tennis is an individual sport, the important commercial interests that have developed around tennis, and the genuine popularity of the game have contributed to placing the actions of players under the limelight. What is sometimes described as the pressure of the star system is a complex set-up, embraced by sportspersons as much as it is imposed upon them. The star-champions construct their image, sometimes with the help of sponsors, from the smooth elegance projected by Federer to the rebel attitude struck by Kyrgios. Sometimes, they use this image to question received ideas of acceptability, or to bring out the political undercurrents of sports — such as Serena Williams having to confront the racism present in sports or Naomi Osaka commemorating the victims of police violence on her face masks — because they are part of society. Djokovic’s gesture finds its place in this context, both of the media sphere to which he obviously contributes and of the ‘image’ that the tennis champion wants to display. It is just possible that there is a degree of uncertainty, not apparent in the figures cut by Federer or Nadal, about Djokovic’s place in the world of tennis. He does not fit into the identifiable type (the ‘good guy’, think Pete Sampras, the ‘villain’, Jimmy Connors, the ‘rebel’, André Agassi and so on). His style of play is perhaps not as appealing as Federer’s attacking game; nor does it have the gritty power of Nadal’s clay-court dominance. He has carried the art of defence to the extremes of perfection, his return-of-serve is probably the best in the world now that Andy Murray has faded, but this style does not necessarily generate emulation and admiration. This is perhaps what makes his clumsy positionings, his (mistimed?) commitment to the organization of the game, or his fits of temper more difficult to appreciate. Although he is at the top of the game and has a devoted following, Djokovic finds himself in a more ambiguous position than his contemporaries, Federer and Nadal. On a lower key, Djokovic’s default at the US Open is reminiscent of Zinédine Zidane’s infamous head-butt in the final of the World Cup 2006. Admittedly, the stage on which Zidane was operating was larger than the fourth round of a US Open without spectators, and Djokovic was not playing his last professional match. But both had a record of acts of rebellion (it was not Zidane’s first red card), both players were nearing glory, with Djokovic, who has not lost a single match in 2020, edging closer to Nadal and Federer in Grand Slam titles. And both gestures put an end (temporarily, in the case of Djokovic) to these hopes, while keeping open the possibility, for Zidane, of what might have been, and for Djokovic, of what may still happen. What the Belgian novelist, Jean-Philippe Toussaint, has called the “melancholy” of Zidane, on that night in Berlin, perhaps took hold of Djokovic as well, that something inside us which turns against us, the dizzying combination of exhaustion and nervous tension of planetary sports. Zidane, that night, was carried by two contradictory undercurrents of melancholy. The first was caused by the sense of time passing, of the looming end, of the player who cannot bring himself to take his last bow. The second was linked to the desire to be done with it as quickly as possible, the wish to leave the pitch and to return to the dressing rooms because of weariness and exhaustion. No one saw his gesture, no one understood his act. Djokovic, on the other hand, was unlucky, clumsy, but his actions were the sign of a deeper condition. Ultimately, such gestures can be condemned by the rule book, sanctioned with a red card or a default. But they resist interpretation. They tell us a lot more about the world of sports and the place that sportspersons try to occupy within this world. But there is no apparent reason behind them. The author is professor of English Literature at Sorbonne University, Paris||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri to miss Ravan Dahan this year||The residents of Sindri will this year miss the Ravan Dahan celebration which in many ways is associated with the identity of the township and its prosperity during the heyday of its fertilizer factory. The celebration will not be held in accordance with government rules forbidding Ravan Dahan this year. The residents, however, are hopeful that the festival will return in its old glory with the start of operations at the Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd factory next year. While speaking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, former councillor Dinesh Singh, who is also the secretary of the Shiv Mandir Puja Committee, said: “Ravan Dahan started way back in 1955 during the Fertilizer Corporation of India’s heyday and reached its zenith in the 1960s and 1970s. The festival, however, started losing its sheen in the 1980s as the company started registering losses. “A large number of people from various parts of the district, including Baliapur, Kandra, Domgarh, Govindpur, Patherdih and Digwadih, would each year witness the festival that is organised after sunset in the large ground of the temple.” “Ravan Dahan would begin at Sindri during Vijaya Dashami, the 10th day of Durga Puja, around  3pm with a procession. Actors dressed as Ram, Lakshman, Hanuman and Sugriv marched through the streets of Sindri amid the beating of drums and the blowing of conch shells,” said Singh. A large number of people would gather on both sides of the road to watch the procession which would culminate at the temple. Elephants and horses would be parts of the procession, but when the fertilizer factory started registering losses, the festival lost its sheen. However, Ravan Dahan remained the talk of the town as more than 50,000 people would congregate in Sindri to witness the celebration for which an effigy of a height of 65-70ft would be erected on a 60ft frame at the Shiv Mandir ground. “Work on making the effigy would start 90 days before the festival. At least 150 bamboo poles, 200 sacks and firecrackers worth around Rs 60,000 are used,” said Singh, adding that the organisers were being asked by Sindri residents whether Ravan Dahan will take place this year. With the release of the SOPs, it has become evident that the celebration will not be held, he said. “We are hopeful that the golden days of the celebration will return as the new fertilizer factory of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd is coming up at Sindri and is likely to resume operations next year,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharia residents demand renovation of historic pond||More than 50 residents of Jharia on Friday walked in a protest march and shouted slogans demanding the renovation of the historic Raja Talab which has fallen into disrepair. The protesters, led by former councillor Anup Sao and NGO Institution for National Amity founder Pinaki Roy, raised slogans against the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and district administration and demanded a probe into the allegations of corruption in the renovation of the pond. Established by a former ruler, Durga Prasad Singh, on 8.26 acres, the pond was once the centre of all religious activity in Jharia, including the celebration of Chhath Puja and Durga Puja and the performance of last rites. The pond, however, has become polluted due to a host of reasons, including the discharge of sewage and washing of clothes, dishes and domestic animals by residents of nearby areas. A contract worth Rs 25 lakh for the beautification of the pond, including installation of streetlights, desilting, construction of roads all around the waterbody and barricading it, was awarded to Sujit Construction in 2010, but the company abandoned work in the middle of 2011 as the JCB machine engaged in desilting could not operate due to the discharge of sewage. The company was paid Rs 6 lakh only due to the non-completion of work and also blacklisted by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. A separate contract was awarded to another company in 2011 for the construction of a drain all around the pond to prevent the discharge of sewage, which was completed on time. The pond, however, remained polluted due to a lack of desilting. “Desilting of the pond was carried out by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at a cost of around Rs 56 lakh during 2016, which led to an improvement in the situation. But things got worse again due to the discharge of sewage and other waste material from the adjoining homes and shops situated on the bank of the pond,” said Sao. Meanwhile, Dhanbad municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar carried out inspection of the pond and took stock of the situation. He said that the cleaning of the pond will be carried out soon under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Rojgar Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Durga Puja organisers seek changes in state guidelines||Unhappy over the state government’s guidelines, several Durga Puja organisers have decided to meet the authorities to seek a few relaxations, especially on the height of idols that has been capped at 4 feet. The state government’s guidelines, issued on Thursday, primarily focuses on curbing chances of crowding. The government has banned loudspeakers/public address systems, theme-based pandals, light decorations, bhog distribution, dhakis, fairs/exhibitions and hosting cultural programmes. Organisers in Ranchi said while they were prepared for most of the restrictions, the specified height of idols may not be possible to comply with. Munchun Roy, convenor of Ranchi Mahanagar Durga Puja Samiti, an umbrella outfit of about 100 puja samitis, said, “At the outset, we are happy that the government has finally allowed opening of temples from October 8 and conduct of Durga puja. We are okay with most of the clauses of the guidelines but most organisers are upset with idol size. Maintaining the size of idol precisely to 4 feet may be not always be possible.” Roy said that some organisers had already ordered their idols. “Many idols are almost ready and redoing them now could be a problem. The reason why we believe that 4 feet idol may not be technically feasible is because in most cases, the goddess is seated on a lion or Mahisasur. Plus, there will be accessories. We appeal to the government to look into this aspect,” he said, adding that all puja organisers were committed to following all Covid safety norms. Sandip Maurya, joint secretary of Bandhgari Durga Puja Samiti, appealed to the government to reconsider its ban on the use of public address systems. “We can’t deny the entry of any visitor to a pandal. In case of rush, a public address system will help,” he said. For those who depend on the annual festival for their livelihood, like artisans, tent house owners and electricians, the government guidelines have come as a damper. Sujoy Ghosh, proprietor of Ghosh Tent House in Chiroundi, said, “Durga Puja is the biggest source of revenue for us every year. But with the pandemic robbing our earnings since March, the latest guidelines are a deterrent as the government has banned construction of big pandals and the use of lighting decorations. Compared to last year, I foresee a loss of more than 90 per cent this year.” Ghosh said the guidelines have come as a blow to caterers as well. “With no community feast or distribution of bhog, caterers will be further pushed to the brink as there are have been no marriage functions this year due to the cap on the number of guests at 50,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||No increase in power tariffs, rules state regulator||Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) has given consumers a reason to smile by turning down the state discom’s plea to hike tariffs for 2020-21 fiscal in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a formal announcement on Friday, the regulator said that existing power tariffs of 2019-20 would continue to be applicable for the current fiscal as well and would be effective October 1, 2020. This means, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), the state-owned distribution company, will continue to charge Rs 5.75 per unit for rural domestic consumers with a fixed monthly charge of Rs 20. For urban consumers the charges will be Rs 6.25 per unit and a fixed monthly charge of Rs 75. For industrial consumers, too, rates remain unchanged. Low-tension industrial consumers will be charged Rs 5.75 per kilo volt ampere (KVA) with a fixed charge of Rs 100 per KVA and high-tension industrial consumers will pay Rs 5.50 per KVA with a fixed charge of Rs 350 per KVA. Overall energy bills for industrial consumers will be directly linked to hours of supply, the order noted. JBVNL, in its tariff revision petition submitted to the regulator earlier this year, had appealed for a 20 per cent hike across various categories of consumers. But the regulator struck down the plea and directed JBVNL to put a stop to unmetered connections across the state from January 1, 2021, providing it a grace period of an additional three months in view of the pandemic. To ensure more accountability, the regulator directed JBVNL to provide consumers with waivers in case it failed to generate bills on time. For instance, if the discom failed to provide bills for two months, then the consumer would get 1 per cent waiver on the bill that is generated on third month onwards. The maximum waiver has been capped at 3 per cent on the overall bill. To augment digital payments, those paying bills online would get a rebate of 1 per cent while an additional 1 per cent rebate would  be given, irrespective of the mode of payment if done before the due date, the regulator said. R.N. Singh, member (engineering), JSERC said, "The decisions on power tariffs has been taken considering all aspects and interests of stakeholders… we have come to the conclusion that the power distribution company won’t be at a loss in case of no tariff hike. The new tariff would be effective October 1, 2020." On September 21, JSERC had also ordered a three-month waiver on fixed charges for all category of consumers, including industrial units, for the months of April, May and June during the nationwide lockdown. Also, it put a three- month moratorium on payments between April 1 and June 30 till September-end, directing discoms not to impose any delayed payment surcharges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Some JFC players reach Goa, to stay in quarantine for 10 days||Players from Jamshedpur FC have started arriving in Goa as the state gets ready to host the cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL) starting next month. Star winger Jackichand Singh, mid-fielder Amarjit Singh Kiyam and winger Bhupender Singh landed in Goa on Friday morning, while Issac Vanmalsawma (midfilder), Ricky Lallawmawma (left-back) and William Lalnunfela (winger) will be arriving later this evening, a member of the JFC team management informed. “The players who have landed went through mandatory Covid tests in their respective states. They straightaway proceeded to hotel Vivanta in Pananji where they were again tested for Covid. The players will stay in quarantine for 10 days and also go through three more Covid tests” the member said on condition of anonymity. This process is meant for all the Indian players who have been signed. They will be shifted to Taj Forte in Candoling (near Panjim) after their isolation period is over, he said, adding  some footballers from the JFC (Reserves) side have also arrived in Goa. The team management further informed that the foreign recruits, including head coach Owen Coyle, will be in Goa latest between October 5 to 8. “The foreign players will also arrive in Goa after undergoing Covid tests in their respective countries. They will stay in isolation at Taj Fort and will follow the same procedure as Indian players,” he added. Meanwhile, JFC's training ground, at Sangolda near Panjim, is being prepared and the work would take some time to complete. “Rain is hampering work. However, we are quite sure it would be decked up before we complete our Covid-related requirements,” another member of the team management added. Head Coach Owen Coyle will be charting out his plans once he lands in Goa. The highly-experienced mentor, who guided Chennaiyin FC to the final after taking charge mid-way through the last season, has already fixed the role for each of his players and have asked them to act accordingly. JFC has signed Coyle with great expectations and with an aim to qualify for the play-offs. “We are waiting for Coyle’s arrival and his taking charge of the training sessions. We have high expectations from him. We have so far not made it to the play-offs after making ISL debut three seasons back,” the member added. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said things were on tracks and players have started arriving in Goa. “Things are moving as per plans,” he added. Barring a player from  Asian Football Confederation-affilated nation, Jamshedpur FC’s team formation is complete. The Asian player has already been identified and talks with him are in final stages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts two days of heavy showers across state  ||A low-pressure area originating from the Bay of Bengal, coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation, is expected to result in heavy showers over Jharkhand during the next two days. Both Ranchi and Patna Met centres, bulletins issued on Friday afternoon, predicted heavy rain over Jharkhand due to the twin systems. "Jharkhand is under the influence of a low-pressure zone which originated from the central Bay of Bengal. This, coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation of height extending up to 5.8km above mean sea level, would result in a good spell of rain over Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. Heavy rain is expected in southern, central and north eastern Jharkhand," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met centre also issued thunderstorm and lightning alerts in Ranchi, Chatra, Palamau, Garhwa, Koderma and the districts of the Kolhan region during the next 24 hours. A senior weather analyst at IMD's Patna Met centre said the southwest monsoon was in its last phase. "Usually, low pressure formation takes place over Bay of Bengal during the withdrawal phase of the monsoon," he said, adding that the monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. Met data revealed that several places in Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh and Koderma experienced a good spell of rain in the past 24 hours. The low-pressure resulted in heavy moisture incursion into the atmosphere. This in turn raised the humidity level in many places across Jharkhand on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Governor, chief minister Hemant pay tributes to Gandhi||Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu, chief minister Hemant Soren, Union minister Arjun Munda and others paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary on Friday. Murmu, while paying floral tributes to the Father of the Nation at Bapu Vatika in Morabadi area of Ranchi, called for a change in the mentality of people. "Today, we should ask ourselves whether we are following Bapu's path. It seems to me, after seeing some recent news, that people need to change their mentality," she said. "Now is the time for such a change by following the path of Gandhiji," she added. The governor, while paying tribute to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his 116th birth anniversary, said leaders like him are seldom born in this country. Hemant said the absence of leaders like Gandhi and Shastri was being felt in the present times. "Their ideas can never die. We should try to inculcate their ideas in our personal and collective behaviour," he said. Munda said the country will always keep learning from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally close to 85,000, 9 more succumb to the virus||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand drew close to 85,000 on Thursday after as many as 1013 people were found to be infected in a span of 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. The number of active cases in the state, however, dropped to 11,482 as Covid recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases for the third consecutive day. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1119 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on the day. Ranchi topped in the number of fresh cases of infection as well as the number of Covid recoveries on Thursday. As many as 448 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on the day against 266 cases of infection surfacing during the same period. The number of active cases, however, increased in East Singhbhum after 165 fresh cases surfaced in the district against only 40 Covid recoveries. As per government data, there were 2323 active cases of the infection in East Singhbhum and 3336 active cases in Ranchi on Thursday night. The Covid toll in Jharkhand also jumped to 721 on Thursday after nine patients, including three from Ranchi, died during treatment. As per government data, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag, Dhanbad, Deoghar and Bokaro reported one Covid death each. East Singhbhum has reported 301 Covid deaths so far, while Ranchi has reported 119 Covid casualties. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate further improved and reached 85.58 per cent on Thursday against the national average of 83.50 per cent. Out of the 84,664 Covid patients found in the state so far, at least 72,461 have recovered, highlights government data. Despite reporting over 700 Covid casualties, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent. As per the data, at least 538 of the 721 Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years. At least 143 victims were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 31 deceased were below the age of 30 years. The state government has so far collected swab samples of 22.95 lakh people and tested 22.86 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers collected swab samples of 25,537 people and tested 24,758 of them. The doubling rate of Covid infection in Jharkhand was 45.21 days against the national average of 49.99 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand in the past one week was 1.49 per cent against the national average of 1.36 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Survey on cop image in Jharkhand industry belt||Students from two private universities will be hired to conduct a survey on public perception about cops in the industrial belt, in the first such exercise by the state police since Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar. The initiative of Rajiv Ranjan Singh, deputy inspector-general of police (DIG), Kolhan range (covering East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts), will see nearly 70 post-graduate students from two private universities of Jamshedpur — Arka Jain University and Netaji Subhas University — conducting the survey in selected police station areas between October 3 and 5. “In the first phase, we have selected the police stations which serve a combination of industrial areas and residential hubs. These include four police stations in Jamshedpur — Mango, Kadma, Sidhgora and Parsudih, and two in Seraikela-Kharsawan — Adityapur and Gamharia. The survey is aimed at understanding public perception about police, especially the attitude and behaviour during the Covid-19 pandemic, position on ground relating to crime detection and prevention, performance and service delivery, and to assess citizen perception and experience about women and children’s safety. Depending on the feedback of this exercise, we might increase the number of police stations in the second phase,” said Singh on Thursday, after holding a meeting with the functionaries of the private universities in Jamshedpur. Mango, Kadma and Sidhgora police stations cover mostly residential areas and Parsudih is a suburban and rural police station, while Adityapur and Gamharia come under the Adityapur Industrial Area, one of the country’s biggest ancillary hubs. “We will be submitting the findings of the survey to the DGP (M.V. Rao) later in the month. The outcome of the survey is expected to bring out useful suggestions for stakeholders in formulating and implementing appropriate policy responses and changes in the functioning of the police and transformation in community policing and improvement in the access to justice and required reforms in different sectors,” the office said. Paras Nath Mishra, senior faculty of Arka Jain University, which has its campus in Gamharia, said that 50 students from various streams have been selected for the purpose. “The students are excited as it would be a unique learning experience for them. After the survey, they would get a certificate from the police department which will augur well for them in their professional pursuit. Each of the students will have to visit at least 20 households for the survey and there is a target of reaching out to a minimum of 500 households under each police station,” said Mishra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Daily wage earners block Mango Chowk to protest Covid test||Around 1000 daily wage earners set up a blockade on Thursday near Jai Prakash Narayan Setu at Mango Chowk to protest mandatory Covid rapid antigen test by the district health department. The protesters blocked the Mango Chowk twice between 7am to 10am. A joint team of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme and Mango Notified Area Committee officials started taking swab samples and had already taken samples of about 65 persons, including the workers by 6.30 am when some of the labourers refused to be subjected to any test. The workers started protesting shortly. The workers who come mostly from rural pockets like Patamda, Turiabera, Bhilaipahadi and Baliguma were of the opinion that they were healthy and there was no need of undergoing any test for the virus. "We are opposing any test on us for detection of Coronavirus as we are healthy and hefty. Had we been infected with any such virus we would not be able to come here for work. We are daily wagers and let us just work otherwise our family will have to starve at home," said one of the protesters. As a result of the blockade which started at about 7am, traffic came to a standstill on either side of the bridge. The labourers dispersed after the OC of Mango thana asked them not to block the bridge. However, two hours later a large number gathered near the bridge and put up a blockade again. Special officer, MNAC said after the labourers opposed the Covid test drive, the IDSP team had shifted to Dimna Chow, about three kms away in Mango. In the past 24 hours, 123 new Covid cases were detected, thus taking the total number to 13,831 in East Singhbhum district. During this period, Covid claimed three lives, making the total number of deaths in the district to 321. Bokaro Steel Plant and Electrosteel Steel Plant celebrated Ghandhi Jayanti on Thursday. A webinar on the topic "Gandhi in Action" was organised by BSL to mark the 150th year of Gandhi Jayanti being celebrated on October, 02. The webinar was attended by director incharge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, executive director and other officers. Biren Bhuta, a well-known speaker, gave his views on the practical aspects of assimilating Gandhiji's principles in daily lives at the webinar. ESL, a Vedanta Group Company, launched Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and cleanliness awareness programme in Siyaljori village on the eve of Gandhi Jayanti.                  Medha Kumari of ESL (Corporate Communications) said apart from spreading the message of a clean and hygienic India among the villagers, ESL team distributed bleaching powder and installed dust bins across prominent places in the village. Bokaro Congress Committee members burnt an effigy of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to protest the detention of party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim on Thursday. The co-working president of state Congress, Rajesh Thakur said that the congress strongly condemns the detention of the leaders. “Narendera Modi government should take strict action agianst the rapists and should investigate that under what circumstances Hatras rape victim’s dead body was burnt by the Uttar Pradesh government in the middle of the night without her family members,” said Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||State government allows opening of religious places from October 8||The state government has allowed opening of all religious places outside containment zones from October 8. It has also issued Durga puja specific guidelines on Thursday, and extended the lockdown in containment zones till the end of this month. According to the notification issued by the state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, all Durga puja organizers are mandated to keep the conduct of the puja as low-key as possible. The 24-point notification bans erecting theme based pandal/mandaps, lighting decorations in and around its vicinity, setting up of food stalls, hosting any cultural programmes, distribution of bhog, or hosting community feasts among others. “Durga puja may generally be performed at temples or privately at home as far as possible. Pujas may also be performed in specially erected small pandal/mandaps, where it has been done traditionally, only with the objective of performance of ritual, without public participation,” the order read, adding that no pandal/mandap should be based on any specific themes. “The pandal/mandap shall be covered from all sides in a way to prevent any public view of the idol, pandals/mandaps shouldn’t be based on any theme, no decoration by lighting in the area allowed, or toran dwars or welcome gates be erected,” it noted. Size of the idol too have been fixed maximum at 4 ft while total ban has been imposed on hosting any fairs, exhibitions, food stalls, use of public address system or any ceremony other than the ritualistic puja by the organizers at the venue. To regulate visitor turnout at the pandal/mandap, the order read, “No more than 7 persons including organizers, support staff, priests will be allowed at any given point of time in pandal/mandap. All are mandated to use masks and follow all the safety norms to curb spread of the virus specified by central, state government and local district administration in letter and spirit.” Burning effigies of Ravan has also been banned while idol immersion must be done without any fanfare and procession. “Immersion will be done only at places specified by the administration,” read the guidelines failing which punitive actions will be taken against respective puja organizers under the provisions of the state epidemic act. Puja organizers have initially welcomed the move. Munchun Roy, an office-bearer of Ranchi Durga Puja Samiti, who was part of a delegation which met with chief minister Hemant Soren earlier in the day to demand detailed guidelines, said, “We are yet to go through the guidelines but we had already proposed to only allow us to do puja to continue with the tradition. We are happy that guidelines have come and temples are allowed to open,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
