03-10-2020||Calcutta||Library to help village kids||A mobile library has been set up for first-generation learners of a village on the occasion of the bicentenary of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s birth. An NGO that works in the districts for empowerment of the underprivileged felt many students were getting detached from studies during the pandemic. This initiative launched on the birthday of Bengal’s renaissance icon who had drafted the primer Barnaparichay might help these children to at least stay in touch with books. The children of Banshkopa village in the Bishnupur block of Bankura district are mostly first-generation learners whose parents are mostly farmers. Some rear animals for a living. When out of school they have no facility or ambience of studies in their homes, those working with them have said. They will either while away their time or help their parents in the fields. “It’s a tribal village and many of the children in the 75 families have been losing out on studies during this time when schools are closed. We hope that will at least be able to remain in touch with books and not be completely detached,” Somnath Pyne, the secretary of The Force for Rural Empowerment and Economic Development, said. The NGO has been working in the village for the past four years and has provided some girls with scholarships after they cleared the Madhyamik exams. “We are now asking those students to reach out to their siblings or other children in the villages. They will be our local coordinators who would encourage the children and make these books available to them,” Pyne said. They have started with 100-odd books, mostly in Bengali, that will cater to children, aged five to 16. “Some of the girls who go to college will hold interactive sessions with them to develop an interest in them. We will soon upgrade and have more books,” Pyne said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Ananda eBooks for popular titles||Ananda Publishers on Friday announced the launch of a range of eBooks for its most popular titles through its e-commerce site www.anandapub.in and apps on the Chrome platform for the desktop and the Android platform for mobile devices. At a time the pandemic has made people wary of travelling for essentials, and the procurement of books has become difficult, Ananda Publishers, the leading Bengali language publisher, aims to take books to their readers. Readers can buy their favourite titles online and have them delivered either online as downloadable eBooks or receive physical copies at their doorstep. Subroto Mozumdar, Group CEO, Ananda Publishers, said: “The Bengali eBook market is still nascent and Ananda Publishers is the first publisher to create its own eBook reader app. Readers will now have the opportunity to buy e-books on the website and app (available as a Chrome app for desktops and mobile apps for the Android platform) and read on the go. “We believe this will add immense value to the reader experience, giving readers the choice to buy and read in a format they desire.” The iOS version of the app will be available soon, Mozumdar said. The pandemic-induced health concerns have come in the way of readers paying a visit to bookstores. The situation is such that a publishing house has decided to engage cyclists – cycle is considered as the safe mode of transport – to have books delivered at the doorstep of readers. The bookstores in malls are also not attracting the usual crowd. In such a situation, making the books available on the digital platforms to the readers is the best solution. The development of the e-commerce website is a significant step towards reaching out to as many readers as possible. Ananda Publishers, established in August 1957, is the leading publisher of Bengali literary, trade and academic works for over six decades. With many years of experience, research-oriented publishing objectives and adherence to the highest production values, Ananda Publishers enjoys the admiration of their readers. A number of illustrious authors and poets — including Sukumar Ray, Sunil Gangopadhyay, Satyajit Ray, Sirshendu Mukhopadhyay, Premendra Mitra and Buddhadeb Guha — have graced the pages of Ananda Publishers’ publications over the years. Many foreign literary masterpieces, too, have made their way into the Bengali language market through Ananda Publishers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Early detection for cancer cure||The majority of women with breast cancer can be cured if detected early, an oncologist from Mumbai said on Friday. “In the first stage of breast cancer, the cure rate is 85-90 per cent and in the third stage 65 per cent. So, the idea is to catch and detect it as early as possible,” Mandar Nadkarni, the oncologist, said. Nadkarni is consultant surgical oncology, breast & colorectal cancer surgeon, at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai. “Breast cancer doesn’t have a limited lifespan. We always tell patients to be very watchful for the first three years. If in the first three years, which is the highest risk of relapse, we don’t see the disease coming back we can safely say the patient is cured of the disease,” he said. On Friday morning, Nadkarni addressed a webinar on breast cancer awareness, organised by the Rotary Club of Calcutta Visionaries. In some cases, there can be a recurrence and the person can get it back in some other body part, which can be a threat to life at times, he said. Nadkarni spoke about the importance of self-examination. “It is highly recommended worldwide,” he said. “Self-examination increases the awareness and it means the woman will be watchful and remember to get herself checked.” It came up during discussion that many women don’t self-examine because they are scared. “It is recommended that self-examination of breasts should start at the age of 20, not because you will get cancer at that age but by the time you are 35-40 and god forbid get cancer, you are such an expert that you will catch a tumour when it is small and not allow it to grow big,” Nadkarni said. Mamta Goenka, a breast cancer rehabilitation counsellor who has survived breast cancer thrice, said self-examination had helped her. “I am here today despite having it thrice because I have had an early diagnosis and I have self-diagnosed. “Self-examination of breasts is a diagnostic tool and one should have a session with a gynaecologist or physician once… they can tell you which breast tissues are normal. If I don’t know which breast tissues are normal, it will seem all are tumours.” Tahira Kashyap Khurrana, writer and filmmaker and the chief guest at the webinar, spoke of her journey in dealing with cancer. She said she was initially scared of chemotherapy but overcame it soon. “The cancer will not come if we get a mammogram done. If something is there, it is there. It’s how we deal with it.... I was ready for whatever was coming and not beaten down by it.” During her treatment she was the “strongest” person in the family. But the family support is important, she said. “I could see it in the eyes of my partner or friends that they were not judging me. That is the biggest fear of any person who is undergoing a breast cancer, mastectomy or a reconstruction or a radiation… you go through a lot of physical changes. “When you see people in your immediate environment… their love and respect does not change, you get strength from it... they don’t need to come and tell you… you can do it... just by them being calm and not judging you gives so much strength. So, I really wish every person who goes through such a problem gets that kind of cushioning not just from the family but the society.” Vidhi Chandak, the chairperson of the cancer committee of the Rotary Club of Calcutta Visionaries and the organisation’s vice-president, said the awareness programme was started in 2015. “When I was diagnosed with breast cancer it was in the early third stage. The idea was to raise awareness and motivate people to self-examine, go for screening and not shy away from it out of fear.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||City unites world to spread love||A graphic designer from Rio de Janeiro, an essential service worker from New York, and a music teacher from Calcutta among others have sung “We are the World” to spread the message of “love, hope and unity”. Eighty “ordinary people” who love to sing or are musically inclined from 32 countries have collaborated for the project, initiated by the music teacher at Don Bosco Park Circus to talk about some positivity when “deaths, unemployment and poverty have cast a dark shadow over the entire humanity”. The 8.10-minute music video was launched last Saturday with people from different time zones singing from the confines of their homes. The song goes: “There comes a time… when the world must come together as one/There are people dying/Oh, and it’s time to lend a hand to life/The greatest gift of all.” “The idea is to tell people that no one is suffering alone but the entire world is facing this crisis. We are in it together and we need to combat it together,” Peter Gomes, head of the music department at Don Bosco Park Circus, said. He said he chose the iconic song created by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie in 1985. Not all who featured in the video was known to Gomes personally but he set the ball rolling on social media and  connected with friends abroad who introduced him to their friends. One criterion was all had to be singers. “It didn’t matter if it was only a few seconds that we were singing but it was singing in unison with people from so many countries,” Melanie Trindade, the head of merchandise planning section in a kids fashion brand in Warsaw, Poland, said. Trindade participated with her husband Philip Gracias and daughter Heather. “It did help to cheer ourselves up and hope it will cheer others, too,” she said. Sloan Thomas of New York sent his recording in between doing his duty as an “essential service” person as he had to provide hotspots to people working from home. “I was not at home during the lockdown because my work demanded being on the field and we were considered essential service providers because we had to support people with Internet access as they were mostly working from home,” Thomas said. “Living in a city which is one of the hardest hit, the idea of the song is to bring back the strength of people and fight it together.” Thomas works in a networking and communications company. Back in the city, for Gomes it was a mammoth task coordinating with people from different time zones from his own “studio bedroom”. “I had to stay up the whole night discussing plans with people in Europe and the US. In the morning I coordinated with people in Australia and East Asia. But it was all worth it, uniting the world together in such depressing times and what better way than music,” Gomes said. Mister Martinho from Brazil’s Rio edited and compiled the video. The music video has received 9,600 views as on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Cheating over mobile tower deal||Two directors of two companies have been arrested on cheating charges. They had apparently reneged on their promise to pay Rs 80 lakh to a Rajarhat resident for allowing them to install telecom towers on his property. Kashinath Sen, a resident of Italgacha in Rajarhat, has said about the offer from both the companies in his police complaint. He apparently agreed to the proposition and allowed them to fix the tower. When he realised the companies won’t pay him, he lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar cyber crime police station in July. Cops found prima facie evidence of cheating against the companies that have their offices in the Lake Town area. The two directors, whom the police introduced as Debabrata Ckaraborty and Samik Debnath, were picked up from their Rajarhat homes on Thursday. “We have started investigating the matter. It is still to be ascertained if they were running a racket of cheating people this way,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Women’s income hit more by Covid blow||Over 55 per cent women reported Covid-related income loss compared to 34 per cent for men, a survey conducted in nearly 40 countries has shown, said a professor of psychology at Columbia University. Kathleen M. Pike, the executive director and scientific co-director at the Global Mental Health Programme of the university, said “these issues” impacted women more than men. “This year, with Covid-19 pandemic, we have seen a particular case where disaster is differentially having an impact on women.… What we see is that women were differentially impacted in terms of job security. Over 55 per cent women reported Covid-related income loss compared to 34 per cent for men.... In part, that may be because in many parts of the world… women are much more likely to work as part of the informal sector where Covid-19 is hitting highest and are less likely to access unemployment benefits,” said Pike. She was speaking at a programme on “gender-based mental health” services, organised by Antara, a psychiatric hospital and rehabilitation centre at Baruipur. The webinar was part of the hospital’s year-long golden jubilee celebrations. Pike referred to the study by Care International, a humanitarian agency, that was released last week. The study featured first-person accounts of participants and examined the “unique challenges faced by women during Covid-19”. Pike said income loss had “significant impact not only for women but also significantly for the next generation, the women’s children”. The second blow to women during the pandemic has been lack of food, Pike said. She said food insecurity for women meant food insecurity for children the women are raising. Similarly, food insecurity for pregnant women meant food insecurity for children yet to be born. “...with Covid-19 we are seeing significant and dramatic differences in terms of mental health, where 27 per cent of women are reporting an increase in challenges associated with mental illness compared to about 10 per cent of men around the world,” she said. Though Pike referred to global data but the problem is as acute in India as elsewhere. The helpline numbers Antara had started for psychiatric and psychological counselling within three weeks of the start of the lockdown are inundated with calls from women. “There have been calls from men, women and the elderly but after speaking to our social workers and psychologists, we found out that there is a preponderance of women callers. They have spoken about economic woes because of loss of jobs and how day-to-day functioning is becoming difficult,” said John Mathew, honorary general secretary of Antara. A professor of psychiatry at CMC Vellore said women had specific roles that were not “appropriately acknowledged”. “Sometimes some roles, for example the role of a caregiver, is not something which is acknowledged. A lady looking after an older person in the family is not thoroughly acknowledged by the rest of the family members,” said Suja Kurian. Psychiatrist Goutam Saha spoke about the discrimination in the availability of treatment to men and women. “If three males have access to mental health services, only one woman has access to it. In the government’s mental health hospitals, the availability of beds to male is 73 per cent against 27 per cent for women,” said Saha, president-elect of the Indian Psychiatric Society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Poor Net triggers IIM campus return pleas||More students at IIM Calcutta want to be on the campus as poor Net connectivity at home is hampering their online classes. Twenty-one students from the first year and second year of the two-year MBA course will be brought to the IIM campus in October so that they can attend classes from the hostels. The institute has shortlisted 21 students after considering their requests in which they pointed out their Net connectivity woes. Complaints of poor Net connectivity have already prompted the institute to call students of the executive MBA course to the campus in September. An IIM-C student from a central state told The Telegraph on the phone she had heard that students from Tier-III cities face Net connectivity problems. The condition of many other students will be “much worse”, she said. “They are struggling to attend classes as the Net is poor in their area. I fail to understand what took the authorities so long… considering the issue of Net connectivity has been brought to their notice since mid-June,” she said. The matter of poor Net connectivity being faced by students was discussed at a meeting of the institute’s academic council on July 2. An institute official said the programme office was in touch with the 21 students to find out when they would reach the campus and was preparing a safety protocol for them. “The safety protocol will be the same as students of the executive MBA course followed when they reached the campus in batches,” the official said. A vice-chancellor of a state university who was present at a virtual meeting education minister Partha Chatterjee had with university heads on Sunday said the goings-on at IIM Calcutta showed what was waiting for the universities. Chatterjee had said regular online classes would start in the first week of December. Anil Bhuimali, the VC of Raiganj University, had asked at the meeting how students would attend classes as 70 per cent of them face Net connectivity problems. Another student who is in the second year of the MBA course at IIM said the authorities were forthcoming in inviting students of the one-year executive course to the campus but were “selective towards students of the two-year course”. A student spends Rs 27 lakh on the one-year MBA executive course and Rs 22 lakh for the two-year MBA course. “Our first term is nearing completion but they are calling only a handful of students. Almost all of the 56 students of the executive course have arrived. We are being discriminated against. Apart from the Net connectivity problems, we are missing out on several other on-campus features of our course,” a second-year MBA student said. Hunar Gandhi, the student council president, had on June 13 sought a fee waiver in a letter to director Anju Seth. “Would it be possible to allow some students, who may be facing connectivity issues or other constraints at home, to return to campus and utilise campus infrastructure even when classes are online? Can this process begin from now onwards as there is still a month before the classes begin? Students are apprehensive about the quality of learning through the online mode.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Call centre defrauding US nationals busted||Employees of a call centre in Maniktala allegedly duped many people in the US in the guise of software service providers, by coaxing them into installing a software that would install spyware in their computers and give away their banking details, police said. Five persons were arrested in connection with the fraud on Thursday. They are Sheikh Alauddin, 22, Sahil Alam, 21, Hemnat Kumar Prasad, 22, Sumit Pal, 25 and Ankit Jaiswal, 22. “Several US nationals have been duped by this gang, whose members claimed to their intended victims that they provided solutions to software-related problems. They used to make VoiP calls using 38 computers in their call centre,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. The police suspect the gang had duped Americans to the tune of lakhs of rupees. “We have learned the names of the owners of the call centre and initiated a case against them, too. We have launched a search for the owners,” the officer said. A case has been started under Indian Penal Code sections related to cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy, and also under the Information Technology Act. Illegal call centres have mushroomed in the city and they have been running without any registration or authorisation. Over the past few months, the police have arrested many suspects who allegedly cheated people across the globe posing as employees of Microsoft India. In almost all cases, the alleged fraudsters convince their clients to install software in their laptops and computers through which they could access the device sitting thousands of kilometres away. “Once the fraudsters have control over the devices of their clients, it is very easy to fish out banking details of the individuals and transfer money from their accounts,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||State slammed for old vehicles||The state government is making “no serious effort” in phasing out old polluting commercial vehicles, the National Green Tribunal said on Thursday. The bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda said in an order on Thursday: “The next question that we find the state lagging in is with regard to phasing out of old commercial vehicles, as evidently no serious effort is being made in this regard.” Goods vehicles were found to be responsible for the bulk of automobile pollution in Calcutta and Howrah, a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has revealed. The report said that goods carriers were responsible for 49 per cent of the PM10 in the ambient air generated by vehicular emission. For PM2.5, the contribution of goods vehicles was estimated at 49.5 per cent. Phasing out of commercial vehicles more than 15 years old is one of the ways to maintain a healthy air quality, said air quality management specialists. “A truck that was manufactured in 2000 under the BS-IV emission norms will emit 36 times more particulate matter than a truck manufactured under the BS-VI norms. If you can phase out commercial vehicles that are more than 15 years old, you get a lot of emission benefits,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Centre for Science and Environment. BS-IV and BS-VI are emission standards of a vehicle’s engine. The Centre has mandated that vehicle makers must manufacture and sell only BS-VI (BS6) vehicles from April 1, 2020. Calcutta High Court had in 2008 ordered a ban on the movement of all commercial vehicles 15 years or older in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA) to tackle pollution caused by vehicular emission. On Thursday, the tribunal also directed the transport department to ensure that a committee formed to deal with the issue submits its report “in not more than three months days from hence”. The observations were made while passing an order on a petition by environment activist Subhas Datta about air pollution in Calcutta and Howrah. Datta said that during the course of the hearing of the case, the Union ministry of road and transport told the tribunal that there were 2.19 lakh commercial vehicles in Calcutta of age 15 years or older. The tribunal also told the state “to ensure that the public transport vehicles below BS-IV are phased out rapidly to arrive at a stage when only BS-VI would ply in the two cities, to be extended gradually to the rest of the state”. The bench observed that the “…decline in quality of environment demonstrates the failure of the authorities to perform their obligation under the constitutional scheme and mandate of the environmental laws”. It threatened to apply the “principle of accountability for restoration and compensation… if the regulatory authorities either connives or acts negligently by not taking prompt action to prevent or avoid or control damage to the environment….” The bench also said it was accepting the state’s action plan on combating air pollution, which was submitted on August 17. The action plan talks about various measures such as phasing out of old vehicles, afforestation, use of clean fuel in roadside eateries, stopping open burning of waste and using water sprinklers. “The government is trying its best” claimed government lawyer Abhratosh Majumdar during the video hearing. “We have just received the order and will implement as per the direction” said a senior state pollution control board official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Sealdah diversions||The first of the three-day traffic diversion following the closure of the Sealdah flyover passed without too many glitches on Friday. The number of vehicles on some of the main roads, including APC Road and AJC Bose Road, was relatively low because of the national holiday on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and police didn’t have to implement all the proposed diversions. The Sealdah flyover will remain shut till 6am on October 5 to facilitate the construction of a tunnel for East-West Metro. “We will see the vehicular load on Saturday and decide accordingly,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Tribunal rap for Dhapa waste clearance pace||The National Green Tribunal has termed the efforts to clear the legacy waste from the Dhapa dumping ground as “grossly inadequate” and ordered the formation of a committee that would “propose means to accelerate the pace of bio-remediation of legacy waste”. The observations were made on Thursday when the tribunal passed an order on the measures taken by the state to improve the air quality of Calcutta and Howrah. Natural burning of waste, triggered by stored methane gas, contributes to the worsening air quality, said environment activist Subhas Datta. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has taken up a project to bio-mine or bio-remediate the Dhapa landfill site. This would help mine recyclable items like plastic, paper and construction waste and send them to recycling plants. Biomining will lead to reduction of the volume of waste at Dhapa, as only the inert waste would be left at the site. Years of dumping of waste at Dhapa, without recycling the recyclable materials, has created mounds that are as high as 10-storey buildings. CMC officials said the site would not be able to take the city's waste in another few years. The tribunal has expressed dissatisfaction with the pace of the bio-mining work. “Considering the volume of legacy waste at Dhapa dumpsite, the use of only three trommels for bio-remediation would be grossly inadequate, which is likely to result in the quantum of waste to be bio-mined not being able to match the waste being dumped at the site daily. Ideally, quantum of bio-remediation should exceed the quantum of waste being dumped to ensure successful clearance of the site by bio-remediation within specified timelines,” reads the tribunal order. A trommel is the machine that segregates recyclable waste from other kinds of waste. The Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 say biomining should be done at legacy dumping sites like Dhapa. But it was only earlier this year that the CMC started the project, and that too on a small scale. Calcutta produces about 4,500 tonnes of waste every day. The CMC is using one trommel, which will reduce 300 tonnes of waste per day. Two more trommels of equal capacity will be engaged soon, officials said. But even after that, 3,600 tonnes of waste would add to the existing mound of garbage at the site. In a report to the tribunal, the state government has said that it had floated a tender for biomining the 40 lakh tonnes of waste lying at Dhapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Four held for fraud||Four men were arrested on Friday for allegedly running a fraudulent call centre in Bangur Avenue’s D Block. The arrested would dupe people by promising them high returns if they let them use their land or rooftops to erect cellphone towers of reputable cellular network providers, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The four arrested are Pintu Choudhary, 30, Mukesh Chowdhury, 26, Shibu Kisku, 26, and Sukhdev Jadav, 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Women march for justice||More than 50 women, who were part of the sit-in at Park Circus Maidan against the new citizenship matrix, took to the streets again on Friday to demand justice for the Hathras victim and protest the “unjust acquittal of conspirators” of the Babri Masjid demolition. “The fact that something as gruesome (as the Hathras barbarity) can take place even after the Nirbhaya rape, which triggered protests across the country, shows we have failed as society,” said Asmat Jamil. Standing outside Lady Brabourne College, Jamil said she felt “outraged and angered” at the horror of the Hathras gang rape and added that a sense of “insecurity had gripped women everywhere in the country”. Rashida Afreen, who is pursuing postgraduation in English from Calcutta University, said that while demanding justice for the Hathras victim, they were also raising slogans to demand the unconditional release of rights activist Umar Khalid and others who had joined the protest against the new citizenship regime. “We shudder to think about the brutality of the assault (on the Hathras victim). And the actions of the authorities in Uttar Pradesh send shivers down our spines. We must act, otherwise women will not be able to even walk around safely anymore,” said Afreen, who lives in Topsia. The women had gathered in front of Park Circus Maidan and walked till the gate of the college. Emotions ran high and the participants shouted “Hum sub ek hai. Humaari ek hi mang hai. Hume insaaf chahiye (We are one. We have one demand. We want justice)”. Jamil said they would continue to organise protest meetings and marches across the city demanding justice for the Hathras victim and rollback of the troika of the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register and National Register of Citizens. “We will organise these protests with small gatherings keeping in mind the social distancing protocol. We will not rest till justice is delivered,” said Jamil. Members of a string of organisations that used to be at the forefront of protests against the new citizenship matrix as well as other bodies have called for a rally on Saturday, where people will walk with flaming torches in their hands to protest the atrocities against women and Dalits in Uttar Pradesh. The rally will start at Park Circus Maidan and terminate at the Gariahat crossing and will wind its way through Old Ballygunge Road and Gariahat Road. Protesters will start assembling at Park Circus Maidan from 6pm. The organisers said everybody was welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Bangla patients back in city||Patients from Bangladesh have started trickling back to Calcutta’s hospitals after the flow had stopped for almost six months because of Covid-19. A Bangladeshi patient arrived at Peerless Hospital on Friday, the first at the private hospital from that country since March. Several other private hospitals said they are again flooded with requests for appointments from Bangladeshi nationals and a few of them have started coming to Calcutta for treatment. This should augur well for the city’s healthcare economy, in which hospitals are at the centre but hotels and retail stores are also among the beneficiaries. “A patient from Bangladesh came by road on Friday. He is the first Bangladeshi to come for treatment since March. He has come with a Covid-19 negative test report but still we got another test done. He has an appointment with a gastroenterologist,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Around 60 patients from Bangladesh used to turn up at the outpatient department of the hospital every day in the pre-Covid times. Same with other private hospitals, especially those off EM Bypass. A number of hospitals said they had been getting requests from Bangladeshi patients since August. But it was not before the middle of September that the Indian high commission in Bangladesh had started giving permission to Bangladeshis to apply for medical visas for treatment at Calcutta’s hospitals. Earlier, a patient would apply to a hospital for an appointment. Once the appointment was given, he or she would submit the document at the Indian high commission for a medical visa. “Now, we have been verbally told to send a mail to the high commission in Dhaka once a patient applies for appointment. The high commission is then giving approval, based on which the patient can apply and get a medical visa,” said Mitra of Peerless Hospital. He said that since August, nearly 100 patients had applied for appointments. The high commission has given consent for a medical visa to 22 of them. At two hospitals of the Narayana Health group, around 10 patients have come from Bangladesh in the last couple of weeks. “Now, the number of applications from Bangladesh has increased and we are getting 10 such requests every day. The patients are coming by road and some of them requested us to send ambulances at the Petrapole-Benepole border, which we did,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health group. The hospital’s flagship unit, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, used to get about 100 patients from the neighbouring country at the OPD every day. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where around 125 patients from Bangladesh used to turn up every day before the pandemic, has got a couple of them in the past few days, said hospital sources. Travel industry representatives said more patients would come once flights between Calcutta and Dhaka resumed. “Businesses at New Market, small and medium hotels and foreign exchange counters have been hit for want of Bangladeshi customers,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Mohammad Intezar, the director of Ultimate Forex Pvt Ltd at Marquis Street, said that earlier he would have 400 to 500 customers every day to change currency notes. “Over the last six months, there was almost no customer,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Business||Centre agrees to waive compound interest on loans up to Rs 2 cr for six-months||In a relief to individual borrowers and medium and small industries, the Centre has agreed in the Supreme Court to waive compound interest (interest on interest) charged on loans of up to Rs 2 crores for a six-month moratorium period announced due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It said the government will seek due authorisation from parliament for making appropriate grants in this regard and the endeavour shall be over and above the support of Rs 3.7 lakh crore to MSMEs, Rs 70,000 crore for home loans etc. already extended through the Garib Kalyan and Aatma Nirbhar packages announced by government earlier . In an affidavit filed by Union finance ministry on behalf of the Union of India, it said that the relief to all borrowers in respect of compounding of interest during the period of moratorium would be admissible to the categories specified irrespective of whether the borrowers had availed the moratorium or not. The government, therefore, has decided that the relief on waiver of compound interest during the six-month moratorium period shall be limited to the most vulnerable category of borrowers. This category of borrowers, in whose case, the compounding of interest will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans of up to Rs 2 crore, it said. The loans were categorised into eight categories by the government including MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises), education, housing, consumer durable, credit card dues, auto, personal, and consumption. It further said that any individual/entity whose loan amount is more than Rs 2 crore will not be eligible for waiver of the compounding of interest. It said in view of the cumulative circumstances, after careful consideration and weighing all possible options, the government has decided to continue the tradition of hand holding of small borrowers. The affidavit has been filed by the Centre in response to a batch of pleas in the apex court raising issues pertaining to validity of RBI's March 27 circular which allowed lending institutions to grant moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31 this year due to the pandemic. Later, the period of moratorium was extended till August 31. Earlier, in the matter, the Centre had told the top court that waiver of interest on deferred EMIs during moratorium period would be against the basic canons of finance and unfair to those who repaid loans as per schedule. The Centre in the fresh affidavit said that waiving compound interest would result in very substantial and significant financial burden and it is impossible for the banks to bear the burden without passing on the financial impact to the depositors or affecting their net worth adversely, which would not be in the larger national economic interest. It said that the only solution under the circumstances is that the government bears the burden resulting from waiver of compound interest and this court would be satisfied that government bearing this burden would naturally have an impact on several other pressing commitments being faced by the nation . Regarding downgrading of loan accounts from standard to Non-Performing Asset (NPA) and the consequential impact on credit ratings, the Centre said that any account becoming non-performing even due to the bank's or any other delay, will not suffer from being labelled as NPA. The Centre said that it has suspended from March 25, the operation of provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) to protect corporate borrowers impacted by the COVID-19 crisis. It said that the word moratorium is categorically defined by the RBI while issuing various circulars which show that moratorium was never intended to be waiver of interest but deferment of interest . The government said borrowers have understood the difference between waiver in interest on loan and deferment of payment of instalments for that loan. Therefore, a majority of the borrowers have not taken benefit of moratorium which is nothing but deferment of payments of instalments. Though it may not be possible to give the exact percentage of the borrowers who have not availed of the moratorium and have deposited payment instalments, approximately such class would be more than 50 per cent, it said. The Central government said that if it were to consider waiving interest on all loans and advances to all classes and categories of borrowers for a six-month period for which the moratorium was made available under the RBI circulars, the estimated amount foregone will be more than Rs 6 lakh crore. If the banks were to bear this burden, it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth, rendering most of the banks unviable and raising a very serious question mark over their very survival, it said. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan is likely to take up the matter for hearing on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Elon Musk indicates Tesla to make India foray in 2021||Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk indicated on Friday that the US electric carmaker will make a foray into India in 2021. “Next year for sure,” Musk said on Twitter in reply to a post with a photograph of a T-shirt with the message:  “India wants Tesla”. “Thanks for waiting,” Musk said. Tesla’s entry could come at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi is increasingly becoming focussed on promoting the use and manufacture of electric vehicles. India’s auto sector, already reeling from a slowdown in demand last year, has been hit by the coronavirus pandemic and carmakers are seeking government support to push sales. Musk commented last year about coming to India, in response to someone on Twitter who asked, “What about India sir?” “Would love to be there this year. If not, definitely next!” he said in March 2019. Tesla Inc on Friday said it delivered 1,39,300 vehicles in the third quarter, a quarterly record for the electric carmaker. The company slightly beat consensus estimates by Refinitiv for deliveries of 1,34,720 vehicles, but fell short of some of Wall Street’s most bullish forecasts, with analysts issuing a wide range of estimates. Tesla delivered 1,24,100 Model Y and Model 3 units, slightly below Refinitiv consensus expectations of 1,28,000 Model 3 and Model Y vehicles combined. Some analysts had expected weaker US demand for the mass-market Model 3 because of the release of the Model Y. MG Motor Carmaker MG Motor India has  initiated the expansion for the electric SUV —  MG ZS — in 10 cities, including Coimbatore. The move comes after the company recently completed the rollout of the 1,000th unit of the ZS EV in the country since deliveries began in February last. The company will commence pre-bookings from Friday at a price of Rs 50,000 at dealerships across the cities and on the MG Motor India website (mgmotor.co.in) with a price of Rs 20.89 lakh. The latest expansion will make MG ZS EV available in 21 cities across the country and MG will simultaneously develop the EV eco-system across the cities by deploying superfast charging infrastructure and extending on-road charging facilities, a press release from the company said here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Warburg Pincus to invest Rs 700 crore in Home First Finance Company||Warburg Pincus is investing Rs 700 crore in Home First Finance Company, which operates in the affordable segment, through a combination of primary funds and secondary sales by existing shareholders. Home First is backed by private equity firms True North and Bessemer Venture Partners. The company said in a statement that it has entered into definitive agreements with Orange Clove Investments BV, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus LLC. The statement was silent on how much equity the global private equity major will pick up for the money being invested or the valuation at which the investment is being made. Home First is an affordable housing-focused finance company providing loans to first-time home builders and buyers. Over the past 10 years, it has sanctioned loans to over 50,000 customers across 11 states but largely in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. It closed 2019-20 with a loan book of Rs 3,618 crore and had a net worth of Rs 933 crore and gross bad loans of 0.87 per cent. Its customers are typically salaried customers working in small firms or self-employed customers who run small businesses. The company said that it deploys proprietary machine learning and customer scoring models for underwriting and delivers quick turnaround time to its customers. “Warburg’s investment is an acknowledgement of our inherent strengths — focus on  salaried customers, investments in technology, all of which have helped us,’’ Home First chief executive officer Manoj Viswanathan said. Warburg managing director Narendra Ostawal said Home First has had a remarkable journey in a relatively short span of 10 years. “We are keen to partner True North and back the Home First management in its next phase of expansion,” Ostawal added. The New York-based Warburg has over $ 53 billion in private equity assets under management invested across 185 companies across sectors and geographies. Founded in 1999, True North is a leading home-grown private equity firm with a focus on investing in and transforming mid-sized profitable businesses into large well-established businesses. True North has launched six separate investment funds with a combined corpus of USD 3 billion, including co-investments through which it has added value to over 50 businesses over the past 20 years. Ambit Capital was the lead advisor on the transaction, while Axis Capital was the co-advisor. Home First is planning to come out with an IPO and it had filed draft papers with the market regulator in November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||RailTel Corporation of India Ltd files draft papers with Sebi for IPO||State-owned RailTel Corporation of India Ltd has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for an initial public offering that will see the government raise Rs 700 crore from the exercise. The initial public offer (IPO) will be entirely an offer-for-sale through which the Centre will offload 8.66 crore equity shares, the draft papers filed with Sebi showed. Set up in 2000, the miniratna PSU is one of the largest neutral telecom infrastructure providers in the country. It owns an optical fibre network on exclusive right of way along the railway track. The company provides broadband telecom and multimedia network across the country. As on June 30, 2020, its optical fibre network covers over 55,000km and 5,677 railway stations across towns and cities in the country. ICICI Securities, IDBI Capital, SBI Capital Markets Ltd are the merchant bankers to the issue. The information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure provider also operates data centres in Gurgaon, Haryana, Secunderabad and Telangana to host and collocate critical applications for customers, including Indian Railways. It undertakes various ICT projects for Indian Railways, the central government and state governments, including various train control system projects for Indian Railways. The company’s portfolio of services include National Long Distance services wherein it provides digital capacity to carry long-distance telecommunication services and includes various tele-services such as voice, data, video and multimedia. Its revenue from operations grew at a compounded annual growth rate  of 7.47 per cent to Rs 1,128 crore in the year ended March 31, 2020 from Rs 977 crore in 2017-18. As part of our NLD services, the PSU offers its enterprise customers with leased line services and virtual private network (VPN) facilities. Further, it also provides storage, power, cooling, and physical security for servers and networking equipment of its customers and connect them with a variety of telecommunications and network service providers. While Railtel is planning to continue the expansion of its network and deploying latest technologies to enable a high capacity next generation network, it is also looking to partner with the Indian Railways (which is looking to migrate to LTE) where it intends to develop their proposed LTE network ``that will create a private network along a railway tracks’’. This network is expected to provide connectivity for internet of things (IoT) initiatives of the Indian Railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Exports in September report 5.27 per cent growth||Exports in September reported a 5.27 per cent growth but exporters are complaining of a rise in freight costs on account of a fall in imports from China, down almost 28 per cent till August. Fall in shipment means lesser number of inbound containers from China, which exporters allege is being leveraged by the shipping lines to jack up rates on the grounds the containers are being used only for outward shipments. “Shipping lines have told some exporters that for only outward traffic, freight rates will have to increase as there is less inward traffic. Further, such a large increase in freight charges is also impacting the competitiveness of exporters, apart from the non-availability of containers,” the EEPC (Engineering Export Promotion Council) India has said in its communication to the commerce ministry. The council has approached the commerce ministry, seeking its intervention to resolve the issues and set up a regulator to deal with the “monopolistic” practices being indulged in by the shipping companies. Imports, meanwhile, slipped 19.6 per cent to $30.31 billion in September, according to commerce ministry data. “Exports are showing signs of revival as the gradual lifting of lockdown have further improved the business sentiments. Anti-China sentiments across the globe has also been one of the reasons for the improved performance in exports,” Sharad Kumar Saraf, president, Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Fieo) said. Trade deficit during September narrowed down to $2.91 billion against $11.67 billion in the same period of 2019. Exports in September last year stood at $26.02 billion. Exports during April-September this fiscal dipped  21.43 per cent to $ 125.06 billion. Imports during the period stood at $ 148.69 billion, recording a negative growth of 40.06 per cent. While the growth in merchandise export  is heartening, Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra said “the sharp gap in non-oil-non-gold merchandise imports on a year on year basis remains a cause for concern regarding the strength of domestic demand”. Value of non-petroleum and non-gems and jewellery exports in September 2020 was $ 21.11 billion  compared with  $ 19 billion in September 2019, a positive growth of 11.12 per cent. Commodities that reported a  positive growth in exports in September include iron ore (up 109.52 per cent), rice (92.44 per cent) and , oil meals (43.9 per cent), carpet (42.89 per cent), pharmaceuticals (24.36 per cent), Meat, dairy and poultry products (19.96 per cent), Cotton yarn/fabrics/madeups, handloom products (14.82 per cent), Tobacco (11.09 per cent), Spices (10.07 per cent), petroleum products (4.17 per cent), Engineering goods (3.73 per cent), chemicals (2.87 per cent), and coffee (0.79 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Two new investments in Reliance Retail Ventures||Two new investors have poured money into Reliance Retail Ventures: GIC of Singapore and TPG, the US-based global investment firm. GIC of Singapore has agreed to invest a sum of Rs 5,512.5 crore in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), which will translate into a 1.22 per cent equity stake in Reliance Industries retail arm. TPG will invest Rs 1,837.5 crore for a 0.41 per cent stake. The announcements made late on Friday night values RRVL at a pre-money equity value of Rs  4.285 lakh crore — the same valuation at which Mubadala, General Atlantic and Silver Lake picked up stakes in the retailing entity earlier in the week. “It gives me great pleasure to welcome GIC to the Reliance Retail family. I am delighted that GIC, with its track record of close to four decades of successful long-term value investing across the world, is partnering Reliance Retail in its mission to transform the Indian retail landscape,” said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries. Lim Chow Kiat, chief executive officer, GIC, said: “GIC is pleased to partner Reliance through this new investment... We believe Reliance Retail will continue to use its extensive supply chain and store networks, as well as strong logistics and data infrastructure, to add value to its customers and shareholders.” Jim Coulter, co-CEO, TPG, said, “Regulatory changes, consumer demographics and technological disruption are creating seismic shifts across the entire retail value chain in India. In the midst of this transformation, Reliance Industries has utilised technology and scale to position Reliance Retail as an incredibly strong, well-organised, and innovative leader.” Reliance Retail Ltd, a subsidiary of RRVL, operates India’s fastest growing and most profitable retail business serving close to 640 million footfalls across its 12,000 stores nationwide. Morgan Stanley acted as the financial adviser to Reliance Retail and Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas and Davis Polk & Wardwell acted as legal counsel. With GIC’s latest investment, Reliance Retail has raised over Rs 30,000 crore and signals a flurry of deal-making that is expected in the next few weeks. Early last month, affiliates of GIC, along with Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP and other co-investors, had acquired a 100 per cent stake in a telecom tower company from Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL. The total equity commitment for the transaction was approximately $3.4 billion. The entity owns around 135,000 communication towers that form the backbone of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited’s telecommunication network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||Business||Monetary policy logjam on at Mint Street||The monetary policy logjam is on at Mint Street with the Narendra-Modi government yet to presumably find the three doves who could vote for a cut in interest rates in the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) — an issue that the previous panel had increasing misgivings about because of surging inflation. In the previous meeting that was held in August, the MPC had hit the pause button though it maintained an accommodative stance. Early this week, the RBI postponed a three-day meeting of the MPC that was set to commence on September 29 as the appointment of three external members was delayed. It was expected that the Centre would announce the new names during the course of this week, but that has not come about. Conflicting reports on the delay have heightened the uncertainty: one section said the government was conducting background and security checks before the announcement. But there was also a buzz that the Centre has been unable to zero in on the three  external members. In 2016, when the MPC was empowered to set rates, the government had appointed Chetan Ghate, a professor at Indian Statistical Institute, Pami Dua, director at Delhi School of Economics (DSE), and Ravindra Dholakia, professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, as independent members for four years. Their term ended in August. Among them, Dholakia had a dovish approach, while Ghate had a hawkish tilt. Dua was seen to take a neutral stance. However, the policy stasis at Mint Street has not only sent a poor signal but is also seen as a cause for worry because it was the major lever that was working to keep the system running even though interest rate cuts amid risk aversion by banks were ineffective in cranking up a floundering economy. Yet there is speculation among economist circles on the various names that could replace Chetan Ghate, Pami Dua and Ravindra Dholakia. These include Ashima Goyal and Anantha Nageswaran, who are members of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, and Abhiman Das, a faculty at IIM Ahmedabad, among a couple of others. The apprehension is also that even if the Centre were to appoint the new members shortly, the actual meeting of the MPC may be at least two weeks away. The new members need adequate time to prepare before heading for the policy meeting. However, Ananth Narayan, professor at SPJIMR, feels that the new members will be able to hit the ground running within a week of their appointment. “It is highly likely that members who are familiar with the monetary policy will be appointed. Following that, we could have a meeting in a week,’’ he told The Telegraph. Ahead of the MPC meet, it was largely felt that the panel will leave the policy repo rate unchanged with retail inflation remaining at 6.69 per cent in August. However, the panel was also expected to give out a GDP growth forecast even as their commentary on the state of the economy was keenly awaited. Dhanlaxmi Bank Dhanlaxmi Bank on Thursday said that the RBI has approved a three-member interim committee of directors, headed by G Subramonia Iyer, to run the private sector bank after the shareholders voted out its MD and CEO Sunil Gurbaxani. The shareholders rejected the resolution for appointment of Gurbaxani as MD and CEO at the 93rd AGM of the bank held on September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||Business||Andhra and Uttar Pradesh will get to raise more funds||Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh will get to raise more funds because of their reform initiatives that were part of the conditions set by the finance ministry for higher borrowing by the states to meet the fallout of the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh became eligible to raise Rs 4,581 crore extra debt after it rolled out the “one nation one ration card scheme”. Andhra Pradesh got the permission to raise Rs 2,525 crore for its reforms in ease of doing business — the first state in the country to introduce such measures. Andhra Pradesh was also among the  five states granted permission last month for additional borrowings linked to PDS reforms. The Centre has permitted the two states a combined additional borrowing of Rs 7,106 crore. Uttar Pradesh has become the sixth state to complete the reform process in PDS. Last week, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Karnataka and Tripura received the finance ministry’s nod for an additional Rs 9,913 crore borrowing after they complied with the One Nation-One Ration Card system. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the central government in May 2020 allowed an additional borrowing limit of up to 2 per cent of gross state domestic product (GSDP) to the states for 2020-21. This made an amount up to Rs 4,27,302 crore available to the states. One per cent of this is subject to the implementation of four specific state-level reforms, where the weightage of each reform is 0.25 per cent of GSDP. These reforms include implementation of the One Nation-One Ration Card system, ease of doing business reform, urban local body or utility reforms and power sector reforms. In the first half of the current fiscal, 27 states and two Union Territories have cumulatively raised Rs 3.53 lakh crore via market borrowings, which are a 57 per cent increase from the borrowings in the first half of 2019-20 (Rs 2.25 lakh crore), Care Rating said in a research note. According to the borrowings calendar, states were to borrow a total of Rs 3.05 lakh crore in the first half of 2020-21. Their borrowings, however, during this period were 16 per cent, or Rs. 48,115 crore, higher than that. The borrowing calendar for the second half of 2020-21 will be announced in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||Business||Finance ministry to start budget-making exercise for 2021-22||The finance ministry will start its budget-making exercise for 2021-22 on October 16. The budget projections will be built around the special circumstances prevailing in the country as a result of Covid-19. The expenditure decisions for individual ministries and department will be made by January 16. The pre-budget meetings will be held till the first week of November. The finance commission is expected to submit its report on Centre-state finances and the new devolution formula by the end of this month — and the finance ministry will base its exercise around its recommendations. “The Budget Estimates for 2021-22 will be provisionally finalised after the secretary (expenditure) completes discussions with the secretaries and financial advisers. Pre-Budget Meetings shall begin from 16th October 2020 and shall continue till the first week of November 2020,” according to a Budget Circular (2021-22) of the budget division of the finance ministry’s department of economic affairs. “In the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be first and foremost overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the ministry/department. Using the trend in expenditure, approval of the schemes/projects by competent authority and committed expenditure, each ministry would project the requirements,” the circular said. It will be the third budget (including an interim one) of both the Modi government — after its victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Budget 2021-22  is likely to be presented on February 1. The budget will have to address critical issues relating  to the  contraction in the economy and a subdued revenue collection triggered by the pandemic-induced lockdown and the gradual re-opening of the economy. North Block officials said the exercise would be very difficult, including potential revenue collections and expenditure requirements to bring the economy back on its feet. The budget meetings, according to the circular, will dicuss ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including central sector and centrally sponsored schemes. In the April-June quarter of 2020-21, gross domestic product contracted 23.9 per cent. It is the first contraction in quarterly GDP data since their publication almost a quarter of a decade ago from 1998-99. All the 2020-21 budget calculations made before the pandemic have gone for a toss, and the government was forced to announce a steep 54 per cent hike in its full-year gross market borrowing plan to a record Rs 12 lakh crore in just over a month into the current fiscal. Recently, the finance ministry said it is not able to submit the rolling target of medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) for 2021-22 and 2022-23, according to the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act.The ministry said because of the pandemic  it was difficult to make reliable growth projections. The Modi government has scrapped a colonial-era tradition of presenting the budget at the end of February. The then finance minister Arun Jaitley had for the first time presented the annual accounts on February 1, 2017. With the advancement of the dates, the ministries are allocated their funds from the start of the financial year beginning April. This gives government departments more leeway to spend as well as allow companies time to adapt to business and taxation plans. As due to pandemic, it is difficult to obtain reliable protection of GDP growth. The finance commission is expected to submit its report on Centre-state finances and the new devolution formula by the end of this month -- and the finance ministry will base its exercise around its recommendations. "The Budget Estimates for 2021-22 will be provisionally finalized after the Secretary (Expenditure) completes discussions with the Secretaries and Financial Advisers. Pre-Budget Meetings shall begin from 16th October 2020 and shall continue till the first week of November 2020," according to a Budget Circular (2021-22) of the budget division of the finance ministry's Department of Economic Affairs. "In the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be first and foremost overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the Ministry/Department. Using the trend in expenditure, approval of the schemes/Projects by Competent authority and committed expenditure, each ministry would project the requirements," the circular said. The budget meetings, according to the circular, will dicuss ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including central sector and centrally sponsored schemes will be discussed. Accordingly, the RE 2019-20 and BE 2020-21 for all categories of expenditure, and select schemes/projects specifically included in the MTEF (medium term expenditure framework) Statements, may be indicated separately for Revenue and Capital expenditure," the Budget circular said. Recently, finance ministry said that it is not able to submit the rolling target of MTEF for FY22 and FY23, according to the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. As due to pandemic, it is difficult to obtain reliable protection of GDP growth. Budget circular also proposed to discuss the totality of the requirements of funds for various programmes and schemes, along with receipts of the Departments (viz. interest receipts, dividends, loan repayments, departmental receipts, receipts of Departmental Commercial Undertakings, etc.) during the pre-budget meetings chaired by Secretary (Expenditure). All the Ministries and Departments are required to submit details of all the Autonomous Bodies, for which a dedicated corpus fund has been created, clearly indicating the purpose, whether in Public Account, accumulated balances as on March 31, 2020, annual expenditure for the last three years and allocations made during the current financial year, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka meet Hathras victim’s family||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday evening met the family of the Hathras victim, declaring they will fight for justice to the Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped. “We will fight against injustice, and fight till justice is done,” Priyanka told reporters after the meeting that lasted about 45 minutes. Rahul said no power can stifle the voice of the family. Uttar Pradesh authorities had scuttled an earlier attempt by the two leaders to travel to Hathras, detaining them and several party workers in Greater Noida outside Delhi on Thursday. On Saturday, the Congress staged another demonstration at the Delhi-Noida border, where Congress workers scuffled with police and were allegedly baton-charged. When a delegation of Congress MPs and other leaders reached the barricades, the Noida police said they will allow only five party representatives to meet the family at their village in Hathras, about 150km away. The 19-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped on September 14 in an assault by four men that left her critically injured. She died at a Delhi hospital last Tuesday. Villagers gathered outside as the Congress leaders entered the family’s home. Some were seen on the rooftops nearby, waiting to catch a glimpse of the Congress leaders. Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders Pradeep Mathur told news agency PTI that K.C. Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Mukul Wasnik accompanied the Gandhis on the visit. There was a heavy security presence outside the family’s home. All roads it seemed led to Hathras with chief minister Yogi Adityanath sending senior officials, including additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and director-general of police H.C. Awasthy, to the village to meet the woman's family. Several journalists, including those from TV channels, also made their way to the village where various family members spoke of their grief and trauma since September 14 when she was brutally assaulted and allegedly gangraped by four upper caste men. Awasthi told reporters that any group with no more than five people is allowed to meet the victim's family, marking a departure from the past few days when the media and politicians, including from the Congress and the Trinamul, were turned away from the village. He said orders for the suspension of police personnel, including the superintendent of police, were issued on Friday within two hours of receiving the first report from the SIT. "It is an extremely sad incident. We met everyone in the family. We spoke to them and assured them that the strictest action would be taken against all those found guilty," Awasthi told reporters. "Whatever points and the complaints they have raised, the SIT will note them, and we will make all efforts to ensure that each of them is addressed," Awasthi said, without elaborating. The officer said that they would submit a report to the chief minister. The Dalit teen's family alleged they were forced by local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites, triggering outrage nationwide and protests in several places. On Thursday, the Hathras administration had clamped prohibitory orders and scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the Trinamul, as well as the media, tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering. The death of the young woman, whose brutal assault recalled for many the horrors of the Nirbhaya case, continued to snowball into a major political issue. The Congress's Uttar Pradesh unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and more than 500 workers were earlier put under house arrest, the party alleged. In Varanasi, a group of Congress workers blocked Union minister Smriti Irani's cavalcade. Congress spokesperson Lalan Kumar said protesting party workers, who raised anti-government slogans and demanded justice for the woman's family, were later arrested. Addressing a press conference, the women and child development minister accused the Opposition of playing politics on the Hathras issue. "The victim will get justice. I have spoken to the chief minister. Once the SIT submits its report, the chief minister will take action against the accused," Irani told reporters. Adityanath had set up three-member special investigation team on Wednesday and instructed that it submit its report by October 14. In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul said the behaviour of the Uttar Pradesh government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable" . Hitting out at the Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka described the state government as "morally corrupt" and said, "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test." The party also alleged that the woman and her family had been denied justice and "severely traumatised" by the BJP government. BSP president Mayawati demanded a CBI or a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the incident and said people were not satisfied with the initial investigations in the matter. There is tremendous resentment in the entire country over the Hathras heinous gangrape case. The public does not seem satisfied with the initial probe report. Therefore, this matter should be investigated by the CBI or under the supervision of the honourable Supreme Court. This is the demand of the BSP, Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. Also, to the honourable President of the country, who also comes from the state and is a Dalit, it is a strong appeal to him to intervene in this case, keeping in mind the inhuman attitude of the government, to bring justice to the victim family, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||SIT to look into all grievances of victim's family, says UP official||The SIT will look into all issues raised by the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, and the strictest action will be taken against the culprits, Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi, said on Saturday after meeting the victim's kin here. A decision has also been taken for providing security permanently in the village, the senior officer, who along with DGP HC Awasthy rushed to meet the victim's family on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said. He said orders for the suspension of police personnel, including the Superintendent of Police and the Circle Officer of the area, were issued on Friday within two hours of receiving the first report from the Special Investigation Team (SIT). "It is an extremely sad incident. We met everyone in the family. We spoke to them and assured them that the strictest action would be taken against all those found guilty, Awasthi told reporters. "The SIT inquiry is on and it will continue to do its work. The family members have raised certain issues. Whatever points and the complaints they have raised, the SIT will note them, and we will make all efforts to ensure that each of them is addressed," Awasthi said, without elaborating. The officer said that they would submit a report to the chief minister. The visit by the two top officials came as a massive controversy raged over the incident with the opposition targeting the Adityanath government. "The first report of the SIT was received yesterday evening and within two hours orders were issued for the suspension of the then SP, CO, inspector, senior sub-inspector and constable," Awasthi said. The victim, who was attacked on September 14, died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday in a Delhi hospital and was cremated in the dead of night near her home on Wednesday with her family alleging that they were hurried into carrying out her last rites by local police. The incident triggered widespread outrage and protests. On Thursday, the Hathras administration clamped prohibitory orders barring the assembly of more than four people in the district, where scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the TMC, as well as the media persons tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering. Today, however, the administration lifted restrictions on the entry of media persons. To a query, Awasthi said, "If people's representatives want to come, five people will be allowed". "We also met some people's representatives and requested them to help maintain social harmony," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka among 5 allowed to proceed to Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were headed to Hathras on Saturday to meet the family of the Dalit sexual assault victim following a massive show of party strength and some scuffles too at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. While high drama unfolded in the national capital and the case continued to find wide resonance, a Hathras administration official said the Special Investigation Team had completed its preliminary probe into the death and alleged gangrape of the 19-year-old woman. Ending a two-day standoff, the administration removed barricades outside her village to allow the media to meet her family. But scores of police personnel in riot gear lined up at the Delhi-Noida Direct flyway to prevent the Congress convoy from moving to Hathras, about 180 km away. Eventually, as swarms of Congress workers and others jostled with each other amid loud honking, slogans and Congress flags fluttering in the air, the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police finally allowed five people, including Rahul Gandhi, to go to Hathras. Congress workers some who described what happened as brutal repression -- claimed police used batons to disperse the crowd. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were detained on Thursday when they tried to go to Hathras. CrPC Section 144 has been imposed in Noida, Greater Noida as well as in Hathras and some other districts in Uttar Pradesh due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Considering social distancing and other related norms, permission has been granted for five people, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra," Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh said. All roads it seemed led to Hathras with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sending senior officials, including Additional Chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and Director General of Police H C Awasthy, to the village to meet the woman's family. Several journalists, including those from TV channels, also made their way to the village where various family members spoke of their grief and trauma since September 14 when she was brutally assaulted and allegedly gangraped by four upper caste men. Awanish Awasthi told reporters that any group with no more than five people" is allowed to meet the victim's family, marking a departure from the last few days when media and politicians, including from the Congress and Trinamool Congress, were turned away from the village. He said orders for the suspension of police personnel, including the superintendent of police, were issued on Friday within two hours of receiving the first report from the SIT. "It is an extremely sad incident. We met everyone in the family. We spoke to them and assured them that the strictest action would be taken against all those found guilty, Awasthi told reporters. "Whatever points and the complaints they have raised, the SIT will note them, and we will make all efforts to ensure that each of them is addressed," Awasthi said, without elaborating. The officer said that they would submit a report to the chief minister. The Dalit teen died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday in a Delhi hospital, a fortnight after she was attacked, and cremated in the dead of night near her home on Wednesday. Her family alleged they were forced by local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites, triggering outrage nationwide and protests in several places. On Thursday, the Hathras administration had clamped prohibitory orders and scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the TMC, as well as the media tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering. The death of the young woman, whose brutal assault recalled for many the horrors of the Nirbhaya case, continued to snowball into a major political issue. As the Congress delegation from Delhi prepared to make its way to Hathras, its Uttar Pradesh unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and more than 500 workers were put under house arrest, the party alleged. In Varanasi, a group of Congress workers blocked the Union minister Smriti Irani's cavalcade. Congress spokesperson Lalan Kumar said protesting party workers, who raised anti-government slogans and demanded justice for the woman's family, were later arrested. Addressing a press conference, the Women and Child Development minister accused the opposition of playing politics on the Hathras issue. The victim will get justice. I have spoken to the chief minister. Once the SIT submits its report, the chief minister will take action against the accused, Irani told reporters. Adityanath had set up three-member Special Investigation Team on Wednesday and instructed that it submit its report by October 14. In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul Gandhi said the behaviour of the UP government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable . Hitting out at the Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka Gandhi described the UP government as "morally corrupt" and said, "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test." The party also alleged that the woman and her family had been denied justice and "severely traumatised" by the BJP government. BSP president Mayawati demanded a CBI or a Supreme Court monitored probe into the incident and said people were not satisfied with the initial investigations in the matter. There is tremendous resentment in the entire country over the Hathras heinous gangrape case. The public does not seem satisfied with the initial probe report. Therefore, this matter should be investigated by the CBI or under the supervision of the honourable Supreme Court. This is the demand of the BSP, Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. Also, the honourable president of the country, who also comes from UP and is a Dalit, it is a strong appeal to him to intervene in this case, keeping in mind the inhuman attitude of the government, to bring justice to the victim family, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||India successfully test fires another missile||India on Saturday successfully test fired its indigenously developed nuclear capable hypersonic missile 'Shaurya' with a strike range of around 1,000 km from a test range in Odisha, defence sources said. 'Shaurya', which is the land variant of Indias K-15 missile, has a strike range of 700 km to 1000 km and is capable of carrying payloads of 200 kg to 1000 kg, the sources said. The surface-to-surface tactical missile was blasted off from a canister strapped to the ground launcher from launch complex 4 of the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in the APJ Abdul Kalam Island around 12.10 pm and covered the desired range, they said. It is 10 metres long, 74 cm in diameter and weighs 6.2 tonnes. Its two stages use solid propellants. Describing the trial as successful, the sources said that the state-of-the-art missile performed a manoeuvre in the closing stages of its flight and hit the impact point in the Bay of Bengal with precision and accuracy. A gas generator at the bottom of the canister pushed the missile out it. Its first stage ignited then and fell off. The second stage went into action after this, a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) official said. During the test flight, the missile was tracked by various telemetry stations and radars and performed well, he said. DRDO officials rate Shaurya as one of the top 10 missiles in the world in its class with its high performance navigation and guidance systems, efficient propulsion systems, sophisticated control technologies and canisterised launch," sources said. The missile can be launched from silos and canisters mounted on a truck and fixed on the ground, they said adding that it can be easily moved around. A truck itself can become a launching platform. "Shaurya" missiles can kept in locations where the enemies would not be able to detect them. Besides, it cannot be detected by satellite imaging, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||Modi says Congress neglected country's defence while in power||Attacking the Congress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the country's defence interests were compromised for a long time as their governments kept "playing around with files" and delayed procurement of fighter jets, arms, ammunition and other strategic equipment. Addressing public meetings in Himachal Pradesh after inaugurating strategically-important Atal Tunnel, the prime minister also took a swipe at the opposition's protest against farm and labour laws, saying those parties also had similar ideas but lacked the courage to implement these measures because they focussed on elections while his government looked at the country's and farmers' welfare. "Nothing is more important for us than the defence of the country. But for a long time, the country has also witnessed an era when the defence interests of the country were compromised. The Air Force of the country kept demanding a modern fighter plane, while they kept opening and closing files after files, and kept playing around with those files," he said at Rohtang after inaugurating the tunnel. Modi's reference assumes significance in the wake of the government's repeated assertion that the UPA regime had delayed decisions on the acquisition of Rafale fighter jets from France. "Be it ammunition, modern rifles, bulletproof jackets, equipment that are used in cold weather conditions, everything was kept in abeyance. There was a time when the strength of our ordnance factories would make many jitters, but the country's ordnance factories were left on their own," he said after inaugurating the 9.02-km tunnel, which reduces the travel distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km and the travel time by four to five hours. It has been billed as the world's longest highway tunnel, connecting Manali and Leh and built at a cost of over Rs 3,000 crore. Hitting out at the Congress, which headed the coalition government at the Centre during 2004-14, Modi cited a number of strategically important projects, from Atal Tunnel to the airstrip at Daulat Beg Oldi in Ladakh and Tejas fighter aircraft production, to assert that they were delayed or almost forgotten. A world-class organization like the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited was created for indigenous fighter aircraft, helicopters, but attention was not given to strengthen it, he said. The selfishness of people who had been in power for years prevented our military capabilities from being strengthened, Modi said. He questioned as to what "compulsion" and "pressure" might have been behind the delay in projects, without directly naming the Congress. His government, the prime minister said, has deployed all its strength to develop border infrastructure, adding that never before has work been done at such a big scale, be it building roads, bridges, or tunnels. For long, he said, border projects could never come out of the planning stage and those which did got stuck or were kept on the back burner and neglected. The then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated the approach road to Atal Tunnel in 2002, but the project was almost forgotten after his government was gone, Modi said, targeting the Congress-led UPA dispensation. Work on only 1,300 meters was completed by 2013-14, he noted, adding that the project would have been completed by 2040 by this pace before his government took charge in 2014 and speeded it up at an unprecedented rate. "Our govt increased the pace of construction from 300 meters/year to 1400 meters/year and completed the project in 2020," Modi said. In just six years the government completed the work of 26 years, he said. He said that according to a 2005 assessment, the tunnel would have been ready in about nine and a half crore rupees but due to continuous delays, today it has taken about Rs 3200 crore. Just like the Atal Tunnel, this treatment was meted out to several such projects, the prime minister said, adding that Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip remained closed for four to five decades. "There was no political will. I can talk about dozens of projects that are important from the strategic point of view, but for years they were neglected," he said, hitting out at the previous Congress-led governments. In this context, he also referred to the Kosi mega-bridge in Bihar which was envisaged by the Vajpayee government and inaugurated by him last month. Former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister and veteran Congress leader Veerbhadra Singh recently said the project was originally envisaged by former prime minister Indira Gandhi in 1972, while a foundation stone was laid for the tunnel in 2010 by the then UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi. Later, addressing his public meeting in more than six months ever since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic forced a nationwide lockdown in March, Modi said the inauguration of the Atal Tunnel is part of the central government's resolve that the benefit of development should reach every part of the country and to every person. "The reason was that some districts did not serve the political benefit of some people. Now work is being done with new thinking of 'Sabke saath se, sabke vishvaas se, sabka vikaas ho raha hai' (Development for all is happening with help of everyone and with the trust of everyone)," Modi said at the public meeting in Sissu village of Lahaul-Spiti region of Himachal Pradesh. "There has been a transformation in the government's way of work. Now, schemes are not made based on how many votes are there in an area. Now the effort is that no Indian is left out," he said. At his second public meeting at Solang Valley, Modi took a swipe at the opposition's protest against farm reform laws, saying those parties also had the same idea but lacked the courage to implement these measures because they focussed on elections while his government looked at the country's and farmers' welfare. Modi said those protesting against the laws wanted farmers to live in the previous century, and are now jolted by his government's attack on middlemen. The ruling BJP has cited the Congress manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to assert that the opposition party had also promised the same laws which the Modi government has enacted to allow farmers to sell their produce outside state-controlled 'mandi' but is now criticising them for political reasons. Modi also spoke of the benefits of new labour sector laws and said reforms will continue as his government works to realise its goal of "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (Self-Reliant India), asserting that regulations of the previous century will not work in a new century. Our reforms have troubled those who have always worked for political benefits, he said, adding that new labour reforms have given women the same salary and opportunities as men had so far. Their mindset remained the same while the century changed, he said, attacking the opposition. "You can't enter the next century with the mindset of the past century," he said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister Anurag Thakur were also present at the three events. Singh highlighted the strategic importance of the tunnel, saying it will make soldiers' deployment and movement of weapons and ration easier. The prime minister said that such border connectivity projects will also aid the security forces in ensuring regular supplies to them and also in their patrolling. India and China are locked in a five-month-long bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh that has significantly strained bilateral ties. Both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row, but no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff. Modi said Atal Tunnel is also going to give new strength to India's border infrastructure and would be living proof of world-class border connectivity. He said despite the longstanding demand to improve the infrastructure and overall development of the border areas, plans were made only to languish for decades without any progress. He also travelled in the tunnel from the South Portal to the North Portal and also visited the emergency egress tunnel that was built into the main tunnel itself. He also witnessed a pictorial exhibition on 'The Making of Atal Tunnel' on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka to head to Hathras again||A delegation of Congress MPs led by former party chief Rahul Gandhi will go to Hathras Saturday afternoon to meet the family of the 19-year-old woman who died after she was assaulted and allegedly gang-raped, a senior party leader said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will also be part of the delegation that will meet the family to hear their grievances and demand justice for them, sources said. "Congress MPs under the leadership of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will go to Hathras today afternoon to meet the grieving family of the 19-year old-daughter of Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally assaulted & murdered," Congress general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal tweeted. On Thursday, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi along with several party leaders and workers were detained by the police and sent back to Delhi, after they tried to reach Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit woman. In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul Gandhi said the behaviour of the UP government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable to me. No Indian should accept this." Rahul Gandhi asserted that "no power in the world can stop me from meeting this grieving family in Hathras and share their pain". Hitting out at the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka Gandhi said the UP government is "morally corrupt". "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "This behaviour is not acceptable to the country. Stop threatening the victim's family," she said. The party alleged that the woman and her family have been denied justice and "severely traumatised" by the BJP government in their attempt to hide the truth of the heinous crime perpetrated on her. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has completed its probe into the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman after an alleged gangrape, a Hathras administration official said on Saturday. The administration has also lifted restrictions on the media's entry into the village, a day after outsiders, including politicians, were barred from meeting the victim's family due to the ongoing SIT probe, the official said. Only the entry of media has been allowed into the village of the victim as the probe of the SIT has completed, Joint Magistrate Prem Prakash Meena told reporters. He also refuted allegations that the administration had confined the victim's family and confiscated their phones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||India's death toll crosses 1 lakh, almost 80,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 death toll crossed one lakh and the infection tally climbed to 64,73,544, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 54 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 83.84 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 64,73,544 with 79,476 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,00,842 with the virus claiming 1,069 lives in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to 54,27,706, while there are 9,44,996 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.60 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. The case fatality rate was recorded at 1.56 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 7,78,50,403 samples have been tested up to October 2, of which 11,32,675 were tested on Friday. Meanwhile, Delhi recorded 37 Covid-19 fatalities and 2,920 cases on Friday, pushing the death toll to 5,438 and the caseload to over 2.85 lakh, officials said. On September 29, 48 deaths were reported, the highest number of fatalities recorded in a day since July 16, when the city saw 58 fatalities. The fresh cases came out of the 56,258 tests conducted the previous day, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The active cases tally on Friday stood at 26,450. The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 2,85,672. Meanwhile, the additional chief secretary, services, discussed the launch of an intensive Covid-19 campaign with all additional chief secretaries, principals secretaries, commissioner of municipal corporations, chairman NDMC, secretaries, heads of all departments, corporations, autonomous bodies of Delhi government. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped to 2,648 on Friday from 2,615 on Thursday. The positivity rate stood at 5.19 per cent while the recovery rate was over 88 per cent, the bulletin said, adding the case fatality rate stood at 1.9 per cent. Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported, ranged from 24,198 (2,312) on September 1 to 61,973 (4,071) on September 19. The number of Rapid-Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 45,153, while 11,105 RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests were conducted. The number of tests done per million, as on Friday, was over 1.67 lakh while the total number of tests stood at over 31.91 lakh. The bulletin said 2,53,784 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. Since August 18, cases have again started appearing in four-figure count in the city. The bulletin said out of the total number of 15,844 beds in Covid hospitals, 9,773 are vacant. It said 909 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. The number of people in home isolation slightly dropped to 15,852 compared to 15,899 previous day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Virus decay hope but peak eludes many places||A two-week decline in India’s average daily new coronavirus infections has stirred speculation among experts whether the epidemic has slipped into a decay phase, but they caution that many places across the country are yet to experience peaks. India’s count of coronavirus disease deaths is set to surpass 100,000 on Saturday. But the seven-day average of daily cases detected has fallen from the highest-yet of 93,199 on September 16 to 82,214 on October 1, a decline not observed since the epidemic’s start. But experts caution that the September 16 peak — if at all — was a nationwide figure that doesn’t help much for a country grappling with different phases of the epidemic in its largest and most densely populated cities, smaller towns and rural areas. “With an epidemic like this one, an all-India figure may be misleading,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a community medicine specialist and member of a Covid-19 epidemiology expert panel set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “It’s something like having one hand in a refrigerator, the other in an oven and saying I’m okay,” Muliyil, former principal of the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. The decline in the average daily infections detected has occurred even as the average number of the samples tested daily has increased. Datasets from the Union health ministry suggest that the average daily tests conducted nationwide increased to around 10.60 lakh during the last three weeks of September compared to around 8.6 lakh during the last three weeks of August. “Given the steady fall in numbers we’re seeing, I think we can assume the peak is behind us,” said T. Jacob John, an infectious disease specialist and medical virologist also formerly at the CMC. “But the epidemic is still growing at many places — will they change national numbers? We don’t know yet.” An ICMR survey whose findings where released earlier this week has shown different infection exposure levels in different parts of the country in August — 15 per cent in urban slums, 8 per cent in urban non-slum areas and 4.4 per cent in ruralnareas. Since then, experts say, the epidemic has grown adding to those proportions. But many caution that there is not enough data yet to determine whether the decline in numbers is an outcome of altered testing strategies. “The PCR (a genetic test) is the gold standard and reliable, but the numbers of antigen tests (a rapid protein test, an alternative to the PCR) that carry much less reliability have increased in recent weeks,” said Dileep Mavalankar, the director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. “If there is a large shift away from PCR tests to antigen tests, we could get more false negatives and we might see an apparent decline,” Mavalankar told this newspaper. The Union health ministry has told all states to ensure that every symptomatic patient who is negative on an antigen test gets a confirmatory repeat PCR test. But health officials have expressed concern that this rule is not adhered to uniformly with every patient. Experts also point out that any testing strategy has a limited role in catching the coronavirus infections given that around 80 per cent of infected people remain asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms. The ICMR survey findings released earlier this week had suggested that in August, for every reported case, there were up to 32 undocumented infections. The estimated number of infections in August would then have been over 92 million. Some experts caution that debates over a peak are speculative. “We still do not know enough about this coronavirus to assume when a peak might occur,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “There are reports of reinfections and symptoms lingering for months — could this be due to the persistence of the infection or residual disease or an immune response has not been clearly established?” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, praise for his assassin||It is not known whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been able to forgive those who hailed Nathuram Godse as a patriot, but Mahatma Gandhi’s 151st birth anniversary is sure to test his forbearance. Almost half as many people hailed Gandhi’s assassin Godse on Twitter on Friday as those who remembered the Mahatma. By evening, there had been 1.17 lakh tweets with the hashtag “Nathuram Godse Zindabad”, compared to more than 2.63 lakh tweets with the hashtag “Gandhi Jayanti”, which accompanied a Gandhi emoji inaugurated by Modi in 2018. Those praising Godse, who has many admirers in the BJP, included at least two handles followed by Modi — @chaitrasal and @swetasamadhiya. The tweets hailing Godse blamed Gandhi for everything from Partition to the execution of the revolutionary Bhagat Singh. Many of the tweets greeting Godse were accompanied by the hashtag “Sudarshan ki haar, Hinduon ki haar” — a reference to the Supreme Court disallowing the television channel Sudarshan News from continuing with the telecast of a show about jihadi elements “infiltrating” the civil services. Modi, who had said last year that he would not be able to fully forgive Malegaon blast accused Pragya Singh Thakur for calling Godse a “patriot”, visited the resting place of Gandhi on Friday to pay his respects. Pragya, however, went on to get a BJP ticket in the general election and again hailed Godse as a “deshbhakt”, this time in Parliament. Many Twitter users, including @chaitrasal, also remembered to wish former Shastri, a Congress stalwart who has of late joined the pantheon of luminaries whose legacies are being sought to be usurped by the Right wing, with the conspiracy theories swirling around his death being used to besmirch the party and its tallest leaders. The Indian Express Online quoted an analysis by keyhole.co, a realtime hashtag tracker, that showed that Twitter users began using the Godse hashtags at 5am on Friday, an hour before those wishing Gandhi. There were regional variations like fewer Godse tweets from Kerala, and pro-Godse Calcuttans using a different hashtag called “Nathuram Godse Amar Rahe”. The pro-Gandhi tweets could catch up only after 1pm. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “We know who has enabled this trend & whose face is hypocritically masked. I have no doubt Gandhi’s India will prevail over Godse’s. #GandhiJayanti.” Perhaps a befitting tribute to Gandhi on Friday was that the top trends by the evening were all against the Hathras gang rape and murder and the government’s attempts to silence the Dalit teen’s family and journalists covering the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Modi's farm laws have left the farmers crying: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the new farm bills had been drafted not on the basis of consultations with stakeholders but after talking to “friends” of the Prime Minister with no regard for farmers’ interests. In a video message on Gandhi Jayanti, being observed as “Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Workers Day)”, Sonia contrasted the Narendra Modi government’s “black” farm laws with the pro-people legislations brought in by the Congress-led UPA. “Today, the Prime Minister is inflicting great injustice upon the farmers of the country. The laws made for agriculture sector were not discussed with farmers. There was no consultation at all. Their interests were completely ignored and the black laws were framed after talking to some of his friends,” she said. While Sonia did not spell out who these “friends” were, the Congress and Rahul Gandhi had repeatedly said the farm legislations were meant to help crony capitalists. Sonia provided a similar hint. “When the mandi system is finished, hoarders are given the freedom to stock and capitalists take over farms, who will protect the crores of small farmers? What about the survival of agricultural labourers and the millions of others associated with the sector?” she said. “The Modi government has left the farmers, who feed the nation with their blood and toil, crying. Asking for adequate price for their produce is their fundamental right. The Congress always drafted legislations after wide consultations and a consensual approach. The people’s interest was supreme in the drafting process. That’s what democracy entails. Every decision must have the people’s consent. Does the Modi government believe in this principle?” Later, addressing a Gandhi Jayanti event in poll-bound Bihar through videoconferencing, Sonia said enough is enough. “Beware of those who run governments by creating fear and misconceptions and by exploiting emotions. Some people today use Mahatma Gandhi’s name but they demolished his values and ideals through their deeds. You can see for yourself — there’s violence everywhere, anarchic conditions, atrocities, discrimination, misconduct…. Hope you decide wisely,” she said. Sonia contrasted the Modi government’s farm laws with the welfare legislations introduced by the Manmohan Singh government. “You know who opposed and ridiculed the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act? Imagine what would have happened today during the corona crisis without MGNREGA,” she said. “Thousands of the poor would have died of hunger. Forget generating new jobs — the public-sector units, which are the biggest employers, are being sold.” In Parliament five years ago, Modi had called the rural job guarantee scheme “a living monument to your (the Congress’s) failures”. Sonia cited how the Right to Information — which the UPA government had introduced as a transparency and anti-corruption measure — was being weakened. “You keep asking questions but no replies will come. You understand why,” she said. “Laws relating to labour, women, health… are being diluted only to attack the rights of the citizens.” While farmers are protesting the new farm laws, the new labour codes introduced in Parliament have triggered unease among the workers. Congress workers staged sit-ins on Friday in every state to protest against the new farm and labour legislations, as well as against the alleged Hathras gang rape and murder and police misbehaviour with Rahul in Uttar Pradesh. Rahul, pushed to the ground by a policeman on Thursday, sent out a message quoting Gandhi: “I won’t be scared of anybody…. I won’t bow to injustice, I will defeat untruth with truth and will face the miseries that come in the way of opposing untruth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Fish fetches Rs 1.77 lakh in Odisha||A fish weighing 22kg was sold for Rs 1.77 lakh on Friday at a local market in the Chandbali area of Odisha’s Bhadrak district. A Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company bought the fish after the price reached Rs 8,000 per kg during an auction. Sources said the auction began at an initial price of Rs 6,000 per kg and the company bought the fish paying Rs 1.77 lakh. Sources said a fisherman from neighbouring Kendrapara district’s Talachua area had netted the rare 22kg ghol fish, locally called telia, while fishing in deep sea during the low pressure-induced rains two days ago. Due to Covid-19 restrictions he went to Chandbali to sell the fish instead of travelling to Calcutta. Ghol is one of the most exotic and expensive varieties of marine fish. The heart of this predator fish, known as sea gold, is believed to possess medicinal properties. Native to the Indo-Pacific region, this species is hard to catch. They surface predominantly during the breeding season. Two fish of the same species were earlier sold for Rs 6,000 per kg at a local village, the sources added. Chandbali is around 150km from here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||IIT graduate digitises almost-extinct Saura script  ||An IIT-Mumbai graduate, Soni Salma Priyadarshini, has finished the digitisation of Saura script, one of the most complicated tribal scripts. Saura is the mother tongue of around 3 lakh tribal people inhabiting parts of southern Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh. Saura language and script are on the verge of extinction for want of patronage. It has received little support from the state government with precious little literature available in the language. Soni, who hails from the tribal dominated Rayagada district of southern Odisha, told The Telegraph, “With the support of my teacher Prof Girish Dalvi, I have completed the digitisation of the language. However, more work needs to be done on the size of the fonts of the script. Once it is complete, members of the Saura tribe can communicate with others on WhatsApp. They can use it for writing even on computer like any other language. But my work has come to a halt as I don’t have the resources to pursue the project.” Soni joined IIT-Mumbai in 2014 to pursue her study in industrial design. During her study, she had done a project on typography and did a research on the digitisation of Saura script prepared by a Sabar scholar (pundit) Mangei Gomang of Rayagada district. “Gomang is a great scholar. He had developed a written script by producing 25 letters and 10 digits in 1936. But due to lack of encouragement and patronage over the years from the successive governments, the written tribal language is almost finished,” she said. However, she lamented that her work of digitising the Saura script to disseminate the culture and tradition of the community, has come to a halt because of lack of resources and sponsorship. “Where would I get the funds? It needs another two years’ of work with a team. It needs a good amount of budget,” she said. Hoping for support from the Naveen Patnaik government, which is promoting tribal culture, Soni said, “After passing out from IIT, I had joined a German multi-national company. But to do something for my own tribal people, I quit the job and came here. Meanwhile, I have completed the digitisation, Now, I am feeling constraint of funds to go ahead with the project. I plan to rise the issue with the state government.” Out of 62 tribal communities in Odisha, the spoken languages of five communities have been digitised so far. The Saura language is not confined to tribes from southern Odisha and Andhra, it is also spoken by tribals in certain parts of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Soni said: “At home they speak their mother tongue which is an Austro-Asiatic language. It belongs to the class of the Munda family. Now it is mostly an oral language and is not written or read extensively. Most texts in the recent past were written using Odia and Telugu script. Though thriving in some areas, it is considered to be threatened overall.” Once it’s fully computerised, it would be widely used and Sauras will be able to keep alive their identity as a tribe and contribute to the movement for documenting endangered languages and cultures. “Initiative should be taken to publish textbooks, calendars, informal documents and other materials of daily use in saura language. It would enable the tribe to take forward their literary heritage in both formal and informal space,” she said. Tribals feel that similar efforts can be made to keep alive other tribal scripts. “With technological advancement more scripts can be incorporated and can co-exit under the typographic umbrella,” she said, adding that any language can be most appropriately written in its own script.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Leh cajoles Centre with China jab||Ladakh’s Buddhist politicians on Friday censured China’s jibe about their Union Territory and asked Beijing to stop atrocities in Tibet and Xinjiang, apparently trying to burnish their “nationalist” credentials to coax Delhi into granting special status to the region. “We condemn the recent remarks of the Chinese foreign ministry that they do not recognise the Union Territory of Ladakh. This is an unnecessary intervention in our internal affairs,” Cheing Dorjey, a leader of the newly floated People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule, told a news conference in Leh. China’s foreign ministry had recently angered India by saying: “China opposes #India putting Chinese territory in the western section of the border under its administration, which affects China’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. It is ‘unacceptable and void’.” The People’s Movement, a mainly Buddhist body, was floated by Leh-based political, religious and cultural organisations to fight for special status for the region. It has a nominal presence of Muslims and Christians. Delhi’s apparent reluctance to bring Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule in a Bodoland Territorial Council type of arrangement had angered the leaders of Buddhist-majority Leh and prompted them to raise the spectre of separatism. But their rhetoric began changing after Delhi showed willingness to discuss the matter, and they withdrew their call to boycott the upcoming elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh. Ladakh’s Buddhists, concentrated in Leh, had welcomed the abrogation of Article 370 and the creation of a separate Union Territory of Ladakh. The region’s Muslims, most of whom live in Kargil, are fighting for the restoration of Article 370 and a re-merger of Ladakh with Jammu and Kashmir. Ladakh’s Buddhist and Muslim populations are both opposed to any influx of “outsiders” from “mainland India”, fearing it might change the region’s demographic profile. There is tension between the communities, though, with Ladakh’s Muslims fearful of domination by the more affluent Buddhists. Dorjey said Beijing should be concerned about the rights of the people of Tibet and Xinjiang, who are against Chinese rule. “They should look into why they are committing atrocities there... We strongly condemn their statement (on Ladakh),” he said. Leh-based politicians have increasingly been playing the anti-China card since Delhi agreed to discuss the grant of Sixth Schedule status. Former Ladakh MP and People’s Movement leader Thupstan Chewang recently said the campaign had decided to withdraw the boycott call lest it give China an opportunity to weaken the country. “You all know how there is a big Chinese threat looming on borders. It should not happen that those working against the interests of India will connect Ladakhis with election boycott in Kashmir and this will harm the national interest,” Chewang said on Saturday. While expressing willingness to discuss special status for Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule, the Centre has condemned Kashmiri politicians as “anti-national” for demanding special status for their region under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Cry in Delhi: Dalit lives matter, Yogi must go||Hundreds of students, civil society members and Opposition leaders and supporters turned up at Jantar Mantar on Friday evening to demonstrate against the Hathras atrocity, fashioning the largest protest gathering in Delhi since the agitation against the new citizenship regime last winter. Several smaller protests had taken place in the capital since a 19-year-old Dalit girl died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, 15 days after being allegedly gang-raped and brutalised in a village in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. Over the past two days, the police had broken up these demonstrations and booked scores of participants for violating the lockdown. A planned candlelight vigil at India Gate on Friday evening was shifted to the protest plaza of Jantar Mantar after the police tweeted on Thursday night that demonstrations would not be allowed at the original venue. The New Delhi deputy commissioner of police’s office also tweeted that only 100 protesters would be allowed at Jantar Mantar with prior permission. The three Metro stations around the area were shut on Friday evening. But a sea of protesters turned up after Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress publicly supported the programme, promoted on Twitter by student groups, actor Swara Bhasker and the Independent MLA from Gujarat, Jignesh Mevani. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, flanked by his ministers and MLAs, spoke at the protest. “Several actions have led people to believe that the culprits are being shielded.... At this point, all that the family need is peace and they should be free to meet whoever they want to. There should be no politics on the matter,” he said. According to the victim’s family, the police took eight days to invoke the charge of gang rape and five days to arrest the suspects. The force is also accused of denying the girl the best possible treatment and then hijacking her body from the hospital and burning it after locking her family at their home. On Friday, her father said the police had confined the family at their home, taken away their phones and thrashed him when he sought to step out. Bhasker, who led the crowd in sloganeering, said: “The cases of rape in Hathras and Balrampur (in Uttar Pradesh, where another woman was gang-raped and murdered this week) have raised questions over the conduct of the authorities. Families have said the first information reports were not registered correctly. The CM must step down.” Among those at the protest site were Mevani, Bhasker, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav. “Every day in India, four women are raped but who cares? And this includes the male-dominated Dalit movement too,” Mevani, a Dalit activist, told The Telegraph. So, he said, it’s “good and required” that people voice their protest against the Hathras atrocity. “I hope Mr (Narendra) Modi also opens his mouth…. The Hathras incident is so terrible that there is no option but to fight it out,” he said. Most television news channels, however, had minimal coverage of the protest. Pro-government Twitter handles busied themselves tweeting about a much smaller hunger strike at the same venue by people who allege that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June was murder, not suicide. BJP politician Kapil Mishra, accused of instigating the February riots that killed 53 people, condemned the protest against the Hathras incident saying the spearheads were “the same people who spread lies about the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act)”. “Honestly, the protesters are more afraid of the virus than of the police,” said Prasenjeet Kumar, secretary of the Delhi unit of CPIML Liberation’s All India Students’ Association, who has been protesting since Wednesday and has been detained once by the police. “In all these months, we complied with the government’s directives, but the ban on protests is being used to silence dissent itself,” he told this newspaper. “We are protesting, even at the risk of facing police cases, in the hope that this struggle will bring together the movements for both social justice and gender justice. We have several women members out protesting today, including some who are facing police cases for the anti-CAA protests. They may criminalise our protests, but silence on heinous and feudal crimes like what happened in Hathras is criminal.” Youth Congress members dressed as Mahatma Gandhi marched on the road carrying lighted candles. “They (authorities) should understand that Dalit lives matter,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said. “India cannot continue like this. The whole country is agitating for human rights and dignity. Adityanath cannot continue as CM.” Raja added: “I appeal to the President (Ram Nath Kovind), who is from UP. He must intervene. He knows what’s happening. I can’t expect (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi to intervene and set things right.” Yechury, Azad and Yadav too demanded Adityanath’s resignation over the crime, alleged cover-up attempt, forcible burning of the body and police crackdown on the victim’s family and the village that has seen journalists being roughed up. Police later filed an FIR against the protesters under sections of the penal code, Epidemic Act, and Disaster Management Act, cumulatively punishable with up to 18 months in jail. Elsewhere in Delhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attended a prayer meeting for the victim at the Maharishi Valmiki temple. The victim’s community of Valmiki Dalits worship the Maharishi, considered the author of the original Sanskrit Ramayan. Mahatma Gandhi lived in a room at the temple from 1946 to 1947. “We will ensure justice for our sister. We won’t sit quietly till she gets justice,” Priyanka said. “The government did not help at all. Her family is feeling helpless. We will put political pressure on the government. She wasn’t even given a cremation following Hindu customs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Plea in Supreme Court for CBI or SIT probe||An appeal has been filed seeking a Supreme Court-monitored probe by either the CBI or a special investigation team into the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. The PIL has been jointly filed by Delhi-based social activist Satyama Dubey and two advocates — Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav. They have also urged the apex court to transfer the trial from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi to instill confidence among the victim’s family and others. The PIL, which is expected to come up for hearing next week, has pleaded that the court should also appoint a sitting or retired Supreme Court or high court judge to monitor the investigation. The petitioners have pleaded that the trial should be shifted to Delhi as Uttar Pradesh police had failed to take adequate action against the perpetrators. Four upper caste men have been arrested for the crime, but the police have been accused of booking them for gang rape only after a public outrage, carrying out a questionable investigation, burning the body of the victim after locking up her parents, trying to blame the family for the crime and not allowing anybody to meet the bereaved relatives. The petition said Uttar Pradesh police's actions amounted to not only grave injustice against the family but the entire society. In the aftermath of intense criticism and protests, the Yogi Adityanath government has constituted a SIT to probe the brutality on the girl and her murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||UP police keep journalists out||ABP News reporter Pratima Mishra and accompanying cameraman Manoj Adhikari were shoved and pushed by police and prevented from visiting the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s home on Friday. The two journalists were stopped after they had got to within 1km of the house on foot. Mishra kept pleading with the police to be allowed to visit the victim’s family but policewomen and policemen surrounded her and Adhikari. Told that journalists were barred from the village under government instructions, Mishra asked to be shown a copy of the order. The police continued to block her way and asked her not to report on the subject. Mishra later sat on a dharna before she and her colleague were forcibly taken into a police vehicle. They were released a while later. Local reporters said the victim’s family members had been confined in a single room of their house. A young cousin of the victim somehow managed to give the police the slip, made his way out of the besieged village and spoke to journalists around 11.30am on Friday. He said his family had sent him out to speak to the media. “The police have taken away our phones. Nobody is allowed to step outside their homes,” he said. “I have come here hiding all the way. The DM kicked my uncle in the chest and locked him inside a room because he had asked to call the media. He is unconscious.” The police said the prohibitory orders had been put in place as the special investigation team was still in the village, trying to collect statements and evidence. A local sub-divisional magistrate said the Opposition and the media were being barred from the village so there is no “meddling in the investigation”. The India Today group issued a statement alleging the tapping and leak of a phone conversation between one of its reporters and the victim’s brother, and demanding an explanation from the government. “The Uttar Pradesh administration has barred journalists from entering Hathras and is not allowing the victim’s family to speak to the media. This evening, the audio of telephone call between the victim’s brother... and India Today’s reporter, Tanushree Pandey, was leaked on social media,” it said. “India Today first asks why was the telephone of our reporter, who was covering the Hathras murder, being tapped? If it was (the brother’s) phone that was being tapped, then the government needs to answer why are the phones of the grieving victim’s family under surveillance or being tapped. And under what provision of law were the phones tapped and call recordings leaked by officials who had access to these recordings.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Uma Bharati: End siege of Hathras rape-and-murder victim’s family||Uma Bharati on Friday became the first senior BJP politician to speak out against aspects of the Hathras horror, urging chief minister Yogi Adityanath to end the siege of the victim’s family and allow politicians and the media to meet them. The incident has “hit the image of your government and the BJP”, the saffron-robed former chief minister told the saffron-robed incumbent. “Humne abhi Ram mandir ka shilanyas kiya hai tatha aage desh ne Ramrajya laane ka dawa kiya hai. Kintu iss ghatna par police ki sandehpurn karwaiye se aapki @UPGovt, tatha @BJP4India ki chavi par aanch aayi hai (We have just laid the foundation stone for the Ram temple and promised to bring Ramrajya. But the police’s suspicious actions have hit the image of your government and the BJP),” Uma tweeted on Friday evening. The victim’s father has alleged that the police have confined the family at their home and taken away their phones, and thrashed him when he sought to step out. “There is no rule to my knowledge that says a family can’t meet anybody because of an SIT (special investigation team) probe. Doing this will bring the SIT probe itself under suspicion,” Uma, admitted at a Rishikesh hospital after testing Covid-positive, said. “I’m restless in this corona ward. Had I not been coronavirus-positive, I too would have been sitting with the family. I will definitely meet them once I’m discharged.” The firebrand Uma, a leader of the Ram temple movement who was acquitted in the demolition case on Wednesday, said she could not remain silent at what was happening. “She (the victim) was the daughter of a Dalit family. She was cremated in a hurry by the police and now the family and the village are under siege by the police,” she said. “At first I thought I should not say anything because you (Adityanath) must be taking action. However, the manner in which the police have laid siege to the village and the victim’s family is worrisome, no matter what the argument in its favour may be.” She urged Adityanath not to ignore her request, stressing she was a “senior” and “like an elder sister”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||India||Covid: No harm from masks for lung patients ||The discomfort associated with wearing a face mask should not trigger unsubstantiated concerns about carbon dioxide poisoning, researchers asserted on Friday after their study found no evidence that masks induce physiological changes even in people with lung disease. The US-based researchers said their study data should help mitigate any fears about health risks associated with the use of surgical masks and expand the public’s adherence to this precautionary measure that reduces the risk of the new coronavirus infection. Their study was designed to address concerns among members of the public that masks over the nose and mouth might cause people to re-breathe carbon dioxide and experience oxygen deficiency. The researchers assessed gas exchange — changes in oxygen and carbon dioxide levels — in healthy persons and in persons with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) before and while using surgical masks. “We show the effects are minimal at most even in people with very severe lung impairment,” Michael Campos, a pulmonary medicine specialist at the University of Miami Hospital who led the study, said in a media release from the American Thoracic Society. Campos and his colleagues have reported their findings in the Annals of the American Thoracic Society. Their study comes at a time when health authorities worldwide have urged people to wear surgical or two-layered cloth masks in public to reduce the risk of picking up the coronavirus infection. The researchers asked 15 healthy persons and 15 COPD patients to take a six-minute walk test. Patients with severe COPD on the six-minute walk test had decreased oxygenation as expected. However, the COPD patients as a group did not exhibit major physiological changes in gas exchange after the test using a surgical mask, particularly in carbon dioxide retention, the doctors said. They acknowledge that their sample size was small but said their findings offered “a clear signal on the nil effect of surgical masks on relevant physiological changes in gas exchange” under routine circumstances such as prolonged rest or brief walking. Chest specialists have underscored that patients with lung disease should in particular avoid getting infected — through the use of face masks, hand hygiene and avoiding crowds — as the underlying lung disorder could make them vulnerable to severe Covid-19. “Masks help in many ways — and they do not lead to carbon dioxide build up. Gas exchange happens through masks. People need to know this,” said Jai Kumar Samaria, a senior respiratory medicine specialist at the Benaras Hindu University Institute of Medical Sciences, Varanasi. “A critical role of masks is to minimise the amount of virus that may be inhaled — every infection requires a critical dose. A mask helps keep the amount of virus down.” Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and head of India’s national task force on the coronavirus, had earlier this week iterated the need for people to wear masks, and stressed the even greater need to do so during the upcoming season of festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Troubling signs in caste cauldron||When Uttar Pradesh police were using force on MPs and journalists to shut them out of the rape-and-murder victim’s village in Hathras on Friday, Rajputs from the neighbourhood held an unofficial “panchayat” around noon. The gathering declared the four arrested youths innocent, echoing some BJP politicians, and demanded narco-analysis of the accused and complainants. Around eight hours later, the Uttar Pradesh government obliged, announcing such tests on the complainants, the accused and the policemen involved initially in the probe. The developments came on a day the Dalit victim’s father told reporters over a fellow villager’s phone that the police seemed to be on the side of the accused and had confined the family at their home, taken away their phones and thrashed him when he sought to step out. Several BJP politicians have been claiming that the four arrested Rajput youths are victims of caste politics, framed by politicians from Opposition parties or those from the victim’s Valmiki caste. Adityanath’s tenure has witnessed the dominance of his Kshatriya caste in the state, which has led to widespread conflict and tension between Rajputs and Dalits. On Friday, the caste panchayat held at Baghna village by Rajputs from 12 nearby villages demanded a CBI probe into the gang-rape-and-murder case. “We also want a narco test of the accused and the family members of the girl. It will prove the innocence of the arrested youths,” said Awadhesh Singh, a villager who had attended the panchayat. Around 10pm on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh home department said in a media release: “Polygraphy and narco test of all the complainants, the accused and the policemen (those involved in initial investigation) would be conducted.” Such tests require the consent of those undergoing the tests. The release did not mention whether consent had been secured. The government also announced the suspension of the SP of Hathras, Vikrant Veer, and some other police officials -– a familiar response when matters get out of hand. The accused allegedly gang-raped the 19-year-old girl on September 14, cut off her tongue and broke her spine. She died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. The victim’s mother says she saw the four accused -- who are from the same village -- run away when she arrived at the spot. The victim’s brother named them in the FIR and, the police say, the girl too named them from her hospital bed. Rajveer Singh Pahalwan, former MLA and BJP politician, told reporters in Hathras: “Associating the crime with a caste is wrong. The arrested men have been wrongly implicated. Some political parties are playing dirty tricks against them.” Another BJP politician, who is based in Lucknow and didn’t want to be named, said: “We are not going to sit silently; we’ll try to save the arrested youths.” Members of the Valmiki community have been protesting almost every day since the girl’s death -- in Hathras, Moradabad and Aligarh. The police have denied any caste tension in the village, which falls in the Chandpa police station’s area. Piyush Mordia, inspector-general of police, Aligarh range, said: “Section 144 has been imposed to prevent the assembly of five or more people at any place in Hathras. Some protests are going on at some places and the police are alert.” Rakesh Singh, father of accused Ramu Singh, told reporters his son was a victim of a plot by Rajveer Diler, the Hathras MP from the BJP who belongs to the Valmiki caste. “The BJP is playing both sides. The MP is trying to crucify my son to consolidate his position among the Valmikis. Ramu was somewhere else during the incident,” Rakesh said. Diler said he had no role in the arrests or the registration of the FIR. Ravi Singh, the main accused, is a nephew of Rakesh. Sandeep Singh is a grandson of Rakesh’s eldest brother. Luvkush Singh is their friend. The village where the victim lived has been sealed from every side to prevent anyone entering or leaving it. The police allegedly roughed up journalists who tried to enter the village. The victim’s father said he felt “hurt at the way the police, BJP leaders and the Rajputs are viewing the incident”. “What is happening is proof that the criminals believe it’s their right to victimise Dalits. They think they can gang-rape and kill our daughters but we mustn’t raise our voice. The police are clearly standing by them,” he said when some reporters spoke to him on a phone smuggled into his home by another villager. “The police have taken our phones, kept us in confinement in our home and misbehaved with us. Some administrative and police officers thrashed me when I told them I needed to step out.” He added: “There are people who want to come and meet me but the police don’t want it to happen because they believe the poor must not ask questions, not even of rapists.” Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar denied the family's allegations of confinement, seizure of phones and physical assault. On the sealing of the village, he said: “It’s our responsibility to maintain peace and we are doing only that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||India||A worthy disciple called Ajay Mohan Bisht||Twice in two years has Ajay Mohan Bisht, also known as Adityanath, been voted the nation’s best chief minister in polls that purport credibility. It may be fair to wonder which sordid corners of hell those pollsters went scouring. Or perhaps they were merely scouring Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh, which answers to multiple descriptions of hell. Such as the one whose grisly layers we might yet want to banish as the fiction of a traumatic nightmare. Unfortunately, we are living it and being cynically denied the ordeal of the dead. A 19-year-old is gagged, raped and bludgeoned by an entitled crew of criminals in Hathras, barely 200km southeast of Delhi. So brutally that her spine snaps and leaves her paralysed. When news of the savagery breaks, district authorities damn it as “fake news”. But she survives the multiple assaults and the slur of official lies. She struggles for life a fortnight, shifted from hospital to hospital, and eventually dies in Delhi. She can no longer be dismissed as “fake news”, she has become a dead body. But this is Adityanath’s realm, what it decrees dismissed will have to be dismissed. She is bundled and hauled all the way back to Hathras, tossed onto an unseemly pile of timber and bric-a-brac, and set aflame. Her family is offered no part in her final rites; uniformed policemen, guardians of law and order, such as it is in Uttar Pradesh, watch over and accomplish criminal destruction of evidence. To the agitated enquiries of journalists present, one of them says out loud on camera: “You cannot go anywhere near, we have instructions. And we cannot speak; we have no permission to speak in Hindustan.” In no time, the 19-year-old has turned into a baleful stretch of ash and embers. On cue, Prashant Kumar, additional director-general (law and order) of the UP police, pulls out a forensic lab report and announces that the girl had never been raped. Kumar is the same man entrusted, two years ago, with the onerous task of showering rose petals from a chopper seat on streams of “kanwarias” in western Uttar Pradesh. But evidently the Adityanath regime puts little faith in its topmost law-and-order officer. So it fields a Mumbai PR firm. An account executive of a PR firm, enters the mailboxes of a select group of journalists on a cheery note. “Greetings!” she begins. Thereon, her tone turns deeply informed and instructive: “Hathras girl was not rape… FSL report reveals…. It should put to rest all speculations…. The reports also reveal the conspiracy to push the state into caste turmoil (It is not clear whether Rodrigues is still referring to the said forensic report)…. SIT is sure to unveil evil design behind the whole incident….” The executive, from her offices in Fort, Mumbai, is already announcing what the SIT will reveal. That’s called imaginative PR. When that client is called Adityanath, imagination is nothing to knock. It takes imagination, as Adityanath demonstrated early in his tenure as Uttar Pradesh boss, to arrogate to yourself the power to abrogate all criminal charges and cases against yourself. It takes imagination to so manage traffic that a dreaded offender and mafia don like Vikas Dubey, a man who can put you in trouble if he decides to sing, is killed in a road accident en route to the state after capture in Ujjain. It takes imagination to pull out thousands of crores from the employees’ provident fund account and give the sums over to a dubious housing finance corporation. It takes imagination for an avowed saffron-clad mahant to turn Talibani — in January 2018, Kathak dancer Manjari Chaturvedi’s qawwali performance at an official function was scrapped at the last minute because the “CM does not like Islamic song, music or dance”. It must take imagination to pronounce that when men imitate women, they become godly, but when women imitate men, they turn devilish and, therefore, perhaps, “women are not capable of being left free or independent”. It must take a certain kind of imagination to hector the renaming of a museum of Mughal-era treasures and artefacts at Agra after Shivaji. Can it also be called an act of imagination that Adityanath recently conjured a Special Security Force that is empowered, by law, to “arrest anybody or conduct a search operation” without a warrant, or, unwarranted? Some differ: they call it an act of imitation, and they quote precedents from Germany of the 1940s. Uttar Pradesh, like neighbouring Bihar, has long lumbered with deserved ill-repute. “Lawless” is among the first descriptions that float up at its mention. Successive governments have been not merely derelict but encouraging of lawlessness, and have used crime and muscle, overtly or covertly, as an instrument for grabbing or demonstrating political power. This became particularly true of the years that the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party jostled for upmanship. But the Adityanath regime comes with upscaled differences in how brazen and unapologetic it is with twisting the law to its political and social purposes. Activists have been picked up off peaceful barricades, jailed, beaten and tortured. Thereafter, through methods that mimic lumpen justice, their names, photographs and addresses have been strung up on hoardings as a way of not merely shaming them but as dog-whistling tactic. Allahabad High Court had to order those hoardings — of anti-CAA protesters — pulled down because they amounted to “unwarranted interference in the privacy of people”. Dr Kafeel Khan, saviour of hundreds of ailing children in Gorakhpur, has been systematically hounded and repeatedly jailed. Again, the courts had to strike down National Security Act charges against him; he had to be assisted to relocate to Rajasthan. But Rajasthan isn’t far beyond Adityanath’s sights because he has publicly sworn that he “shall not stop till I turn UP and India into Hindu Rashtra”. Dr Khan might want in the future to seek locations farther afield. As mahant of the Gorakhpur Math, Adityanath has been used to wielding unquestioned authority and expecting blind obeisance. Such, that he has often brooked no restraint from the law and flagrantly violated it. Jailed once in 2007 for encouraging Hindutva rioters and flouting prohibitory orders, Adityanath has often not been ashamed to play outlaw. This man is now the law in Uttar Pradesh. He hasn’t baulked at bringing peril to social peace. He has shared a stage with hate preachers and those that have made open exhorts to violence against minorities. He is the one who inspired the “love jihad” campaign a few years ago, blaming upon the minority community a civilisational conspiracy to gain ascendancy of numbers. Later, using “love jihad” as leitmotif, he played militant proselytiser, peppering the heartland with aggressive calls for a counterblast: “We must do the same with their girls. I will celebrate each one of their girls that comes into our homes, each one that becomes a Hindu and enhances our national pride!” We cannot name or identify the 19-year-old from Hathras any more than that she belonged among Dalits, but it can justly be said that she has become neither a thing of celebration nor of any pride. If anything, she is now playing an appropriated ghoul in the macabre theatre of Adityanath, the best chief minister we have.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Ban on political events at Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan||The GTA has decided to ban political events at the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan, the complex which was the epicentre of clashes between Gorkha Janmukti Morcha supporters and police on the language issue in 2017, which had led to a renewal of the statehood agitation, including a 104-day closure of the Darjeeling hills and the present state of flux in the local politics. Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators appointed by the Mamata Banerjee government to run the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, said on Friday: “Since today is a holiday, we will issue an order tomorrow (Saturday) to ensure that no political programmes are held here.” Thapa was speaking at a ceremony to “reinstall” the statue of a Gorkha soldier, which had originally been erected by GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh atop the town hall here but subsequently uninstalled by Bimal Gurung when he took charge of the GTA in 2012 as it was purportedly “inappropriate to point a khukuri” towards Mahakal mandir. Some weeks back, Morcha leader Binay Tamang had requested the GTA to reinstall the Gorkha statue. Speaking at the programme on Friday, he also appealed to the GTA to ban political events at the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan. “We must put an end to the practice of damaging assets created by rival politicians. I would request the GTA to come up with a strict order banning all political events here,” said Tamang. Thapa immediately heeded his party president’s request. There have always been demands to ban political events at places like Chowrastha, Mall Road and the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan (which is on the Mall Road). Before a civic election, the undivided Morcha had announced its intention of banning political events at Chowrastha, but the same was never implemented. Chowrastha is also the preferred venue of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s programmes. “The khukuri is pointing towards Chumbi Valley, towards China and not towards Mahakal mandir,” said Tamang, referring to the new statue of the Gorkha soldier holding the machete. On June 8, 2017, supporters of the undivided Morcha and police had clashed on the premises of the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan and the adjoining Mall Road. When the clash took place, Bimal Gurung, who was the chief executive of the GTA then, was at the town hall while chief minister Mamata Banerjee was at Raj Bhavan, just about 500m away, attending a cabinet meeting. The Morcha supporters had organised a rally to protest against the alleged decision of the state government to make Bengali a compulsory subject at hill schools. The state government later issued a clarification that it had no such intention. Following the clash, the hills were plunged into violent agitation, which veered towards the statehood issue. The hills were closed for 104-days and the Morcha broke into two — one headed by Bimal Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang. The Tamang faction is an ally of the Trinamul Congress. Despite Tamang and later Thapa being appointed by the state government to run the GTA, their faction has lost two consecutive elections to the alliance of the BJP and the Gurung camp. The appointment of board of administrators at the GTA was necessitated by the end of the five-year tenure of the hill body’s first elected body in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||TMC civic body unveils Priya statue||A life size statue of former Congress leader and Union minister Priya Ranjan Das Munshi, who is considered to be the tallest political leader of North Dinajpur district, was unveiled at Siliguri More in Raiganj town on Friday. The statue was installed by the Trinamul-run Raiganj municipality. Those in the civic body have termed their initiative as a political courtesy and an attempt to pay homage to Das Munshi while the Congress has asked whether Trinamul is trying to win people’s hearts by using the late leader’s legacy. On Friday, Chittaranjan Roy, a former Congress MLA of Raiganj, unveiled the statue in the presence of Sandip Biswas, the civic chairman, and Arindam Sarkar, his deputy. “In North Dinajpur, Priya Ranjan Das Munshi is revered by people from all walks of life. To ensure that he is remembered forever and to pay him homage, we have installed the statue,” said Biswas, the chairman. Das Munshi was the MP of Raiganj from 1999 to 2009 and had also been a member of the Union cabinet. In 2008, he suddenly fell ill and had been under treatment at the AIIMS in Delhi for around nine years. In November 2017, he breathed his last. “We might have political differences with him but his contribution to the district and political acumen had made him rise above politics. That is why we erected his statue. There is no point in drawing any other inference from the initiative of the civic body,” the civic chairman added. District Congress leaders aren’t, however, ready to buy the theory. Though they have welcomed the installation of Das Munshi’s statue, they have simultaneously raised questions over Trinamul’s intention and pointed out that Deepa Das Munshi, Priya’s wife who was also a Congress MP, had not been invited to the event. “Trinamul leaders across North Dinajpur have often resorted to violence, which is completely against the political beliefs of Priya Ranjan Das Munshi. We feel it is nothing but an attempt to try and stoke the sentiments of people who have high regards for our leader to gain support ahead of the Assembly elections,” said Mohit Sengupta, the Raiganj MLA and district Congress president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Buxa Fort to  get a makeover||The Alipurduar district administration and the state public works department are drawing up plans for the renovation and restoration of the historic Buxa Fort. A few days back, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the revival of the fort that was used as a detention camp during the British rule. Located in the Sinchula Range of the Himalayas at a height of 2,900ft, the fort was built by the Bhutan kings and later captured by the British. They used it as a detention camp and hundreds of freedom fighters were kept there for years. In due course, the fort turned into ruins because of lack of proper maintenance. But even now, it draws hundreds of visitors, particularly trek enthusiasts because of the idyllic landscape with Bhutan hills forming the backdrop. They move through a 3.5km-long serpentine road to reach the fort. Senior residents of Alipurduar, who have seen the fort turning gradually into ruins, said stones, iron materials and several other items were taken away by miscreants during the seventies and the eighties. “The devastating flood that Alipurduar had witnessed in 1993 damaged the boundary wall, cells, pond, a tennis court and a helipad,” said a resident. In the past two decades, the demand for the restoration of the fort was raised by different quarters, particularly as the inflow of tourists increased in the Dooars. This made Tamal Goswami, who is associated with travel trade and also an archaeological consultant, conduct a study of the fort. “From 2004 till 2007, I carried out a thorough study of the fort and later submitted my report to the state government. Since then, efforts were made and finally, the state has allocated funds for renovating the fort. It is a historic structure that needs repairs and can be one of the prime destinations for tourists, like the Cellular Jail of Andaman. We feel once the work is done, more people will visit the fort,” Goswami said. Sources said the cells, boundary wall and the helipad would be restored, along with some other works. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, said the administration had already built a 2km-long bituminous road on the way to Buxa Fort from Santalabari, the last point till which vehicles can reach. “We will develop the remaining 1.5km stretch soon. As a part of the project, the fort would be restored completely. The museum would be developed while the boundary walls and the cells would be repaired while keeping in mind that the old heritage look of the fort remains intact. The PWD will take up the project,” said Meena.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||New TMC committees formed in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar||Trinamul Congress leaders in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar districts announced new district committees and block committees on Friday, a day after party supremo Mamata Banerjee had returned from Siliguri to Calcutta. As K.K. Kalyani and Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul presidents of Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar, respectively, announced the new committees, it was found that the party made an attempt to address the grievances of a section of leaders. In both the districts, old faces and dissidents have been included in the district and block committees. Trinamul insiders said such inclusive approach of the party leadership would help in resolving infighting in Trinamul. Rabindranath Ghosh, the north Bengal development minister and the immediate past Cooch Behar district Trinamul president, has not been included in the district committee. “The district committee has been formed according to the advice of our state leaders. We will all work together as has been instructed by our party supremo,” said Cooch Behar district president Roy. In the past 10 years, Trinamul managed to establish itself as the strongest political force with an adequate support base in both the districts. However, squabbles among a number of lobbies weakened the party’s support base and led to the emergence of the BJP as a force to be reckoned with. During her recent visit to Siliguri, Mamata Banerjee obliquely sent a message to Trinamul leaders and workers that they needed to work together to defeat the BJP, which won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal. A political analyst pointed out that Trinamul had taken a two-fold strategy to revive its support base in the two districts ahead of the Assembly elections. On one hand, Mamata is playing the development card by extending financial assistance and offering jobs to former KLO militants, providing funds to language academies and the welfare board of Rajbanshis and initiating housing schemes for tea garden workers. On the other hand, Trinamul is trying to get all leaders at district and block levels on board. “The two strategies can help Trinamul. This is because we have seen that despite carrying out development works in both these districts, the party could not win the Lok Sabha seats only because of differences among leaders,” said an observer. Workers of small tea plantations measuring between one acre and 15 acres in Jalpaiguri district will be paid bonus at the rate of 16 per cent. Workers of plantations ranging from 15 to 25 acres will receive bonus at 17.6 per cent. The decision was taken at a meeting between the Jalpaiguri District Small Tea Growers’ Association and unions. The Jalpaiguri district has around 35,000 workers who serve in 22,000 small tea plantations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Rail plea for nod to run Toy Trains||Officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) have written  to the Darjeeling district administration seeking their consent for resumption of Toy Train services. The Toy Train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) remained suspended  between the plains and the hills since March this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown. According to railway officials, they are initially planning to resume the joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom, the most popular service enjoyed  by tourists. “Because of this pandemic situation,  consent is necessary from the administration before we resume the services. That is why a letter was sent to the district magistrate of Darjeeling last week. Once we get the approval, we will forward the proposal for restarting the services to the railway board,” said a DHR official. After almost six months, the Darjeeling hills have opened up for tourists and reservations for accommodations in hotels and homestays have started. Also in the neighbouring state of Sikkim, entry of tourists would be allowed from October 10. “Toy Train is one of the key attractions for tourists visiting the region. There are indications that tourists would start pouring in from next week and onwards. Now, that the tourism sector is showing indications of revival, resumption of Toy Train services would largely help the industry and would also encourage more tourists to visit the hills,” said a hotel owner in Darjeeling. The DHR authorities, however, have initially planned to start only the joy rides. The regular service between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling would be restored in due course and in case there is a demand for the service from among the tourists, they said. The railway officials, sources said, have already carried out inspection of the tracks. “We have conducted a couple of trial runs. The track between Darjeeling and Ghoom is fine. In the remaining stretch, some work of road restoration is in progress. Otherwise, we are ready to start the services,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata invokes Gandhi and Shastri to target BJP||Mamata Banerjee put the pedal to the metal on Friday and used the occasion of the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri to attack the BJP, albeit she did not name the party. In an indication of her intent of persisting with the attack on the saffron camp over issues with pan-India resonance in the run-up to the perform-or-perish Assembly polls in the state, the Bengal chief minister broached the subject of farmers’ rights and freedom and democracy in her tributes to the icons. “Homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary. Icons like Gandhiji, Netaji, Tagore, Maulana Azad, Ambedkar & others tirelessly fought for freedom & democracy. Are we going to give it away so easily? Bapu’s philosophy has become more relevant now than ever before,” she tweeted. The comment bore significance in the context of today’s political scene in the country as the BJP is accused by almost all Opposition parties of stifling democracy. The alleged destruction of freedom and democracy in the BJP regime has been a leitmotif of the Trinamul Congress chief’s campaigns since 2016 and she has been — after a period of relative lull enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic and its problems — increasingly showing signs of intensifying her criticism of and opposition to the saffron camp. “The India in the hands of the BJP is diametrically opposed to the India that the likes of Gandhiji, Netaji and Ambedkar had fought for. That is the message she tried to drive home,” said a Trinamul leader. “In remembrance of Gandhiji’s philosophy of Ahimsa, today we also celebrate the International Day of Non-Violence. To this regard, #GoWB is setting up a university dedicated to Gandhiji in Purba Medinipur district. Let us spread Bapu’s message amongst the younger generations,” added Mamata on Twitter. Sources in her party said Mamata was keen on renewing focus on the Father of the Nation and his inclusive humanism in a bid to counter the saffron camp and its propaganda machinery. “She wants to use occasions such as Gandhi Jayanti to further remind people of the Mahatma’s views, especially on communal harmony and tolerance, to underscore the differences between his school of thought and that of the BJP,” said a leader. In her tribute to Shastri — another Congress stalwart the saffron camp has been keen to appropriate — the chief minister addressed another key issue with pan-India resonance, that of farmers’ rights, in the wake of the passage of the controversial farm bills by the Narendra Modi government in Parliament last month. “Remembering former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary. 55 years ago, he gave us the inspirational slogan of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ for our proud farmer brothers & sisters. Come what may, we will always firmly stand by them till our last breath,” she wrote on the microblogging site. “Farmers are the backbone of our society. In Bengal, the average annual income of our farmers has tripled from ?91,000 in 2011 to ?2.91 lakh in 2018. History stands testament to what we have done for their benefits. We will continue to raise our voices for them,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Congress and Left to hold joint march today||The Left parties and the Congress will jointly hit the streets on Saturday to protest the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and also use the rally to cement their ties as the two political forces intend to fight the next Assembly elections together. The rally will start from Moulali and conclude at Dharmatala on Saturday evening. “Members of student, youth and women wings of the Left parties and the Congress will hold a rally to protest the Hathras incident,” said CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty and added that the protesters would also demand security for women in Bengal. Several CPM and Congress leaders said the idea was to increase the number of common programmes to strengthen the ground for an alliance. Last week, senior leaders of both the parties, including Left Front chairman Biman Bose and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Abdul Mannan, had walked together to protest against the contentious farm bills and allied legislations introduced by the Narendra Modi government last month. “We are trying to project the alliance as the voice of the common man in the state. It is important to showcase that the Trinamul government is no different from the BJP when it comes to atrocities against women and we have to do it together,” a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. According to Chakraborty, the joint rally to protest the Hathras rape was more of a moral duty than a political ploy. “It is only natural for us to come together and speak together against atrocities whenever necessary,” he said. Political movements in Bengal against the Hathras incident gained momentum on Friday after Congress had on Thursday declared nationwide protests following the heckling of Rahul Gandhi by UP police. On Friday, Congress workers blocked the intersection of Taki Road and Itinda Road in North 24-Parganas’ Basirhat to protest against the Hathras rape and the heckling of Rahul. The blockade began at 9am and continued for about two hours creating a major traffic congestion on the two busy roads. Around 11am, police managed to persuade Congress activists to lift the blockade and clear traffic congestion on the route. Congress leaders in Birbhum organised road blockades at Chitra more in Bolpur. Traffic was disrupted in the area for about an hour. SFI, the CPM students’ wing, on Friday held at least 20 protests across East Burdwan to condemn the Yogi Adityanath government’s role in the Hathras incident. The Calcutta district committee of the SFI also organised a demonstration at Shyambazar in north Calcutta. A group of students also agitated in front of Upasana Griha of Visva-Bharati condemned the ghastly incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||UP strong-arm tactics on Trinamul MPs  ||A delegation of Trinamul Congress MPs was pushed around and physically prevented from visiting the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim on Friday in a near repeat of the manner in which Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had been stopped a day earlier. The only difference was that the Trinamul delegation managed to get to the periphery of the victim’s village, primarily because they approached the district in separate small groups to avoid being noticed and stopped. However, they were stopped by police from proceeding further on the outskirts of the village. Video footage released by Trinamul, as well as television cameras, showed the police and officials physically pushing the MPs back. As the Jaynagar Lok Sabha member, Pratima Mondal, tried to evade the police and move ahead, she was physically stopped by a man in plainclothes and helmet. When O’Brien intervened, he was pushed back by the same man and the Rajya Sabha member fell. O’Brien was helped back onto his feet by the same man and both the MPs were then pushed behind a rope where a heated argument ensued. Besides O’Brien and Mondal, the delegation included Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and former MP Mamatabala Thakur. The delegation had travelled to Delhi from Calcutta separately without their security detail, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha leader O’Brien told The Telegraph over phone while on his way back from Hathras. The composition of the Trinamul delegation, said sources, was Mamata Banerjee’s message about the party’s inclusive brand of politics. “While O’Brien represents a minority community, Mondal is from a Scheduled Caste and Thakur is Matua,” said a Trinamul insider. According to sources in Trinamul, the Bengal chief minister is set to hold a rally in central Calcutta on Saturday in protest against the alleged rape and murder of a teen at Hathras and the assault on party leaders by the UP police. “She (Mamata) herself is going to lead a march, from 4pm (on Saturday). It will begin near the planetarium and culminate at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. She believes the time has come to step it up,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. After the Congress delegation, led by former president Rahul and general secretary Priyanka, was stopped over 100km from Hathras on Thursday, the Trinamul team decided to keep their visit quiet. “We left Delhi in different cars and did not inform our drivers even till we were about 10km from our real destination. Even at the toll, we bought tickets for Agra. It was only when we were about 10km from Hathras that we decided to join up and proceed together in our cars. That’s how we managed to enter Hathras. But we were stopped about a kilometre from the victim’s house by the police, who were also not allowing the media to go anywhere near the family,” O’Brien said. According to Mondal, who is a Dalit like the victim, the Trinamul leaders urged the police to permit at least two of the women members of the delegation to visit the family and offer condolences but the request fell on deaf ears. The Trinamul team sat on a dharna outside the village for a couple of hours, after which they marched to the local police station to file a complaint demanding an FIR against cops for “manhandling a woman MP”. While the MPs were protesting, they were joined by a dozen local workers of the Samajwadi Party. Speaking to journalists, who too were up in arms over being prevented from doing their job, Mondal said she was pushed around by officials. “If they can behave like this with a woman MP, then you can imagine how the Yogi (Adityanath) government treats common people and women in this state.” Later, O’Brien said in a statement: “All we wished today from the shameless UP administration was to allow two of our women MPs to meet and console the grieving family in Hathras. The two MPs were willing to walk the 1km to the family home. That also was disallowed. The world and India saw what happened. Pratima Mondal, our LS MP, herself an SC, was manhandled by a male member of Ajay Bisht’s jungle raj.” Bisht is Adityanath’s real name and many of his political rivals prefer to address him by that. Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, a Trinamul national spokesperson, said it seemed the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh was trying to hide the truth. “That is why it has been going out of its way to stop the Opposition and even the media from reaching the family.” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “This drama, they (Trinamul) should stop immediately…. What is Bengal’s track record in dealing with crimes against women? The Yogi Adityanath government has been taking action.” Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Minister Tapas Roy among new Covid patients ||Bengal minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy tested positive for the novel coronavirus late on Thursday night and got admitted to hospital, while his family went on home-isolation. The state reported 3,310 new Covid-19 cases, 53 deaths and 2,944 recoveries on Friday. Roy, 64, is the Baranagar MLA and a key leader of the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta. He is the sixth member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet to get infected with the pathogen. Transport and irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari, food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick, fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath and public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra had contracted the disease earlier. “Tapas is doing alright. He is, more or less, asymptomatic. His hospitalisation was a precautionary measure,” said a cabinet colleague. Around 30 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly, half from the ruling party, have been infected by the novel coronavirus. So far, four Bengal MPs have tested positive. They are the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri . The virus has also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete. With the 3,310 new patients, the state’s total case count went past 2.63 lakh, of which over 2.31 lakh are recoveries and 5,070 deaths. The recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.89, ahead of the national rate of 83.65 per cent. Of the 59 fatalities, 16 occurred in the city and 11 in North 24-Parganas. As of Friday, the state government reported 4,310 deaths (85 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.56 per cent. The state logged 43,282 tests on Friday, which took the total past 33 lakh, to touch 33.14 lakh, at 36,829 tests per million people. “We began testing in early February and took over three-and-a-half months to cover the first lakh. Over the following four-and-a-half months, we conducted over 32 lakh tests. Even a month ago, we were at 20 lakh,” said a minister. The positive confirmation rate fell further to 7.95 per cent. The state reported 37.02 per cent occupancy on 12,715 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals. Over 2.83 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, 4,128 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to get extra 10cr mandays this fiscal||The Mamata Banerjee government has achieved its annual target of generating 22 crore mandays under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the first six months of the 2020-21 financial year and the success has forced the Centre to allow the state to create another 10 crore mandays in the remaining half of the year. “The Centre had fixed a target of generating 22 crore mandays in the beginning of the financial year. We have generated 21.76 crore mandays by mid-September. During the review meeting for the project in late September, the Centre allowed us to generate another 10 crore mandays in the state during the ongoing financial year,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the state was allotted a sum of Rs 5,800 crore under the scheme in April this year and more than 95 per cent of the funds were utilised within the first six months. The sources said generating 22 crore mandays within the first six months held significance, particularly in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “This gives a clear hint the state administration worked hard to give rural populace a chance to earn livelihood during the pandemic. It is also clear that the government has successfully created employment opportunities during the lockdown and post-lockdown period in the rural areas,” said a senior government official. The sources also said the huge demand for jobs under the scheme was witnessed in rural areas soon after migrant labourers had started to come back to the state since May. According to records available with the panchayat and rural development department, about 6 lakh new names were included in the job cards under the scheme between May and June this year. “While 2,88,907 new job cards were issued under the scheme, more than 3 lakh people had added their names in the existing job cards of their families. It is assumed that a majority of the newly included workers are migrant labourers,” said another official. The chief minister had laid stress on including migrant labourers in the 100 days’ job scheme since more than 12 lakh such workers — according to the government’s estimates — had come back to Bengal during the lockdown. Sources in the panchayat department said the demand for jobs had started decreasing over the past few months. “This is because many of the migrant labourers have started going back to their place of work after several activities, including construction works, were allowed in the past couple of months,” said a source. The new target of generating 32 crore mandays would help the state give jobs to the card holders who stayed back in the state in the next six months. “People living in the state would also require jobs. If we failed to put pressure on the Centre to revise the target of mandays generation, rural people could have suffered,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||North East||Assam police exam paper leak case unites non-BJP parties||The question paper leak case has brought non-BJP parties together in Assam before the Assembly polls next year. This was evident from a joint news conference organised here on Thursday by the Opposition Congress, Anchalik Gana Morcha, the CPI and the CPI (M-L) on the burning issues confronting the country and Assam under the BJP-led governments at the Centre and the state. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora, Morcha chief convener Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, CPI state secretary Munin Mahanta and CPI (M-L) central committee member Bibek Das steered away from queries related to the proposed grand alliance of non-BJP parties so that the focus remained on the alleged anti-people policies of the government they have raised in unison. Non-BJP groups and parties in Assam are trying to cobble up a mahajot (grand alliance) to take on the ruling dispensation led by the BJP. They have publicly stated that only a united fight can dethrone the BJP. Against this backdrop, the presence of these parties under one roof suggests the realignment of political forces before the Assembly polls. “The SI (sub-inspector exam) paper leak has provided us with the right issue to start working together before the polls. “This issue deals with the young and the unemployed who are clearly disillusioned with growing joblessness. We need to become their voice by flagging the SI exam racket in association with other parties for the right impact,” a Congress insider said. “If we can unitedly and effectively raise these issues, the announcement of the grand alliance will then become a mere formality. The SI case has in a way hastened the coming together of non-BJP parties,” the insider said, after a protest here against the assault on Rahul Gandhi by Uttar Pradesh police while he was going to Hathras to meet the family members of the girl who was gang-raped and murdered. During the media conference on Thursday, the leaders criticised the “insensitive” Sarbananda Sonowal-led government for its alleged lapses in holding the cop and other recruitment exams and the ruling BJP for suspending one of the main accused Diban Deka after senior leaders denied any link with him since his name started doing the rounds. The recruitment exam for 597 sub-inspectors was cancelled on September 20 following the paper leak. Investigations so far have revealed mock tests were held in several places on the eve of the exam, suggesting the presence of an well-oiled recruitment racket. The parties also highlighted the alleged failure of the government to raise the daily wage of tea garden workers to Rs 351 despite its commitment and the spiralling prices of essential commodities. They also questioned the Sonowal government’s alleged move to “saffronise” the state through recruitment drives. Bhuyan pushed for a review of all recruitment drives under the present dispensation given its alleged attempt to saffronise the government machinery. The parties also highlighted how the central government allegedly bulldozed its way to pass the three farm bills in Parliament, which they said would only benefit the corporates. Union minister of state Kiren Rijiju in an official function here on Thursday claimed the farm laws will immensely benefit farmers of the Northeast. The Congress has stepped up its attack over the paper leak case announcing a gherao programme of offices of superintendents of police in all 33 districts on Monday. The police have so far arrested 29 people, including Deka, in the case with the government asserting the guilty will not be spared. Meanwhile, the reconstituted State Level Police Recruitment Board, which conducts the examination, on Friday announced that the written test for recruitment of 597 posts of sub-inspectors of Assam police, which was cancelled on September 20, will now be held on November 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
03-10-2020||Opinion||Sharif’s fight to the finish  ||Is it a last throw of the dice for Nawaz Sharif? Or has he marshalled together a political coalition that’s strong enough to end this pretence that a civilian calls the shots in Pakistan and truly send the army back to the barracks? Nawaz Sharif found his political innings as Pakistan prime minister in 1990 cut short when he crossed an invisible red line laid down by military-intelligence, just as he did during both his later stints as prime minister.  The manner in which both the military and the judiciary, crippled the functioning of successive civilian-led governments, be it the Sharif, Bhutto or Zardari dispensations, is an open secret. In fact, former premier Benazir Bhutto once revealed to this writer that she was never privy to the defence budget, and that she was told by then President Ghulam Ishaq Khan that it did not come under her purview even if she was prime minister. By calling out Pakistan Army chief Gen. Qamar Javed  Bajwa for playing political puppeteer, accusing him of propping up a government fronted by Prime Minister Imran Khan that wouldn’t last a minute if the army removed its protective umbrella, Sharif has thrown down the gauntlet and said the unsayable. But this time there is a key difference. Unlike the previous acts of defiance where he unsuccessfully played a lone David to the ‘deep state’s’ Goliath, this time he is part of the 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement that includes not just his own faction of the Pakistan Muslim League and Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party, but also the right-wing, Jamiat-Ulema-e-Islam (Fazl)’s Maulana Fazlur Rehman. Dubbed ‘Maulana Diesel’ (for alleged involvement in a diesel scam and Imran Khan was particularly fond of repeating the nickname), the JUI-F leader is the prime minister’s arch-rival in his home state of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Once the army’s favoured point man, Fazlur Rehman’s street protests brought Islamabad to a standstill a little more than a year ago. Angered by the army’s backing of arch-rival Imran Khan, the religious leader openly accused the military’s counter-intelligence wing, Inter Services Intelligence of closing off election booths early to rig the 2018 vote in favour of Khan. His rage has not dimmed. The army knows it must tread softly. Together these parties wield considerable clout. The Punjab-centric army has witnessed first-hand, Rehman’s ability to mobilise the masses, drawn from the madrassas and religious seminaries he controls across KP and Punjab. Besides that, the PML(N) enjoys grassroots support in Punjab and southern Sindh and the PPP's hold over Sindh and Sardar Akhtar Mengel’s Balochistan National Party in Balochistan, should not be underestimated Fazlur Rehman’s scheduled to launch the countrywide opposition demonstrations on October 11 from the Balochistan capital, Quetta. But his ability to go the distance – his Long March in 2019 fizzled out with little explanation – has always been under question. Similarly, the two mainstream parties know the army can hit them hard. Both are mired in a multitude of corruption cases that give the army a convenient stick to beat them into submission. The establishment has already hit back. PML (N) leader Shahbaz Sharif was arrested days after his brother’s speech from exile in London. Shahbaz’ daughter and wife have been charged and face jail. His son, Hamza despite testing positive for Covid-19 remains behind bars. Neither the elder Sharif nor his daughter and political heir Maryam can expect anything different. The battery of opposition leaders knows exactly what they are up against. Since the country’s inception, the establishment has influenced a pliant judiciary and a questionable electoral machinery, while fostering a legion of apologists among the political class and an army of jihadists. An increasingly intimidated press is on the receiving end of the midnight phone call, endless court cases, jail time and ‘disappearances’; The incarceration of media mogul Mir Shakilur Rehman of the Dawn Group being a classic example. If the protests must gain traction among the masses, Sharif must stay on message, on showing up Imran as ‘incompetent’ and the army’s ‘clean’ credentials as dubious. It’s a tricky manouevre. But in red-flagging the financial wrongdoing of retired general Lt. Gen Asim Bajwa, who heads the big ticket $87 billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor, and remains one of Imran’s advisers, (the PM refused to accept his resignation), Sharif may have struck unexpected gold. It gave his frontal attack on army chief Gen. Bajwa whom he publicly holds responsible for Pakistan’s economic collapse and confused foreign policy, alienating mentors Saudi Arabia and the UAE, far more credence. But with the army so deeply enmeshed in Pakistan’s political and strategic calculus, and Prime Minister Khan, army chief Gen. Bajwa, the ISI’s Lt. Gen. Hameed and Interior Minister Brig. (retd) Ejaz Shah, all virtual extensions of each other, it is impossible to separate civilians from khaki. Bajwa and Hameed have been inducted in the newly created National Development Council set up by Imran to revive the economy. A slew of retired generals hold other key positions in government. Hameed, whom the opposition holds responsible for bringing Imran to power in the 2018 polls and stoking street protests by the Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan that swept away Sharif’s legitimately elected government in 2017, has all but been anointed Bajwa’s successor. Imran’s first reaction to Sharif’s shredding of the army was to accuse him of appeasing India. The premier’s camp was quick to claim that it was the ‘no deal’, i.e. the army chief’s refusal to let Nawaz and his daughter off the hook, his insistence they face the court cases, that was responsible for the former premier’s vicious attack on the army. This was followed by leak after calculated leak that enlarged on the same theme. Army camp-follower Shaikh Rasheed spoke of a top secret summons to Shahbaz and PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari to Rawalpindi GHQ, purportedly to discuss matters of national interest over a convivial lunch with the brass, which turned into a conversation about the fate of Nawaz. It gave the feisty Maryam Nawaz the chance to reinforce her father’s charge that the army was influencing government policy. But her voice was drowned by Rasheed’s second and far more damaging leak, about a Sharif emissary, meeting with Gen. Bajwa to plead with the general to personally intercede and end the targeted persecution of Nawaz and daughter Maryam. On Wednesday, there was another attempt by the establishment to muddy the waters by revealing that Fazlur Rehman and other members of the JUI like Maulana Gafoor Hyderi were also holding secret meetings with the army. The two clerics hit back saying that it was the army chief who had summoned them and had held forth, at length, on what he was going to do to Nawaz Sharif and that the JUI must not interfere! Opposition unity is key. It must have taken extraordinary courage and foresight for a relative greenhorn like PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, to initiate that telephone call to Sharif, that set the ball of opposition unity rolling. For Sharif, it was uncannily similar to the call that Bilawal’s mother, Benazir and he, shared 13 years ago, when the two forged a pact to return to Pakistan and confront President Gen. Pervez Musharraf. Benazir paid for that flash of guts and glory with her life in December 2007. The answer to why the Sharifs, the Zardari-Bhuttos and the Fazlur Rehmans might come together against the army, are not too far to seek.  For these opposition stalwarts, giving the ‘state within the state’ the more appropriate tag of ‘state above the state’, is a collective 'aha' moment. It's now or never. For Nawaz, it is also extremely personal. With one eye on his legacy and his place in history, he has thrown caution to the winds, knowing that any return home on the army’s terms, would spell a political sunset for himself and the rest of the Sharif clan: a quid pro quo to an end to his persecution. Admitting privately that this is not the legacy he wants to leave, unwilling for his own place in history to be marred by the tag that he took dictation from Rawalpindi GHQ, his visceral attack on the Army may have precipitated a coalescing of the opposition, a confrontation unlike any other that Pakistan’s deep state has hitherto, had to deal with. When the opposition rolls out its heavies on October 11, the military will be presented with a dilemma. Will the Pakistan army come out on the streets to take on this combined force of opposition leaders? Or will it take the subtler approach and play one off against the other and destroy the alliance from within. Or will it back down, engineer a compromise - Imran Khan's government stepping down, making way for a caretaker government until fresh elections are called? Chaos or confrontation, few expect the Sharif-led oppositions' act of defiance to end without some result. The writer, an expert on South Asia, is the author of The Assassination of Rajiv Gandhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
03-10-2020||Opinion||Ill omen: Donald and Melania Trump test Covid positive||Sir — It is sad and, to some extent, surprising to hear that the incumbent president of the United States of America, Donald Trump — he is running for re-election to the top post of the country — and the First Lady, Melania Trump, have tested positive for Covid-19 just 31 days before the presidential polls. One wishes them a speedy recovery. Trump has often made headlines for his ambivalent and cavalier attitude towards wearing masks and maintaining social distance. While pulling a mask out of his pocket during the first presidential debate in Ohio and saying, “I wear masks when needed”, Trump also mocked the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, for wearing the “biggest mask” he had “ever seen”. Few believe his promise of a vaccine before election day, which is November 3. In the US, the number of Covid-19 cases has exceeded 7.16 million and the death toll has climbed past 2,05,500. This is not a moment to gloat over the suffering of another, but it must be emphasized that a pandemic is better responded to in a scientific manner. Trump cannot be blamed for catching the infection, for anyone can contract the virus. Life, after all, is full of uncertainties. Even so, it is important to take precautionary measures suggested by medical experts to protect oneself and others during a global contagion. Trump attended crowded rallies with little to no distancing and many onlookers without masks. A contagious disease is indifferent to one’s station in life and does not distinguish between the powerful and the weak. Trump’s illness has belied his claim that the ‘virus is behind us’. Diagnosed with coronavirus infection, the US president will now be in quarantine for at least a fortnight as the incubation period of the novel coronavirus can go up to 14 days; he will be unable to be on the campaign trail as a sick man or as a convalescent; his suffering may get him a bit of sympathy from some American voters, but it may fall well short in terms of him being able to catch up with his rival, Biden. The dismal state of the economy and the plummeting of markets will only add to his woes and detract from his chances of winning. It has been said that Trump is a healthy individual, even if not fit as a fiddle; the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, is convinced  that Trump’s ‘vitality’ will help him fight the virus; one hopes that Trump recovers.G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is not surprising that Donald Trump and his wife, Melania, have contracted the coronavirus; the US president has never lost a chance to make his disregard for the seriousness of the pandemic clear. He has publicly been derisive about the use of masks and physical distancing norms. One hopes that this setback will not only teach him to respect the word of scientists and acknowledge the gravity of the global situation, but will also drive home the fact that his presidential campaign for re-election must involve responsible rhetoric with regard to the disease. Anita Mookerjee,New Delhi Sir — Donald Trump must be regretting the fact that he showed disrespect at the Ohio presidential debate towards Joe Biden’s decision to wear a mask. Now that the former has tested positive for Covid-19, will his stance towards the pandemic become more reasonable? There is a vast segment of the American population that does not believe in wearing masks; this is deeply worrying and it is Trump’s job as their leader to show them the right path. Rushaad Faiz,Calcutta Pray together Sir — It was deeply heartening to read that on the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of M.K. Gandhi, the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad organized a multi-faith prayer meet with limited attendance. This event is of special significance not just because of Gandhi’s ideals, but also because the state of Gujarat has a troubled and chequered history of communal violence. Minority communities have also borne the brunt of being blamed for the spread of the coronavirus. Meets such as this will hopefully help dispel false narratives and promote unity. Radhika Ahuja,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Opinion||Telling tales: Modi and his storytelling||There was a time, in the not-too-distant past, when Indian children would refuse to doze off to the land of sleep unless adults — mothers, grandmothers or even the domestic help — told them a story or two. Their demand was anything but juvenile. It was consistent with a culture that had endorsed, and nursed with care, a grand tradition of storytelling. Indeed, the story of India cannot be told without referring to the greatest stories that have been passed down, from one generation to another, orally, scrawled on palm leaves or, with the evolution of technology, scribbled on paper. Some of the most venerated texts — the epics are an example — are seemingly a ceaseless and wondrous source of timeless stories. The prime minister must, therefore, be complimented for referring to India’s unmatched ability to tell stories. But Narendra Modi is a worried man: he believes that the country is losing its grip on this precious art. Is it possible that Mr Modi is deluded? This is not being stated in jest. For the prime minister, even his rivals would concede, is one of the most gifted storytellers that the political firmament has produced. Some of the stories chronicled by Mr Modi — be it in Parliament, in the course of his rousing, fiery public speeches, or in his radio address that, apparently, comes straight from his heart — have assumed mythical dimensions. These days, Mr Modi tells a rather tall tale of three pieces of agricultural legislations delivering liberation to farmers. This was preceded by another yarn — this time on the floor of an august House — about not an inch of a mountainous land being lost to an aggressor. Mr Modi is skilled not only in narration but also in writing. In a letter to the nation that coincided with the first anniversary of his return to power, the prime minister promised that India, crippled by a pandemic, would set an example of economic revival to the world. This tale, Mr Modi’s legion of admirers would nod in agreement, should rank with the other, equally memorable, parable that had claimed that demonetization would purge the nation of black money. A good story, a celebrated modern writer believes, has the ability to blur the lines between truth and all that lies beyond it. But this merging of borders cannot take place without a verdant imagination. Mr Modi is certainly blessed with imagination. In fact, it can be said that he is a bit too imaginative. Excess, the wise ones had prophesied, may not turn out to be a blessing. That could be the reason why Mr Modi’s stories, in recent times, are having an unintended effect. Instead of gently guiding his listeners to repose, they seem to be jolting them into a state of bitter wakefulness. Now that cannot augur well for the prime minister and his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Opinion||Fierce power: 'Tantra' at the British Museum||How the “Tantric goddess Kali” was deployed by freedom fighters in Bengal was highlighted by Imma Ramos, curator of a “landmark” exhibition at the British Museum, Tantra: enlightenment to revolution. Bringing focus to the exhibition’s representative image, she told us: “This figure of the Tantric Goddess Kali dates from the late 19th century and was made in Bengal, an early centre of Tantra as well as the nucleus of British rule. Indian revolutionaries in Bengal harnessed Kali’s radical potential, playing on British anxiety and paranoia. They reimagined her and other Tantric goddesses as figureheads of resistance, and symbols of an independent India rising up against the British. Kali was completely misunderstood by Christian missionaries and colonial officials. In 1917, Bipin Chandra Pal, a prominent activist, is quoted as describing Kali as a symbol that could ‘arouse the dormant energies of the nation and lead it on to realise its highest destiny’.” Ramos also displayed a three-metre-tall mixed media painting, Housewives with Steak Knives, by the British conceptual artist, Sutapa Biswas, which “challenges the stereotype of the submissive wife confined to the kitchen”. Tantra, continued Ramos, “is in no way a marginal movement. It’s really very much a part of popular Hinduism and Buddhism today. Kali Puja, for example, is coming soon as is Durga Puja. These are big popular celebrations, particularly in Bengal.” She added that in the swinging sixties in Britain, “Tantra becomes associated with the free love movement. Mick Jagger had a logo designed for the Rolling Stones inspired by Kali, chosen to convey the band’s rebellious anti-establishment spirit.” The lead sponsor for the exhibition is the Bagri Foundation, the trustees of which are Apurv and Alka Bagri and their daughters, Aditi and Amisha. The foundation was set up in 1990 by Apurv’s father, the late Lord Raj Kumar Bagri, who was born in Calcutta in 1930, began life at 15 as a filing clerk, came to London in 1959 and made history as the first Indian chairman of the London Metal Exchange. Bring about change The Baftas are the British equivalent of the Oscars and the organization that awards them — the British Academy of Film and Television Arts — has a new chairman: Krishnendu Majumdar. In order to achieve ‘greater diversity and a level playing field’, he has announced 120 far-reaching changes, including extending the membership to include more black and Asian people. The Welsh-born Majumdar, who is 45 years old and himself an Emmy-winning producer and director, is the first non-white chairman of the Bafta and one of the youngest since it was set up in 1947 by David Lean and Laurence Olivier. Majumdar feels he has “Bengali roots entwined with a Welsh upbringing” and “supports India in cricket, Wales in rugby”. His mother, Jharna, still lives in Wales. His father, Rupendra Kumar Majumdar, who arrived from Calcutta in 1962 and practised as a doctor with the National Health Service in South Wales for 40 years, passed away aged 86 in 2017. In autumn 2018, Majumdar visited Calcutta to meet his relatives after having taken his father’s ashes to Varanasi. He tells me that the puja committee set up by his parents in Wales in 1973 “is still going strong”. Glance back All at once, many of the editors I have worked for are in the news. Paul Dacre, the former editor of the Daily Mail, is being tipped as the next chairman of Ofcom, the broadcasting and media watchdog. He was apparently feared by his staff who addressed him as “The Editor”, never as Paul. He is viewed as a nightmare by the Left. But the Paul I knew as deputy news editor, news editor, foreign editor and features editor was considerate and intelligent. But then the editor was Sir David English, whom I would bracket with Sir Harold Evans as “the greatest editor of all time”, an accolade given to the latter because of his campaigning stewardship of the Sunday Times from 1967 to 1981. By the time I joined the Sunday Times, Andrew Neil had taken over. He has just announced he is leaving the BBC to become chairman of a new TV enterprise, GB News. The Left are also trying to stop Boris Johnson from appointing the recently ennobled Charles Moore, the former editor of the Sunday Telegraph and the Daily Telegraph, as the next chairman of the BBC. I found Charles to be a very civilized and liberal man. The one time he insisted I do something was to instruct me to cover Ramola Bachchan’s parties at her Hampstead home and report on the burgeoning Indian social scene in London. People do change, of course, but I have generally found right-wing editors and newspapers are often the most “liberal” behind the scenes.Footnote The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, ought to be flattered that he will not be overlooked in the new series of the satirical puppet show, Spitting Image, which returns to British TV today after an absence of 24 years. Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, Boris Johnson, his adviser, Dominic Cummings, as well Kim Kardashian, Greta Thunberg and Meghan Markle will all be “mercilessly lampooned”. In the heyday of Spitting Image, the former British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, in a man’s suit, was shown bashing her cabinet ministers with her handbag. This time, with the new series, the programme makers are threatening “an iconic British satirical take on global events”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Opinion||No stranger to irony||Whether or not he realized it, death must have been a merciful release for Jaswant Singh. The last bhadralok in politics was spared Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav’s unmasking of colleagues who actually tried to stop the Babri Masjid being vandalized on December 6, 1992. Only Narendra Modi’s elaborate bhoomi pujan saved the proposed Ram mandir from mlechha fifth columnists like Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi who had been masquerading as Hindutva stalwarts. Jaswant Singh was no stranger to such ironies. Adapting E.M. Forster’s comment on the Alexandrian poet, Constantine Cavafy, he stood “at a slight angle to the universe.” That explains his not becoming Lok Sabha Speaker, why he was defeated in the election for vice-president, the Bharatiya Janata Party he helped to found twice expelling him, and why at the end he was an unsuccessful independent candidate. His vision defied all straitjackets while his integrity spurned crude populist tactics. Apart from revealing a passion for antiquity, the ancient drawings that decorated his office also proclaimed rejection of the Akhand Bharat concept. India had always been a nation, he told me, never a state. “You can’t find a single map of India before British times”. Yet, he had no compunction as external affairs minister about telling Bill Clinton that there was “no possibility of mediation, inter-mediation or facilitation when it comes to the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir”. He was more supportive of the United States of America than most Indian politicians but refused support once the Gulf War had begun. The “aberration” — his word — of wartime help for a belligerent offended his Rajput code of chivalry. That mix of ideals and pragmatism might have bestowed respectability on conservative politics at a time when the right seems to be running amok in so many countries. Apart from the flash in the pan of Chakravarti Rajagopalachari’s Swatantra Party, the liberal secular right has never had a chance in India. It was too tame for the passions that ignite India’s political activity, whether of Marxist-Leninist revolutionaries or fanatical adherents of fossilized rites and rituals. The Congress umbrella traditionally provided shelter to a range of opinions so that Indira Gandhi could say with prima facie justification that it was both government and Opposition at the same time. But Donald Trump’s refusal to condemn white supremacists during Tuesday’s debate with Joe Biden needed no interpreting here. Indians cannot forget Modi’s sharply contrasting responses to the Godhra outrage and Gujarat killings, his rejection of the courtesy of a Muslim cap, and snide references to Sonia Gandhi’s political secretary, Ahmed Patel, as “Ahmed Mian”. With almost every prestigious institution suborned, the future could not be more bleak. Instead of planning post-pandemic reconstruction, a bankrupt India invites annual remittances abroad of $2,50,000 while it stumbles from one rape-and-murder horror to another in a state whose chief minister drapes himself in the saffron of Hindu piety. Amnesty International’s complaint of ‘incessant witch-hunting’ and the revelation that a student commits suicide every hour during which the country’s richest tycoon rakes in Rs 90 crore expose the extent of degeneration. Dogma and authoritarianism at the top encourage barbarism at the bottom. Despite his contempt for Jawaharlal Nehru’s poor Hindi and cultural alienation (“I believe nothing Indian infused his spirit”), Jaswant Singh’s progressive liberalism was closest to Nehru’s. He was amused when Westerners called him the most modern man in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s circle. Modern for him was a state of mind, not a matter of style. Similarly, traditional was a question of values, not donning outsize turbans. He thought Rajiv Gandhi’s Class of Eighty-four, hailed as modernizers, “cynical” and “self-absorbed”. Their materialism sickened him. “They think everything is a managerial problem whereas governing India takes an almost Tolstoyan compassion.” He responded to Bofors with the epigram, “Jahan raja bepari, praja bikhari!” Yet, the liberality with which he served Scotch (before India’s newly rich mastered the vulgarity of demanding “single-malt”) indicated he was neither ascetic nor Hindutva fanatic. I don’t know whether he subscribed to the politicized belief that Ram was born on the site of the Babri Masjid but he certainly disdainfully dismissed the idols that had been smuggled into the mosque to strengthen the legend of continuity. They were crude earthen images bought at some village mela, he said. He was proud too, of not belonging to any of the senas that seem to fulfil the storm-troopers function of the American neo-fascist group, Proud Boys, which is basking now in the apparent endorsement of Trump’s “stand back and stand by” call. If all this sounds rather solemn, Jaswant’s ability to lighten statecraft by laughing at himself was evident at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ meets in Singapore. “Now that Madeleine [Albright, US secretary of state] has left, we can all dialogue...” he sang before plunging into a witty take-off of Lewis Carroll’s “You are Old, Father William”. Amidst jolly references to buses to Lahore, recaptured peaks (Kargil) and the Asia-Europe conference without India as “Hamlet sans the prince”, the dialogue touched on his seemingly endless talks with Strobe Talbott, Albright’s deputy. Question: “You are sharp, Mr Singh, and one must suppose/ That your eye is steady as ever/ For you balance Strobe on the end of your nose/ What makes you so awfully clever? Minister: “That’s because my nose is very long/ In my youth, I used to butt and rebutt/ But my book will tell of the lance,/ Which I used on the good Mr Talbott./ Could I sell you a copy in advance?” Unlike even unlikely politicians like Jyoti Basu, he never sent me a Christmas card. But some years he would send a picture postcard of a horse. Perhaps they were all of the same splendid looking animal, “Hazaa — Grey Arab stallion. From Meqbila Saudi — (dam), by Rawash Saudi — (sire). Gift from H.M. The King of Saudi Arabia”. If it meant he trusted horses (of breeding, naturally) more than men, perhaps he had reason to do so. I never got round to asking him. I shall always regret having to turn down his invitation for an elaborate tour of Rajasthan. Our last encounter was on January 4, 2014 when he released the revised edition of Smash and Grab: Annexation of Sikkim at Calcutta’s Crossword bookstore. Jaswant explained to the audience that he had to accept my invitation because I had written that I would understand if he didn’t. That pricked his pride. The background was that I had originally asked a dashing young Congress politician I had known since his childhood. He ignored repeated letters and messages although his secretary assured me he read them all. Clearly, an ambitious young politician on the make did not want to risk being associated with my unfashionable take on Sikkim. It would be too simplistic to say Jaswant could afford to take risks because to be born rich is to be born free. Indians become billionaires because — not in spite — of the government. Reporters at the Crossword event gathered thickly round Jaswant Singh with one question: would he stand again from Darjeeling? He was coaxed and wheedled, begged and hectored; the question was reiterated in many forms. Old hand at the game, he gave nothing away without giving offence. The result was that the evening’s raison d’être, the book launch, received no coverage. The reporters present must have gone home disappointed. Aware of Jaswant’s troubled relations with the BJP leadership, they had hoped for exciting tidbits of political gossip. With him gone, India awaits a forward-looking leader who carries no tribal baggage and is free of primitive phobias. Such a man might yet succeed in mobilizing majority sentiment without confusing conservatism with bigotry. It might still be possible to position the BJP as a rational mainstream party of the constructive right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases drop below 11,000 after recovery rate crosses 86%||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand dropped below 11,000 for the first time since August after 1,176 patients recovered from the infection across the state on Saturday, taking the recovery rate to 86.47 per cent, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, as many as 877 people were found infected during the day across Jharkhand, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to above 86,000. Saturday’s findings take the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand to 86,277 and the number of active cases to 10,939. The number of active cases, however, increased in Ranchi after the district reported 384 cases of infection against 353 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 3,356 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi. The number of active cases reduced significantly in East Singhbhum after only 61 cases of infection surfaced in the district against 246 recoveries. The number of active cases of infection in East Singhbhum stood at 1,965 on Saturday night. Ranchi reported two of the five deaths in Jharkhand on Saturday, while East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela reported one death each. As per government data, the Covid-19 toll in East Singhbhum reached 306 on Saturday, while the toll in Ranchi jumped to 124. As per figures with the health department, Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for around 60 per cent of casualties in Jharkhand. Of the 734 Covid-19 victims in the state, at least 544 were older than 50 year, while 145 were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, the NHM highlighted. More than 80 per cent of the deceased in Jharkhand were men, government data showed. Health workers on Saturday tested swab samples of 38,327 people across Jharkhand and 877 of them came positive. The government has so far collected swab samples of 23.70 lakh people and tested 23.63 lakh of them. As per government data, Saturday’s findings took Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate to 86.47 per cent, while the mortality rate further dropped to 0.85 per cent. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was 83.80 per cent and the mortality rate was 1.60 per cent. As many as 76,604 of the 86,000-odd people infected by the coronavirus in Jharkhand have recovered so far, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cheer after vultures spotted near Koderma school||News of more than 100 vultures being spotted behind a school in Koderma’s Jhumri Telaiya has been welcomed by officials and conservationists. The conservator of forests, Hazaribagh, reached the spot to confirm the news. Officials said this was a good sign as vultures are friends of humans who prey on carcasses and keep the environment clean. The officials added that they were excited to see the birds in Koderma and plan to start feeding them. Sources said that after residents spotted the vultures behind Gandhi School, they informed local journalists following which a forest department team reached the spot. The team said it was after a gap of 10-15 years that they were seeing vultures in such large numbers in the district. Hazaribagh-based wildlife expert Satya Prakash said vultures are found in large numbers in areas of Hazaribagh and its surrounding districts. He said a plan was needed for their conservation and to save them from extinction. He said the country has 10 safe zones for vultures, one of which is Hazaribagh. Koderma divisional forest officer Suraj Kumar Singh said the department was happy to see the vultures in such large numbers at one spot in the district.“We will soon send a proposal on a vulture conservation scheme to Ranchi,” he added. Singh said migratory birds visit the Telaiya dam in large numbers. However, the department has been getting reports of poaching. The department will raise watchtowers to keep an eye on poachers. Conservator Ajeet Singh said vultures are important parts of the ecosystem. He pointed out that cheap medicines used to treat animals were affecting the health of vultures who eat their carcass. “We must be very careful and save the vultures. Their absence could invite an epidemic,” he said. He said a vulture census was on in the state and efforts were being made to increase their numbers. He said a wildlife management plan will be made to save vultures in Koderma on the lines of Hazaribagh district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Munda defends farm laws, says Cong spreading misinformation||Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda defended the farm laws recently passed by Parliament and signed on by President Ramnath Kovind amid widespread protests, saying  t the acts would transform the lives of farmers in India by allowing them to sell their produce in the international market while getting maximum possible returns without having to deal with middlemen. “This law will double the income of farmers, increase yield and ensure quality production,” Munda told the media at the state BJP headquarters on Saturday. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 have been challenged by the Opposition at the Centre while some states have also decided to knock at the door of the apex court against the laws. While Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Punjab have said they might not implement the new laws, Kerala and Punjab have declared their intention to challenge them in the Supreme Court. However, Munda said that the Congress party and some other Opposition parties were spreading confusion regarding the acts in order to politicise the matter. “Farmers from Congress-ruled states were also consulted before framing the laws. The government is working in favour of farmers and aims at ensuring maximum benefit and conducive working environment for farmers,” the Union minister said. He said the Opposition was only concerned about the benefits of capitalists, while it was overlooking the benefits of farmers. “From a global perspective, this bill is in the interest of farmers. In the open market, farmers will now be able to sell their crop without any tax,” Munda added. There is immense potential of fish farming in the country, and the latest agrarian law includes fisheries. The laws, he said, will provide e-trading opportunities to farmers. “At least 10,000 farmer groups are being formed in the country. These groups will work in the direction of adding small farmers to bring their crops to market,” Munda said, adding that farmers will get an assurance of price before sowing and the price will increase as per the market value. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, provides for contract farming, under which farmers will produce crops as per contract with corporates for a mutually agreed remuneration. Opposition parties fear that investors would bind farmers in unfavourable contracts which could lead to exploitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Raiyat agitation in Barkagaon deals body blow to coal trade||A raiyat agitation in Hazaribagh’s Barkagaon against NTPC Ltd has affected business operations in the area, causing losses to the tune of crores to the central and state governments. The agitation since September 2 has resulted in losses of Rs 67.71 crore to the Centre and Rs 31.24 crore to the state, officials said. NTPC too has suffered total losses of Rs 91.2 crore. Around 5.5 lakh tonne of coal stock has caught fire, prompting NTPC to launch a major operation to save the stocks at eight different spots. A team of NTPC officials met deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand on Saturday evening, requesting that a solution be found to the impasse. NTPC’s public relation officer, Vijay Juval, said that 40,000 metric tonne of coal would be loaded every day to be sent to 21 plants of the corporation in various parts of the country. He said that apart from the losses to the Centre, state and NTPC, the railways too has suffered losses of Rs 9 crore due to the agitation. The owners of vehicles involved in the transportation of coal are facing problems in paying their EMIs, while a large number of casual labourers have been rendered jobless because of the agitation. Residents of 12 panchayats in Barkagaon have been protesting since September 2. They are being led by local MLA, the Congress’s Amba Prasad. The protesters are demanding adequate monetary compensation and jobs under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. After the state government constituted a panel under North Chotanagpur commissioner Kamal John Lakra, the villagers had called off their agitation in July. But they resumed their protest in September after getting no concrete assurances from the government. The panel submitted its report to the secretary of the state land reforms and revenue department, Kamal Kishore Soan, on August 31. NTPC officials, who didn’t want to be named, said a high-level meeting took place in Ranchi on September 18 where a decision was taken to allow the corporation to resume work. However, the deadlock remains, and officials have claimed that they are getting threats from goons who visit the work site daily. Juval said NTPC was leaving no stone unturned in trying to save the coal stocks. On Saturday, a high-level team of NTPC officials, led by executive officer Prashant Kashyap, met deputy commissioner Anand and superintendent of police Karthik S. Anand directed Sadar subdivisional officer Vidya Bhushan Kumar to meet the agitators and find a solution at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||AJSU Party to back BJP in the two November 3 byelections||The Sudesh Mahto-led AJSU Party will extend support to the BJP nominees in the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo, party leaders said on Saturday. Breaking their decades-old ties, both the AJSU and BJP had fought the 2019 Assembly elections separately, hurting each other’s prospects and making it easier for the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance to form a government. Now, ahead of the polls, the NDA constituents have decided to bury the hatchet and put up a joint fight. Announcing their stand on Saturday, AJSU spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat told the media that the decision to support the BJP was taken by the party’s central leadership. “Our party chief Sudesh Mahto has decided to support BJP candidates for Dumka and Bermo bypolls. We will extend full cooperation to ensure the NDA’s victory on both the seats,” said Bhagat. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash met with Mahto at his residence on Friday to seal the negotiations in favour of the saffron camp. “AJSU has decided to support the BJP in the interest of the state and its development. We are natural allies and will oust the ruling coalition on both seats this time.” Prakash said the ruling coalition government had failed to fulfil any of its commitments since it took charge in January this year. “Under the current regime, law and order has been hit severely, pushing the state back to jungle-raj. Rapes, murders, loots and other heinous crimes are at an all-time now. People are fed up with this government. Our wins will mark the downfall of this unpopular government,” he claimed. The saffron camp is likely to announce candidates next week ahead of the nomination process beginning October 9. JMM has already announced 43-year-old Basant Soren, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother, as its candidate in Dumka. Ally Congress will put up a candidate in Bermo. For the ruling grand alliance of JMM, Congress and RJD, the bypolls will be a litmus test of its popularity since it took charge. The Dumka Assembly seat fell vacant after Hemant vacated it to retain Barhait. A bypoll was necessitated in Bermo after the demise of sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. Currently, the ruling coalition has 46 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 78 after the demise of JMM’s Madhupur MLA and state minority welfare minister on Saturday. In the 2019 Assembly polls, JMM originally won 29 seats, Congress 17 and RJD 1. This apart, two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) joined the Congress after the Assembly polls of December 2019, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur puja in a fix over 15-feet Durga idol  ||Organisers of a crowd-puller Puja in Adityapur are crestfallen at the state government’s “11th-hour” guidelines that cap the height of idols at 4 feet since they have already ordered a pratima that is around 15 feet. Fearing a confrontation with local authorities of Seraikela-Kharsawan district Jairam Sporting Club members decided on Saturday to meet chief minister Hemant Soren and seek special permission. "The state government's 11th-hour directive on the idol height has put us in a piquant situation. Like every year, we have already placed orders for idols of Goddess Durga and her children with an artist in Calcutta. The idols, the highest of which is 15 feet, ready. We have also started setting up a pandal in accordance with the height of the idols. How can we be expected to alter the size of the idol now?” said Arvind Singh, president of Jairam Sporting Club. The cub’s puja and thematic pandalS are a popular attraction of the Pujas and usually draw over three lakh pandal-hoppers during the four-day-long festival. The venue is barely 2km from the heart of Jamshedpur and a large number of steel city residents makes it a point to visit the Puja at Adityapur's M-type Colony. Singh, a former Ichagarh legislator, promised to adhere to all Covid protocols specified by the state government. “We will follow the rest of the directives aimed at maintaining social distancing during the Puja. But it is extremely difficult for us to organise a smaller idol now,” Singh, popularly referred to as Malkan Singh, said. He said when they meet the chief minister on Monday, they would request him to permit Jairam Sporting Club to go-ahead with the Puja as planned. Om Prakash, president of Jan Kalyan Morcha and resident of Adityapur, agreed with Singh and said the state government should have issued Puja guidelines much earlier. "The local administration and the state government kept mum on Puja guidelines for a long time. What is the point of issuing a directive on the height of idols so late?” he said. But the Seraikela-Kharsawan district police and administration seem to have decided to enforce the October 1 guidelines strictly. Sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said no Puja committee would be allowed to violate the directives in Adityapur, Gamharia or anywhere in Seraikela. "We will register cases under Section 188 of the IPC (violating government orders) if any Puja organiser is found to have violated the government's directive on any point," Ranjan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Minister Haji Ansari dies of cardiac arrest, 2-day state mourning||State minority welfare department minister Haji Hussain Ansari (70) died of cardiac arrest on Saturday hours after recovering from Covid-19, the first senior politician to pass away in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic. Ansari, the JMM said, died at 3pm at Medanta Hospital at Irba on the outskirst of Ranchi where he was admitted about 10 days back after testing positive for Covid-19 in addition to age related ailments. The Hemant government has declared two-day state mourning from Sunday, October 4. Monday has been declared a government holiday. Offering his condolences, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “I lost a father like figure today. Haji sahib was a stalwart among leaders of the state and played a crucial role alongside my father and JMM chief Shibu Soren during the statehood movement.” Ansari represented Madhupur constituency, part of Santhal Parganas. Although he began his political career with the Congress, he joined the JMM in the early 90s. Since then, he continued to be an integral part of the party winning from Madhupur four times since he first contested in 1995. He was the first Muslim to become minister in Jharkhand after the formation of the state in 2000. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said, “The hospital informed us that he suffered a cardiac arrest. He was admitted there after testing positive for Covid-19.  But last night (Friday) his report came negative.” Ansari is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter, a JMM functionary said. Party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said his demise was a huge loss to the party. “He was a guiding light for the party and often lived low-profile. He nurtured several leaders under his tutelage who later went on to contribute for this state and for the cause of tribals,” he remarked. Condolences poured in, cutting across the party lines. State health minister and Jamshedpur West MLA of Congress Banna Gupta said Ansari’s death was a great loss to Jharkhand politics. “If his popularity was beyond party lines, it was because of his simplicity. It’s a great loss to the state and its political discourse,” he said. BJP legislature party leader and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marnadi said he was at a loss for words. “My prayers to his family members in this hour of grief,” he added. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said Ansari was always keen to serve his constituency more than anything else, which helped him emerge as a popular face from Santhal Pargana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP workers welcome Annapurna Devi ||BJP workers welcomed recently nominated national vice president and parliamentarian Annapurna Devi in Ramgarh on Friday. Annapurna Devi said the BJP and Prime Minister Modi were following Gandhiji's ideals. "By-elections are going to be held in Bermo and Dumka. BJP will win both these seats. The collapse of the current government will begin," she said. She said that the present state government is completely confused.The government does not know what to do and what not to do. BJP district president Praveen Mehta, former president Chandrashekhar Choudhary, Ilarani Pathak, senior BJP leaders Rananjay Kumar alias Kuntu Babu, Raju Chaturvedi, Neeraj Pratap were among those who welcomed the BJP's national vice president in Ramgarh. Two minor children aged six and seven drowned and died in Mansingh Kurba area on Friday. The mishap was reported by the elder sister of one of the deceased children. The children were taking a bath in a pond situated about 40 meters away from their home. Ashok Paswan, former general secretary of scheduled caste cell of Congress on Friday accused Santosh Singh, member of All India Congress Committee of allegedly threatening to kill him. Paswan said Singh asked him to accompany him for a demonstration at the Directorate General of Mines Safety office two weeks ago as part of a protest against a private mine excavation company. "But when i didn't participate he called me on some other pretext at his home in Sri Ram Vatika and threatened to kill me by flashing a pistol and I somehow escaped by seeking forgiveness" said Paswan. The indefinite dharna started five days back by home guard jawans came to an end on Friday after district administration team assured them their grievances were being looked into by the government. Over 100 home guard jawans sat and demonstrated at Randhir Verma Chowk demanding immediate joining since their selection process was completed in 2018. A self immolation bid by the president of Naujawan Sangarsh Morcha seeking rehabilitation of displaced persons was foiled by police on Friday. Arun Kumar Mahato has made several unsuccessful attempts at self-immolation before.As soon as him and his associates reached Bokaro Steel Plant Town and Administration building, the police had surrounded them. Mahto said,“BSL should provide job and other benefits to landlosers.If the management cannot provide jobs, then our land should be returned. Otherwise we will go to any extent.” A photo exhibition showcasing Mahatma Ghandhi life was organised in Ispat Bhawan of Bokaro Steel Plant on Friday. The exhibition highlights the essence of Ghandhian thoughts through a pictorial display. As many as 100 pictures of Mahatma Gandhi that includes his childhood, his life as an advocate and civil rights activist in South Africa, his participation in the Indian freedom struggle and the activities at Sabaramati Ashram were displayed. A digital version of the same is also being displayed in the plant intranet. The exhibition will be on display for a week, said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication, BSL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Probe into Jharkhand ex-CM role in project ||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) will probe into alleged irregularities by former Jharkhand chief minister and BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das and others in the appointment of Meinhardt Singapore Private Limited as a consultant for the Ranchi sewerage-drainage project in 2005. “Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday evening ordered an inquiry from the ACB on allegation of irregularities done by Raghubar Das, who was then state urban development minister and others, in the appointment of Meinhardt as a consultant for the drainage and sewerage project of Ranchi. “The probe will be conducted under the relevant section of the laws for alleged corruption, conspiracy and irregularities in line with the recommendation of the chairperson of the common purpose committee of state Assembly, Saryu Roy, and Jharkhand High Court directive,” said a communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office. Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy, who defeated five-time legislator Das in the December 2019 Assembly polls, had on August 1 this year written to the chief minister about non-compliance of the high court order issued in September 2018 on the irregularities in appointment of Meinhardt as a consultant of the project. “The high court had in 2018 clearly asked the state government to take a decision on this matter as expeditiously as possible on the basis of the preliminary inquiry done by state vigilance bureau. But the erstwhile government had sat on the high Court ruling,” Roy had said. The MLA had said that the government had not taken action on the report of the technical committee of the vigilance bureau and five engineers-in-chief of the government which had held Das responsible for the irregularities in appointing Meinhardt as a consultant way back in 2005. Roy had been cornering Das on this issue even during election campaigning in 2019. In July this year, Roy had released a book on the irregularities done in Meinhardt’s appointment as a consultant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Indefinite satyagraha to protect Ranchi's Kanke dam||As many as 30 residents started an indefinite satyagraha on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Friday to protest against pollution and encroachment of Kanke dam, one of the main sources of water supply to Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi. The residents, under the aegis of Kanke Dam Sanrakshan Samity (Kanke Dam Conservation Committee), claimed that they were forced to stage a satyagraha after failing to get any action on the ground level to either clear the waterbody of encroachment or measures to stop the flow of drainage water into the reservoir. “We have been raising our voice against the encroachment of the water body since 2016-17 and have met successive drinking water and sanitation ministers (currently Chandra Prakash Choudhary), Ranchi MLA and erstwhile urban development minister C.P. Singh and even our local (Kanke) MLA Sammari Lal. 'However, we have only received verbal assurances but nothing has happened at the ground level. The residents of Pathragonda, Hatiagonda, Laxminagar, Sonso, Hesel and Kathalgonda (all residential areas near Kanke dam) had no option but to start an indefinite satyagraha near the dam. “We would continue our satyagraha till the government gives us a deadline on starting the removal of encroachment and cleaning up the waterbody,” said Amritesh Pathak, a social activist spearheading the agitation. Incidentally, Kanke dam, spread over nearly 450 acres, along with Getalsud and Hatia dam are among the three reservoirs that supply water to the state capital. Kanke dam has a water capacity of 20 feet. Catchment areas of the dam have been encroached with concrete structures at several places. This apart, effluents from factories and drain water from residential areas flow into the dam. “The dam which was built in 1954 has not been desilted even once. One can see algal growth due to the pollution which is affecting not only aquatic species and fish but also affecting water quality. “Solid waste has reduced the water quantity and a stink emanates from the waterbody during summer. If urgent action is not carried out, we would witness a manmade water crisis right in front of us,” activist Pathak said. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) chief executive officer Mukesh Kumar said that the removal of encroachment along the waterbody comes under the purview of the district administration. Several attempts to contact Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan on his mobile phone failed to elicit any response. Jharkhand drinking water, sanitation and water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, however, assured that the government has already started the process of removal of encroachment along the Kanke dam. “On the directive of the chief minister (Hemant Soren) around four months ago, a special committee set up by Ranchi district administration had issued notices to the encroachers to provide documents about their holdings. So far none of them have been able to produce any documents. “We will soon start eviction of the encroachers. The RMC has already started preparing a proposal on setting up solid waste treatment plants (STPs) and putting up mesh on the drain outlets to prevent pollution of the waterbody,” said Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Funds crunch prevents Bokaro hospital from installing plasma bank||A funds crunch has prevented the dedicated Covid-19 unit at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) from starting plasma therapy even as other healthcare units across the state are offering the facility. The BGH management claimed that it has asked the district administration to provide funds for the equipment needed to start a plasma bank. Health department officials, however, feel that BGH, being a unit of Maharatna Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), can easily buy the equipment. Civil surgeon Dr Ashok Pathak said that a “move to install a plasma therapy unit at BGH was undertaken but hasn’t been fulfilled yet. We are still in the process of installing it.” In the first week of August, BGH began working on a plan to soon start convalescent plasma therapy as well as plasmapheresis amid rising symptomatic and serious Covid-19 cases. The hospital had begun preparing a database of cured patients. The official in charge of BGH’s blood bank, Dr Shravan, had been asked to maintain the contact numbers, blood groups and the dates of discharge of Covid-19 patients. The database was meant to help in reaching out to cured patients for plasma donation. The hospital authorities could also administer plasma directly to serious Covid-19 patients as part of convalescent plasma therapy. “As per ICMR guidelines, a person is eligible for plasma donation only after 14 days of recovery and if tests for the coronavirus on RT-PCR come negative,” said a BGH official. He said: “People who’ve recovered from Covid-19 have antibodies, which are proteins their bodies use to fight off infections to the disease, in their blood.” Since April, more than 450 patients of the coronavirus have been admitted to BGH. Apart from a dozen deaths and cases that were referred elsewhere, other patients have been cured. Currently, there are more than 30 positive patients at BGH. A plasma bank at the hospital would have been one of the biggest in the state. A plasma bank requires a plasmapheresis machine and two freezers which cost around Rs 30 lakh. BGH’s inability to procure the machines has prompted heated debate. Convalescent plasma therapy, involving taking blood from cured patients of the same blood group and administering it to the patient after separating the plasma, has not begun though it does not require any equipment. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 can donate plasma at BGH whenever a need arises. Plasma therapy may be helpful in treating patients with Covid-19 who do not respond to other forms of treatment. Doctors believe that convalescent plasma can be given to people with severe symptoms to boost their ability to fight the virus. BGH doctors, however, do not find plasma therapy of much use in treating serious patients. Other big hospitals in the state, including RIMS in Ranchi and MGM and TMH in Jamshedpur, have plasma therapy units. In convalescent plasma therapy, there is a limitation that the blood group of the cured coronavirus positive donor and the patient to be administered the treatment should be the same, but in plasmapheresis, no particular blood group is required. “It can help in forming plasma banks,” said Dr Pathak. There are many willing donors in the district. But BGH’s unwillingness to launch a plasma bank has baffled them. Some of the donors, including CISF personnel, have donated their plasma to needy patients at places as far away as Ranchi. At least 3,981 people tested positive for the coronavirus till Friday morning. Of them, 453 cases are active and 30 of the patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city begins Durga Puja preparations||Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti, the apex body which monitors pujas in the city on Friday asked organisers to place orders for idols after the state government issued guidelines. "We welcome the government guidelines on Puja. We were in a fix in absence of the guidelines. Now, things have become clear regarding the conduct of the festival.Today, we asked the Puja committees to place orders for idols as per the government specification," said Ram Babu Singh, General secretary of JDPKS. This year’s community puja count for Jamshedpur is 320, the same as last year. No new puja has been added due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the government guidelines issued on Thursday, there shall not be more than seven persons including organisers, priests and support staff present in a pandal. The pandals or mandaps will be small where rituals could be conducted without public participation. The  mandap shall be covered from all sides to prevent any public view of the idols,  permissible height of which would be 4 ft. Puja organisers will have to do away with any theme. Moreover,  decoration by lighting, music and cultural programmes  are restricted. Barring the area where the idol is placed, rest of the Puja pandal/mandap shall be open air. There will be no food stalls around the Durga Puja pandals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
