04-10-2020||Calcutta||BJP is the biggest pandemic: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday identified the BJP as “the biggest pandemic” that had “finished the country”, leading a protest in the city against the Hathras horror and broadening the scope of her attack by referring to a plethora of other problems such as the migrant crisis, economic doom, “throttling of democracy” and the hounding of Dalits and minorities. During her 30-minute address to the gathering at the base of the Gandhi statue after completing a 2.5km protest march from Birla Planetarium, the Bengal chief minister spoke at length about the Hathras atrocities — the gang rape and murder of the Dalit teen, the alleged bid to protect the accused, the attempts to silence the victim’s family and the burning of her body without her family’s consent. “The BJP is the biggest pandemic; they have finished the country,” Mamata said, also referring to the farm laws that the Centre had steamrolled through despite protests by farmers and the Opposition, and the disinvestment of public sector units. This was the first time the Trinamul Congress chief had hit the streets after the Covid-19 restrictions came into force on March 25. Through her political career, Mamata has successfully laced long walks with her politics of protest, with most of these marches having either started or ended at the Gandhi statue on the Maidan or at the Gandhi Bhavan in Beleghata. Speaking from a small dais erected next to the statue on Saturday, the chief minister said: “I felt like running to UP. My heart today is in Hathras. I had sent my representatives to Hathras yesterday (Friday), but they were stopped 1km from the village. No courtesy was extended to them, and women members of the delegation were assaulted.” She added: “They used the police to prevent us from meeting the victim’s family.… They may be successful tomorrow or the day after, but we will surely get the chance one day. And don’t forget, the Dailt girl is our daughter.” Mamata said she could not speak to the victim’s family as their phones had been taken away by the Uttar Pradesh administration. “That’s why I have come here…. We come to this place for celebrations or for protests,” she said, explaining her choice of venue a day after the 151st birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. Mamata repeatedly stressed that she had been forced to organise the protest despite the pandemic because of the Hathras tragedy, which she said had exposed the atrocities the BJP had been inflicting on people, especially Dalits and minorities. “Has anyone got justice?” Mamata asked, referring to the Delhi riots, the encounter killings in Uttar Pradesh and the attacks on minorities in various BJP-ruled states. “This is a phase of darkness in the country, but we will come out of it and that’s why we all have torches in our hands,” she added as all the participants flashed lights. “When elections come, Pakistan comes, Pulwama happens or war-mongering starts. After election, they start selling — rail, coal, BSNL or whatever they can,” Mamata said. Although the central theme of the protest was the Hathras monstrosity, Mamata broadened the programme’s ambit to address concerns over the Centre’s policies that were “spelling doom” for the poor and the deprived sections. The pandemic-induced lockdown, its impact on migrant labourers and the economy at large and the BJP-led government’s failure to resuscitate the economy also featured in her speech. “We were lectured about what to do over Covid…. But what are they doing? So many people lost their jobs; migrant workers, small-scale industries are crying. They did nothing,” Mamata said. She flagged the “throttling of democracy” under BJP rule and accused the Centre of trying to terrorise media organisations. “This is not the government of the people, for the people, by the people…. This is a government of dictatorship,” Mamata said. The Trinamul chief willy-nilly admitted that the Opposition parties remained fragmented and that the saffron camp was very much in control across the country, but ended her address on an optimistic note. “It is becoming like one nation, one political party. We are moving towards a presidential form of governance…. Opposition parties are not allowed to speak,” she said. “We will keep fighting and we will win. We will show that the BJP is not the future of this country, it’s temporary,” Mamata added. As Bengal gears up for elections in seven months, Trinamul sources said Mamata would try to energise her campaign by taking advantage of the “anti-BJP mood” in the aftermath of what had happened in Hathras. “The incident has triggered an anti-BJP mood, which Didi is using to launch a multi-pronged attack on the BJP…. This will help us build campaign momentum for the Bengal polls,” said a source close to Mamata. The chief minister has instructed Trinamul workers to hold protests by involving Dalits, minorities, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in all 341 blocks of Bengal till October 17. That Mamata had set her sights on the poll narrative became clear when she chose to respond to the BJP’s allegation that she practised the “politics of minority appeasement”. “If I try to say something, they say I pander to the Muslims…. No, I am with Muslims if they are ostracised. I am with Dalits if they are ostracised. I have only one identity and that’s humanity,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
04-10-2020||Calcutta||City decries assault on daughter||Thousands of Calcuttans hit the streets on Saturday to protest what they termed “an assault on our daughter”. A 19-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras was brutalised. That and the way police there handled the matter triggered public rage and forced people to step out of their homes and protest, keeping the fear of the pandemic out of their way. Three public rallies were organised across the city to protest the rape. Hundreds of kilometres away in Uttar Pradesh, cops tried to stop the media and politicians from entering the village where the girl had been brutalised and killed and later cremated by the police in the absence of family members. Although two of the three public rallies in Calcutta were organised by political parties — the Trinamul Congress and the Congress, along with Left Front allies — not all who participated were into party politics. Many at the rallies had stepped out of home for the first time in months during the pandemic. Some were rally first-timers. The rally led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee started from Birla Planetarium at 4pm and ended at the Gandhi statue. It saw the maximum turnout. The joint rally by the Congress and the Left Front allies started from Moulali to Esplanade in the afternoon. The third was a citizens’ rally at Park Circus. It saw a considerable turnout despite the rain and the pandemic. “People joined spontaneously. It was practically not possible to maintain distancing rules when so many people were on the road and marching. The matter is beyond any political agenda. Most of the participants were women,” an officer who was on duty at the chief minister’s rally said. The picture was nothing like what Calcutta has seen in the past couple of months when most people stayed indoors for fear of contracting the coronavirus. Sarathi Roy, a software engineer who has been working from home the past few months, was one of the participants who never walked in a public rally in the past. “If we do not raise our voice now, when will we?” Roy, who lives near Elgin Road, asked. Around 4.15pm when the head of the rally approached Park Street, the tail was still near Rabindra Sadan. The gathering later in the evening at Park Circus had people from various walks of life coming from far-off places in the city. Pragya Roy Chowdhury, a third-year student of Sanskrit College and University, was with 14 of her friends. They took public transport to reach the venue. “Even we are scared of the virus. But the oppression by the state that unfolded in Hathras did not let us stay at home. We cannot stay at home any more. We had to come,” Roy Chowdhury, a resident of Dum Dum Park, said. One of her friends drew a parallel with the condition of the migrant labourers who were aware of the consequences of stepping out during the pandemic but had to travel kilometres for survival. “It has become a battle of survival… we all have to raise our voices together,” one of her friends said. A primary schoolteacher from Rashbehari was in the gathering despite the rain in the evening. The fear of travelling in public transport did not deter her from joining. “I took a bus to reach the venue… I will again use public transport to return home,” the teacher who identified herself by her first name, Swapna, said. “The fear of Covid is in its place and that’s why I am wearing a mask. But this needs protest; so, I came.” Senior officers in Lalbazar said the turnout on the roads was “more than expected”. “So many people were on the roads irrespective of age and gender. Some were panting while walking… but they did not give up,” a traffic police officer said. Sarthak Roy Choudhury, a teacher of Gokhale Memorial Girls College, said the horror of the Hathras incident has left him sickened to the core. The nation should be in mourning as the social fabric has been torn to bits, he said. “The way the woman was brutalised makes me ashamed to be a part of the male gender.” Choudhury chose to come to a gathering despite the pandemic because protesting is the only way out. “We can’t let our country become famous for its rape culture.... The situation of hate and division on the basis of caste must stop,” he said. Poushali Basak, a research scholar at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai, said she did not mind travelling in a crowded bus to reach Park Circus despite the pandemic. “Women’s safety is an issue that has been widely advocated by our government but when it comes to ground reality we have the horror of the Hathras incident,” said Basak, who was at the protest with a friend. The widespread civil rights violations in Uttar Pradesh and the brutality of the rape cannot let anyone sit at home and contemplate. “We need to be out here on the streets and cry ourselves hoarse,” she said. Anam Zafar, a third year student at Hazra Law College, fought with her parents, who were against her going to a protest amid the pandemic, to attend Saturday’s rally. Zafar said that she firmly told her parents she needed to be out on the streets to join the protest, after which they relented. “They were worried about me contracting the coronavirus. I told them that the situation in our country is far more scary than testing positive for Covid-19 and we must do something about it,” said Zafar who stays in Park Circus. Rangoli Chatterjee, who works for a multinational company in Salt Lake Sector V, took a few hours leave to be at the protest march. The way the authorities in Uttar Pradesh were trying to intimidate the woman’s family was both very disturbing and pointed to the fact that they wanted to keep things under wraps, she said. “The woman is a Dalit — a class that has been downtrodden for a long time. However, the police and the authorities in Uttar Pradesh instead of helping them are trying to gag them. This cannot go on,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja budget tweak over hand sanitisers ||Puja organisers are replanning their budgets as they will need about 500 litres of hand sanitisers for the four main days of Durga Puja. It means an additional expenditure of Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 depending on the quality. Several medium budget puja organisers remained busy between Friday and Saturday calculating the amount of hand sanitiser they would need for visitors turning up at their pandals. “The basic quality will cost around Rs 850 for a five-litre jar. The better ones will come at Rs 1,900-2,200 for the same volume,” Soumita Adak, the marketing head of Info Silicate Systems Private Limited, said. Adak as visited several puja committees in south Calcutta and at least seven puja organisers have more or less finalised their orders for bulk supply of hand sanitisers. “Most are going for the basic quality.” Most organisers have had to slash their budgets between 40 and 50 per cent and settle for low-key pujas this year because the pandemic has robbed them of their share of sponsors and advertisers. Idols have been made shorter to save on money, lights and decorations reduced to the minimum, and pandals have been cut to size, almost literally. “The expenditure on account of hand sanitiser has left us stumped,” Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal said. “We have worked out that at least 500 litres of hand sanitisers would be needed for the four days… where do we get the money for this?” Many organisers from north to south and on the city’s eastern outskirts have been talking to suppliers for sensor-based dispensers or paddle-push dispensers. “Each of these paddle-push dispensers costs around Rs 1,800. They are made of steel and are not given out on rent,” Samir Ghosh, a dispenser distributor, said. “Several puja organisers have approached me and I have told them that you need to buy them.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that organisers would have to arrange masks and hand sanitisers for visitors apart from ensuring free air movement in pandals. In the past few days, police have told organisers to follow these steps. “This is our golden jubilee year; we will go for the top-quality hand sanitiser,” Sanjoy Majumder of State Bank Park Puja in Thakupukur said. “You can calculate the cost... we will have to bear it.” A few others have been toying with alternatives to hand sanitisers. “There is a concept of using ultraviolet rays as an alternative to hand sanitisers. We have spoken to some companies,” Kajal Sarkar of Bosepukur Sitala Mandir in Kasba said. “The health department has no directive on the use of such alternatives. So, we will go for hand sanitisers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||CMC tax relief explained||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has rolled out a penalty and interest waiver scheme for property tax defaulters on October 1. The benefits will vary depending on how fast one clears the dues. The Telegraph gives the low-down. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation Incentive (waiver of interest and penalty to property tax payers) Scheme 2020. Till May 31, 2021. Anyone who has not paid property tax against bills presented till March 31, 2020. The scheme is not applicable to them. They can apply to the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators asking for a penalty and interest waiver. The chairperson has the discretion to waive up to 50 per cent interest and up to 99 per cent penalty. If a defaulter clears dues in the first five months or by February 28, 2021, no penalty or interest will be charged. If dues are cleared after five months, 60 per cent interest and 99 per cent penalty will be waived. The penalty is calculated based on the amount of pending tax and it does not increase with time. The interest, on the other hand, keeps accumulating with time, a civic official said. An application form with the assessee and premise numbers have to be submitted. Once the form is submitted, a fresh bill with the amount to be paid, after deducting the penalty and interest, will be given to the defaulter. Forms are available both online and offline and can be submitted online or at any of the CMC’s common collection centres or any of its e-Calcutta citizen service centres. Bills can be collected online or at these centres. There are 20 such centres across the city. The list is available on the “e-Kolkata Citizen Service Centre” menu of the CMC’s website, https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. The CMC site will soon have a separate menu called waiver scheme. The process will be streamlined in a few days, a civic official said. Same as getting the form and the bill. Payment can be made at the centres or through the CMC site. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, had told Metro on the day of the scheme’s launch that the payment option would be available on the the civic body’s mobile app, KMC APP. Close to Rs 2,500 crore, an official said. It is allowed but full payment must be made within the scheme’s tenure. A gazette notification on the scheme says: “A taxpayer can make part payment during the validity period of the waiver but the entire property tax demand after waiver, as per Waiver LOI needs to be deposited during the waiver period.” A 100 per cent waiver will be given only if the dues are cleared, even in installments, in the first five months, the official said. If any installment is paid after five months, only 60 per cent interest and 99 per cent penalty will be waived on the entire amount. Only if there is no “restraining order” from court, defaulters can make use of the scheme. If the matter is sub judice and there is no restraining order, anyone making payment under the scheme will be treated as one-time settlement of property tax, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||Net woes force two to travel miles for exam||Razequl Hasan and Abdus Sami, undergraduate students of Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose College in Calcutta, have dropped the plan of uploading their final-year answer scripts from their homes because of Net connectivity problems. The two third-year students of mathematics honours reached the campus, off Rabindra Sadan, to take the test and submit the scripts in person within half an hour of the tests in accordance with the UGC directive. Since tests are not supposed to be held in colleges during the pandemic, Calcutta University decided that colleges would upload questions on their websites and students have to send back scanned answer scripts to colleges within half an hour of the exam. Purna Chandra Maity, the principal of the college, said he could understand what the students were going through as his ancestral home is in a remote village in East Midnapore district. “Besides, CU had left it to colleges to work out a way in order to meet the UGC guidelines. So, we allowed students to take the exams on the campus.” Abdus Sami, the son of a scrap dealer, lives in Praduman Chapra village in Bihar’s East Champaran district. He doesn’t have a smartphone. Nor could he ask his father or brother who works in a private farm to buy him one as the family is going through tough times during the pandemic. “The Net connectivity was already weak… it has worsened. I had to request the college to help me out.” He was among the 21 students who took the test that started at noon in a classroom in the college in Calcutta. Saturday was the Day 2 of the exams that started on October 1. The exams will end on October 8. He is staying at a friend’s place in Birati. Razequl Hasan lives in Naikanda village in Chanchal. Electricity and Net connectivity are erratic in the area. Hasan, the son of a peasant, has a smartphone; but he could not risk banking on it to send scanned answer scripts back to the college. “It is raining incessantly in our place… when it rains, the Net connectivity crashes. I requested principal Maity to let me take the exam from the college and submit the scripts on time.” He, too, is staying at a friend’s place in Belghoria. The two are among the 100-odd students who had requested the college authorities to allow them to take the exams on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||Infertility is not a disease: Doctor||Infertility is a condition and not a disease, an infertility specialist and gynaecologist said in the city on Saturday. “It is a relative condition and not an absolute one, which means a woman might not conceive at one point but with medical help the chances of conceiving improves. Therefore, we now use the term subfertile and not infertile,” Gautam Khastgir said. In Indian society, whenever a woman faces issues with conception she has to deal with questions at a social gathering, in the family or there are people who show unnecessary sympathy and it increases her anxiety, Khastgir said. “Less anxiety increases the chances of conception,” he said. He was speaking at a webinar organised by Bengal Infertility and Reproductive Therapy Hospital (Birth), a fertility centre, and Zydus Healthcare to spread awareness about fertility and to launch Khastgir’s book “100 Prosno-uttore Pregnant” in Bengali. Khastgir said the book would answer questions about reproduction. “There are so many questions that couples have about reproduction but people are shy to talk about it. Whether in school or college, reproduction is not discussed as a subject.” Saturday was the 42nd birthday of India’s first test tube baby Kanupriya Agarwal, an MBA, who joined the webinar from Mumbai. “She is India’s first test tube baby and it was conducted by Subhash Mukherjee. Two other people in the team were Sunit Mukherjee and Saroj Bhattacharya,” Khastgir said. Agarwal, the mother of a seven-year-old daughter, joined the webinar, along with her parents Bela and Prabhat Agarwal. “I was fortunate and didn’t have to go through any anxiety but my mother went through it for 20 years before my parents took this step. I believe when technology is available we should grab it with both hands,” she said. “If someone has a toothache they will seek help rather than leave it... so, if one is not able to conceive, one can seek help and not look at it any differently whether it’s reproductive or dental system. People should look at it calmly and seek the required help, psychological or physical,” she said. “In 1995, the ICMR recognised that the first test tube baby in India was done by Subhash Mukherjee. The medical community is still hoping for some recognition in the form of an award from both the state and central government,” Khastgir said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Business||Government clears limited interest waiver||The finance ministry, in an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court on Friday, said it supports the waiver of compound interest for loans under a moratorium for certain categories. The submission comes ahead of the hearing on October 5, when the court is expected to deliver its verdict in the matter. According to the affidavit submitted in the court, the government has effectively reversed its earlier stand on compound interest or ‘interest on interest’ waiver, experts feel. The ministry will support the waiver of compound interest only for the smaller borrowers, and not the large borrowers. Small ticket affordable housing loans, personal loans, education loans, MSME loans, auto loans, credit card loans up to Rs 2 crore would be considered for the compound interest waiver by the government However, in order to ensure that those borrowers who repaid loans on time are not penalised for doing so by being left out of the benefit, the government is likely to extend the relief to all borrowers of the selected categories whether they availed of the moratorium or not, added this person. The nature of this relief is still unclear, and modalities are expected to be worked out with banks in the coming days. The affidavit has been filed by Aditya Kumar Ghosh, under-secretary in the ministry of finance, after the apex court asked the government to make its position clear on the issue. The court, which will take up the Centre’s affidavit next week, had passed the earlier direction while dealing with a batch of petitions filed by UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma and several others challenging the decision of the banks to collect interest and also interest on interest during the six month moratorium period which ended on August 31, 2020. The RBI had earlier in March this year announced the moratorium on loans in view of the severe pandemic in the country. “This category of borrowers, in whose case the compounding of interests will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans up to Rs 2 crore. “In other words, any individual/entity whose loan amount is more than Rs 2 crore will not be eligible for waiver of the compounding of interests,” the ministry clarified. According to the Centre, the RBI’s intention to provide “moratorium” was never intended to be a “waiver of interests” but “deferment of interest”. “The majority of the borrowers have in fact not taken the benefit of the moratorium which is nothing but deferment of payment of installments. “If the government were to consider waiving interests on all the loan and advances to all classes and categories of borrowers corresponding to the six month period for which the moratorium was made available under the relevant RBI Circulars, the estimated amount is more than Rs 6 lakh crore,” the Centre said. By way of illustration the affidavit said in case of State Bank of India alone, waiver of six months interests would completely wipe out over half of the bank’s net worth which has accumulated over nearly 65 years of its existence. Referring to concerns over downgrading of accounts as NPAs and consequent impact on credit ratings, the government said: “Any account becoming non-performing even due to the bank’s or any other delay, need not suffer from being labeled as NPA.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||Business||Rise of 2% in electricity demand||Electricity demand is showing signs of recovery with the easing of lockdown and commercial activity getting back to operation. Central Electricity Authority (CEA) chairman Prakash Mhaske on Saturday said that the demand met in September was up 2 per cent year-on-year. “In September 2020, we have met around 177GW of demand against 173GW in September 2019, a growth of about 2 per cent,” said Mhaske at an event organised by CII. The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent preventive lockdown had resulted in a slowdown of commercial as well as industrial activities. This had reduced demand by more than 20 per cent during April 2020. “But after the gradual easing of restrictions, electricity demand has peaked and it reached almost the level of the previous year in August 2020,” he said. He added that a differential tariff structure where there is over reliance on revenue from commercial and industrial consumers to offset the subsidy given to agriculture and some residential consumers has added to the stress of the power distribution companies. Discoms are facing cash flow concerns as they had to pay fixed charges to generators even as collection of payments was affected during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||Business||Retailers in major sales push||Organised retail players have teamed up with banks to roll out festive offers for customers as they look to encourage spending that has taken a hit because of Covid-19. On Saturday, Walmart-owned Flipkart said it will host its annual “The Big Billion Days” sale from October 16-21. Its rival Amazon is expected to announce its sale dates next week. Snapdeal will hold its first sale in mid-October to coincide with Navratri festivities. Its next two sales will run in late October and early November. JioMart is already in the midst of its “Festive Ready Sale” which it claims is the festive season’s biggest grocery sale. The sale, which will end on Sunday, offers 25-50 per cent off on various items. While such offers are not uncommon among the e-tailers during the festive season, it remains to be seen if customers who have faced salary cuts and job losses will bite the bait this time around. Flipkart said it has enabled new and convenient payment offerings on its platform. It will make available no-cost EMIs through offers from Bajaj Finserv EMI cards and other bank credit and debit cards, while its partnership with Paytm will offer consumers assured cashback, it added. “In our 1,001-person survey, only 16 per cent said they saw no change in income/employment since lockdown, while 19 per cent have lost their jobs. This in turn is leading to postponement of discretionary consumption,” BofA Securities said in a recent note. At the same time, a recent report by RedSeer says that online players will benefit as consumers as still apprehensive about visiting high human touchpoint areas such as malls and retail outlets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||Business||Piyush Goyal pitches for need to focus on exports ||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday pitched for the need to focus on quality and scale to meet a $1-trillion export goal, adding that subsidies alone would not help boost shipments. “Why can’t we aim for $1 trillion of exports from India. We certainly can. For that we need to be clear on actionable items (and) subsidies are never going to get us there, I am very clear about that,” he said at a webinar organised by Exim Bank. “At least in my six years of engagement, I have not found subsidies to be the solution to India’s problems. I think it’s quality, technology, growth, scale; and sometimes for a short period, you may need to give a little thrust or support. But if they are looking at literally running a long-term engagement with the world on subsidy, it is not going to work,” the minister said. Exim Bank managing director David Rasquinha said India’s manufacturing and export sectors need to become globally competitive. According to a study by Exim Bank, specific policy initiatives could improve operational conditions and the efficiency of exporters in sectors such as gems and jewellery, textiles, apparel, automobile, electronics and pharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Caste-based meet held at former BJP MLA's home||Around 700-800 people on Sunday held a caste-based meeting at the residence of former BJP MLA Rajvir Singh Pehalvan here on the issue the death of a Dalit woman after she was sexually assaulted.  The meeting was held a day after UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a CBI probe into the incident. Heavy police force was deployed in the vicinity of the former BJP MLA's house, located around 8-9 kilometres from the victim's village.  One of the organisers of the meeting and Pehalvan's son Manveer Singh, however, denied that the gathering comprised members from the so-called upper castes and said they were from different sections of society .  We welcome the CBI inquiry ordered by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. We have faith in the investigation, Singh told PTI while claiming that the victim's family members were changing their stand .  The entire scenario has been created to blame the government. The accused persons are in favour of any type of inquiry. But the victims are changing their stand every now and then. They do not want a narco test or a CBI probe. Now they want other kinds of inquiries, he claimed.  Singh also said various legal options were being explored to defend the accused in the case. He asserted that the arrest of some of the accused persons from their homes was proof of their innocence.  Had they been guilty, they would had run away from their homes. Why would they be present in their homes, he said.  He also alleged that the Congress and the Samajwadi Party were trying to influence the victim's family as they wanted to the issue to linger on .  The caste-based meeting assumes significance as it is being held a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the victim's house and met her family members at a village in the district, and the recommendation of a CBI probe by Adityanath.  A fortnight after she was gangraped, the Dalit woman died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday at a Delhi hospital.  She was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on Wednesday. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan undergoes heart surgery||Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party patron Ram Vilas Paswan has undergone a heart surgery, his son Chirag Paswan said on Sunday.  Ram Vilas Paswan (74), who has been in active politics for more than five decades and is one of the country's most noted Dalit leaders, has been hospitalised for the last few weeks.  In a tweet, Chirag Paswan said his father underwent a heart surgery due to sudden developments on Saturday evening, which forced him to cancel a party meeting and rush to his father's side.  If needed, the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution will undergo another operation in a few weeks, he said.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh besides other senior leaders spoke to Chirag Paswan to enquire about the health of his father, LJP sources said.  Chirag Paswan thanked people for standing with him and his family in this hour of crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||LJP parts ways with JDU, will fight Bihar polls on its own||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Sunday indicated that it would fight the Bihar Assembly elections on its own and not under the leadership of JD(U) president and chief minister Nitish Kumar.  An LJP parliamentary board meeting chaired by its president Chirag Paswan instead passed a resolution in favour of an alliance with the BJP and said its MLAs would work to strengthen the hand of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  The BJP has already announced that the NDA will fight the polls under the leadership of Nitish Kumar. The BJP central election committee is meeting later in the evening to finalise the party's candidates for the three-phase Assembly election, which begins from October 28. The LJP resolution makes it clear as of now that part would fight the Bihar elections on its own. "Due to the ideological differences at the state-level with the JDU, the LJP has decided to fight the Assembly elections separately," LJP's Abdul Khaliq said in a statement, ndtv.com reported. "There can be difference of ideologies on many seats with the JDU... voters should be able to decide who they want as their candidate. The LJP wants to implement the Bihar vision document and the two parties have not been able to reach a consensus on it," the official statement underlined, stressing on the party's motto-  'Bihar first-Bihari first'. Suggesting that ties with the BJP remained intact even as it parts ways with Nitish Kumar's JDU, the party stressed: "However, we have a strong alliance with the BJP and even in Bihar, we want to continue this collaboration. There is no sourness in our relations.  After the state elections, all the candidates who win will form a BJP-LJP government and follow the path of progress shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi." Several party leaders attended the meeting including Veena Devi, Chandan Singh, Surajbhan Singh, Raju Tiwari, Prince Raj, Kali Pandey, and Abdul Khalid. The meeting, which was to be held on Saturday, was postponed after Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag’s father, was hospitalised. He underwent a heart surgery last night at a hospital in Delhi, Paswan Junior said in a tweet on Sunday morning. Prime Minster Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah called up Chirag Paswan to enquire about his father's health and told him that once his father recovers, "he will be proud of how well his son looked after him".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Shopian encounter: Hardest journey, with son in coffin||As a nomadic shepherd, Mohammad Yousuf has always been on the move but on Saturday he embarked on the most agonising journey of his life. Yousuf was accompanying his dead son Mohammad Abrar, 25, lying in a brand new wooden coffin that concealed his bullet-disfigured body, now in the early stages of decay. The bodies of Abrar — father of an 18-month-old boy — and his cousins Ibrar and Imtiyaz, killed in an alleged fake encounter by the army in Shopian in July, were exhumed early on Saturday. This was 73 days after they had been buried in the remote village of Gantimulla in Baramulla, north Kashmir. Yousuf and a few other family members had travelled all the way from their home in Rajouri, Jammu, on Friday to take the bodies back. On Saturday, the 240km trip back home felt like a journey without end. “My son’s face is smashed, as with the other guys. What had they done to deserve this? They killed my innocent son without reason,” Yousuf told The Telegraph. “I’m over 50, but never in my life have I felt so much pain during any journey. We left the village (Gantimulla) at 5.30am and would be reaching home in the evening. But this journey seems unending.” The three victims had travelled to Kashmir in search of livelihood so they could help their poor families, further impoverished by the pandemic. On July 17 night, they fell to bullets fired by the army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles at Amshipora, Shopian. The army claimed the trio were unidentified militants. As is the norm with unidentified militants, they were buried in a remote graveyard in Baramulla. On August 10, the families stumbled upon social media pictures of the three “dead militants” and realised they were their missing children. After an uproar, the police and the army launched separate investigations. Several weeks later, the police confirmed a DNA match between samples taken from the Rajouri families and the slain youths. The government has promised justice, something in short supply for bereaved families in Kashmir. But Yousuf has not given up hope. “It’s now confirmed that they killed innocent men. They should be punished,” he said. Activist Guftar Ahmad, who has been leading the campaign for justice and accompanied the families to Baramulla and back, said the bodies had been fully or partially disfigured from gunshot wounds. “Imtiyaz’s face was burnt beyond recognition. Abrar’s face had gunshot wounds and Ibrar’s chest was riddled with bullets,” he said. “The families wept as the bodies were exhumed. Thousands thronged the village as we returned home. All the people are in mourning.” Ibrar, a 17-year-old Class XI student, was the youngest of the three. Imtiyaz was 22. The families had fought for the return of the bodies so they could be given a traditional burial in their ancestral graveyards. Security forces were deployed in strength during the exhumation, and the media were prevented from getting close. There were no names on the three graves, nor on any of the others in the graveyard — the resting place allegedly of militants killed in encounters. Still, locating the trio’s graves was not difficult. The gravedigger, familiar with their pictures circulating on social media, identified the graves. Guftar said the three had been buried in graves number 65, 66 and 67 — a grim reminder of how the Valley is home to numerous graves of unidentified men. The state human rights commission says Jammu and Kashmir has thousands of such graves. The government claims these are the graves of Pakistani militants killed in gunfights. But the Kashmir-based Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons believes that many of the graves are those of their members’ missing sons. The association alleges that 8,000 Kashmiris have “disappeared” while in the custody of security forces. Last month, nine UN rapporteurs wrote to the Centre seeking an investigation into the allegations of forced disappearance and mass graves in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Yogi yields, Congress team meets family||The mother of the Hathras victim wept inconsolably in Priyanka Gandhi’s embrace on Saturday evening, her pent-up emotions released at the first touch of sympathy from the political spectrum after weeks of hurtful insensitivity and harassment from the Yogi Adityanath government. The poignant scene unfolded when Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka and three other Congress leaders arrived at her home, succeeding in their second attempt in three days to reach the barricaded village after the administration blinked following initial resistance. Footage showed Priyanka jumping over a small lane divider and rushing to shield a Congress supporter who was surrounded by lathi-wielding policemen. Priyanka stood between the man and the police in the melee that involved considerable shoving and pushing. At one point, a helmeted police officer could be seen grabbing Priyanka’s kurta, prompting a journalist to tweet: “A male police officer grabbing the kurta of Priyanka Gandhi is a symbol of how drunk on power UP police has gotten.” The five Congress leaders were the first senior politicians to visit the family who had been turned prisoners in their home by the state administration the last few days, denied any contact with the outside world and allegedly roughed up when they sought to step out. For the grieving mother, Priyanka’s would have been among the first offers of a shoulder to cry on from someone outside the family, since even her immediate neighbourhood is dominated by people who have rallied behind the upper-caste accused. The family narrated their ordeal to the Congress leaders and pleaded for help in securing justice. When Rahul and Priyanka asked about the administration’s act of cursorily burning the girl’s body — without the family’s consent or participation or even a proper funeral, and after locking the family at their home — the mother’s tears began flowing again. Priyanka, with an arm around the mother’s shoulders, spoke to the other women of the family while Rahul listened intently as the victim’s father, brother and uncles recounted the gruesome events. The 19-year-old girl had allegedly been gang-raped and had her tongue cut off and spine broken by four assailants on September 14. She died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, amid allegations that the administration had denied her the best possible treatment and tried to dilute the charges against the accused. As soon as she died, the police hijacked her body from the hospital and forcibly burnt it at her village cremation ground. When Rahul asked whether the family preferred a CBI probe, the family expressed faith in a judicial probe instead. Sometime later, PTI reported that chief minister Adityanath had recommended a CBI probe shortly after additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and state police chief H.C. Awasthi met the victim’s family at their home. The news agency too quoted the family as saying they preferred a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry. The BJP accused Rahul and Priyanka of playing politics, perhaps remembering how their grandmother Indira Gandhi had reaped political benefits from her visit to Bihar’s Belchi village after a massacre of Dalits decades ago. While the siblings’ visit would have been driven as much by political considerations as by humane sentiments, a Congress leader wondered: “If politics is not done on injustice and crime, should it be done only to divide and rule?” The brutalised family would have desperately needed the healing touch — and the sense of reassurance that only the powerful can provide — having seen the state administration fail their daughter in life and death, the police go slow on the case, and ruling party members dispute her deathbed statement identifying the accused. After the 40-minute meeting, Rahul vowed to take up the family’s cause and said the Congress would go wherever injustice had been committed. Priyanka said the family was worried about its security. With the administration permitting just five from the Congress convoy to visit the village, Adhir Chowdhury, Mukul Wasnik and K.C. Venugopal accompanied Rahul and Priyanka while MP Shashi Tharoor and party communications chief Randeep Surjewala stayed behind. That permission had come after a battle of nerves. On Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh police had prevented a Congress team from entering the state and meeting the Hathras family, with Rahul being pushed to the ground amid the fracas. On Saturday, too, the state had deployed hundreds of cops at the entry point in Noida. Anticipating the blockade, the Congress had mobilised a huge crowd to try and pressure the administration into changing its stand. With over 5,000 agitated Congress supporters, men and women, gathered at the Delhi-Noida border with hundreds of vehicles — which caused a traffic jam on the extremely busy road — it wasn’t easy for the administration to turn them down. Thursday’s daylong drama on the Yamuna Expressway had provided the Congress with much publicity and goodwill, and Saturday’s much bigger crowd had the potential to kick up a bigger ruckus on the roads. Besides, the administration had already in the morning allowed the media to meet the family. Senior police officers offered Rahul and Priyanka passage for five people and their security vehicles if the crowds returned from that point. Although the Congress workers were eager to accompany their leaders, Rahul appealed to them to return. Still, the police wielded the baton to stop party workers from jumping the barricade, the fracas generating dramatic visuals of Priyanka engaged in a scuffle to protect a Congress worker from the police’s caning in the middle of a frenzied crowd. Earlier, around 25 MPs had followed Rahul and Priyanka to the border, travelling in a bus behind the leader’s car. The convoy’s halt at the Noida border created a media spectacle for around two hours, and the Congress leaders made the most of it. Surjewala addressed the media there, saying: “Is it a crime to stand by the victim, to wipe the tears of the family? Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is a coward. But let him get this clear — his police and their lathis and guns can’t suppress the Congress’s voice.” Tharoor said: “We want to express solidarity with the family, which is grappling with unprecedented atrocities. The suspension of police officials is too little too late.” Congress leaders expressed shock at the special investigation team’s recommendation for narco-analysis tests on the victim’s family. They argued that the test should instead be done on the Hathras district magistrate to ascertain who had ordered the forcible burning of the victim’s body in the middle of the night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Google Goliath vs Indian Davids: Startups vow to fight ‘big daddy’ dominance||Dozens of India’s technology startups, chafing at Google’s local dominance of key apps, are banding together to consider ways to challenge the US tech giant, including by lodging complaints with the government and courts, executives told Reuters. Although Google, owned by Alphabet Inc, has worked closely with India’s booming startup sector and is ramping up its investments, it has recently angered many tech companies with what they say are unfair practices. Setting the stage for a potential showdown, entrepreneurs held two videoconferences this week to strategise, three executives told Reuters. “It’s definitely going to be a bitter fight,” said Dinesh Agarwal, CEO of e-commerce firm IndiaMART. “Google will lose this battle. It’s just a matter of time.” He said executives had discussed forming a new startup association aimed chiefly at lodging protests with the Indian government and courts against the Silicon Valley company. Nearly 99 per cent of the smartphones of India’s half a billion users run on Google’s Android mobile operating system. Some Indian startups say that allows Google to exert excessive control over the types of apps and other services they can offer, an allegation the company denies. The uproar began last month when Google removed popular payments app Paytm from its Play Store, citing policy violations. This led to a sharp rebuke from the Indian firm’s founder, Vijay Shekhar Sharma, whose app returned to the Google platform a few hours later, after Paytm made certain changes. In a video call on Tuesday, Sharma called Google the “big daddy” that controls the “oxygen supply of (app) distribution” on Android phones, according to an attendee. He urged the roughly 50 executives on the call to join hands to “stop this tsunami”. “If we together don’t do anything, then history will not be kind to us. We have to control our digital destiny,” Sharma said. One idea raised was to launch a local rival to Google’s app store, but Sharma said this would not be immediately effective given Google’s dominance, one source said. Sharma and Paytm, which is backed by Japan’s SoftBank Group Corp, did not respond to requests for comment. Google declined to comment. It has previously said its policies aim to protect Android users and that it applies and enforces them consistently on developers. This week the US company angered some Indian startups by deciding to enforce a 30 per cent commission it charges on payments made within apps on the Android store. Two dozen executives were on a call on Friday where many slammed that decision. They discussed filing antitrust complaints and approaching Google’s India head for discussions, said two sources with direct knowledge of the call. Participants included sports technology firm Dream Sports, backed by US hedge fund Tiger Global, social media company ShareChat and digital payments firm PhonePe, the sources said. None of those companies responded to requests for comment. Google defends the policy, saying 97 per cent of apps worldwide comply with it. Google already faces an antitrust case related to its payments app in India and a competition investigation into claims it abused Android’s dominant position. The company says it complies with all laws. These spats strain Google’s strong ties to Indian startups. It has invested in some and helped hundreds with product development. In July, its Indian-born CEO Sundar Pichai committed $10 billion in new investments over five to seven years. The conflict “is counterproductive to what Google has been doing — it’s an odd place for them to be,” said a senior tech executive familiar with Google’s thinking. “It’s a reputation issue. It’s in the interest of Google to resolve this issue.” Google looms over every aspect of the industry. Paytm on Saturday told several startup founders, in a communication seen by Reuters, that it was collating input on challenges to Google Play Store and its policies to submit to the authorities. To craft their attack, they are using a shared Google document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Covid: India seeks ‘unhindered’ sharing of medical products||India and South Africa have asked an international trade body to enable “unhindered global sharing” of technology and knowhow to make available enough diagnostic tests, equipment, medicines, and vaccines to address the new coronavirus pandemic. The two countries have urged the World Trade Organisation’s council on intellectual property rights to waive certain provisions of the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights agreement towards the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. Their submission, made on Friday, says that as new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are “significant concerns” over how these would be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices to meet the global demand. While a rapid scale-up of the global production is “an obvious crucial solution”, the submission said, there are concerns about intellectual property rights “hindering or potentially hindering” the timely distribution of affordable products. The submission has requested the TRIPS council to waive certain provisions to allow the global sharing of technology and knowhow and facilitate large-scale domestic production of Covid-related products. “The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and the majority of the world’s population has developed immunity. Hence we propose an initial duration of [x] years from the date of the adoption of the waiver,” the submission said. The submission’s use of “x” in square brackets, instead of specifying a precise number, signifies its openness to international negotiation over the length of the waiver period. Patients’ rights advocates have welcomed the India-South Africa proposal and are hoping other governments would support the call. “It is crucial that other WTO member governments support this,” Leena Menghaney, a lawyer and South Asia regional head for the access campaign of Medecins Sans Frontieres, the international humanitarian agency, told The Telegraph. “We need this to ensure that drugs, vaccines and other medical tools needed for Covid-19 can be scaled up by countries and their manufacturers without facing protracted negotiations for licences.” The TRIPS council’s next session is scheduled on October 15-16. Analysts said they were watching how the European Union, Japan, Switzerland, the UK and the US respond to the call. Menghaney underlined that in 2011, the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and public health had affirmed that governments were free to take all necessary measures to protect public health. “Very simply, it puts governments in the driving seat to be able to put life before profit. The India-South Africa proposal does precisely that for Covid-19,” she said. The proposal, if adopted, will help address two key concerns — prices and production capacity. Earlier this year, Costa Rica, Chile and the World Health Organisation had announced a platform to pool data, knowledge and intellectual property relating to existing or new Covid-19 health products with the objective of delivering the necessary goods for all people and countries. Open sharing of science and data would enable numerous companies to access the information they need to produce the technologies, thereby scaling up availability worldwide, lowering costs and increasing access, the WHO had said in May. “Traditional market models will not deliver at the scale needed to cover the entire globe,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said. “Solidarity within and between countries and the private sector is essential if we are to overcome these difficult times.” Medical activists say the concerns are global and that the developed countries too may face challenges. Ellen t’Hoen, an international medical activist in the Netherlands, had in a report in the journal Nature Medicine earlier this year cited an instance of her country facing difficulties in scaling up testing for Covid-19 because of the shortage of a biochemical needed in the testing machines. While pharmacists could in principle make the solution, a private company refused to reveal the formula and the technical specifications, t’Hoen said. “The Netherlands government, following a fierce debate in its Parliament, successfully pressured (the company) to release the formula,” she wrote. India and South Africa have asked an international trade body to enable “unhindered global sharing” of technology and knowhow to make available enough diagnostic tests, equipment, medicines, and vaccines to address the new coronavirus pandemic. The two countries have urged the World Trade Organisation’s council on intellectual property rights to waive certain provisions of the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights agreement towards the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. Their submission, made on Friday, says that as new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are “significant concerns” over how these would be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices to meet the global demand. While a rapid scale-up of the global production is “an obvious crucial solution”, the submission said, there are concerns about intellectual property rights “hindering or potentially hindering” the timely distribution of affordable products. The submission has requested the TRIPS council to waive certain provisions to allow the global sharing of technology and knowhow and facilitate large-scale domestic production of Covid-related products. “The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and the majority of the world’s population has developed immunity. Hence we propose an initial duration of [x] years from the date of the adoption of the waiver,” the submission said. The submission’s use of “x” in square brackets, instead of specifying a precise number, signifies its openness to international negotiation over the length of the waiver period. Patients’ rights advocates have welcomed the India-South Africa proposal and are hoping other governments would support the call. “It is crucial that other WTO member governments support this,” Leena Menghaney, a lawyer and South Asia regional head for the access campaign of Medecins Sans Frontieres, the international humanitarian agency, told The Telegraph. “We need this to ensure that drugs, vaccines and other medical tools needed for Covid-19 can be scaled up by countries and their manufacturers without facing protracted negotiations for licences.” The TRIPS council’s next session is scheduled on October 15-16. Analysts said they were watching how the European Union, Japan, Switzerland, the UK and the US respond to the call. Menghaney underlined that in 2011, the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and public health had affirmed that governments were free to take all necessary measures to protect public health. “Very simply, it puts governments in the driving seat to be able to put life before profit. The India-South Africa proposal does precisely that for Covid-19,” she said. The proposal, if adopted, will help address two key concerns — prices and production capacity. Earlier this year, Costa Rica, Chile and the World Health Organisation had announced a platform to pool data, knowledge and intellectual property relating to existing or new Covid-19 health products with the objective of delivering the necessary goods for all people and countries. Open sharing of science and data would enable numerous companies to access the information they need to produce the technologies, thereby scaling up availability worldwide, lowering costs and increasing access, the WHO had said in May. “Traditional market models will not deliver at the scale needed to cover the entire globe,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said. “Solidarity within and between countries and the private sector is essential if we are to overcome these difficult times.” Medical activists say the concerns are global and that the developed countries too may face challenges. Ellen t’Hoen, an international medical activist in the Netherlands, had in a report in the journal Nature Medicine earlier this year cited an instance of her country facing difficulties in scaling up testing for Covid-19 because of the shortage of a biochemical needed in the testing machines. While pharmacists could in principle make the solution, a private company refused to reveal the formula and the technical specifications, t’Hoen said. “The Netherlands government, following a fierce debate in its Parliament, successfully pressured (the company) to release the formula,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Graft cuffs on former CBI officer||The CBI on Saturday arrested a recently retired agency officer, who had probed the fodder scam and other highprofile cases, on bribery charges. Sources said N.M.P. Sinha, who had retired in August, was caught accepting Rs 25 lakh, allegedly provided by Usha Martin, to settle a case against the company. He was arrested “along with a private person who had allegedly delivered the bribe”, an official said. Sinha was officer on special duty in 2018 to then CBI special director Rakesh Asthana, considered a Narendra Modi favourite. The CBI on Saturday searched eight locations in multiple cities, including Sinha’s home in Faridabad, Usha Martin’s office in Jharkhand and premises in Delhi and Ghaziabad. Sources said Sinha had, while posted in the agency’s economic offences wing, handled a cheating case against Usha Martin’s mining arm over an ironore mining lease in Jharkhand. “He allegedly demanded a Rs 25lakh bribe to settle the case,” a CBI officer said. The agency has registered a case of criminal conspiracy and cheating against the promoters of Usha Martin and a former mines director of Jharkhand, sources said. “The state government had favoured Usha Martin as a special case for captive consumption in its recommendation to the Centre for the mine allotment, in Singhbhum in 2005, after the company allegedly promised to use the entire ore in its steel plants in Jharkand,” a CBI official said. The CBI alleges the firm later backtracked citing the Centre’s denial of a special provision it had sought in the lease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
04-10-2020||India||Bihar alliance finalises deal for Assembly elections||The Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar on Saturday finalised its seat-sharing formula for the October-November Assembly elections but a fledgling partner immediately exited the grouping alleging deception. The Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni created a ruckus at the meeting where the deal was finalised and staged a walkout in full view of television cameras. The meeting in Patna began with the leaders observing a minute’s silence in honour of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim, signalling that the crime and the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government’s questionable handling of the situation would be a poll plank in neighbouring Bihar, ruled by a BJP-JDU alliance. Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the largest party in the Assembly with 80 MLAs, took the lion’s share of the seats. It will contest 144 seats while the Congress will put up candidates in 70 seats. Nineteen seats have been allocated to the CPI-ML, six to the CPI and four to the CPM. The deal was struck after days of hard bargain at a time the Opposition camp in Bihar has been in disarray because of switchovers and bickering. Leaders of all parties in the alliance were present at the meeting. By announcing the distribution of seats, however, the Grand Alliance is one step ahead of the ruling NDA, which is grappling with differences between chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU, the BJP and Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party. The Congress will also contest the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha bypoll, necessitated by the death of JDU MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahto. The Bihar Assembly has 243 seats. The elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be declared on November 10. The nomination process for the first phase began on October 1 and will end on October 9. While announcing the seat-sharing deal in the presence of journalists, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said his party would “accommodate VIP and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)” from the RJD’s share of 144 seats, adding that “a decision would be taken in two to three days”. VIP chief Sahni, who launched the party in November 2018, stood up and said: “A son of the extremely backward caste (EBC) has been insulted and stabbed in the back. We had been discussing the seat-sharing deal for days but have been deceived at the last moment. Our party will no longer be part of the alliance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
04-10-2020||India||Depths of depravity and callousness in governance: Former bureaucrats in letter to Yogi||Nearly 100 retired bureaucrats on Saturday wrote an open letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, expressing pain at the “constant plumbing the depths of depravity and callousness in governance” and demanding punishment for the officials who had failed the Hathras rape victim. They, however, reminded Adityanath that as the chief executive of the state, he bore the ultimate responsibility for what had happened. “Your actions over the past three-and-a-half years give us little reason to believe that your actions are motivated by respect for the rule of law. We urge you to conduct your administration in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Constitution of India, to which you have sworn allegiance when you assumed office,” the letter, written on behalf of Constitutional Conduct, a collective of retired civil servants, said. The letter expressed hope that the chief minister would deliver justice to the Hathras victim and her family “without fear or favour, despite the efforts of specific upper caste groups to interfere with the course of justice”. It referred to the haste with which the victim’s body was cremated in the dead of the night without her family’s consent or participation. “Being a person attached to a persuasion of the Hindu faith, you would be well aware that Hindu customs require the nearest kin to offer agni to the mortal remains. Both the sacred traditions and the family’s pleas that they would perform the cremation in the mo-rning were ignored,” it said. “To add insult to injury, a policeman is reported to have told the bereaved family that they were also to blame and the district magistrate has apparently been captured on video making veiled threats to the family that they should be careful about their statements to the media, because the officials would be around even after the media departs.” The collective voiced its scepticism as it referred to reports that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked Adityanath to fast-track the case to secure an early conviction. “With our experience as erstwhile administrators in different departments of the central and state governments, our group of former civil servants had, in the past, highlighted the brazen violations of the rule of law in the Unnao rape case and in the murder of the police inspector in Bulandshahr,” the letter said. “We note with concern that, even after two years, the ghastly murder of a brother officer has not stirred the UP police and your administration to bring the case to closure. In these circumstances, we may be forgiven for viewing UP’s fast-track justice system with scepticism.” Inspector Subodh Kumar Singh was shot dead in December 2018 while trying to control a mob rampaging in Bulandshahr over an alleged instance of cow slaughter. The letter expressed concern also about the “novel interpretations of fast-track justice” on Yogi Adityanath’s watch. “In recent days, we have seen two instances where alleged criminals have met their deaths while being transported by the police to Uttar Pradesh. Even if they were guilty of the offences listed against them, they were entitled, under the Constitution of India and the laws of the land, to a fair trial. Denial of this right amounts to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution,” it said. The collective described as “reprehensible” Adityanath’s decision to withdraw cases registered against him in the past. “Politicians never tire of saying ‘the law must take its course’. Why depart from this article of faith for your party and government?” the letter asked. Among the signatories to the letter were former national security adviser (NSA) Shivshankar Menon, former health secretary Sujatha Rao, former deputy NSA Vijaya Latha Reddy, former finance secretary Narendra Sisodia, former ambassadors Navrekha Sharma and Deb Mukharji, and former Bengal DGP (Intelligence) A.K. Samanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
04-10-2020||India||The King’s Palace, The Dark Room||With films like Mulk, Article 15 and Thappad, Anubhav Sinha has marked out a salient space for socially and politically interrogative cinema. His blunt, in-your-face work has become a thing of wide acclaim. Through the recent lockdown, he  put his energies into directing Bambai mein kaa baa, a Bhojpuri paean to the anguish of migrant workers sung and performed, rap-style, by Manoj Bajpai; it became a runaway chartbuster. For a while now, Sinha has also been among a palmful of film industry eminences screaming concern over national drift in directions he deems palpably disturbing. His is a voice of anger, outrage, frustration, suffocation; often stentorian, often also directed inwards. Amid the bizarre and unbounded shenanigan that has trailed the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, he tweeted: “Obviously Bollywood doesn’t know how to collectively stand up for itself and it’ll pay the price.” On the stunning “not guilty” Babri demolition verdict, Sinha tweeted: “Congratulations Mr Lal Krishna Advani you are now acquitted of the charges of single-handedly drawing a bloody line across the soul of this country...” His Twitter timeline, to use Twitter terminology, burns with much else, and burns consistently. We invited Sinha to articulate what it is that hurts and troubles him, and often leaves him distraught. He sent us this breathless allegory of a nightmare. In a 1987 essay on Ryszard Kapuscinski’s memoir of Angola, Salman Rushdie wrote: “What is ‘normal’ in these abnormal days? For many of us, any definition of the quotidian would still include notions of peace and stability. We would still, perhaps, wish to picture everyday life as rhythmic, based on settled and repeating social patterns. Ryszard Kapuscinski’s work seems to be based on his knowledge that such conventional descriptions of actuality are now so limited in application that they have, in a way, become fictions.” Sinha’s sense of the world around him may speak to us of a similar hyperreality, where words and narratives, as we know them, aren’t able to measure up to our daily extraordinariness. His missive came appended to a soulful Ghalib couplet on loss and bewilderment as description of the human condition. -- Sankarshan Thakur I am running breathless and still wondering if it is a dream. But my scars are real. I am hurting, bleeding. I can hear the crowd chasing me, weapons in their hands. I can hear the beastly growl over my right shoulder. I am running and wondering if they will kill me or be content to wound me and let me live. I cannot take the chance. I have never been great at running, especially running away. Am I even running in the right direction? There are no roads ahead of me. I see a wall and some people facing the wall. They are not looking at me; they can’t hear me scream for help; they can’t hear the murderous crowd chasing me. When I reach the wall, will I morph into the people facing the wall, turn my back towards the mayhem behind us? I am trying to remember why and how I got here. My father wanted me to work at the bank near the King’s Palace. I was good at mathematics and better at English, the language the Queen liked and her servants revered. Every day on my way to the school I crossed that Magic Lane on my left. Children like me would gather there to wondrously stare at the famous Show Square at the far end of the Magic Lane. At the Show Square, there was a circus, and musicals on stage that you could only watch after buying tickets. There was a man on stilts and there was a man who walked straight on a tilted wall. There were body builders and dancers, singers and magicians. People who bought tickets could watch them from close. We watched them from a distance. All the children longed to meet the wizards. I was the only one who wanted to be a wizard. I felt I knew them personally. I loved them. I admired them. I always wondered what made them artistes. Someday, I believed I would meet them. I wanted to perform with them. Most of my friends did not know I wanted to do that and those who did laughed at me. They said they were great artistes. When they performed the world watched in awe. I did not stand a chance. I had never performed before but I was fascinated by them. One day I snuck in without ticket. I saw them performing up close. The power of their art moved me; their dialogue inspired me. The Stilt Man was the best. In the middle of the act he would suddenly stop and say out loud, “Ladies and Gentlemen.” This was the moment. Every Performer would freeze looking at the Stilt Man. He would then deliver my favourite monologue. I had heard it from the far end of the lane numerous times. That day I heard it a few metres away from him. The Stilt Man looked into my eyes at the peak of his soliloquy and tears began to roll down my cheeks. Suddenly each one of them looked at me. The show stopped. The Body Builder came to me and asked politely, “Why do you cry, kid?” I had no words. I continued to cry. I had loved them for years and now they were all looking at me. They had large hearts. They cared about vulnerable people like me. They wanted to help people like me. The Body Builder, who played the villain, was kneeling down before me holding my hand, asking if I needed something. I don’t know what happened for a moment. I said I wanted to perform with them. They cheered for me. They clapped and the Man from the Tilted Wall softly asked me, “What is your performance, kid?” I said, “I write stories.” Stories about people. Stories about the King. Stories about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. They had heard about the Dark Room but they never spoke about it. Suddenly all of them stepped back. They left the stage to me. The Joker announced that the new kid will tell stories about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. A terrifying silence followed. I looked at them all. The Joker looked at them all. “Why are you all so scared about a story?” the Joker said. “Come on, kid! Tell the story you want to tell.” I froze. Everyone was looking at me. I did not want to be the first one to tell the story of the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. Suddenly a very frail man appeared from a corner. The Show Square was quiet. The Frail Man walked to the centre of the stage. All the legends watched. “Those stories must be told,” the Frail Man said. “If a kid does not have the courage to start the story, I will.” But I suspect I will not be able to tell the whole story, the Frail Man said. “Are there people among us who will take the story forward?” he asked. Another man rose and offered to be the second one to tell the story. A third Storyteller rose, then the fourth Storyteller rose, and then the fifth Storyteller rose. Slow-ly, the Show Square was filled with Storytellers. The Frail Man whispered to me, “You will have to complete the story. You will be the last Storyteller. If you can finish the story about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace, then there will be no palace. There will be no King. There should be no King. It is your destiny to complete the story. Will you?” He was trembling with passion as he stared into my eyes. I was not going to lie to him. He asked again, “Will you complete the story?” “Yes! I will complete the story. I will complete the story about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace,” I replied. As I spoke those words, the King’s soldiers began to appear from nowhere. The famous Performers were looking at the Frail Man. They adopted positions from where they would seem detached and disinterested. I was surprised. It was forbidden to talk about the Dark Room. Everybody seemed certain that the Frail Man wasn’t going to tell the story. The crowd waited. Their eyes were on the Frail Man. If he would start telling the story, other Storytellers would follow and then it would be my turn to complete the story. I saw one of the Body Builders leave. The soldiers were spreading out in a manner that no one could leave if they wanted to stop them. I felt certain the Frail Man wouldn’t start telling the story. He looked at the soldiers; he looked at the artistes. The Frail Man walked to the centre of the Show Square. A big group to the left of the soldiers clapped for him. Some others moved closer to that group. The Frail Man started to tell the story. The group on the left clapped again. The soldiers pounced on them. I could see at the far end the Man on the Tilted Wall was leaving the Show Square. The Frail Man continued the story. A soldier pointed the gun at him and the Frail Man told the story louder. The Frail Man continued and the soldier fired. “The story has to be told. The story has to be completed,” the Frail Man screamed before he slumped on the floor. The Second Storyteller took over. The soldier shot the Frail Man again. The Performers tried to leave but the gates were closed. The Performers looked away towards the walls. The Second Storyteller continued the story. A soldier shot him. The group on the left, the ones who clapped for the Storytellers, was being flogged as life bled out of the Second Storyteller. It was the most powerful, the most necessary story. But as the soldiers continued killing the Storytellers, I knew we were going to fall short of Storytellers to complete the story of the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. The soldiers flogged the cheering group; they fell on the floor, wounded, bleeding. The few men and women still standing in the cheering group implored the Performers to come forward, to keep telling the story. I hoped the Performers would tell the story and complete it. Then I wouldn’t have to. But none of the Performers was willing to tell the story. The last Storyteller was shot by a soldier. It was my turn. I walked slowly to the centre of the Show Square. The soldiers flogged the few men and women left standing in the cheering group. They implored me through their sobs to tell the story, to complete the story. I was full of fear. I was afraid to complete the story of the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. I turned towards the Performers and let out a scream, a question. “O, Performers! Tell me what to do? Shall I tell and complete the story? Or shall I choose silence like you did?” Only a small part of the story was left to tell. I was full of fear. I was alone on the stage. I was still standing on the Show Square with the silence of the Performers. I asked my question again. “Tell me what to do? Shall I tell and complete the story?” I would have happily told the rest of the story. I was a kid full of fear. I was alone. All I needed was a word of support, a nod from the Performers. I would have told the story. Nobody answered me. Nobody held my hand. The soldiers pointed their guns at me. I did not tell the story. I did not complete the story. I ran. The soldiers chased me. A crowd joined them and pelted stones at me. Some stones hit me. I started to bleed. I did not know what to do and I ran. I saw an open gate that I had not seen yet. Maybe it was not a gate but an illusion. Maybe a trap. I turned back for a last look at the Performers. They had left. I was alone. I ran. I ran through the gate. The soldiers, the crowd followed me. Suddenly I was in another lane I had never seen before. I knew it was a trap. I was running for my life. I would see a wall ahead of me and then suddenly another lane would open up. It couldn’t be a dream. My scars are real. I am hurting, I am bleeding. I can hear the crowd closing in on me, weapons in their hands. I can hear its beastly growl over my right shoulder. I have never been great at running, especially running away. There is a wall and there are some people facing the wall. I am still running towards the wall. Maybe the Magicians will help me? Maybe they won’t? I am running towards the wall. Anything can happen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Elephant attack in Jalpaiguri tea estate||Two residents of the Kumlai tea estate of Malbazar in Jalpaiguri were injured in an elephant attack on Saturday morning. Injured Ram Kishan Tirkey and Christopher Toppo are hospitalised. Till evening, foresters were trying to steer the elephant back to the Bhuttabari forest from where it came. In Alipurduar, eight elephants from Volka forest entered a village in Kumargram on Saturday. Villagers said no jumbo had been sighted in the village these past four decades. Moloy Kumar Lodh, the range officer, said they were keeping watch on the herd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Powerhouse fire blacks out Alipurduar||A blaze that broke out in a powerhouse of the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) at Birpara area on the outskirts of Alipurduar town late on Friday night led to a power cut in and around the town for over 15 hours. On Saturday, the prolonged disruption in electricity supply left thousands of people inconvenienced. “We could provide power in some areas by Saturday afternoon 4pm. By evening, electricity was there in each area of the town. However, some maintenance work is still in progress at the Birpara powerhouse,” said Bipin Khawas, a divisional manager of WBSEDCL who is posted in Alipurduar. Sources said at around 10.30pm on Friday night, a fire broke out at the switch gear control room of the 18.09 MW power house. The employees present there immediately informed the fire services. Within minutes, firemen and engines from Alipurduar fire station reached the spot. Altogether, it took around two hours for the team to control the blaze. However, as a number of equipment at the power house got damaged during the blaze, electricity supply snapped here in Alipurduar town and its surrounding areas. Milan Roy, a trader based in the town, said he and his neighbours passed a terrible time. “There was no power throughout the night (Friday) and throughout Saturday morning. We could not charge our cellphones and laptops. In fact, we could not even run the water pumps at home,” Roy said. He added that it was only on Saturday late afternoon that power supply was restored in some localities. The rest had to wait till the evening. While people like Roy faced problems at their homes, even the state public health engineering department department could not run its pump houses. Also, hundreds of patients had to stay without electricity at the Alipurduar district hospital till supply was finally restored. Asked why it took so long to restore power supply when the blaze had been controlled in a couple of hours, officials at the WBSEDCL said they had to get some equipment from another power house to repair the damage. A WBSEDCL source said he was aware of the inconvenience faced by people. “But as we had to outsource some equipment, it took time to restore the power supply in and around the town, said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
04-10-2020||West Bengal||MD, 7 others get life term in Pincon embezzlement case||A lower court in East Midnapore’s Tamluk on Saturday sentenced eight persons, including the managing director of Calcutta-based Pincon Spirits (now defunct), to life imprisonment for embezzling over Rs 43.77 crore of 15,569 investors in the district. Judge Mou Chatterjee issued the ruling, which was conveyed to the MD of Pincon Spirits, Manoranjan Roy, via video-conference. Roy, on medical leave from Presidency jail, is hospitalised in Calcutta. Seven others, jailed with Roy in 2017, also got life terms. His wife, Mousumi, is one of them. Ten others jailed in the case were pardoned. Mousumi was out on bail earlier but has since been absconding. Two among the 10 pardoned persons died in prison over the last three years. All the seven accused persons have also been fined Rs 5 lakh each. Roy and others named in the deposit mobilisation case were arrested following an FIR lodged by duped depositors in East Midnapore’s Khejuri police station in 2017. Acting on the FIR, police had nabbed Roy from Rajasthan, director Hari Singh from Agra, director Vinay Singh from Bangalore and accountant Raghu Shetty from Varanasi. Others were traced in the ensuing period and jailed pending an appeal. Along with Roy and Mousumi, Pincon Spirits directors Dipankar Basu, Rajkumar Ray and Arup Thakur were sentenced to life terms. As Mousumi remained absconding, the ruling was conveyed to her WhatsApp number registered with the court. “At least 15,569 registered complaints had been lodged by investors in East Midnapore against the deposit mobilisation group for its activities between 2005 and 2015, with a sum amounting to Rs 43.77 crore,” said a source. The court last month ordered a refund of money to investors by selling the properties of Pincon Spirits. The source further said that investigations had revealed that between 2005 and 2015 the deposit mobilisation firm had duped investors across several states of Rs 864 crore. Advocate and cyber expert Bivas Chatterjee said: "The firm was active in over 20 states other than Bengal. Estimates peg their total fraud at approximately Rs 864 crore." Chatterjee, who had been appointed by the Tamluk court as special public prosecutor to assist in the case, added: “The prosecution was conducted by me with help of electronic and cyber evidence.” Many duped investors turned up outside the court protested in front of the sessions court demanding rightful return of their money. “We invested more than Rs 3 lakh in the company at its inception but were left in the dark when it dissolved abruptly in 2015,” said investor Dipak Kar, 48, a resident of Panskura. Kar welcomed the ruling and expected that the process to get back money would happen soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata flags Covid community spread||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the Covid-19 pandemic in India had reached community transmission stage — which the Narendra Modi government has been denying — on a day Bengal reported 3,340 new cases, the highest spike in 24 hours till 9am, and 62 deaths. Mamata, at the end of her march to protest against the Hathras atrocity, said before the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road: “This is now in the community spread (transmission) stage…. So many precautions, such a lot of protection, still not all of it can be stopped.” Community transmission is a dreaded stage where the source of infection is tough to trace. Mamata then drew from her own household’s example. “I have been going to office and attending meetings daily, for eight months through the pandemic...we are so exposed,” she said. “You will be surprised to know this. There are two-three of us in my household. The boy who gives me tea when I get home, he too got infected yesterday…. In my office there, another boy who works there… answers phones. He tested positive today. What does it mean? Community spread. These people do not venture out. Still they are infected,” she added. An emotional Mamata also recalled her three party MLAs, healthcare and police personnel, and journalists who died of Covid. Of the 62 deaths in Bengal, 13 were from Calcutta and 19 from North 24-Parganas. Bengal also reported 3,013 recoveries on Saturday. Bengal’s total number of Covid cases stands just short of 2.67 lakh, including nearly 2.35 lakh recoveries and 5,132 deaths. As of Saturday, the state government reported 85 per cent deaths as comorbid. Bengal’s recovery rate is 87.92 now, still ahead of the national rate of 84.05 per cent. The state’s mortality rate remained at 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.55 per cent. Mamata recalled her party colleagues who died of Covid. “We have been on the streets, working for the people. We have already lost three of our MLAs (Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete) to the pathogen. So many of our leaders have died,” she said. She added her party’s Burdwan East MP Sunil Mondal, who was supposed to join the delegation to Hathras on Friday, went on self-isolation in the morning after his son tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre threatening media: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of threatening media organisations in an attempt to stop the coverage of the Hathras tragedy. “I have come to know that the BJP-government at the Centre has started threatening media organisations as they (those in the party) are trying to stop the coverage of the Hathras incident (in Uttar Pradesh). Media organisations are told not to go overboard with the story and even stop coverage,” said Mamata in her address at the end of a 2.5km march from Birla Planetarium to Gandhi statue on the Maidan. It was clear from her message that she had tracked how ABP News reporter Pratima Mishra and cameraman Manoj Adhikari were shoved and pushed by the police and prevented from visiting the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s home on Friday. “I had sent a delegation to meet the members of the victim’s family, but they were stopped 1km from the village… Journalists were also stopped and they had sat on a dharna,” she said, accusing the BJP-led Centre and the Uttar Pradesh administration of a cover-up attempt. “This is a super autocracy, this is not democracy… This is not government of the people, for the people, by the people. This is a government of dictatorship,” she said. The UP administration’s role in Uttar Pradesh in trying to prevent journalists from reporting the Hathras incident has come under scanner. Through her 30-minute address, Mamata repeatedly tried to argue that this policing of the media had become the new normal. She also said that journalists were being killed for asking the right questions. “Has anyone got justice?” she asked. Opposition parties have criticised Mamata’s aversion to criticism. But the Bengal chief minister said that she was all for free media. “Journalists can go around freely here in Bengal… No one stops them,” Mamata said. “I know that BJP ministers call up television channels and instruct them on which news is to be carried.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Unhappy TMC MLA takes a break||MLA and senior leader of Trinamul in Cooch Behar Mihir Goswami on Saturday expressed his discontent over the party’s functioning and said he would abstain from all political activities to be taken up by the party in the coming days. Goswami, 67, who is the MLA of Cooch Behar South Assembly seat, and a TMC member since its inception, even went ahead to say that if party supremo Mamata Banerjee asked him to resign from the MLA’s post for this decision —  staying away from party activities — he was ready for it. Goswami’s decision comes as a setback for Trinamul in the district ahead of the Assembly polls in 2021. On Friday, district party president Partha Pratim Roy had announced the new district committee and block committees. Goswami, sources said, has not been included in the district committee. On Saturday, Goswami told the media that in context of the district committee, he felt that proposals of MLAs had been simply ignored. “Whether it is the block committees or the district committee, no discussion was held with the MLAs. For my constituency, no one consulted with me. In such a situation, I feel people like me are not fit for the party. That is why I have decided to completely abstain from all organisational responsibilities and duties,” he said. “If my party supremo (Mamata) instructs me to resign from the MLA’s post because of my decision, I am ready to do it,” he added. It was learnt that after this, the BJP sent Goswami feelers to join the party, but he said he would not quit Trinamul. “I have been with Trinamul since its inception will not quit the party,” he said. Earlier, Goswami was the chairman of the party’s committee in his Assembly area and also in government nominated posts such as Jaigaon Development Authority and North Bengal State Transport Corporation chairperson. In Cooch Behar, the main problem that Trinamul has been facing for two years is infighting. Time and again, state leaders and even Mamata had asked district leaders to join hands, work together and refrain from violence. “It seems that internal differences still persist within the party. It is a challenge for the district president and other leaders to handle the situation, particularly as BJP is steadily expanding its base in the district. Such remarks from a senior leader like Goswami are a fresh poser,” said a political observer. Santosh Burman, 61, block TMC president of Falakata, Alipurduar, died on Saturday morning. Burman had contracted Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Back-to-back rallies on Hathras, farm laws||It was a day of rallies for Siliguri, as CPM, Trinamul and BJP held rallies on the issues of the day — the Hathras incident and new farm laws. With this, Siliguri Assembly seat, seen as the most important constituency of the region because of the locational advantage, is back in focus. While the CPM is desperate to retain the seat it had lost to Trinamul in 2011 but won in 2016, Trinamul is as keen to win it back from Trinamul. The BJP is desperate to keep its lead it had secured from this Assembly segment in the last year’s Lok Sabha polls. The Left Front leaders, led by veteran Asok Bhattacharya, Siliguri MLA and immediate past mayor of the city, in the lead held a rally in the Siliguri Assembly area — his own seat. “We hit the streets in protest of the brutal incident at Hathras and against the Centre for the farm bill that we believe will spell doom for farmers,” Bhattacharya said. District Trinamul also held a rally on the Hathras incident  — where a Dalit girl, allegedly gang-raped died and was hastily cremated by the police. The BJP took out a rally to support the farm laws, which was attended by Raju Banerjee and district leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Landslide rips family apart, one killed||One person died, another went missing and three others suffered injuries after a massive landslide swept two houses at Boom Tafal village under Rinchenpong Assembly constituency in West Sikkim around 8.30pm on Friday. All these persons are related. The landslide triggered by incessant rain also swept away four cows of the family. West Sikkim district collector Karma R. Bonpo said the two houses belonged to the late Sangcho Lepcha and his son Duknam. Lepcha’s first wife Pomkit, 64, is missing, the body of his second wife Normit, 61, was found on Saturday. The three injured are Duknam, his wife Lakit and their 10-year-old daughter Somden. All are admitted to the Namchi District Hospital in South Sikkim where Duknam is critical. Search and rescue operations are being carried out by the West Sikkim police, a team of Sikkim Disaster Rescue Force and residents. “Ex-gratia under NC (national calamity) norms will be disbursed immediately,” said Bonpo. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized over 33kg gold worth over Rs 17 crore from a truck in Siliguri on Friday. Sources said 202 gold bars smuggled through the Indo-Myanmar border of Manipur were on way to Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan via Siliguri. Four men were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Doctored video on Dilip’s Twitter||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday tweeted a doctored video accusing Trinamul of attacking BJP supporters in Budge Budge in South 24-Parganas district. A link to his tweet and the video was shared in the official WhatsApp group the party uses to share news updates with journalists. It is only after several journalists pointed out that the second half of the video resembled an old one, that Saptarshi Chowdhury, media in-charge of Bengal BJP, accepted the faux pas and apologised for sharing the doctored footage. “We had received a doctored video which we had posted without verifying. We apologise for the same. It has been taken down from all social media platforms,” Chowdhury wrote in the WhatsApp group. Several party leaders found the post in bad taste. “How can the party president not verify a video before posting it on social media?” asked a state office bearer of the party while speaking to The Telegraph. According to this person, a part of the video shared by Ghosh on social media dates back to August 30. “This video was shot in Murshidabad. The person you see shooting was from Trinamul and the person who got injured was also from Trinamul,” he added. BJP sources, however, maintained that a rally that the party took out at Budge Budge on Saturday in support of the contentious farm laws  was attacked by Trinamul workers. A fresh post was later put up on Ghosh’s Twitter handle. The BJP’s IT cell has often been accused of sharing doctored images, videos and fake information that had led to violent incidents across the country. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in many of her administrative meetings, had asked the police administration to handle the spread of fake news strictly. In April, the BJP shared a video of a man begging the chief minister to arrange food for his family during the lockdown. This man was heard saying that he would have to kill himself if the government didn’t arrange for his food. Bengal police investigated the video and found out that this person was a local theatre actor and was paid to enact the role of a hungry citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||North East||Hathras rape case: Laughing cop ‘born without a mom’ ||Protester: Sir, why are you laughing at us? Police official: I laugh all the time. Protester: Don’t you think this is a serious issue? And you shouldn’t laugh at it. Police official: I laugh all the time, why are you being so serious about it? Protester: What will happen tomorrow if somebody rapes me? Police official: Laws are there, many laws and orders to protect you. Protester: In Uttar Pradesh, a girl was raped, brutally tortured and murdered. Then her body was burnt by the police, without any consent. Then how can we expect safety from the police? Police official: You are in Assam not in Uttar Pradesh. Why are you so much bothered? Protester: Sir, do you have a daughter? Police official: No, I am unmarried. Protester: Sir, do you have a mother? Police official: I was born without a mother. I just fell down on the earth. This is a conversation between a police official and a few women protesters who had gathered at the Rotary Club here on Saturday to seek justice for the Hathras gang rape and murder victim and for victims of similar crimes that took place in Assam since 2019. The conversation was posted on Facebook in the evening by Rashmi Rekha Borah, one of the organisers of the two-hour protest, because such behaviour “needs to be highlighted and corrected” if we are to check the growing crime against women in the country. “When we were speaking our mind against the Hathras victim and other similar brutal cases, when we asked for guarantee... for the safety of our lives by the police, we saw they (police personnel) were smiling mockingly at us. When I asked the police official present at site later, the response (see above) I got left us shocked. This is the mentality of our protectors of the society, mentality of the system and mentality of the government, making light of the serious issues such as rape and murder,” Borah, a member of women’s rights outfit Northeast Network, told The Telegraph without taking the name of the policeman. Borah hopes the social media post draws the attention of the police department, the state government and prompts a discussion on gender issues. “We have nothing against anyone but the government needs to focus on spreading awareness about gender issues,” she said. Members of the five women organisations that protested for two hours here were Northeast Network, Assam Mahila Sangha, All India Democratic Women’s Association, Xodou Axom Pragatisheel Nari Xontha and Padatik Nari Xomaaj. The protesters later submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the police commissioner in which they highlighted how crime against women was rising despite the “Beti bachao, beti padhao” campaign by the BJP-led central government. The 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report published on Tuesday states that Assam has the highest crime rate against women than the national average —177 women out of a lakh were victims of various crimes in 2019 and a majority of these were committed by relatives. The cases of rape and murder that took place in Assam since 2019, included three from Bokakhat subdivision in Golaghat district and one from Gohpur in Biswanath district. “We want speedy trial in these cases,” Borah said. In the memorandum and in their speeches, the protesters sought justice for the Hathras victim, adequate compensation for her family, setting up of fast-track courts to try all rape cases, prevention of rising crimes against Dalit women and investigation of police officials who did not register the cases at the proper time. “The rise in gender violence has filled the lives of our daughters with risk and danger. Recently, the horrific rape incident of a 19-year-old in Hahras, Uttar Pradesh, the way her tongue was slit and spine was broken by the rapists, has left concerned citizens heartbroken and outraged... Women organisations of Assam condemn this horrific case in strongest words and demand proper investigation of the incident,” the memorandum said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
04-10-2020||North East||2021 Assam Assembly elections: KMSS-backed Raijor Dal in fray||Raijor Dal, a new party backed by peasant organisation Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, was launched here on Friday, joining a crowded electoral field in Assam with the objective of unseating the BJP-led coalition government in the 2021 Assembly elections. Raijor Dal (People’s Party) was launched at hotel here in the presence of filmmaker Jahnu Barua, who described it as a historic occasion and hoped all regional forces would come together to work and save Assam. The party was launched on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, which also happens to be the birthday of KMSS chief adviser Akhil Gogoi, who has been in jail since December last year for his alleged role in the unrest during the anti-CAA movement in the state. The new party is said to be an outcome of the “desire” of the people of the state for a strong, inclusive, democratic entity to take on the BJP, the Congress and the AIUDF. However, there are at least three other new regional parties — Assam Jatiya Parishad backed by leading youth organisations All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), the Anchalik Gana Morcha and the United Regional Party, Assam. A few more are in the pipeline, including a party of tribal organisations, making the electoral field crowded, leaving those trying for unity of the regional forces worried because it will only “divide” the voters seeking a change from the “misrule” of the BJP and making it easier for the ruling dispensation to retain power. The KMSS, along with its 70 ethnic organisations, Bir Lachit Sena, Assam, and Sanjukta Anchalik Dal are supporting Raijor Dal, whose organisational structure along with its officials will be ready within this month. KMSS president Bhasco D Saikia said that the new party will not only be inclusive but politically federal and economically self-dependent, working to oust the “fascist” BJP. He also said they will still “strive” for unity of regional forces without which it will be difficult to oust the ruling BJP and save Assam from its “divisive” policies. Saikia said the new party will fight against the Citizenship Amendment Act, seen as a threat to the identity and culture of Assam, and will continue working to ensure the rights of Assam over its resources. “Raijor Dal, as the name of the party suggests, will be a party of the people of Assam,” Saikia said. Senior state cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took a subtle dig at the formation of the new parties, saying it will only help the ruling BJP which has set a target of winning 100 out of the 126 Assembly seats. “I am also appealing to the regional parties to unite because it will be difficult to name 20-25 parties at our rallies. Since they will lose, why don’t they unite. It will make their and our job easier,” Sarma said at a function here on Friday. Extending his best wishes to Raijor Dal, leader of the Opposition and Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia on Saturday asserted his belief that no political force can dethrone the BJP in Assam without the assistance of the Congress. If anti-BJP forces and new parties truly feel that the BJP is the “principal” enemy of the people of Assam and their interests, then they should join hands with the Congress and “jointly” fight the electoral battle in 2021, Saikia said. He exhorted the anti-BJP forces to make necessary adjustments and evolve a common programme with the Congress to achieve this end. Saikia also urged the new parties not to tar the Congress and the BJP with the same brush as “enemies of Assam” and thereby “mislead” the electorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
04-10-2020||Opinion||The fault dear Brutus is in our cars||There is that thing that BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya said last week about Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh. He was asked to comment about the Hathras rape case and fitting punishment when, after a banality or two, he quipped in an even tone, “The cars, they are in the habit of over-turning in this part of the world.” In July this year, gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested by UP police and was being ferried someplace when one of the police cars in a convoy of three hit a divider and overturned. In the chaos and confusion that ensued, Dubey snatched a pistol --- according to police --- and tried to flee. The cops, of course, fired back. Dubey died and all is silence. Passing the buck Days before Dubey was killed, his aide Kartikeya was also killed in “retaliatory” police firing. Kartikeya was being brought to Kanpur on transit remand when the police vehicle got a flat tyre, Kartikeya snatched the pistol of a policeman and tried to flee. Rogue car. Treacherous tyre. Bad road? Who can say? Only last week, UP police had arrested another wanted gangster, Feroz Ali, in Mumbai. And on the way back to Lucknow with him when there was an accident and this car too overturned, killing Feroze on the spot. It was also reported that the police blamed a cow “appearing out of nowhere” for the mishap, while others blamed the driver who was napping at the wheel. Errant driver. Entitled cow. Road Rage Exactly a year ago, the Unnao girl who had accused BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar and his driver of raping her multiple times met with a car accident. A truck with blackened number plates rammed into the vehicle headed from Lucknow to Rae Bareli. Two of her family members died in the accident and she was seriously injured. Nothing happened to the police assigned to protect her as they were not in the car at all. “No space in the car,” was the explanation proffered. Bad car. Bad. Bad. Bad. In August this year, the UP government released figures to show that crime in the state was on a tight leash — 2,032 murders in January-July from 2,204 last year; rapes down to 1,216. In the last three years there have been 6,000-plus “encounters”. Of course, at last check, road accidents in UP resulted in 23,000 deaths in a year. Bad vehicles. In the Hathras tragedy there is no car to pass the buck onto, only an overturned law and order system and reports about a severed tongue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||What you see, what you can’t||There is so much talk about darkness all around. But there is also talk about light. Contrary talk, it can leave you confused, like a ram that might wonder if it’s being fed out of love or being fed out of the love of... well. There is always this thing, and then there is that thing. Think about the dark side of the moon. Then think about the absurdity of it. The dark side of a darkness. Scientists, Astronomers, Spacemen, lend me your ears, I come to bury lies, not to perpetuate them. Darkness is where you do not take the lights. Light is where darkness flees in fright. Where it flees to we do not know; where it comes from, this darkness, we may have some notion. Darkness comes from dark things. What are dark things? We should have some notion, we’ve had a few years of trying, six or thereabouts. If we still do not know where darkness comes from, it is probably darkness we deserve. We kid ourselves, or delve in delusions. The dark side of the moon is the twilight of a lie of your invention — the moon has no light, darkness cannot have a side, the dark side is defined by where the sun casts its light, or does not at a given time. So, please, end the lie. And the pretence of your erudition. Unmask the moon, let darkness be whole, do not tell us darkness has a side. Do not defame the moon. It has made us love, which is not a mean thing it has done. It has made us pine in its waning, and dine over its waxing, and those are no mean things either. Illusion has served survival far more than reality, no matter that illusion is appropriately a synonym for a lie. If truth afforded us living, not so many of us would be living, and not for the lengths we do. If truth afforded us living, we would be swearing by the moon. For it has no dark side or a side that is not lit. It passes not a waning or a waxing. It has no light. It has turned even its scars into a thing of beauty remarked upon, or some such thing. Wastrel poets and their even more wastrel leagues of investors would know. The moon is a darkness. What we see of it is almost never the reality of it; it is an illusion. But illusions are partly what we live by too, or more than partly. Who did ever cross a desert without the temptations of a shimmering, liquid thing called a mirage? You chase a mirage and in the process you’ve crossed the desert. Illusion has its uses. You must know it from mirrors. Or, from when you look into them. Are they not pleasing? Mirrors? And on the occasion they are not pleasing, are they not brought to reflecting what’s pleasing? Imagine some day, coming across a mirror that is opaque. You come to it and it shows you nothing, as if it had nothing to say of you, as if it had reduced you to nothing. Because it shows nothing, an opaque mirror. It is telling you, you are nothing, not worth the effort of forming an image of yourself and having it reflected to yourself. Or a mirror that is see-through. You come to it and it puts you past itself, beyond, far beyond the limited thing that you or your face are. Yonder, where many more things are than just you. A mirror on the world. A mirror that shows you more than merely the vanity of you and invites you, through its see-through virtues, to fall through, fall beyond and become part of something altogether greater than yourself. Like the moon is, most likely, with little realisation of what it is — a part of an infinitesimally greater arrangement, and only an infinitesimally tiny part of it.Look at yourself Oh look at that, what flourish But, if you may, favour yourself And do not forget the blemish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||Emboldened Congress leaves Tejaswhi sulking, two RSS men find themselves left out||Seat-sharing is never simple business. But an added layer of complexity in the Bihar Opposition’s alliance this time is the strained relation between the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav, and Congress leader in charge of Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil. Sources revealed that Gohil’s blunt talk — he stated that both parties will suffer if an alliance is not stitched up — annoyed Tejashwi, who felt the Congress leader wasn’t giving him due respect. Tejashwi not only stopped taking Gohil’s calls, but also flaunted this fact before RJD leaders. Gohil added fuel to the fire by calling him a greenhorn who needs to show maturity. While RJD leaders justify Tejashwi’s stance, arguing that he was virtually the party chief and hence deserved the same respect they give to Rahul Gandhi, Bihar Congress leaders were ecstatic at Gohil’s tough posturing. Congress leaders pointed out that Gohil wasn’t a young newcomer; the 60-year-old became an MLA around 30 years ago when Tejashwi was born. Gohil grew in politics fighting Narendra Modi and Amit Shah and is seen as a tough guy rising fast in the Congress hierarchy. One Bihar Congress leader quipped, “The RJD leader wouldn’t have snubbed the Congress representative if someone like Ghulam Nabi Azad or Ahmed Patel negotiated with Tejashwi. But they should understand the next generation has taken over in the Congress and this lot too has over three decades experience in politics.” The new crop of Congress leaders may gain more stature after a stint in power — the likes of Digvijaya Singh, Anand Sharma, Salman Khurshid and so on — and till then the friction with allies will have to be digested. But the positive fallout of this tussle is that Gohil earned the respect of Congressmen in Bihar who are opposed to any understanding with the RJD and want to go it alone. Over 90 per cent of Congress workers appeared happy when the alliance looked like it may collapse. “Dictators thrive on yokes like brute state power, a pliant media and incessant propaganda. Gandhi respected his critics. But dictators can’t stand dissent.” At first glance, one could conclude that these sentences came from a critic of Narendra Modi, possibly an Opposition leader. These words, however, were penned by the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Ram Madhav, in a newspaper article marking the birth anniversary of M.K. Gandhi. The content has raised eyebrows in BJP corridors as Madhav, a high-profile BJP leader, was dropped as the national general-secretary of the party recently. Now Madhav occupies no post in the party. The reason why Madhav, a talented and well networked leader, was shunted out is that his relations with the powers that be in the party are believed to have soured. In Lutyens’ corridors of power, the article is being seen as Madhav using Gandhi’s shoulder to shoot at his party leadership. In the use of Gandhi, the irony was also not lost, since the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, with which Madhav has close connections, is hardly fond of the Mahatma. Madhav extolled Gandhian agenda for “more openness, freedom and a life of dignity” and sought to lament that 72 years after his death, Gandhism remains but it is mostly about “externals” like “cleanliness, khadi, cow protection and swadeshi...”. Isn’t the prime minister, Modi, particularly fond of indulging in such “externals” such as the Swachh Bharat mission, the promotion of khadi and the emphasis on cow protection? The organizational reshuffle in the BJP appears to have left more than one leader aggrieved. But given the total dominance of the current leadership, most can’t muster courage to voice dissent. However, some are seen to be using oblique means to air their unhappiness. Apart from telling sentences on dictatorial regimes in his write-up on Mahatma Gandhi, Madhav has removed any reference to the BJP from his Twitter bio. He is now just: “Member, Board of Governors, India Foundation”. India Foundation is a strategic/policy think tank. Another leader, P Muralidhar Rao, who, too, was dropped as general-secretary of the party, has used a curious idea in his Twitter bio. Muralidhar, also an RSS man like Madhav, has just two words, “Empowering India”. Many in the BJP are wondering what’s hidden between those two words. The zero tolerance to corruption slogan of the ruling BJP in Assam is facing its first real litmus test in the case against those responsible for the question paper leak that led to the cancellation of the September 20 recruitment test for 597 posts of sub-inspectors. The probe so far has revealed the presence of a well-oiled coaching network to find candidates willing to pay for government jobs. This network held a mock test a day before the test. Apart from the accused, the names of a few members of legislative assemblies are also doing the rounds for running dubious coaching classes and centres with ulterior motives. The Congress has not only stepped up its attack on the government for the lapses but it also sees in the whole situation a strategy to saffronize the government by packing it with people from the RSS background. The paper leak has clearly opened a can of worms that the BJP has to close before it becomes a festering wound in time for the assembly polls slated for next year. A late entrant to the protests against the Hathras gang rape, murder and alleged State cover up is the Aam Aadmi Party chief, Arvind Kejriwal. Even now he leaves much to be desired. While his colleagues have been more forthright in blaming the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath, and the BJP for intimidating the victim’s family after her death, and cremating her body without consent, Kejriwal’s speech left people wondering what got the tongue of the firebrand leader who once called the PM a “psychopath”. Without even a mention of Adityanath or his party, Kejriwal’s reaction paled in comparison to even what the slower, and less organized Congress has done in the capital where it does not hold any assembly or parliamentary seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||Unhappy birthday||Birth anniversaries of icons need not be joyous occasions. They are invariably marked by pageantry, the hollowness of which is deeply unsettling. M.K. Gandhi — he turned 151 last Friday — may have been amused, even mildly irked, by the rituals of reverence that are heaped upon him year after year. Politicians bow before him in a show of respect; the prime minister, ever conscious of the need to send out a message, did not break with the tradition. Ordinary mortals spend the day not in solemn reflection — Gandhi, after all, paid with his life for his beliefs — but in the pursuit of leisurely activities: Gandhi Jayanti is in the list of national holidays, at least for now. There is, however, reason to believe that in recent years, this perfunctory show of ceremoniousness has been accompanied by deliberate acts of provocation, challenging not so much the man but his ideals. Consider the fact that Twitter was flooded with a show of support for Nathuram Godse, Gandhi’s assassin, on the day of the Mahatma’s birth. This is not merely an example of the tastelessness of the tribe of Gandhi-haters. It signals a deeper shift: that of the frightening distance that separates the nation from the man who is said to be its progenitor in a manner of speaking. This growing chasm has many manifestations. Of these, the systematic vilification and repression of, and the violence perpetrated on, minorities — Muslims and Dalits — are the most sinister. That New India defiantly cocks a snook at the cardinal Gandhian principles of ahimsa, satya, fraternity is borne out by the daily indignities inflicted on the vulnerable: a Dalit girl raped and mutilated in Uttar Pradesh; the autonomy of farmers put on sale by — note the irony — invoking the Gandhian ideal of atmanirbharta; the throttling of the voices of dissent and the persecution of the defenders of truth, be they institutions — NGOs? — or individuals — the citizens who have kept the Gandhian flame flickering through their courageous protest against the divisive Citizenship (Amendment) Act. It is this yawning gap between word and deed in the commemoration of Gandhi’s vision that the nation needs to think about as it stands at a crossroads. This chicanery — honouring the Mahatma while, simultaneously, dishonouring every conceivable idea that he stood for — is what the interim Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, implored fellow Indians to recognize when she warned India of the ‘lip-service’ being paid to that long-departed beacon of light. But contemplation would not be enough. The bugle of reclaiming the India that Gandhi had fought and died for would have to be sounded — now. The process must then unfold by honouring non-violence, democracy and collective action. That could be the most meaningful way of preserving Gandhi’s legacy for the foreseeable future. Even the Mahatma, an iconoclast, would perhaps approve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||American bugbear||It’s a measure of the cynicism that has infected American politics — and, yes, me — that among my initial reactions to the news that President Donald Trump had tested positive for the coronavirus was: are we sure? Can we trust that? A man who so frequently and flamboyantly plays the victim, and who has been prophylactically compiling ways to explain away or dispute a projected loss to Joe Biden, is now being forced off the campaign trail, which will be a monster of an excuse. I couldn’t help thinking that, and I soon realized that I was in robust company. On Twitter, on television and everywhere else I turned to, doubters noted that Trump had once already suggested that the election be postponed: was this a fresh tactic along those lines? He had just turned in a repellent performance in the first presidential debate: was he wriggling out of the second and third debates? At another time, under a different president, these questions would be callous. At this time, under this president, they were sadly and perfectly understandable. I couldn’t help thinking, too, about karma, and I immediately felt petty for that. I don’t wish illness upon Trump. I hope he has a prompt and full recovery. But it’s important to note that he has spent much of the past eight months, during which more than 2,00,000 Americans died of causes related to the coronavirus, downplaying the pandemic, flinging out false reassurances and refusing to abide by the very public health guidelines that officials in his own government were fervently promoting. He didn’t wear a mask. He encouraged large gatherings — including his big convention speech and, earlier, the Tulsa, Oklahoma, rally that Herman Cain attended before falling sick with the coronavirus and dying — at which hundreds and even thousands of people, many without any facial covering, were packed in tight. At the first presidential debate on Tuesday night, he mocked Biden for so often wearing a mask, suggesting that it was a sign of ... what? Timidity? Weakness? Voguishness? Moral vanity? With Trump it can be hard to know, and it’s also hard to know whether his own defiance was a kind of wishful thinking about the coronavirus’s true prevalence, a reflection of his belief in his own physical invincibility, some combination of the two or none of the above. But it’s easy to identify the morals of this story. The most obvious is that the coronavirus has not gone away and there is no guarantee, contrary to the president’s sunny prophecies, that it’s going away anytime soon, certainly not if we’re cavalier about it. Which brings up another moral, also obvious but apparently necessary to articulate: there is real risk in such cavalierness. The president is now the embodiment of that. The First Lady, too. Also Hope Hicks, one of his closest advisers, and who knows how many others who have been around him. From the start, there has been a culture of aloofness, indifference and blasé behaviour at the White House when it comes to the coronavirus. That culture was on flabbergasting display during those evening briefings the president used to do, the ones devoted primarily to congratulating himself and his administration on their fantabulous job battling the pandemic. They battled it all the way to America’s exceptional status as the world leader in recorded cases of, and deaths associated with, the coronavirus. That culture was evident in the rallies that the president arranged and insisted on doing over recent weeks. That culture persisted on Thursday when, according to an article by Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman in The Times, Kayleigh McEnany, maskless, held a briefing with reporters after Hicks’s infection with the virus was confirmed and after McEnany was on a plane with her and exposed to her. I read that and I winced and I gasped — and then wondered why in the world I was wincing and gasping when it was par for the course. It was business as usual. It was an explanation for why we are where we are as a country and why Trump is where he is as a president and a patient. Trump had been around Hicks in the days leading up to her diagnosis and, like McEnany, mingled with other people after it. He flew to his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, on Thursday afternoon for a fundraising event, where, according to The Times, he ‘addressed hundreds of supporters both outdoors and indoors’. He did not wear a mask. Even some White House officials were reportedly baffled and bothered by that, both retrospectively and in real time. They privately marvelled at the denialism of it all. But then the reality-show president has long been determined to live outside reality and was seemingly convinced that he could. I was half convinced myself. He jettisoned truth without consequences. He sailed above the laws of cause and effect when it came to paying taxes, paying off Stormy Daniels, strong-arming the president of Ukraine, playing footsie with the president of Russia and so much more. But reality is reality. Truth is truth. Science is science, and it alerted all of us — including the president — to the danger of the coronavirus, how it spreads and what we can and should do to protect ourselves and others. There’s no getting around those facts. There’s also no getting around the centrality of the coronavirus to this presidency and this election. Trump had tried assiduously to push it to the margins, but it was never going to stay there. Now it’s inside him. It is time, at long last, to learn. To be more conscious and conscientious. To be more considerate. Apparently no one in Trump’s circle reached out, before the news became public, to tell the Biden camp about the president’s positive coronavirus test, even though Biden had shared a debate stage with the president for more than 90 minutes. No one directly informed Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House. This is also the state of America. And it’s not right. We can’t erase the mistakes made since the coronavirus dawned, but we can correct them going forward. The way to treat Trump’s diagnosis is as a turning point and a new start. This is when we woke up. The presidency and the president are always national mirrors, in many different ways at once, and that’s another moral. Trump has shown America its resentments. He has modelled its rage. Now he personifies its recklessness. Late Friday, administration officials were still deliberating how and when he might address Americans about his condition, a decision no doubt contingent on his condition. He was taken to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center for tests. People close to him told reporters that he had a low-grade fever, nasal congestion and a cough. When he does talk about what he’s going through, I hope he reflects on what the entire country has been through, and on what lies ahead. I hope he does it in a civic-minded way, recognizing that his own struggle is part of a much larger picture. Because I don’t want us to be cynical, no matter how much cause we’ve been given. I want us to be better. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||Lost wisdom||Sir — The three wise monkeys of Mahatma Gandhi have been given new meaning in India. Speak no evil, hear no evil and see no evil are now wrongly interpreted as not speaking up against wrongs, ignoring the pleas of those who are being wronged and turning a blind eye to injustices. The incidents that shook the nation around the birth anniversary of Gandhi — be it the clean chit to the accused in the Babri demolition case or the rape of a girl in Hathras and the shocking behaviour of the police afterwards — are proof that New India has forgotten both the Mahatma and his teachings. Reshma Ferozie Calcutta Sir — The problems of online education have been discussed to death. But less is being said about the plight of students with learning disabilities. A restriction on screen time — the amount of time spent on gadgets — is one of the primary stipulations of children with ailments like autism, Asperger’s syndrome or even ADHD. How will these children cope with the new reality when they have to spend increasing amounts of time with gadgets? While students with ADHD can find themselves distracted with a passive and distant mode of education, children with autism can retreat further into themselves and become more socially aloof if they spend greater amounts of time online away from direct human contact. Now that schools are finally thinking of reopening, how will these children fit back into the schedule after just getting used to the new normal following the massive disruptions earlier this year? Routine is one of the ways in which such children can hope to lead a life where they can keep up with their peers. These facts must be kept in mind when schools reopen. Children should not be burdened with the backlog created during the pandemic.  This will only add to their stress. A lot of extra care must be taken to ensure that each and every student is treated as per their needs. This requires a workforce of teachers who are not overworked. Kakoli Das Calcutta Sir — A recent report by the Comptroller and Auditor General reveals how the former dispensation in Maharashtra botched up what was an opportunity to efficiently switch cropping patterns in the drought-prone Marathawada region. Back in 2016, two consecutive droughts had led a segment of the farmers to shift from cultivating sugarcane to growing tur. They had a bumper crop and had the government compensated them adequately perhaps some of them would have stuck to farming crops other than the water-guzzling sugarcane. The CAG report records tur production in Maharashtra at 20,89,000 metric tonnes in 2016 — a 370 per cent increase from 4,44,000 metric tonnes in 2015. But because of delays in setting up procurement centres and payments to farmers, only 37 per cent of tur was procured, and 64 per cent of farmers had to wait between one to four months for their stock to be procured. A crucial opportunity to start a conversation around water conservation and alter wasteful cropping patterns has been missed. The State washing its hands off a minimum support price in the latest farm bills is unlikely to encourage farmers anywhere to experiment with age-old patterns. This can be disastrous in more ways than one. Not only do outdated farming patterns waste more water, they also return less yields and are more vulnerable to insects and pests who have grown used to the farmer’s almanac. This is also killing off the diversity of the Indian palate. Crops like wheat and rice are taking over the menu while cereals and millets are getting lost. It is not a little ironical that millets that were once the poor man’s staple can now only be afforded by an elite few who consume these ‘superfoods’. Climate change is tied closely to land-use and cropping practices. Steps should be taken towards changing them for a more sustainable future where there is food equality and land has not been exploited to a point of no return. Land and water are not the infinite resources they were once thought to be. Pratyush Sinha Patna||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cyber criminals siphon off Rs 3.44 lakh from retired government employee||The Jamshedpur cyber cell officials on Sunday ordered a manhunt for a gang of cyber criminals. They have allegedly used fraudulent means to siphon off Rs 3.44 lakh from the bank account of a retired government employee on Saturday. According to the FIR, Pushkar Singh Munda who is a resident of Subhash Colony in Mango had been to the local market on Saturday evening when he got a call from a man claiming to be a bank official. The caller who introduced himself as a senior official of SBI told Munda that his KYC formalities had to be completed and that he would face difficulty in making transactions with the bank.  The caller managed to eventually take his Aadhar number and bank account number. An FIR has been lodged by Munda with the Bistupur-based cyber cell on Saturday.  He said that the money that was stolen from him was the savings that he had made since his retirement in 2018. He also pointed out that he had two bank accounts with the SBI -- one is with the Rangamati branch and another one is with the Dimna Road branch of the bank from where the money was siphoned off. Inspector, cyber thana, Bistupur, Upendra Mandal confirmed the case and said the cyber criminals probably  hacked Munda’s number and succeeded to get the money transferred from his account. "The criminals have used three cell phone numbers and we are trying to trace all the numbers and the said bank account. We are trying to trace the criminals by tracing their address," he told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Spread of Covid-19 seems to be waning in and around steel city||It seems that the spread of Covid-19 is waning in and around the steel city. Though the average number of sample tests is 3,500 in East Singhbhum, the number of cases stands at double digits for the first time in the past two months. . During the last 24 hours. only 61 new cases have been reported, taking the district tally to 14,123. In the same time period, only two two Covid deaths have been registered, including one one individual hailing from West Singhbhum. A 51-year-old woman from Noamundi in West Singhbhum died at Tata Main Hospital on Saturday night. A 50-year-old resident of Parsudih, admitted at the Bramhananda Superspeciality Hospital in Tamulia, Mango breathed his last also late on Saturday night. The total number of Covid deaths in the district stands at 325. "On Saturday, only 61 new cases of Covid came up. Number of cases have been decreasing since the past 10 days, during which time 150 people tested positive in the district.  Similarly, the number of deaths has also declined considerably," East Singhbhum district civil surgeon Rajendra Nath Jha told The Telegraph Online. "Honestly speaking, we need to study this gradual waning.  The virus is still wreaking havoc in other cities of the state, including the state capital. What is different about the steel city? Maybe there will be a second wave. Hence people should continue to follow all protocols like wearing masks, sanitisation and maintaining social distancing," Jha added. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer Nitish Kumar Singh hinted at intensifying the mask checking drive in the city. "As Durga puja is round-the-corner and almost all shops have reopened will be intensified, along with ensuring social distancing," Singh told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city gets more trains for Puja, Calcutta connect restored||South Eastern Railway has decided to increase the frequency of two trains, the Howrah-Mumbai Special (02810/02809) and the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special (02834/02833) in an attempt to clear the rush of passengers during the festive season. Both trains will now run daily, instead of its current tri-weekly run. Their stops at Tatanagar railway station have also bed restored, which means steel city residents can also use them to travel to Calcutta. Though both these trains used to stop at Tatanagar when services resumed after the lockdown in June, their stoppages were withdrawn to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Also, the Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express stopped operations from September 12 due to poor occupancy. According to a circular issued by Garden Reach, headquarters of SER, the Howrah-Mumbai Special will run daily from October 6 from Howrah and from Mumbai from October 8 as per the existing timings. Similarly, the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special will run daily from October 7 from Howrah and October 10 from Ahmedabad as per existing timings. In addition, two more superfast special trains, the Puri-Anand Vihar-Superfast Special (via Adra) and Puri-Anand Vihar-Prui Superfast Special (via Tatanagar), will also be introduced. The Puri-Anand Vihar Superfast Special (via Adra) will be introduced from Puri from October 7, while Anand Vihar-Puri Superfast Special will be introduced from Anand Vihar from October 10. Both will leave from Puri and Anand Vihar on Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and stop at Balasore, Jaleswar, Hijli, Midnapore, Bankura and Adra. The Puri-Anand Vihar Superfast Special (via Tatanagar) and the Anand Vihar-Puri Superfast Special will introduced from October 9. The special trains will leave from Puri and Anand Vihar on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays, and will stop at Soro, Balasore, Jaleswar, Hijli, Ghatshila, Tatanagar, Muri and Bokaro Steel City.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bus owners write to Union home secretary on inter-state services||Bus owners have written to the Union home ministry, seeking its intervention to allow inter-state services from Jharkhand ahead of Durga Puja. President of Bus Owners Association of Jharkhand Arun Budhia said on Sunday that they had expected the state government to allow resumption of inter-state bus services when it issued guidelines to reopen religious places. “Since that hasn’t happened, we are forced to write to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, seeking the ministry’s intervention to help bus operators of Jharkhand who are battling financial woes,” he said. While the Jharkhand government allowed intra-state bus operations from September 1, it continued to put a stop on inter-state buses in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a part of its recent unlock notification, the state government allowed reopening of temples from October 8 and issued detailed guidelines for conducting low-ley Durga Puja celebrations. Budhia questioned the logic behind not allowing inter-state buses to ply. “The Union government has clearly asked all states to not put any kind of curbs on inter-state movement of people. Moreover, people are anyway travelling using some or the other means. Then why should we be penalised,” he asked. He pointed out that in any case buses were plying within the state with 50 per cent occupancy leading to huge losses. “Although bus operators are charging double the usual fare per passenger, we are yet to recover losses suffered from the time the lockdown was imposed,” he said. Another bus operator unwilling to be named pointed out that travel between Bihar and Jharkhand was common during the festival. “By not allowing buses to operate, people are being forced to suffer,” he said. Bus operators in Jamshedpur had voiced a similar demand last week. Patron of Jamshedpur Bus Operators’ Welfare Association (JBOWA) Upendra Kumar Sharma said, “It’s high time inter-state movement of buses is allowed from Jharkhand as running buses only within the state is financially unviable.” Bus owners also rued the state government’s delay in accepting their demand for waivers pertaining to various vehicle taxes for the lockdown period. “We have been asking for road tax waivers for months. But nothing has been done so far. We hope this is taken up in the next cabinet meeting,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Artisans devastated by government cap on Durga idol height||Idol makers, who are living through one of the worst times of their lives with a ban on religious functions ever since a lockdown was imposed in March, faced another jolt when the state government came out with its guidelines and capped the height of Durga idols at 4 feet. Most of orders for idols that artisans had got for the October Pujas was of height 5 feet. Now, these are likely to go waste. Dulal Paul (65), among the most sought-after idol makers of Dhanbad, said that he had as many as 30 idols. And all of these were around 5 feet. “These can’t be used and we will have to prepare fresh idols of 4 feet as per the guidelines. This means we are looking at huge losses. It will be very difficult for us to make both ends meet with the income. All our earnings will go to pay 10 artists of Bengal who are working with us,” he said. In any case, Dulal has received orders for only 30 idols this year, instead of the usual 45 idols. “Had the guideline been issued about a fortnight ago, we would not have wasted resources on making idols of 5 feet,” said Dulal, adding that there was no point in keeping the 5-feet idols for next year as if things turned better with the coronavirus, as everyone was hoping, then there would be no customers for smaller idols. Swapan Paul (67) said he had received 15 orders of which four or five were above 4 feet. “These will go waste,” he rued, adding that instead of the usual Rs 30,000 they would earn for a 10 feet to 12 feet high Durga idol, this time, their earnings would be around Rs 6,000 as the idols are much smaller. Swapan said they suffered huge losses as there was no Chaiti Navratra, Vishwarkarma Puja and Ganesh Puja this time. “We were hoping to make up for the losses to some extent during Durga Puja. But that hope was dashed after the government came out with its Puja guidelines,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Uncertainty looms as boating for tourists in Palamau Tiger Reserve misses October 2 launch date||The proposed boating facility for tourists at Kamaldah Lake in the Betla range of the Palamau tiger reserve (PTR) which was slated to start on October 2 has been deferred, confirmed Kumar Ashish, deputy director north division of PTR. “A serious consideration is on regarding whether boating facility for tourists will be started from Kamaldah Lake or from some other lake as the Betla range has one more lake,” he said, adding that at the moment, there will be no boating from the Kamaldah Lake. Ashish said the postponement was done as the Betla National Park or tiger sanctuary which used to open on October 1 every year, continues to be shut for tourists. “We are waiting for our field director YK Das’s instruction,” said Ashish. He said he could not hazard a guess for the continued shutdown of the park and sanctuary beyond October 1 this time. On being asked if a letter from DS Srivastava, the secretary of Nature Conservation Society, who is also a noted environmentalist, has put the brakes on boating, Ashish said he was aware of the letter. Srivastava told The Telegraph Online on Sunday, “I have sent my letter to field director YK Das on September 29. Its copy has been sent to the chief wildlife warden Jharkhand and also to the deputy director North division PTR Ashish.” He urged PTR authorities to look for other lakes for boating for tourists. “My letter reads that the original plan to start boating for tourists was at Kechki forest rest house which comes under Betla range, at the confluence of the two rivers the Koyal and the Ouranga,” he said, adding that the Latehar administration had given two boats to PTR for the purpose in 2019. “The Kamaldah Lake is not suitable for boating as this lake is the favourite of all herbivores and carnivores. Betla National Park’s elephants love bathing,” he said. Srivastava said the resumption of boating there will lead to excess human interference, which will have an adverse impact on the passage and movement of wildlife near the lake, which is also under the elephant zone. Ashish said the Kechki lake is massively damaged and boating can only start here if and when this the water body is repaired and strengthened, which calls for long drawn work with lots of official procedures involved including like design, estimation, water storage capacity etc. He said there is a lake on the left side of the Betla range where possibilities are being explored. He said he too has no knowledge of the new date for boating and also from where it is set to launch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Education minister marginally better, but still critical||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, is critical and on non-invasive ventilator at the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, authorities at the private healthcare facility said on Sunday. Dr Vijay Mishra, who is treating Mahto at Medica, said the minister’s condition had improved marginally in the last couple of days. However, Mahto was still critical, he added. “His condition has improved marginally. We had consulted doctors in Delhi, and they suggested that he should be treated in Ranchi as of now as he was not fit to travel,” said Mishra. Mahto also suffers from minor coronary artery disease and is diabetic, Mishra said. “These are the only two comorbidities he has,” the doctor added. The 53-year-old JMM leader, who tested positive last Monday, was admitted to the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) after he complained of breathlessness. The oxygen level in his body, doctors said, was alarmingly low. Mahto was referred to Medica on Friday for better treatment. Earlier, the assistant vice president of Medica in Ranchi, Anil Kumar, admitted that Mahto’s condition was frail, and his family was planning to shift him to Delhi if needed. “Doctors will take a call on whether he needs to be shifted to Delhi or not. As of now, there is no such update,” said Kumar, adding that Medica in Ranchi did not have air ambulance facility, but the minister could still be taken to Delhi by air if needed. Sources from the hospital said that Mahto’s blood oxygen level had dropped below 65 mm Hg, while it should be in between 75 to 100 mm Hg. The minister was feeling drowsy and restless when he was taken to RIMS. His condition further deteriorated there, sources from Medica said. Mahto was recently in the news for taking admission in intermediate (class 12) at the age of 53, and then gifting cars to the toppers of class 10 and 12 board exams in Jharkhand. He had first complained of vomiting tendency and weakness during a visit to his constituency, Dumri, last week and then tested positive for the viral infection. Mahto is among four ministers in the Hemant Soren cabinet who have been infected by the virus so far. State’s minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari, one of the Covid-infected ministers in Jharkhand, died of a cardiac arrest while undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi on Saturday. But the 70-year-old’s last test report indicated that he had recovered from Covid. State health minister Banna Gupta and drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur were also infected. But they have recovered after undergoing treatment for over a week at RIMS. JMM patriarch and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren, a septuagenarian, has also defeated the Novel Coronavirus after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three suicides in Bokaro||Bokaro registered three seperate suicide incidents on Saturday.The victims, including a teenager were allegedly suffering from depression. 16-year-old Rajkumar failed to gather funds to fill the form of constable recruitment examination. His father said he looked upset. He went for jogging with his elder brother in the ground located in Kasia Tand, but he returned home first. Later when his elder brother reached home, he saw Rajkumar hanging in his room. Ravi Kumar Burnwal, 23, was also found hanging in his house under Balidih police station. Burnwal lived in his maternal uncle's house. His body was found in his room. He had locked the door of the room from inside and hanged himself with a rope. Baldev Das,35, a resident of Barpokhar village under Pindrajora police station area also hanged himself in his house. Baldev's wife Pramila Devi told police when she returned home repeated knocks on the door went unanswered. She sought help from neighbours and broke the door open to see her husband hanging in his room. Sadar Hospital inaugurated its blood bank on Saturday making it the fourth in the district. Bokaro,DDC Jaikishore Prasad and civil surgeon, Dr A.K. Pathak inaugurated the facility. Health department staff donated blood, said Dr Pathak. The district health department is organising a blood donation drive from October 1 to October 15 in its effort to get more donors for thalassemia patients in the district. "This blood bank contains most modern equipment in comparison with other blood banks in district," said Renu Bharti, deputy superintendent of Sadar Hospital. At present blood banks are functional at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), K.M. Memorial Hospital and Red Cross Society building. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar has said in an interview with TT Online that the CPI Maoist activities have gone down in the area but the security forces are still as cautious as before to maintain the law and order of the region. Kumar said IEDs are still the greatest challenge facing the forces as it is tricky and difficult to decipher.He said there has been a drastic scaling down of ransoms demanded by rebel splinter groups and Maoists. "Right now the hard core criminals are away from the central jail Daltonganj and are lodged in Hotwar jail in Ranchi but nevertheless we are cautious to stem their any cellular networking of crime," said Kumar. Six villagers were stung by bees in Tilra village of Ichak block,around 31kms away from Hazaribagh. The villagers have all been sent to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital for treatment. A few days ago, a villager died at the same spot after being stung by a swarm of bees. A 75-year-old man drowned in Chirwa stone mine reservoir on Saturday in Daru block situated 30 kms away from Hazaribagh. Sohan mahto went with his cattle near the mine on Friday afternoon but didn't return. Villagers informed the police who launched a search operation. On Saturday morning, divers discovered his body. Police assumed the elderly man had accidentally slipped into the water and drowned. Daru police station officer-in-charge Vijay Kumar Singh said the body was handed over to relatives after post mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
