05-10-2020||Calcutta||Date for little ones, with grandparents in Calcutta||Students in the pre-primary and primary sections of a city school set the table for a dinner date with their grandparents, took out pictures from family albums and narrated stories, planted seedlings and baked cakes. Indus Valley World School usually invites residents of old age homes to the campus to celebrate the International Day for Older Persons on October 1, but this year because of the pandemic they assigned activities to the children that would help them “bond with the elderly in their homes”. The school sent a list of activities to the parents of children from Lower Infant to Class V, asking the grandparents and the grandchildren to choose from it and send a photograph or a small video of the chosen activity by the weekend. “The first day of October is dedicated to the elderly the world over. Let us take this opportunity to give our little ones a chance to appreciate the importance of grandparents in their lives,” the school said in the email. “We thought it is not only the elderly outside who need the care and attention but also the aged grandparents in the homes who want it. Children should use the time they are getting now to bond with them,” said Amita Prasad, the director of the school. She said grandparents are hands-on in many homes and if the children do something with them, it would make the elderly feel special. “An assignment by the school is usually taken more seriously. We hope it will be a trigger for the children to be engaged with their grandparents in a more sustained manner,” said Prasad. Nine-year-old Prisha Moitra planted a marigold seedling with her grandmother Aditi while the two of them sang Tagore’s “prano bhoriye trisha horiye, more aro aro aro dao pran”. They have a garden where they grow not just flowers but also seasonal vegetables. Grandmother Aditi has been tending to the garden for many years. “My grandmother gave me instructions like how to dig the soil, when to give fertilisers and how to tend to the plant,” said Class IV student Prisha. Those who do not have a grandparent could take an object that they associate with the grandparent and talk about it. A Class IV student wrote a letter to his “grandfathers in heaven” and remembered the vacations he would wait for to “play and fight” with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Phoolbagan Metro station unveiled||East-West Metro got its first underground station on Sunday with the inauguration of Phoolbagan station. The station will be open for passengers from Monday. East-West services have remained suspended on Sundays since the resumption of commercial run, following the Covid-induced suspension, on September 14. Till Saturday, trains ran between Salt Lake Sector V and Stadium stations on the East-West route, a distance of 5.5km. There are six elevated stations on the route. From Monday, trains will run between Phoolbagan and Sector V. Phoolbagan is around 1.7km from Stadium. Once fully operational, the East-West corridor will connect Howrah and Salt Lake, a distance of 16.5km, and a part of it will run under the Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Shopper uptick before Durga Puja raises hopes||Shoppers were out in droves on Sunday with a little more than a fortnight left for Durga Puja. From a sari store in Gariahat to a department store in South City Mall, most sellers were happy. A steady rise in the number of people with time was a note of hope for them, though the count was way less than what was observed in the run up to the Puja last year. Most people said it was the first time they had stepped out for shopping since the Covid pandemic reached Calcutta in March. They were happy to see many others out, too. Ratan Kumar Saha, the owner of Traders Assembly in Gariahat, said if the business was 10-15 per cent of previous years’ between June and August, it was about 20 per cent of last year’s around this time. Saha feels the business would rise further over the next two weekends. “I feel it can go up to 25 per cent of previous years’ in the next 20 days. Under the current circumstances, I will be content with this. What we sell are luxury items, not a daily necessity,” said Saha. Dip Biwas, an official of South City Mall, gave a similar picture. The official said a month back about 25,000 people used to visit the mall on Sundays. But this Sunday, the number rose to over 40,000. “We expect more people to come on the next two Sundays,” he said. An official of Shoppers Stop at South City Mall said they had witnessed about nearly 50 per cent jump in sales compared with last month. The change was visible. When Metro visited South City Mall late Sunday afternoon, there was a steady stream of visitors walking past the metal detector gates. The ground floor — which has been decorated with lights and imitations of a yellow taxi, a hand-pulled rickshaw, a working table and a container of a phuckawallah - had people standing in front of the models for pictures. Most visitors were wearing masks but were taking them off while being clicked. The crowd thinned as one moved to upper floors, suggesting many were out only to soak in the pre-Puja mood. Ayan Bhattacharya and wife Piyali had come from Ganguly Bagan. This was the first time they were out shopping since March. “I have been going to the office since September. So I needed some new clothes. We are using this visit to buy stuff both for work and Puja,” said Ayan. At Acropolis Mall, too, Sunday witnessed a bigger turnout than all holidays since March.  An official of the mall said about 10,000 people visited the shopping hub on Sunday, a 30 per cent increase compared with the footfall a month ago. “Our mall will remain open up to 11pm till October 30. The sales at the food court and apparel stores were impressive today,” said the official. South City Mall, Biswas said, would remain open up to 10 pm till October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta airport parking culture survives Covid||The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way passengers travel on flights but an old problem at the Calcutta airport — kerbside parking of VIP cars in front of the terminal — continues like before. On Sunday, Metro saw many VIP cars parked in front of the terminal for more than an hour. During the period, two parking attendants were seen slapping a fine on a private vehicle for standing in front of the terminal for 12 minutes, two minutes more than the stipulated 10 minutes. An airport official said cars were allowed a “dwell time” of three minutes, which refers to how long a vehicle can remain in front of the terminal building without paying any fine, and a “running time” of seven minutes, which denotes the time taken to travel to and from the terminal. The official, however, said only the total time a car spent on the airport premises was taken into account as there was no mechanism to ascertain the “dwell time” and the “running time” of a vehicle separately. Vehicles are allowed to stay on the airport premises for 10 minutes. If any car stays for a longer period, marshals deployed by a private agency that runs the airport’s parking lot are to collect a fine of Rs 400 from the driver. Metro on Sunday spotted a number of vehicles — some fitted with beacons and others had boards fixed on their windshields announcing that they belonged to the government — parked in front of the terminal for around 40 minutes or more. For as long as Metro was at the airport, there were no marshals to collect the fine and no cops to shoo away the VIP vehicles parked for long durations. A number of such vehicles stayed put in front of the terminal for around more than one-and-a-half hours. However, Patuli resident Tanmoy Bose, 52, who had gone to the airport to drop off his son was asked to cough up a fine of Rs 400 as his car had exceeded the time limit. A couple of parking attendants in front of the terminal building’s departure level fined him. Bose alleged the attendants had not issued him any warning. He said he had parked his Hyundai Creta in front of the terminal after he spotted several cars parked along the kerbside. “They (the attendants) just appeared out of thin air and issued the fine. I said there are other cars parked and they should fine them, too, but they simply walked away,” Bose said. This newspaper heard one of the attendants tell Bose: “We cannot issue fines to them.” When domestic flights resumed towards the end of May, around 10,000 passengers were using the airport daily. The number has now grown to over 20,000. The number of cars handled by the agency at the airport has also increased from 700 a day to more than a thousand. “It still is about half of what we used to have before the pandemic,” said an official of the agency. In August last year, a parking marshal had been arrested after he clamped a VIP vehicle that had allegedly violated the parking rule and shoved the driver. Babulal Yadav, the general manager of the agency that manages the parking lot, was arrested, too. Yadav said he had asked his men to steer clear of VIP and government vehicles after his arrest. Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said it was the parking agency’s duty to collect fines from vehicles parked in front of the terminal building. “Our job is to keep the road in front of the terminal free and clear for traffic. As and when there is congestion, our men go and ask the cars to move away,” said Sarkar. A traffic policeman posted in front of the terminal said the drivers of most government and VIP cars drive in at least an hour before the person they have come to pick up. The drivers then lock their vehicles and roam about. “We cannot fine vehicles of senior officers,” said the policeman. On Sunday, this newspaper spotted a Mahindra Scorpio, with a beacon on its roof, parked in front of gate number 3A at the departure level for at least an hour. The driver was not inside. A car bearing an Airports Authority of India sticker on its windshield remained parked in front of the terminal building’s departure level for as long as this newspaper was there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Director Raj Chakraborty complains of fraud on children||Filmmaker Raj Chakraborty has lodged a police complaint alleging that two men and a woman had tried to extort money from guardians of a few children posing as employees of his production house. The three allegedly promised the guardians that they would get the children roles in Chakraborty’s films. The complaint lodged with Kasba police station says the suspects had demanded between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh from the guardians after promising roles for the children. “Before making the payment, one of the guardians became suspicious and dialled the phone number of an entertainment channel Raj Chakraborty’s production house is attached to. From there, the guardian learned that she was about to be cheated,” said an officer of the police station. The alleged fraudsters had created a Facebook page and invited child artistes to auditions. The police learned during the investigation that the page was run by three persons. “Once Chakraborty came to know about the matter, he contacted the police alleging that an attempt was being made to cheat people using his company’s name and to malign his production house, Raj Chakraborty Entertainment Pvt Ltd,” an officer said. The complaint named the three accused. Chakraborty’s production house has its office at Chamber Mall on Rajdanga Main Road. Based on his complaint, a case has been started against the three suspects. “We are verifying the allegations made by the production house. If they are prima facie true, the suspects will be arrested,” the officer said. Sources said investigators were talking to the guardians whom the trio were allegedly trying to cheat. The police are also trying to find out whether anyone had been cheated by them. “This was a common method employed by fraudsters to cheat aspiring artistes and extort money from them,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake resident found dead||A 47-year-old man who used to stay alone in Salt Lake's BJ block was found dead on Sunday, police said. A resident of BJ block said Joydip Banerjee, who died, used to work for a company in Sector V. The caretaker of Banerjee’s house had knocked on the door repeatedly but he did not open, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. According to the officer, the caretaker thought Banerjee was sleeping and went to the nearby block market to buy groceries and vegetables. "He returned after some time and again knocked on the door multiple times. As Banerjee did not open the door, the caretaker alerted neighbours. The neighbours, too, knocked several times before contacting the police,” the officer said. A team from Bidhannagar East police station went to the house and broke open the main door. The team went inside and found Banerjee hanging in one of the rooms. They brought him down and took him to the sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake, where he was declared dead. Several residents of BJ block who entered the house with the police said a suicide note was recovered. The police, however, did not comment on the issue. "We have sent the body for post-mortem,” said a senior officer of the commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Howrah realtor called to meeting, shot||A 37-year-old realtor was shot dead near Belilious Park in Howrah’s Tikiapara on Saturday night, police said. Amit Haith had turned up riding pillion on his business partner's two-wheeler in response to a call from an unknown person, who had possibly promised him some payment in cash on Saturday night. Police said the bullet, fired from a close range, pierced through Amit's forehead and he slumped to the ground bleeding. CCTV footage shows the assassins fleeing the spot on a two-wheeler. Officers from Bantra police station detained six persons till Sunday for questioning in connection with the murder. “We have started scanning the call records of the victim. Business rivalry seems to be the motive. But we are not rushing to any conclusion yet and are investigating the case from all angles," said an officer of the police station. “There are a few unanswered questions. Hopefully we will crack the case soon.” In a reconstruction of the events that led to the murder, the police suspect Amit was shot around 8.30pm on Saturday. The man who allegedly called Amit was unknown to him, the police said. “Amit decided to meet him because of an offer the man had apparently made -- in all possibility a hefty sum in cash that was long due,” an officer said. The caller kept directing Amit over the phone while he was approaching Belilious Park on Saturday night. After the two met, an assailant came from behind and shot twice aiming at Amit’s forehead. The police are trying to find out whether those involved with Amit in his real estate business and his former associates were behind the murder. Recently, a couple of Amit's employees wanted to become his business partners, the police said. The sleuths are also investigating the role of a man who was once Amit’s business partner but later became his rival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Dum Dum Park club gifts Durga puja to Amphan-hit village||This year Dum Dum Tarun Dal, a popular puja in Dum Dum Park, will organise not one but three pujas. Two of them will be in a far-away village in Hinganlganj. The club had gone to Chhoto Sahebkhali in North 24-Parganas in end-May to distribute relief materials in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. “It takes a five-hour drive and a boat ride to reach there.  We had found 210 of the 325 huts in the village inundated. So when Durga Puja came closer, we went back to check on their plans,” said Biswajit Prasad, the club’s general secretary. The answer was disheartening. “The villagers said when they had little to eat they could hardly afford to raise funds for a puja.” The majority of the villagers were into pisciculture and, with salt water flooding the bheris, their income had been drastically hit. Many tailors had lost their jobs in the city and went back home. “Their situation made us determined to do something for them. When we brainstormed, it struck us that we would not be able to hold the community lunch for our neighbours anyway this year because to the pandemic, so the fund required for that would be saved,” said Prasad. The last edition of the puja was a Rs 70-lakh affair. This time the budget was reduced to half. “From that, we set aside Rs 15 lakh for the village,” he said.  The club members went back to the village to take an estimate of their overheads. “Their idol costs Rs 19,000, their pandal Rs 25,000 while the bill for lights comes to Rs 20,000. But we wanted to do more than help just the puja organisers. We wanted the villagers to smile as well during the festival,” Prasad said. So it was decided that other than the two pujas in the village, the city club would sponsor a pulao lunch there on Navami, just as they used to do in their own neighbourhood in other years, and a set of new clothes for every villager. “It is a Covid-free zone now,” said Prasad. “Our members went back twice more to do a door-to-door survey on the number of men, women and children and their respective ages,” said Prasad. The saris have been bought. “Today I deposited an advance for 373 panjabi kurtas,” Prasad smiled. Children are getting baba suits and frocks. At the club’s own backyard, the theme this year would be  Ma-er ghor (Mother’s house). Theme maker Debatosh Kar will be decorating the pandal with cane artefacts. Inside, Durga will be seated on two horse-like lions while the demon king would rise as a human figure with the head of a buffalo. “We showed them a picture of our idol under construction. They did not like it at all. They said they preferred the work of their local idol-maker to our Rs 3-lakh creation!” laughed Prasad. So the orders for the two pujas have been placed with the village idol-maker who was too happy to get work. “Even the lunch will be cooked locally. We will just carry the rations from Calcutta. This way, we are contributing to their economy as well,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Roman Catholic churches to allow up to  50 people ||The Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta will allow a maximum of 10 to 50 people for services, prayer and Holy Mass depending on the size of each church from Monday, says a circular issued by the archbishop of Calcutta. So far, a maximum of 10 people were allowed irrespective of the size of a church. The circular, issued to all 65 churches under the archdiocese, says that because of the “prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the annual Corpus Christi (Eucharistic) procession both at the Archdiocesan level and parish level, stands cancelled this year”. “Instead, a three day Eucharistic Adoration will be organized in all the Parishes in the Archdiocese of Calcutta on November 19, 20 and 21, 2020, strictly observing all the guidelines.” It says: “For Church Services/Prayer/Holy Mass: A maximum of 10 to 50 persons (maximum) depending on the size of the church to be adhered to strictly at any given time.” “The number of people allowed in every church will depend on the availability of space. It could be a maximum of 10 or even 20 people also in a smaller church, because we want to be careful,” archbishop Thomas D’Souza told Metro. "The precondition is that all safety protocols have to be maintained,” he added. “As Covid-19 cases are on the rise, all our priests, consecrated persons and lay faithful are requested to strictly follow the guidelines already issued by the central and state governments,” the circular says. The circular says that the “Sacraments of Baptism and Marriage will be celebrated with a maximum of 20 persons present.” It also says: “Those persons who are 65 years and above, or children below 10 years of age, or those suffering from chronic diabetes, high blood pressure or heart ailment etc are advised not to go to church.” It mentions that the body temperature of every person will be checked at the entrance. “There are relaxations but the situation is grim and we need to take all precautions.  We had an online meeting with all parish priests last week where the importance of masks and safety protocols was reiterated,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar-general of the archdiocese of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Webinars focus on dementia, caregivers and awareness||The ignorance about dementia stems from the fact that society has lowered its expectation from the elderly, said a psychiatrist at a webinar held to raise awareness on dementia. Though respected, the aged are treated as redundant who no longer need to use their brains, said Jai Ranjan Ram, psychiatrist and joint director of Mental Health Foundation. He was speaking at a webinar organised recently by the Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI), Calcutta, and Mental Health Foundation, Calcutta, to spread awareness about dementia. “I feel in Indian society the whole concept of old age is you have completed your life's job and you are redundant and therefore you no longer need to work or use your brain…. This in some way has increased our ignorance about dementia because it has decreased our expectation from elderly people,” Ram said. “So if they (the elderly) forget, are cranky, we associate it with old age and take it in our stride…. I think it is an epidemic challenge which we are very very ill equipped to face.” Ram, who also spoke as a carer as he has seen his mother live with dementia, and neurologist Amitabha Ghosh, the president of ARDSI, Calcutta, were in conversation with Nilanjana Maulik, the secretary general of ARDSI, Calcutta The Calcutta chapter of ARDSI has been extending care and support to people living with dementia and their families since 1999. Awareness is important because, as Ghosh said, there is no treatment that will cure dementia but it can be controlled well. “When dementia is diagnosed by the doctor, there is a slow downhill progression of the illness. So now globally, researchers are trying to understand how we can catch something very very early… so if we catch early, maybe we will have better mechanism in place… to slow down the progression of the disease to make sure the person who could be completely forgetful and incapacitated in five years, maybe we can extend that to 10-12 or 15 years…." Ghosh said the recognition of the fact that one is forgetting would make one plan their life or finances better. “In this Covid age, a lot of old people not knowing what is going to happen tomorrow are preparing their finances, just in case they have Covid and have to go to hospital…. In dementia, while the mind is working well and one is forgetting a little bit, that is the time when one can strategise the finances or whatever one likes...” said Ghosh. Maulik, also national coordinator of training at ARDSI, said that contrary to what many may think, people living with dementia can remember a lot more than what others think they do. Ram also said he would blame physicians for the poor awareness of dementia. "The onus of increasing awareness, decreasing stigma has to rest with professionals largely, who are incredibly supported by organisations...”,  he said. Care Continuum, which provides the elderly and the infirm with medical support and other services, organised a webinar recently on dementia caregivers, which was targeted at families who live with those with dementia. “We want to reach out to the families of caregivers who do not get any advice relevant to their daily life in living with those with dementia,” said Rana Mukherjee,  managing director of Care Continuum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology to refund exam fee||The state’s technology university will make "half/full’’ refund of the examination fee to “deserving’’ students in the intermediate semesters, following a demand for a waiver on the ground that they are facing financial constraints because of the Covid pandemic, said an official. Partha Pratim Lahiri, the registrar of the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), issued a notice on Friday that said: "Based on the requests received and as has been recommended by the competent authority, I am to notify that the university has decided to refund the half/full amount of the ongoing interim semester examination fees to the deserving students based on the applications….” Subhasis Dutta, the university’s controller of examinations, said: “All will have to pay the fees and then they will get a refund based on the recommendation through a due process.” All private engineering and management colleges in Bengal are affiliated to the university. The students who are in the second, fourth and sixth semesters, whose exams are on, had demanded a waiver of the exam fee (Rs 1,200 in each semester) citing financial hardships they had been facing amid the pandemic. The state has around 200 private engineering and management colleges and close to a lakh students are in the intermediate semesters at those institutes. An official of the university said many students had told colleges that earning members in their families had their salaries slashed during the lockdown. Some have said their family members have lost jobs. The Telegraph had on August 20 reported that an estimated 1.89 crore salaried people lost their jobs between April and July in the country. July had registered massive job losses after a partial recovery in June. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has estimated that close to 1.77 crore salaried people lost their jobs in April. The notice says that the application for waiver has to be made in the prescribed format and submitted along with copies of documents such as registration certificate, admit card of the intermediate semester, current income certificate of the parents/family (obtained from local government officials) and the first page of the passbook (for account details to reimburse the fee). Filled-in application forms, primarily scrutinised and endorsed by the respective colleges, should reach the university by November 10, said another official. The students will be assessed based on internal assessment and assignment. Of the four internal assessments, two were pen-and-paper tests held before the pandemic. The remaining two were held online. Assessment through assignments will be held this month and it will be online. Controller of examinations Dutta said the students would have to pay the fees for now because the university had a mechanism that entailed that if a student did not pay the examination fee, the admit card would not be generated. “A high-power committee will review the application for the waiver. Based on the report, deserving candidates will be given half/full refund of the examination fee,” registrar Lahiri said. In July, the university had made half/full refund of the examination fee to deserving graduating students, following a demand for a rollback on the ground that the exams had been cancelled because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Business||The loan recast riddle||In August, the Reserve Bank of India directed banks to offer borrowers a one-time loan restructuring scheme. The scheme is aimed at alleviating the stress of borrowers unable to repay their loans because of loss of income and business during the lockdown. The restructuring would extend the loan tenure up to two years. This would make the repayment easier in some ways, tougher in others. A handful of banks have already announced their restructuring schemes and the others will follow soon. Let’s look at what stressed borrowers need to do with respect to their home, car, personal or education loans. Only eligible borrowers can avail the restructuring. For example, State Bank of India in its resolution framework says the borrower must have a demonstratable reduction or loss of income in these last few months. The RBI has directed that the scheme be provided only to those borrowers who had been repaying their dues on time till February 2020. Those who’d already stopped repayments 30 days prior to March 1, 2020, may not be able to avail the scheme because it focuses specifically on Covid-impacted borrowers. Therefore, before you apply for the scheme, check with your lender about your eligibility. If your lender hasn’t yet announced the framework, wait for it. Do note that applying for the scheme doesn’t guarantee acceptance. For example, ICICI states that the application is merely “the beginning of the whole process. Once the borrower applies for restructuring of credit facility, the bank will review the application on the basis of its internal policies”. As you need to demonstrate a loss of income compared with the  February levels, you’ll need proof of income. For the salaried, the proof will be salary slips and bank statements. For the self-employed, bank statements, GST returns, income tax returns etc may suffice. If there’s been a job loss, a letter stating termination of employment may be needed. The norms vary from one bank to another. Therefore, know which documents your lender will require. The restructuring will not come cheap. SBI, for example, will charge you 35 basis points over and above the current rate of interest on the loan being restructured. HDFC states that a processing fee may be levied. ICICI states that additional interest will be charged for the restructured loan. Apart from the charges, you may need to pay a higher EMI. Overall, your interest will increase especially if you’d also availed the moratorium on EMIs from March. Use an EMI calculator to ascertain long-term costs. Let’s be very clear that the restructuring framework has been designed keeping in mind the needs of borrowers stressed by Covid. If you have a stable income as well as the ability to keep paying your EMIs, do not take this option. You have nothing to gain. A 24-month extension, including an additional moratorium, will not just add to your borrowing costs because of an increased interest rate and applicable processing fees, but it will also result in higher EMIs to make up for the time lost in any moratorium you have availed. This may further strain your already stressed finances. As the scheme also needs you to establish a loss of income, you cannot avail it if you’re expecting your income to fall in the future. It needs to have already happened. If you do avail the scheme, you’ll be incurring higher interest. The only way to cut down the interest is by pre-paying regularly on your dues. Pre-payments, which directly cut your loan balance, will reduce your loan tenure as well as the applicable interest. In the illustration shown above, on a loan of Rs 50 lakh for 20 years at 8.50 per cent, your total interest is Rs 54.13 lakh. Assuming a moratorium from month 13 to 42 (a six-month moratorium followed by another 24-month moratorium — the maximum you can avail in the restructuring), your loan balance will increase to over Rs 60 lakh, but it still needs to be repaid in the remaining tenure of 222 months. This  means your EMI will increase to Rs 53,357 from Rs 43,391. To hack the interest back to the Rs 54-lakh range, you can prepay 2.5 times your EMI with every 12th EMI for four years. Assuming your income continues to improve, sustained pre-payment in this or any other manner will accelerate you out of debt. Lastly, each bank has announced a date before which you need to apply for the restructuring. SBI says it’s December 24, 2020. For ICICI, it is December 18, 2020. Keep in touch with your lender to remain on top of the process. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Auto sales surge not sustainable||The recovery seen in auto sales in the past couple of months is not a sustainable one and there is a question mark on how the industry would fare next year as the sector is hugely linked to the economy, according to MG Motor India president and MD Rajeev Chaba. After the reopening of the economy after lockdown, auto sales have gradually picked up month-on-month since June and gained further momentum with the onset of the festive season in September. “We should not think this is a sustainable recovery. This recovery is very tactical because of pent-up demand,  lockdown, some shifting from public to private transportation and maybe some very few people who just want to buy cars now because they want to have some feel-good factor," Chaba said. However, “Sustainable or robust demand depends on the economy. Automotive industry is hugely linked with the economy of the country and vice-versa,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Personal data protection bill in budget session ||The Personal Data Protection Bill, which proposes to put restriction on the use of personal data without the explicit consent of citizens, is likely to be tabled in next year’s Budget session of Parliament, according to a source. The draft of the bill, approved by the cabinet in December 2019, proposes a penalty of up to Rs 15 crore and up to three-year jail term for company executives for violating privacy norms. “The time for the joint committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill has been extended to the second week of the winter session. The final bill is expected to be tabled in Parliament in the Budget session after incorporating the suggestions,” the source said. The bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in February and has been referred to a joint parliamentary committee of both the Houses, headed by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, for examination and report. The draft approved by the cabinet in December mandates storage of critical data of individuals by internet companies within the country while sensitive data can be transferred overseas only after explicit consent of the data owner. The bill has been drafted following a Supreme Court judgment in August 2017 that declared “Right to Privacy” a fundamental right. The need for a strong personal data protection regime was further highlighted by the apex court in September 2018 when it struck down some provisions in the Aadhaar Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Economic recovery predicted to be slow L-shaped||Axis Bank’s chief executive and managing director Amitabh Chaudhry feels economic recovery will be slow, but there is optimism coming in from improved loan demand and credit card spends for the third-largest private sector lender. He, however, sounded sceptical on whether the government can come out with more stimulus measures and said that the economic recovery will be a slow “L-shaped” one. The country’s GDP contracted nearly a fourth in the June quarter and everybody is watching for signs of revival. Some analysts feel the encouraging data for the last month can be a sign of pent-up demand. “My assessment is that the macro situation has improved quite a bit, especially in the last month or so. I’m seeing a clear return of optimism and this is evident when I converse with the CEOs of various organisations and when I see our own new loan enquiries, credit card spends and account openings,” Chaudhry said. He was quick to add that we are not completely out of the woods yet and a sustained recovery may take a few quarters. Over the recovery trajectory, Chaudhry said it will be “L-shaped” which is characterised by a slow rate of recovery with persistent unemployment and stagnant economic growth. When asked if he expects the government to come out with a second stimulus package ahead of the festivities, Chaudhry sounded a bit sceptical and asked everybody to be “realist”. “Frankly, we have to do and get the business back rather than waiting for further handouts from the government,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Unlock 5: Business sentiments on the mend||The CEOs of top 115 companies who met at CII’s National Council earlier this week indicated the revival of business sentiment and a gradual rise in expected corporate performance in a poll, raising hopes that a steady recovery of India’s economy is on the anvil. The CEOs, who took the poll, included representatives from across sectors such as metals and mining, manufacturing, auto, pharma, health and leading services sector including ITeS, health hospitality tourism and e-commerce, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said on Sunday. “A steady recovery of the Indian economy is on the anvil as corporate India restarts business and economic activity with lockdowns being increasingly relaxed in many parts of the country,” the chamber said. India Inc is now estimating a capacity utilisation of more than 50 per cent in the second half of this financial year, it added. However, according to the CII, governments, both at the Centre and states, would need to focus on livelihoods in addition to lives, and hence efforts need to be made to stall the practice of sudden and ad-hoc lockdowns. “It is important to allow a complete opening up of the economy for demand to pick up which in turn will propel capacity utilisation,” the CII said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Mini SUVs race ahead in popularity||The SUV rage in the passenger vehicle segment has spawned a new sub-segment, the mini SUV, which is witnessing increased activity both in terms of customer enquiries as well as manufacture updates to cater to the rising demand for personal mobility. For many original equipment manufacturers, the min-SUV is their entry-level car. For Renault India, the Kwid has been a volume driver ever since its launch in the Indian market in 2015 except for August this year when the Renault Triber sales overtook the Kwid. The Kwid has sold around 3,000 units in August 2020. Renault has recently announced a limited version of the Kwid, called the 2020 Neotech edition. “The Kwid has emerged as a game-changer. It redefines the entry segment’s value index led by its SUV bodystyle and an economical cost of ownership, which is enabled by its 98 per cent localisation levels,” said a company spokesperson. Maruti’s S-Presso, a mini SUV, also celebrated its first anniversary recently and is also a major volume driver for the car maker. Shashank Srivastava, executive director, marketing and sales, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL), said, “Within a short span of a year, the S-Presso has carved a strong niche for itself. In line with the aspirations of young India, S-Presso is exclusively designed to offer a mini SUV feel with the best of technologies and features.” In the premium segment, Audi India is driving in the Q2, its entry-level SUV whose bookings opened last week. Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India, said, “Our fifth launch for the year — the Audi Q2 — is an extremely important product for India as it opens up a new segment of buyers for the brand. It is a luxury all-rounder that is big on features and extends the successful Q-family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Covid: Online food retail a hit after shift in consumer shopping habits||India’s e-grocery space is likely to grow more than two-fold this year as the Covid-19 pandemic has led to shifts in the shopping habits of consumers. According to an UBS report, the gross merchandise value (GMV) of online grocery retail is seen to grow about 2.4 times in 2020 to $0.3 billion (Rs 2,200 crore aproximately) in December 2020 from $0.13 billion (Rs 900 crore) in January. Further, online grocery, which accounted for around 0.3 per cent of the total retail segment last year, is likely to see its contribution rise to around 1.5 per cent by 2023. The brokerage had hosted a call with Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown has not only seen players such as Grofers and BigBasket ramp up their customer base but also the entry of JioMart and food ordering platform Swiggy turning to the delivery of groceries. Retail giants Amazon and Flipkart also have a presence in the market. The activity is only set to pick up with Reliance Retail turning its focus into online grocery, backed by a series of investments in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL). RRVL has so far raised Rs 32,198 crore from seven investors. BigBasket is also reportedly in talks to raise around $400 million from Temasek and others. According to Rajagopalan, the shift in consumer focus to fresh and healthy foods, the use of technology to increase efficiencies and enhance consumer experience, the growth of local convenience stores and the modernisation of the local grocery stores have been the key trends that have shaped the landscape. Further, there have been other changes in the evolving grocery retail landscape in India. These include a digital leap by neighbourhood stores, consumers’ adoption of digital platforms, the shift towards a touch-free shopping journey, the emergence of mindful shopping and the launch of relevant new products in health, hygiene and immunity space. A report from consulting firm RedSeer and online grocery player BigBasket is also optimistic of a strong growth in  the segment. It projects that e-grocery will grow very fast to be a $18.2-billion industry by 2024 from $1.9 billion in 2019 — a CAGR of 57 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Domestic gas price review call||A review of the gas price formula is necessary as at the current prices it will be very difficult to get investment in production, industry has said. The prices were slashed last week by 25 per cent to $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu), prompting an outry. Price of gas from difficult fields such as in deep-sea was reduced to $5.61 per mBtu from $4.06 per mBtu. Gas producers have written to the oil ministry offering various suggestions, including the review of the formula that puts domestic producers at a disadvantage over imported LNG. They said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of $5-9 per mBtu. P. Elango, managing director of Hindustan Oil Exploration Company (HOEC), told The Telegraph that the new price was “extremely unviable” for producers. “There is a need to review the gas pricing formula so that it is fair to both producers and consumers. It should be transparent and predictable. The current formula is based on the gas surplus market and is not applicable to India.” He said the prices should be linked to a percentage of the crude price index such as Brent which is globally understood and offer predictability to investors. The policy of offering price and marketing freedom to discoveries made from April 2019 should be extended to all fields. “The gross production of domestic natural gas is to fall by 10.6 per cent during 2020-21. E&P prospects in the fiscal  do not look promising as no company would aggressively want to increase production or get into high risk projects with such a low gas price,” Care Rating said in a research note. The BJP-led government had in October 2014 adopted a formula that takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (UK), Alberta (Canada) and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. Prices are set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 each year. A fall in $1 in price reduces ONGC’s revenues by around Rs 4,500 crore, according to estimates. ONGC accounts for 75 per cent of crude oil and natural gas production by volume, and 17 per cent of domestic refining capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||GST portal infrastructure scaled up to handle 3 lakh users||The technology infrastructure of Goods and Service Tax has been upgraded to allow more concurrent users of the portal, offer more convenience to assessees and plug in revenue leakage. The indirect tax backbone had come under the scanner earlier this year for its inability to handle the large volume of users who struggled to file their monthly and annual returns in January. The matter was taken up at the 39th GST Council meeting where Nandan Nilekani, non-executive chairman of the board of directors of Infosys, had pointed to the rush of the late filing of returns. According to the minutes of the meeting, around 65 per cent of the people were filing returns by due date and a system that is designed to handle only 1.25 lakh concurrent users saw more than 1.5 lakh people hit the server for return filing. The issue of delivery of one-time password by mail further compounded the load on the server. A solution was proposed to scale up the portal infrastructure to handle 3 lakh concurrent users. But the Covid-19 outbreak delayed the process to source equipment despite orders being placed with Chinese suppliers. The Goods and Services Tax Network, a non-profit body, is in charge of providing the IT infrastructure and tech major Infosys is the managed service provider. GSTN officials told The Telegraph that despite the challenges of Covid-19 and the lockdown, the project to scale up the number of concurrent users has been completed in June. The system can now handle 3 lakh concurrent users against 1.5 lakh earlier. GSTN CEO Prakash Kumar said they have introduced several other changes. Prominent among them is the partly automatic population of liabilities from return form GSTR-1 to GSTR-3B for the monthly filing, which was implemented last month. Earlier GSTR-1 was not connected with GSTR-3B and there was no way to check if the tax paid by the taxpayer was equal to the tax liability declared by him in GSTR-1. As a result there was no control on input tax credit and this became a source of fraud. 42,618 cases were registered between the fourth quarter of 2018-19 and the third quarter of 2019-20 where there are excess input tax credit claims. The minutes of the GST Council meeting also pointed out that there were cases where registration was taken on fake documents with the intent to defraud the exchequer.  Around 1 crore taxpayers file GSTR-3B returns every month. GSTN officials said that subsequent to the introduction of GSTR-2B, taxpayers would now be able to reconcile input tax credit with their own records. “This enables taxpayer to find invoices not uploaded by supplier or invoices where some discrepancies exist vis-à-vis those in the purchase register,” said Prakash. Further, nil filing of GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B over SMS has been implemented to reduce the compliance burden of around 22 lakh taxpayers. All these changes have been introduced between June and September. Infosys did not immediately respond as the company is in a silent period ahead of its board meeting later this month to approve financial results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||GST borrowing leeway on meeting agenda||The Centre plans to let states borrow a higher sum for its inability to pay their GST dues because of the pandemic as it looks to avoid confrontation at the GST Council meet on Monday though the six non-BJP states have shown no inclination to climb down on their demand to junk the proposal altogether The change may be done under the first option scheme, with the sum raised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore from Rs 97,000 crore. This option was supported by 21 states mostly ruled by the BJP or states which have supported it on issues. Finance ministry sources said the higher borrowing could be offered after some states questioned the assumptions made by the Centre on growth. Revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey had said the sum of Rs 97,000 crore was fixed based on a 10 per cent growth in the GST receipts for 2019-20. The second option invloved borrowing Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market, which has not been accepted by any of the states. However, some of the states while going for the first option had objected to the 10-per-cent projection. A growth of 7 per cent in state GST receipts was the more likely estimate as growth in the receipts in 2018-19 and 2019-20 were 6-7 per cent; and given the fall in collections in this fiscal, the 7-per-cent figure was more realistic. The lower growth estimation would increase the compensation sum to about Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which could be offered to the states during the council meet on Monday, sources said. However, the chief ministers of six non-BJP ruled states — Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu —  have written to the Centre opposing both the options. In the current fiscal, the states are staring at a staggering Rs 2.35 lakh crore goods and services tax (GST) revenue shortfall. About Rs 97,000 crore of the sum, according to the Centre’s calculation, is on account of GST implementation and the rest Rs 1.38 lakh crore the impact of Covid-19 on states revenues. The Centre in August gave two options to the states: borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market. The Modi government  has also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Recovery signs in housing market||Sale of residential properties witnessed a sequential uptick during the July-September quarter as India began to slowly come out of one of the strictest lockdowns imposed anywhere in the world, allowing buyers to visit sites, finalise mortgage and act on pending purchase decisions. Real estate brokerage and consultancy JLL said residential sales were up 34 per cent during July-September over the April-June period across the seven metro cities in India, tabulating figures from established developers only, prompting the head of the institution to be “cautiously optimistic” about the residential market. Even though a more granular report is expected later this month about the health of the real estate market in each city, including Calcutta, the cumulative sales number pales in shadow when compared with 2019 and points to the extent of contraction in sales. These seven cities recorded sales of 14,415 units during July-September compared with only 10,753 units in April-June, when much of the country was completely shut. However, the sale was less than half of the 36,826 units sold in the July-September period of 2019. “We are feeling cautiously optimistic about the residential market, driven by sales volumes in Mumbai and Delhi. A combination of factors such as low mortgage rates, attractive prices combined with developers’ lucrative payment plans reinforce the longer-term potential of the sector,” Ramesh Nair, CEO and country head of JLL, said. Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research at the brokerage, said it did not make much sense to compare with last year.  It was more important to see if there is an incremental gain month-on-month. “The festive season may bring back more buyers to the market even though the residential space is unpredictable.” Bangalore was the only city other than Calcutta which witnessed a decline in sales over the last quarter. Only 390 units were sold in July-September against 481 in the year-ago period, a 19 per cent drop. Bangalore saw a 12 per cent dip. Das declined to read much into the numbers. “There was hardly any launch in Calcutta in the last quarter. In a small market like this, launches can move sales dramatically,” he explained. Meanwhile, Bengal Peerless signed on former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly to promote the second phase of Avidipta, billed as the tallest building on EM Bypass. “Somebody has to take the lead to shake up the market. We are trying to convey that it would be the best time to buy a property,” Ketan Sengupta, managing director of the company, said. Prices have not moved up in the last one year and the home loan rate has come down to 7 per cent, the lowest ever, making it compelling to buy if there is possibility of income impairment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
05-10-2020||India||'Secret' extradition proceedings on to bring Mallya, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that "secret" extradition process was going on to bring fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to the country but it was not aware about its status. The Centre also told the top court that it was not a party to the proceedings. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan asked Mallya's lawyer to inform the court what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. Advocate Ankur Saigal, appearing for Mallya, told the apex court that he was not aware what kind of proceedings are going on. He said, "I have knowledge that my request against extradition has been rejected". The bench also directed Mallya's lawyers to apprise by November 2 as to when can the fugitive businessman appear before the court and when the "secret" proceedings are going to end. Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the Centre, told the court that extradition request has been made as per the direction of the court. "Some secret extradition proceedings are going on to which we are not a party. "Extradition proceedings have been upheld by the highest court of UK but it has not been happening as of now," he said. The apex court had earlier directed Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of court orders. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the United Kingdom. The apex court had in June directed its registry to explain as to why Mallya's review petition had not been listed before the concerned court for the last three years. It had directed the registry to furnish all the details including names of officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition in the last three years. The apex court's 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred USD 40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in "flagrant violation" of various judicial orders. It was dealing with pleas of lending banks seeking contempt action and a direction to Mallya to deposit USD 40 million received from offshore firm Diageo respectively. The banks had then alleged that Mallya concealed the facts and diverted the money to his son Siddharth Mallya and daughters Leanna Mallya and Tanya Mallya in "flagrant violation" of the orders passed by the Karnataka High Court. Mallya had in May lost his application seeking leave to appeal his extradition to India in the UK Supreme Court, setting a 28-day clock on his removal from the UK. The UK top court's decision marks a big legal setback to the 64-year-old flamboyant businessman, who had earlier lost his high court appeal against an extradition order to India on charges of alleged fraud and money laundering related to unrecovered loans to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. Secret" extradition proceedings going on to bring Mallya: Centre tells SCMallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||CBI recovers Rs 50 lakh from multiple premises of DK Shivakumar||The CBI has till now recovered Rs 50 lakh from multiple premises it has searched in a corruption case related to Congress leader D K Shivakumar, officials said on Monday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is carrying out searches at 14 locations in Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra in the case that pertains to amassing of disproportionate assets, they said. The search operation may be expanded during the day, the officials said. The CBI has registered a fresh case against the Congress leader based on a source information from another agency. The information relates to assets amassed during Shivakumar's tenure as a minister in Karnataka, they said. Following the registration of FIR, CBI teams started searches on Monday morning at 14 locations -- nine in Karnataka, four in Delhi and one in Mumbai. So far, Rs 50 lakh has been recovered from premises of Shivakumar, his family members and associates during the searches in the corruption case, the officials said. Places that are being searched include properties of Shivakumar's brother and MP from Bengaluru Rural D K Suresh, according to sources. CBI sleuths reached their residences in Bengaluru and also at Doddalahalli in Kanakapura early this morning. "CBI has registered a case against the then minister of the Karnataka government and others on the allegations of acquisition of disproportionate assets. Searches are being conducted today at 14 locations including nine in Karnataka, four in Delhi, one in Mumbai," the CBI said in a statement. Congress leaders have hit out at the BJP governments at the Centre and in Karnataka for the CBI searches, questioning its timing ahead of the November 3 bypolls to the Sira and the R R Nagar assembly segments. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed it "raid raj" and a "Machiavellian move" by the BJP government. "The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won't deter us. CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, 'Raid Raj' is their only 'Machiavellian Move'!," Surjewala said on Twitter. "Let Modi & Yeddyurappa Govts & BJP's frontal organizations i.e CBI-ED-Income Tax know that Congress workers & leaders will not be cowed down nor bow down before such devious attempts.Our resolve to fight for people & expose BJP's maladministration only becomes stronger," he tweeted. Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah too in a tweet said, "@BJP4India has always tried to indulge in vindictive politics & mislead public attention. The latest CBI raid on @KPCCPresident@DKShivakumar's house is another attempt to derail our preparation for bypolls. I strongly condemn this." Congress spokesperson A S Ponnanna, who is also a senior advocate in the High Court of Karnataka, claimed that the court had asked the CBI not to precipitate as Shivakumar had questioned the permission given by the Karnataka government to the CBI to probe the alleged corruption charges against him. "I'm surprised politics is down to this level... CBI has to function under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, under which if they have to come to a state and investigate, they have to get permission from the state government, the permission that was given has been questioned by Shivakumar," he said. The court had said do not precipitate, what I have understood from this is- they (CBI) should have not have acted. They should have got it vacated from the court and acted, after permission from the court," Ponnanna, who served as an additional advocate general during the Congress government, said, adding that the investigation should be fair and lawful. Shivakumar was arrested on September 23 last year by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money laundering case and was lodged in the Tihar jail under judicial custody. The Congress leader was released from the jail on October 23 after the Delhi High Court granted him bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||Paswan snub to JDU seen as proxy ploy by BJP||A sour irony is descending upon Nitish Kumar, aiming for a record fourth straight term as Bihar chief minister — his main ally, the BJP, is emerging as main opposition to his ambition. As the Assembly polls near, the BJP appears less and less a coalition partner, more and more a challenger trying to manoeuvre itself into the driver’s seat and dictate power post-election at the expense of Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU). Sunday’s decision by Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to reject Nitish as leader of the NDA in Bihar is a proxy ploy by the BJP not only to erode the chief minister of agency as unchallenged alliance leader, but also to chip away at his tally in the new Assembly to a degree that he is left emaciated. Officially, the BJP still maintains Nitish will be the face of the NDA’s campaign, but it is apparent the chief minister is a placard the BJP is preparing to maim, even discard. Irrespective of the party’s official position, the LJP’s anti-Nitish overture isn’t without the BJP leadership’s endorsement; it is more likely a concerted move. Chirag Paswan, put in charge of negotiations by his ailing father, met BJP president J.P. Nadda last week in the presence of home minister Amit Shah, the de facto party boss. Long reined-in, the BJP’s renewed aspiration to pilot power in Bihar has been fed in no mean way by the limp RJD-led gathbandhan. Drubbed in two successive Lok Sabha elections and minus the stage and backroom abilities of Lalu Prasad, the gathbandhan (the Congress and the Left parties are part of it) holds out little promise of making a fight of it. Tejashwi Yadav, named lead act of the gathbandhan, cannot match his ailing and jailed father’s charisma, energy or hold. He inspires little confidence among his own party men. Former Union minister and top RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh left the party in disgust just days before he passed away in mid-September. Other party seniors have often spoken with disdain of Tejashwi’s “vagrant, disrespectful and inconsistent” ways. There are two other factors fuelling the BJP leadership’s sense that this is its hour in Bihar and it should make a grab for it. One is constant feedback from the ground that Nitish’s graph as able administrator — “sushashan babu” — is dipping and that the RJD-led alliance is displaying little signs of shoring up any benefit from that. In contrast, despite the sinking economy and the Covid-related disaffection among returning migrants, Prime Minister Narendra Modi retains his high levels of individual approval. This reporter is privy to more than one mood-tracker trend from Bihar that suggest the same broad pattern: the only leader able to float above the rest in Bihar, miraculously unaffected despite adverse performance, is Narendra Modi. The second reason, and nothing to be knocked, is simmering sentiment in the BJP ranks that Nitish “needs to be taught a lesson and now is the time”. A senior BJP leader bluntly told The Telegraph last week: “Nobody has forgotten the way Nitish ditched us in 2013 over Narendra Modi being picked as PM candidate, the top leadership least of all. We embraced him again because of compulsions, we needed to get back into power in Bihar, but those compulsions don’t apply any more.” Nitish has done his reliability as ally no favours by multiple vaults between political polarities in Bihar. Starting off as a Lalu acolyte, Nitish joined hands with the BJP and was able to oust Lalu from power in 2005. In 2013, he famously jettisoned himself from the BJP on the Modi issue and later embraced his bitter foe Lalu to contest, and win, the 2015 Assembly elections. Later, he cast Lalu aside yet again and, in the enactment of an overnight political coup, cuddled up to the BJP yet again. Through all of these flip-flops, Nitish has retained power as chief minister barring a short retreat from power during which he had handed charge to Jitan Ram Manjhi, now leader of the Hindustan Awam Morcha. “If Nitish Kumar thinks he is the wiliest politician in Bihar and the only one who can choose and discard allies, he must be made aware he is mistaken,” a Bihar BJP leader quipped during a conversation on the emerging poll scenario with this reporter. He added, meaningfully: “Do remember that Nitish has never won a Bihar election on his own; he has always managed to hold on to power by combining with a more powerful ally. If he is indeed so popular, he should try contesting on his own once and test the waters. Kitne paani mein hain pata chal jaayega…. He will learn how deep he is in the waters.” Nitish and the BJP are yet to finalise seat-sharing, but the odds are the JDU will find itself pushed. The BJP brass appears rather undeterred by the loss of the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal as allies; Maharashtra and Punjab, they maintain, have no relevance in Bihar. The BJP probably draws some advantage from the fact that 2015 cannot be any basis for seat shares — Nitish and the BJP contested the last Assembly election as rivals. It is probably telling that although Nitish and Lalu contested an equal share of seats in 2015 — 101 each — the JDU won 69 to the RJD’s 80. The BJP is wise to Nitish’s low strike-rate record and will most likely work to trip its ally’s Assembly numbers even as it keeps the pretence of being part of the Nitish-led NDA. Paswan’s LJP is not the only move the BJP has made to that end. The creation, overnight, of a third alliance between Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), and the sudden withdrawal of Mukesh Mallah’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), a small but not insignificant vote-splitter, from the RJD gathbandhan, are clearly pawn-play to corner Nitish on the Bihar chessboard. How Nitish will play this perhaps only he knows, if that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Lathi-happy UP police graduate from CAA protesters to public figures. Your turn next  ||Thursday: Rahul Gandhi, MP, Congress. Friday: Derek O’Brien, MP, Trinamul Congress. Saturday: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, general secretary, Congress. Sunday: Jayant Chaudhary, former MP, RLD. When Uttar Pradesh police ran amok during the citizenship protests last winter and were accused of unspeakable brutality, the relative obscurity of the victims probably afforded many in the country an excuse to look the other way and go about their business as usual. Since then, Yogi Adityanath’s law-enforcement machine has raised the bar, graduating to strong-arming elected representatives and other public figures. The events that have unfolded in Hathras, the Uttar Pradesh district were a Dalit girl was brutalised and murdered, in the past few days have one common factor: the deployment of muscle power on public figures. Some citizens are indeed drawing vicarious pleasure from the sight of politicians getting roughed up — a daily occurrence in the lives of many a common man. Some have portrayed it as an essential rite of passage in public life, suggesting you are not an Opposition leader until you have taken a few lathi blows. But such wisecracks have deflected attention from a frightening prospect: if this is how the political elite is being treated in this country, what does it augur for the faceless citizen? On Sunday, police in Noida apologised to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for a policeman holding her by her kurta on Saturday and said an inquiry by “a senior lady officer” had been ordered. “We, at Noida police, are committed to ensuring the safety and dignity of women,” the district police said in a statement, presumably unaware of the irony. But that did not prevent the police in Hathras from wielding the lathi on a group led by Jayant Chaudhary, former MP and grandson of former Prime Minister and peasant rights crusader Chaudhary Charan Singh. Jayant was saved only because his supporters formed a protective ring around him and took several blows on themselves. The police, who wielded the baton at least a dozen times on Sunday to break up any form of gathering in the village, rushed towards Jayant as soon as he had stepped out of the victim’s house and begun speaking to the media. Footage showed policemen beating back Jayant and those accompanying him. Jayant, a Rashtriya Lok Dal leader who had represented Mathura from 2009 to 2014, later uploaded a video of the assault and tweeted in Hindi: “If you have the right to wield the baton, I have the right to stand by my people. Wield the baton as much as you want, our resolve will only grow stronger…. Save democracy.” Jayant, a graduate from the London School of Economics, told journalists while leaving the village: “I was talking to reporters when the police suddenly started wielding batons. My supporters saved me, but many got injured in the process.” He accused the government of bullying the victim’s family. “I don’t demand anything except justice for the family. Unfortunately, the government wants narco tests on the victim’s family, which means it wants to target them.” At least two dozen villagers in Hathras suffered injuries as the police attacked them with sticks through the day to prevent people from gathering. Many of them had merely stepped out of their homes out of curiosity at the flurry of activity in the village. Samajwadi Party members who had also gone to meet the victim’s family were assaulted. Samajwadi president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, who was not part of the team, said: “The government will not be able to suppress the movement as long as the guilty are not punished.” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home, did not respond to a message from this newspaper asking the reason behind the frequent police beatings. Not that the police are wielding the lathi indiscriminately. “The police are offering chairs to Rajput goondas. Our lives are in danger,” said the brother of the Hathras victim on Sunday. He said upper caste Rajputs were camping in and around the village to harm the family. “They were helping the police lathicharge those demanding justice for us,” the brother added. A video clip showed a man wearing a tilak on his forehead threatening and shouting at unseen villagers. He accuses them of not having faith in the CBI or the SIT and adds: “Ek baar mulakaat kar, hum tujhe bharosa dilayenge (Meet us once, we will ensure you have faith.)”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Vaccine ‘rough’ goal: 250 million by July||The Centre hopes to immunise up to 250 million people across India with a vaccine against the coronavirus disease by July 2021, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, announcing a “rough” estimated target and timeline. The minister said the health ministry was working with state governments to develop lists of “priority population groups” such as frontline healthcare workers in the government and private sectors. A top health researcher and member of a national task force on Covid-19 told The Telegraph that it would be “premature” to plan any rollout without knowledge about which vaccine will be available. “At this point, we’re looking at possible scenarios — scenario 1, scenario 2, scenario 3. But things could change,” the researcher said, requesting anonymity. The researcher added: “Manufacturers have different capacities; the mathematics changes depending on which candidate becomes available.” Multiple candidate Covid-19 vaccines are under various stages of clinical trials worldwide – including three candidates in India – to be assessed for safety and efficacy. It is unclear which of these India’s drug regulatory authority might approve. “Our government is working round the clock to ensure there is a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines once they are ready,” Vardhan said, interacting with citizens on a social media platform. “Just like everywhere else in the world, our government’s utmost priority is how to ensure vaccines for each and everybody in the country.” Vardhan said the ministry had asked the states to submit lists of priority population groups to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. These lists are expected to include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, surveillance officers, sanitary staff and others involved in testing, tracing and treating patients. “We have placed a realistic target of end-October to complete this humungous exercise,” Vardhan said, adding that the Centre would also help build capacity in human resources, supervision, training and the infrastructure required to distribute the vaccine across the country. “Our rough estimate and target would be to receive and utilise 400 to 500 million doses covering approximately 20 crore to 25 crore people by July 2021,” the minister said. “All this is still under various stages of finalisation.” Vardhan said the government was monitoring immunity against Covid-19 which, health researchers said, would be available through antibody surveys that provide information if a person has been previously infected by the coronavirus. In routine viral infections, previous exposure to an infection generates an immune response that protects the person from future infections by the same virus. This principle might be taken into account to decide who among the general population gets the vaccine on priority, two top health researchers advising the government have told this newspaper. Antibody surveys carried out between July and September suggested that 17 to 29 per cent of the populations sampled in several large cities – Ahmedabad, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Puducherry – had already been infected. Amid the growing epidemic, health experts say, the proportion of infected people would have risen to even higher levels by the time a vaccine becomes available. “If 30 to 40 per cent of people are already exposed, we can prioritise the vaccine for those without antibodies,” one researcher said. The Indian Council of Medical Research has already conducted two nationwide surveys showing a 10-fold increase in the prevalence of the infection over a 3-month period. Survey findings have indicated that over 92 million people had already been infected by August. “If the natural infection itself can do the job (providing immunity), a vaccine becomes superfluous,” Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology division, had said last week. India is testing two home-grown candidate vaccines – one developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the other by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila – and the Oxford University candidate. The results of their trials are expected later this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Forensic lab finds cuts that challenge UP official version||A forensic laboratory has confirmed that the Hathras victim had two deep vaginal injuries, a senior home department official said on Sunday, days after several administration officials had publicly played down the possibility of the girl having been raped. “The report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, came on Saturday evening, confirming two deep injuries in her vagina,” the official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “These injuries are not possible without internal invasion. The report is silent on rape but the injuries suggest she was sexually assaulted.” The official said the lab’s mandate was not to suggest whether there was rape but only to examine the girl’s organs for injuries. The state government has not yet made the report public. “The medical report from JN Medical College, Aligarh, where she was treated before being shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, had not mentioned this injury,” the home department official said. “The post-mortem report (from Safdarjung Hospital) only said that her spinal cord injury was the cause of death.” The victim had in a statement from her deathbed confirmed gang rape, police sources said. She had said she had escaped earlier attempts at sexual assault by Ravi— one of the four accused — but was overpowered by him and others this time, they added. Although the medical college’s report and the post-mortem had neither confirmed nor denied rape, vaginal injuries or the presence of semen, senior officials had tripped over themselves to downplay the possibility of rape. On Thursday, additional director-general of police Prashant Kumar had insisted that sperms had not been found in the victim’s vagina. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar had said on Wednesday: “There were no injuries to the private parts of the victim.” The victim’s family, who believe the police tried to protect the accused, have alleged that the force refused to add the gang-rape charge to that of attempted murder for eight days before yielding to the pressure of public protests. If the gang-rape charge is dropped and the accused are convicted of murder, they would in all likelihood be sentenced to life imprisonment. But if the charge of gang rape is added to murder and brutality — the victim’s tongue was chopped off and her neck broken — the courts would be likelier to consider the crime “rarest of the rare” and hand out the death sentence, legal experts said. On Saturday, BJP hard-liner Vinay Katiyar had said there was no evidence that the girl had been gang-raped. “It’s wrong to say she was gang-raped. She died of spinal injuries,” Katiyar said. The home department official said: “I don’t know on what basis these officials and politicians claimed there was no rape. They could surely have waited the three days that the forensic lab took to examine the viscera and send the report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||TN politician picks fault with Hindi rail SMS ||A DMK parliamentarian and an NDA constituent on Sunday picked fault with a Hindi text message the railways sent to a passenger to confirm the ticket, portraying it as language “imposition”. However, Southern Railway clarified that a particular user had selected Hindi as the preferred language while registering with IRCTC, the authorised e-ticketing agency website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||LJP cites ideological differences with Nitish||The Lok Janshakti Party on Sunday announced it would contest the October-November Bihar polls alone, citing “ideological differences” with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, but pledged to support the BJP both before and after the election. The move aroused suspicion of a plot to eat into JDU votes to the BJP’s advantage. The LJP said it would field candidates against the JDU but not the BJP and that after the polls, its MLAs would help form a BJP-led government. Till late Sunday evening, the BJP had not responded to the LJP’s decision. “At the state level and in the Assembly polls, due to ideological differences with JDU in the alliance, the LJP has decided to contest the elections outside the NDA,” an LJP statement said. It did not explain what “ideological differences” had cropped up between the two parties. The LJP has in recent months been critical of Nitish’s performance, but without any reference to ideological issues. Sunday’s statement came after the LJP’s parliamentary board had met under the chairmanship of Chirag Paswan, who has taken over the party’s reins from his father, Dalit leader and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. “There is no bitterness between the LJP and the BJP. After the poll results, all elected MLAs of the LJP will be with the development path of respected Prime Minister Narendra Modi and form a BJP-LJP government,” the statement said, omitting to mention the JDU as a ruling coalition partner. It added that it had wanted the BJP and not Nitish to lead the alliance in Bihar. Asked whether the party, a minor regional outfit, could have dared take this step without the BJP’s backing, an LJP politician shot back: “Do you think it’s possible?” He said Chirag had written to Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda well in advance conveying his party’s intention not to accept Nitish’s leadership. Ram Vilas has had major heart surgery and is in hospital, away from the political scene. The LJP’s move suggests a well-scripted strategy to give the BJP the upper hand in Bihar, a state it has never been able to dominate because of Mandal politics and where it has had to play second fiddle to Nitish. Weeks ago, when the BJP had declared the NDA would contest the Bihar polls under Nitish’s leadership, it had seemed to be making a magnanimous gesture despite feedback from the ground suggesting simmering anti-incumbency against the chief minister. Modi too had lauded Nitish for his “sushashan” (good governance), seemingly endorsing his stature as the NDA’s leader in Bihar despite history between them. Nitish had dumped the NDA months before the 2014 general election after Modi was made its prime ministerial candidate, won the 2015 Bihar polls in alliance with the Congress-RJD, then made a dramatic about-turn in 2017 to return to the BJP fold. This not just eroded his credibility but made it more than likely that the BJP would try to extract revenge at an opportune time. After gladdening the JDU by endorsing Nitish’s leadership, the BJP began bargaining for an equal share of Bihar’s 243 seats. Sources said the seat shares had been worked out, with the BJP getting 121 and the JDU 122, although no official announcement has been made. JDU sources said it had been agreed that the BJP would accommodate the LJP from its share while the JDU would do the same favour to former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustan Awam Morcha. JDU managers thought they had played smart since the LJP would ask for more seats than Manjhi, and so their party would end up contesting more seats than the BJP. Now with the LJP deciding to contest alone, the BJP could be poised to contest more seats than the JDU. Boosted by a probable LJP bid to damage Nitish, the BJP could well end up with more seats than the JDU, weakening Nitish’s claim to the chief minister’s chair. Even if the BJP allows Nitish to remain in the hot seat in that scenario, his authority would have been seriously eroded. BJP managers anyway expect anti-incumbency to hurt Nitish more than their party. The BJP has therefore been deftly signalling to its loyal voters, the upper castes in particular, that the party is with Nitish and yet not with him. “Our voters may not vote wholeheartedly for the JDU candidates. This could lead to the BJP winning more seats,” a BJP politician said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Hathras judicial probe cry ||The Hathras victim’s family on Sunday stressed that they wanted a judicial probe headed or monitored by a sitting Supreme Court or high court judge, voicing fear that a police or CBI investigation might frame them in an “honour killing” case. The family had expressed the same preference on Saturday after chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI probe, as demanded by supporters of the alleged rapist-cum-killers who claim the accused are innocent. “We don’t see much difference between the CBI and the police. The cases they have failed to solve or manipulated outnumber those they have actually cracked,” the brother of the 19-year-old Dalit victim said. “But we have complete faith in the judiciary and want a judicial inquiry, either headed by a sitting judge from the high court or the Supreme Court, or monitored by them.” He added: “The police and other investigators were trying to make it seem a case of honour killing. They grilled my father as though he was behind whatever happened to his daughter. We fear that a CBI probe will go in the same direction. “But the media are monitoring everything and I’m hopeful that the world is watching the developments closely.” Four Rajput youths are accused of gang-raping the victim, cutting off her tongue and breaking her neck on September 14. After she died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, the Uttar Pradesh police allegedly hijacked the body, brought it to her village, and burnt it after locking the family at their home. The victim’s father on Sunday said the forced cremation, facilitated by “petrol” rather than the traditional rituals, went “against Hindusim” and left room for doubt whether the body was indeed his daughter’s. The girl’s brother had on Saturday collected her ashes from the spot where the police burnt her on a pyre. The father said on Sunday that the ashes would not be immersed in the Ganga until a court had convicted and sentenced the accused. “We collected the ashes because the local administration was pressuring us. Sometimes we believe that these remains are of my daughter but at other times we doubt it,” he said. “We don’t know whom the police cremated. They claim it was my daughter. Those who had seen the cremation told us they didn’t see the face. The police had poured petrol on the pyre and burnt the body. We may be Dalits but we are Hindus too, and whatever the police and the state government did was against Hinduism.” More than 50 local Rajputs on Saturday protested outside the victim’s village, removing their shirts and demanding a CBI probe. “We want a CBI probe and narco-analysis tests on the girl’s family. Those arrested are innocent,” one of the protesters, Nishant Chauhan, told reporters. Several BJP leaders too have publicly claimed the accused are innocent, echoing an unofficial “panchayat” held on October 2 by Rajputs from 12 villages that demanded a CBI probe claiming it would exonerate the four youths. The meeting had also demanded a narco-analysis or “truth serum” test on the victim’s family members. Hours later the government of Adityanath, himself a Rajput, announced such tests on the complainants, accused and the policemen involved in the initial probe, apparently on the basis of a report from the special investigation team. “We are poor and downtrodden,” the victim’s brother said. “We haven’t got the courage to fight the Rajputs. But the way the media is fighting for justice gives us confidence that the guilty would be punished.” Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad met the victim’s family on Sunday afternoon and told reporters he wanted to take them away with him. “Supporters of the accused are holding panchayats every day within a radius of 2km. They can attack and harm the family anytime,” Azad said. “The government should either give them Y-category security or allow me to take them to my place (Saharanpur).” The victim’s father and aunt, who flanked Azad as he spoke, said they were willing to go with the Dalit leader as they were feeling “insecure”. “I wonder why the victim’s family cannot get security if the government can give security to (actress) Kangana Ranaut,” Azad said. The Union home ministry last month granted Kangana Y-plus security —10-12 armed CRPF men will guard her round the clock — after she said she felt insecure in Mumbai. Azad supported the family’s demand for a judicial probe, saying a “government tool” like the CBI couldn’t be trusted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Modi govt is Adani-Ambani sarkar: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a “puppet” in the hands of Adani-Ambani, reposing faith in his pet theme that the government was working to safeguard the interests of big companies despite the failure of such a campaign in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Addressing a farmers’ meeting in Punjab’s Moga along with top Congress leaders, including chief minister Amarinder Singh, Rahul said: “Why did the Modi government bring these three (farm) laws amidst Covid? It is about money and your land. The corporates have set their sights on your money and land. Modi wants to break your backbone and hand over agriculture to Adani and Ambani.” The Congress MP elaborated: “You must have seen puppet shows. Somebody pulls the strings from behind. Modi is a puppet. It is not Modi sarkar. It is Adani-Ambani sarkar. Modi is handled by Adani-Ambani. They give life to Modi. Modi works for them and they manage the media for Modi.” This is not the first time Rahul has made such allegations; he used to say in the run-up to the Lok Sabha polls that Modi works for a few corporate houses. The incumbent government, however, returned with a bigger mandate. Persisting with the same line of attack, the former Congress president said: “Agriculture trade rests on three pillars — the mandi system, procurement and MSP (minimum support price). As long as these pillars exist, Modi won’t be able to serve his mentors. So he intends to demolish them. He knows abolition of the mandi system and public procurement will destroy farmers. The Congress will not allow this. We will not yield an inch. I don’t say the mandi system doesn’t have deficiencies. But it needs reform, not destruction.” Arguing that farmers can’t be left to the mercy of corporate houses, Rahul said: “I give you a guarantee. The day the Congress comes to power at the Centre, we will throw these three laws into the dustbin. Modi says these laws will help farmers. If that is true, why are farmers protesting? I have seen Modi lie for six years. He said notebandi (demonetisation) would finish black money. Then he cheated small traders with the GST. He had tried to kill the Land Acquisition Act also. We fought and saved you. We will do it again.” Breaking the Covid-imposed shackles on public engagements, Rahul on Sunday addressed meetings and led a tractor rally in Punjab against the new farm laws, a day after stepping out of Delhi with around 5,000 party workers to meet the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim. Although the Yogi Adityanath administration in Uttar Pradesh had allowed only five leaders to proceed to Hathras, no such restrictions were imposed in Congress-ruled Punjab as thousands participated in Rahul’s meetings and tractor rally. The Congress leader will continue his tractor rally on Monday but a confrontation is inevitable when he tries to enter Haryana as the BJP-ruled state has declared that Rahul won’t be allowed to violate Covid restrictions. Farmers are protesting in Haryana as well, and Rahul intends to return to Delhi on October 6 after taking part in several programmes in the state. The Congress has also decided to hold countrywide demonstrations on Monday over the Hathras tragedy. Party general secretary K.C. Venugopal announced: “In our continued effort to provide justice to the family of the Hathras victim, the Congress will hold a satyagrah in state capitals and district headquarters across the country on Monday morning. Senior leaders, MPs, MLAs, office-bearers, functionaries and workers will participate in the sit-ins.” The Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, wondered why the Hathras district magistrate had not been removed yet. In a series of tweets, Priyanka said: “The worst behaviour with the family was of Hathras DM. Who is protecting him? He should be sacked immediately and his role investigated in the entire episode.” She also asked why petrol was used to burn the body of the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Roll back fare hike, says Sikkim youth forum||The Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) has demanded a rollback of the recent hike in bus fares, more buses between major towns of Sikkim without increase in fares, and keeping the hike in fares for inter-state travel by taxis to a minimum. The SPYF, which espouses political and social issues, in a media release issued in Gangtok said at a time people were struggling amid the Covid-19 pandemic, steep hikes in public transport fares was like adding insult to injury. “By doing this, the burden of the pandemic has been put on the shoulders of common people. Covid-19 is a global pandemic, we all need to fight it together,” it said. Accusing the Sikkim government of doing little to lessen the burden of people, the SPYF reminded that it was the people who lost their jobs, sources of income and businesses. “On behalf of common people of the state, we request the government to immediately withdraw the recent fare hike,” the release said. The SPYF’s requests include starting of Sikkim Nationalised Transport (SNT) bus services between all important towns and bazaars of the state without raising the fare, limiting the hike in taxi fare to within 1.3 times of the old fare even for inter-state travel (say, Gangtok to Darjeeling or Kalimpong), economic relief package for drivers, one-time tax relaxation for non-private and non-government vehicles and six-month relaxation on payment of EMIs for car loans. The Sikkim transport department recently revised share taxi and bus fares in view of curbs on number of passengers on a vehicle because of Covid social distancing protocol. While the fares of multipurpose utility vehicles (MUVs) like Tata Sumo and buses have doubled, that of five-seater taxis has been increased by a third within Sikkim and doubled for inter-state trips. The SPYF also wondered about the fate of the Economic Revival Committee set up by the government in view of the pandemic-induced disruption to the state’s economy. “The much-touted Economic Revival Committee is yet to come out with measures to revive the economy. Despite several suggestions given by SPYF and many other organisations and individuals, the government has not paid any heed as a result of which the people belonging to the middle and lower middle class are finding it extremely difficult to eke out a living,” it alleged. The government announced resumption of tourism from October 10. Tourism is the backbone of Sikkim’s economy. Over 14 lakh domestic tourists and nearly 1.5 lakh foreign tourists visited Sikkim in 2019, which equals 2.5 times more than its population of nearly seven lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Hathras echoes in Odisha Assembly||The alleged gang-rape of a 19-year old girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and the subsequent death of the victim found an echo in the Odisha Assembly on Saturday. Condemning the incident and the alleged bid by the Uttar Pradesh police to cover up the matter by allegedly cremating the body of the victim in a hush manner, Congress MLAs stormed into the well of the House and raised slogans against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress members pointed out how the girl was gagged, raped and then bludgeoned by a group of goons. She succumbed to the injuries sustained during the violence perpetrated against her by the goons. As soon as the House assembled for the day, senior Congress leader Narasingh Mishra raised the issue. He said: “Democracy has been butchered in Uttar Pradesh. All attempts are being made to deny justice to the girl. The way police was used to manhandle former AICC president, Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is beyond imagination. Such things should not happen in a civilised society. The BJP government has murdered the democracy. An authoritarian rule prevails at the moment” Congress MLAs trooped into the well of the House and demanded the resignation of Yogi. Senior MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati tried to climb onto the podium of the Assembly.  “How could police dare to touch Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi when the two Congress leaders were on their way to meet the family members of the gang-rape victim. There is no democracy,” said Bahinipati. As the House witnessed pandemonium, it could not take up any business for the day in the morning session and the Speaker had to adjourn the House repeatedly. Later, the Speaker called an all-party meeting in his chamber to break the stalemate. But this failed to resolve the issue and the House had to be adjourned again. The BJD also reacted to the incident. “The attack on the Dalit woman is unfortunate. We condemn it. If the family members don’t get justice, we will hit the streets. The police are acting as puppets in the hands of Uttar Pradesh government,” said BJD woman MLA Shenangini Chhuria. Later in the afternoon, normalcy was restored in the House. However, the BJP maintained that Uttar Pradesh police did not manhandle Rahul. “He intentionally fell on the ground,” said BJP MLA Bishnu Charan Sethi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Minister donates plasma||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan  on Saturday donated plasma for the treatment of Covid-19  patients. Only  people who have been cured of the disease are eligible to donate plasma. Pradhan on Saturday visited the SCB Medical College, Cuttack and donated plasma. “If my plasma can help anyone, I will feel happy,” he said. Pradhan also appealed to the people cured of Covid-19 to come forward to donate plasma. Plasma therapy is being widely used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
05-10-2020||India||Suicide as income dries up||A hawker on trains and his wife in Odisha have committed suicide after their income dried up because passenger trains are not running amid the pandemic and creditors had been breathing down their necks. The deaths of Kashinath Raula, 53, and his wife Kanaka, 45, in Balasore district have also brought to the fore how unscrupulous elements had infiltrated a successful and well-meaning government plan to promote financial self-reliance. Kashinath, who used to sell boiled grams and peas (ghughni) in trains between Balasore and Rupsa stations, and Kanaka died after consuming poison at their home in Pudadiha village on Saturday. The couple had taken loans totalling Rs 2.5 lakh from three women’s self-help groups to expand their house and the lenders had allegedly been mounting pressure on them to repay. Social activists and government officials said that several self-help groups were running illegal money-lending operations with the loans they take to set up small businesses. The government facilitates the grant of loans at subsidised rates to self-help groups so that they can run small businesses — from selling food items to rearing animals to running poultries — with the primary aim of fostering economic independence, especially among women. However, some groups had formed a nexus with private micro-finance companies to start a money-lending trade charging exorbitant interest rates. Sub-inspector Narahari Mahalik of Rupsa police station told this newspaper: “Kashinath used to hawk food items in trains. As passenger trains are not running because of the pandemic and the restrictions, he had become jobless. He had earlier taken loans totalling Rs 2.5 lakh to build two rooms at his house. Left with no money during the pandemic, he had borrowed some more to run the family. He had been unable to pay the monthly instalments and had been under constant pressure over loan repayment. He could not take the strain anymore and he and his wife consumed poison.” The officer said the accused members of the self-help groups would be called for questioning. “However, the investigation is going slow at the moment as most of our colleagues, including the inspector, are down with Covid,” Mahalik said. Neighbour Lambodar Jena said Kashinath used to earn Rs 600 to Rs 700 a day by selling ghughni on trains. “Last year, he had renovated his house and also added two rooms. He had taken loans for this. But when the lockdown was suddenly announced (on March 24), he came under severe financial stress. He had again borrowed money from the self-help groups to keep his family going. He had not been able to pay loan instalments for six months,” Jena said. Sources said that some members of the three women’s self-help groups had come only last week and threatened to evict Kashinath and his wife from the house if they failed to repay the loans. Jena said Kashinath had approached his two sons, a hawker and a labourer, for help but they could not do anything as they too had no income. Kashinath’s elder son Babula Raula said: “We are needy people. I am also a hawker on trains. I don’t have any income now and have a son and a daughter to look after. I had told father that I was helpless. My younger brother is also having a tough time. But we had never imagined that our parents would commit suicide.” Babula said he had lodged a police complaint against the three self-help groups. Social activist and Congress leader Sudarshan Das told The Telegraph: “There are many self-help groups working in the rural belt in Balasore district. Private micro-finance organisations are using self-help groups to extend loans to needy people at high interest rates. When the debtors fail to repay, all kinds of pressure tactics are used. I have already lodged a case. Now we are going to meet the victims’ family members.” A senior Odisha government official said many micro-finance groups in rural areas of Balasore, Bhadrak and some other parts of the state had spread their network with the help of self-help groups. The micro-finance outfits give money to these groups, which in turn lend cash to people and earn commission from repayment amounts. “Sometimes, the micro-finance organisations charge interest rates as high as 24 per cent. We have been educating people about taking loans from banks, which lend at 9 per cent interest. We will look into this particular case (in Balasore),” the officials said, requesting not to be identified. Sources said the Odisha finance department would inform the Reserve Bank of India about the activities of the micro-finance groups. Odisha has around 6 lakh self-help groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
05-10-2020||India||Fresh India-China talks on October 12||Top military commanders of India and China will hold a fresh round of talks on October 12 to address the border standoff that has festered for over five months, at a time both sides have continued to build military posts at 14,000ft and above in eastern Ladakh ahead of the punishing winter. The sixth round of talks between the two sides on September 21 had remained inconclusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
05-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP Arjun Singh's aide gunned down in Titagarh||A local BJP leader and close aide of BJP MP Arjun Singh, Manish Sukla, was gunned down by unidentified assailants in front of the party office in Purani Bazar area of Titagarh in North 24-Parganas on Sunday night. Sukla, known as the “right hand” of the Barrackpore MP who had defected from Trinamul last year, was shot at while speaking to party workers around 9pm. Rushed to the BN Bose Hospital in Barrackpore in a critical state, Sukla was transferred to a private hospital on EM Bypass where he was declared dead on arrival. A resident of Khardah’s Adarsha Pally area, Sukla was a lawyer by profession. The BJP has called a 12-hour Barrackpore bandh on Monday to condemn Sukla’s murder, and blamed Trinamul for it. Trinamul blamed the murder on “BJP’s internal bickering”. MP Arjun Singh was unequivocal about accusing Trinamul: “Manish (Sukla) was very popular among youths. Trinamul was afraid of his popularity and eliminated him in a planned manner.” Trinamul’s North 24-Parganas chairman Nirmal Ghosh rubbished the allegation. “Internal bickering of the BJP is behind the murder,” he said. BJP sources said four assailants on two motorcycles arrived near the party office in Purani Bazar when two of them fired at least five rounds at Sukla from close range. Four hit his chest and head. As news of the murder spread, BJP supporters went on rampage at many places in Titagarh, Barrackpore and nearby areas, ransacked vehicles and blocked the BT Road. A large police force was deployed at many places in the industrial belt. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma alerted the police stations under the commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre’s proposal to meet on Gorkhaland evokes strong reactions from Trinamul, CPM and Congress||The Centre’s proposed tripartite meeting on Gorkhaland on October 7 has evoked strong reactions from Trinamul, CPM and Congress. Trinamul leaders made it clear that “not an inch of land in Bengal” could be given a different name. The CPM demanded that the solution should be greater autonomy within the state. The Congress dubbed it as a “political stunt” of the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls to stoke hill sentiments and gain votes. Trinamul leaders pointed that the Centre should have informed the state government before convening a meeting on such a “serious issue” such as Gorkhaland. Tourism minister Gautam Deb was blunt. “The state government has carried out an array of development work in the hills. Ahead of elections, BJP is trying to create a new situation to gain some political dividend. We want development work to continue in the hills but want to make it clear that not an inch of land in Bengal can be given some other name,” the minister said. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamul based in Kurseong, who is also a member of Trinamul’s core committee, said: “The Centre should have informed the state before convening a meeting on such a serious issue. We doubt whether any meeting, where only some officials have been invited, can at all lead to any results.” Agreed CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, the Siliguri MLA and a member of party’s state secretariat. “We want a permanent solution to the hill issue and feel that the solution is greater autonomy with appropriate validation. But it has to be within the state (of Bengal). It would be wrong if the Centre does not call all political parties to make a decision on the issue. Inviting one or two parties won’t serve the purpose,” said Sankar Malakar, a working president of the state Congress, blamed the BJP’s “stunts”. The BJP has always resorted to political stunts and this time, as the Assembly elections are ahead, the party is trying to use the issue again,” said Malakar. He added that the Congress had always thought about the hill people. “In 1988, it was during Rajeev Gandhi’s tenure (when DGHC was formed) and again in 2012, it was during Manmohan Singh’s tenure (when GTA was formed). Congress-run governments in the Centre have acted in the interest of the hills,” he said. The Centre’s move has also left political analysts aback. According to them, as anti-Gorkhaland sentiment is strong among most people in Bengal, BJP rivals would make it an issue ahead of the state polls. “It would be interesting to see how BJP leaders counter such a campaign, as this time the central government has not resorted to any ambiguity but clearly mentioned that the talks are on Gorkhaland,” said an observer. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh could not be contacted.  However, Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the party, said: “Gorkhaland is the issue. However, the BJP is never in favour of dividing the state. It will be seen if a permanent solution can be reached within the framework of the Constitution other than dividing Bengal. That process has started. The state government has tortured the Gorkhas. It has to be rectified and some state ministers should be punished as well,” said Basu. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Two boys  drown while bathing in Jalpaiguri||Two teenagers drowned while bathing in different incidents at Jalpaiguri and Dhupguri towns on Sunday. In Jalpaiguri town, Gunjan Chhetri, 15, a resident of Bhanunagar in ward 10 of the town, went to take a bath in the Karala river at King Sahib’s Ghat. Sujit Goswami, an eyewitness to the incident, said he was standing near the bank when he heard some boys shouting for help. He then spotted a boy drowning in the river. “I got into the river, along with three of his friends but could not save Chhetri. We then raised an alert,” Goswami added. As the news spread, hundreds assembled in the area and many of them got into the river, trying to trace the boy. Soon, a civil defence team reached the spot and launched a search operation. After around eight hours, they found Chhetri’s lifeless body. “There was undercurrent in the river and it took us time to locate the body. The body was stuck in some wooden structures of idols and iron meshes,” said Ratan Mondal, group leader of the team. Meanwhile at Kathulia village in Dhupguri block, a 12-year-old Bijoy Roy went to a pond for a bath with some of his friends. Sources said Roy suddenly drowned in the pond. Local people rescued him took him to a hospital where doctors pronounced him brought dead. Police officers said a probe had been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Anubrata Mondal: No vote, no development ||Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal on Sunday courted controversy yet again. Mondal, speaking at a party meeting in Nalhati, said that a bridge would definitely come up at a village if there was a favourable Assembly election result in 2021. Mondal’s comment came in the wake of concerns put up by a local Trinamul leader as to why the BJP secured a lead in the area during the last Lok Sabha elections. “You have to give something to get something. There is nothing one-sided here. You first give me (votes), I will certainly give you (the bridge),” Mondal told booth committee president Kanchan Mal at the public meeting. In the booth-level meeting, Mal had raised concerns about the years-long demand for a bridge by the residents of Singdohori village in Nalhati block. In the same meeting, Trinamul sources had said that the party had lagged behind the BJP by 381 votes in last Lok Sabha polls from Singdohori village in Haridaspur gram panchayat. Mondal asked Mal to explain the number deficit. “We have a river in our village. We had assured the villagers of a bridge in 2013 but we could not do it. So, the people did not respond well,” said the booth president. Responding to this statement, Mondal said: “The CPM did nothing in 34 years. The Congress has not done anything in 70 years and the BJP has not done anything since 2014. We will attend to the demand after 2021.” Local Trinamul leaders have said that there are around 1,300 voters in Singdohori village who need to cross the Tirpita river to do business at the local markets in Nalhati and adjoining areas. In the same meeting, Mondal asked a local leader not to commit to development work in his village after being informed that the party had been defeated by the BJP by around 500 votes there. “If people don’t vote for us even after our development (work), then do not go for any development,” replied Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||39,000 detonators seized in Birbhum||Birbhum police early on Sunday morning recovered nearly 39,000 detonators from a car approaching from West Burdwan’s Raniganj and arrested the driver. Sources said the vehicle was intercepted near Joypur village in Mohammedbazar, a Jharkhand-bordering police station, when the explosive-laden vehicle was en route to Rampurhat. Arrested driver Asish Keora was arrested and was registered under the Explosive Substances Act of 1908. Keora was taken into six days’ police custody after being produced before the Suri district court on Sunday. “We have seized a huge consignment of explosives on the way to be smuggled. We are looking into the matter from all possible angles and trying to find out the end users,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief. Police sources said primary probe revealed the consignment was going to Rampurhat where miners in the stone quarry belt use explosives. “Around 50 stone quarries have been closed in Birbhum as they failed to conduct the pollution norms. Owners of those stone quarries use such illegal means to extract stones. However, we are trying to find out whether such explosives were being sent for other uses,” said an officer. In stone quarries, detonators are used with gelatin sticks to explode rocks. Their capacities can be strong enough to bring down a multistorey building. Police sources said this recovery was given priority owing to the arrest in Bolpur last week of a team of six persons, including four contract killers from Bangladesh, sent to kill a Trinamul leader. “There were no legal papers in the car and the driver disclosed that he was to hand over the consignment in Rampurhat. But we don’t know who the end users are,” said a police source. “A gelatin stick and a detonator can demolish a three-storey building easily. If such explosives are misused, it could spell disaster.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Small tea growers’ woes||More than 350- small tea growers from Darjeeling hills have not been able to market their product as Darjeeling Tea for the past six years even though the annual production of such growers in the rest of Bengal has surpassed the yield of tea gardens. According to the Tea Board of India data, of the 424.06 million kilos, the small tea sector contributed 237.01 million kilos and the established tea estates produced 187.05 million kilos in 2019. The story is, however, different in the hills of Darjeeling whose produce is world famous. In 2015, Bhawesh Niroula, 36, a software in Bangalore left his job and returned home at Pubong to cultivate tea in his 3 acre land and tied with another 180-odd small tea growers. “I secured a loan of approximately Rs 1 crore from a bank to set up Niroula’s Tea Factory,” said Niroula. About 40 kilometers away in Bungkulung in Mirik, Darjeeling Orthodox Small Tea Growers Welfare Society also set up a manufacturing unit the same year to process tea plucked by 150 small tea growers with a loan of Rs 60 lakhs. These two set of farmers had decided to manufacture their own tea after they came across a Tea Board of India circulation dated February 28, 2014 that stated that factories producing less than 500 kgs of tea per day would be termed “mini factories.” The hill units produce about 7,000 kgs of made tea monthly. “These factories are exempted from the provisions of the TMCO (Tea (Marketing) Control Order) and the Board will issue them a certificate to enable them to sale their produce in the auctions,” the order reads. “This is why we set up the factory and since then we have been requesting the Tea Board to issue us a certificate but to no avail,” rued Niroula. Both Niroula’s and the welfare society’s factories have not been able to sell the produce through auction or even as Darjeeling Tea or use the Darjeeling Tea logo in the absence of the certificate. The 87 gardens from Darjeeling hills have been recognised as a Geographic Indicator in 2003, which means only tea grown or produced in the 87 tea gardens in the defined geographic areas and registered with the Tea Board can be sold as Darjeeling Tea. Farmers in the hills argue that their produce should be recognised as it is grown in Darjeeling hills and the same leaves are accepted by the 87 tea gardens, which sell their products as Darjeeling Tea. “Even Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and Trinamul MP Shanta Chhetri, who are both members of the tea board are batting for us,” said Niroula. Sources in the Tea Board also admitted to technical difficulties arising from GI provisions. “Changes have to be made in the GI registry and the units have to be registered,” said a source in the tea board. GI issues are handled by department of promotion of industry and internal trade. In the absence of recognition from the Tea Board, these small farmers are selling their produce to international and domestic buyers whose are not looking for the Darjeeling Tea tag. “But we are being forced to sell at lower rates even though we pay higher prices to our farmers for their green leaves compared to the rate of tea gardens,” said Niroula. However, tea from these farmers are being recognised internationally. Niroula’s Pride won the gold medal at the 11th International Famous Tea Appraisal held in China in May 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Rivers swell, flood several Malda blocks||Hundreds of families in at least four blocks of Malda district faced inundation as water levels in Mahananda and Tangon rivers, which flow through Malda, are steadily rising. Among these include parts of Englishbazar, Old Malda, Gazole and Chanchal-I blocks. On Saturday, Trinamul MP Mausam Noor and district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra took stock of the flood in Gazole and assured the victims of safe shelters and adequate relief. According to local sources, Bhabanipur, Hossainpur and Chandipur villages under Chanchal-II block are largely inundated. Habitants of those areas have demanded boats and relief materials in adequate quantities. Areas under Mahanandapur gram panchayat in Chanchal-I block have been flooded by the Mahananda. Nearly 200 families are affected, said administrative sources. Also, nearly 500 families in two neighbouring blocks are marooned by the sudden rise of the Mahananda’s water level, said resident Debashish Ghosh. In the Gazole block, the Mahananda river has flooded Alal, Bairgachhi-I & II gram panchayats. Chaknagar and some other localities have been flooded by the Tangon river. “Nearly 600 families in the block are now battling with flood,” said Gautam Das, a bank employee. He said that although relief materials were being distributed by the block administration, the demand for those was rising with newer areas flooding every day. The situation has worsened as an embankment collapsed in the block, with the swollen river gushing through the gap. The situation is no better in Old Malda. “The Mahananda has spilled over the banks, and flooded urban and rural areas of the block,” said Siddhartha Sarkar of Old Malda. In Malda town, people living near the Mahanada have taken refuge at safer places arranged by the civic body. They had returned to their houses only a couple of weeks ago from shelters when the Mahananda appeared benign, but a sudden rise in water levels renewed their peril, said Dilip Rajak, whose house is not too far from the riverbed. Arnab Chatterjee, additional district magistrate (development), said the affected had been given relief materials and shifted to dry areas. Boats are ready, he added. Pranab Samanta, executive engineer of the irrigation department, however, sounded hopeful that the situation would improve in the next 72 hours as the Mahananda subsides gradually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP fetes Mukul, Dilip in the dark||Mukul Roy was felicitated on Sunday on his recent elevation as one of the BJP’s national vice-presidents, the guest list at the event proof that the former Trinamul No 2’s star was in the ascendant in the saffron camp. The event, organised by another Trinamul turncoat Shankudeb Panda at the ICCR in Calcutta, saw the presence of almost all top state BJP leaders — Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon, Swapan Dasgupta, Sabyasachi Dutta, Bharati Ghosh — but state BJP president Dilip Ghosh was conspicuous by his absence. Asked by this paper, Ghosh said he did not know about Sunday’s event. Many believe that BJP’s in-charge for its affairs in Bengal, Vijayvargiya, is behind Roy’s rise in the party hierarchy. During the two-and-a-half-hour-long event in the evening, BJP leaders heaped praise on Roy, affirming his increasing relevance in the party. “Mukulda joined the party in 2017…today’s event was the first where he was formally recognised by senior leaders of the party,” said a party source. “For the expansion of BJP in a state like Bengal it was important for us to have an election strategist like Mukul Roy. We had won 18 seats in the general elections last year under Mukulda and Kailashji,” Dasgupta said at the event. Menon echoed the compliment: “Mukulda is someone who knows Bengal down to the panchayat level like the back of his palm.” Several BJP insiders said Roy’s rise in state BJP would now set the power structure in balance, which was otherwise tilted heavily in favour of Ghosh and party’s general secretary (organisation) Subrata Chattopadhyay. “Dilipda and Subratada were not in favour of allowing Mukulda to have a say in the affairs of the state unit. National leaders recognised Mukulda’s value and gave him an important post,” an insider said. Amid murmurs that the organisers of the event known for their proximity to Roy didn’t invite Ghosh, Panda refused to comment. However, he added that the Bengal unit stood united under Ghosh’s leadership. “Dilipda is our president. He is busy with his own programmes. There is no confusion regarding this,” Panda added. Contacted, Ghosh said: “I did not know about today’s programme. It isn’t mandatory for me to stay in every event. He (Roy) has been appointed as an office-bearer and it is all right for people to organise his felicitation. I had already informed the party that I will be out of Calcutta till October 6.” A senior party leader feared the Sunday felicitation would deepen the cracks. “It is natural that rifts between Mukulda and Dilipda will deepen after today’s event. But factional fights will surely harm the party’s prospects in the polls next year,” he said. The only person who referred to Ghosh in his speech was Roy. “Dilipda won the polls and became an MLA just after he came into politics. Then he became an MP last year. He is meant to win,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Lessons for Hathras from Birbhum survivor ||A 26-year-old tribal woman who had been gang-raped in 2014 following a kangaroo court order at her village in Birbhum’s Labhpur, responded to the Hathras atrocity saying she was “painfully familiar” with what the Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh had gone through. Speaking out about her life in the wake of reports from Uttar Pradesh this week, she said she had a sense of what the government could do to aid and assist women like her and their families. “Whenever I hear about a rape victim, I am deeply haunted,” she told this correspondent. She added that in cases like this, the rape survivor and her family were “equally traumatised”. The Dalit girl in Hathras who was allegedly gang-raped and tortured, succumbed to her injuries last Tuesday after fighting for her life for two weeks. The role of the administration and police — from the allegedly hasty cremation of the body in this case to various political delegations and the media being discouraged to meet the Dalit family — has come under scanner. For this woman in Birbhum, her nightmare is over six-and-a-half years old, but she said “the cloud of torture and shame haunts me every day”. In January 2014, the village head of the tribal hamlet had ordered her to be gang-raped for having a boyfriend from a non-tribal community. The woman explained no rape victim could “return to their former life” but underscored the importance of the administration and police reaching out to penalise offenders and secure the safety of the survivor and her family. “No one can go back (to how things were before the rape)... However, it is the duty of the government to ensure justice and support for the family. If a raped woman is killed, her family deserves help from the government to get justice,” she said. She did get justice, she added. All the 13 accused, including the village head who had ordered her punishment, were sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment after they were found guilty by a Bolpur court within a span of eight months from the incident. “The government came forward to help me from the first day and continues till this minute. Everyone like me should get that support,” said the woman, who lives with her mother and younger brother in two government-made houses 3km from their village. Police sources said all 13 accused were arrested within 24 hours of the incident. Police had started a probe immediately after securing the woman’s safety. “We did not delay the arrests and collected the evidence quickly as it was a serious crime. We provided security to the lady and her family members with the assurance that we were with her,” said a police officer then posted in Labhpur. That 24/7 police security still continues. Police sources said a picket comprising five personnel, including three women, for the rape survivor and her family’s security had not been withdrawn. As many villagers were against that woman for her relationship with the non-tribal youth, it had been deemed “risky” for her and her family to return home. Police security apart, the administration spotted around a bigha of land for the family and set up two houses under a government scheme within months. Krishna Hembram, chief of Trinamul-run Chowhatta Mahodori I gram panchayat, said that he had allotted another house for the mother of the woman as the small houses were not enough for the entire family. Hembram said they tried to help the woman and her family as they live away from their village. Panchayat members had asked the family if they’d like to shift to the village, but an elderly woman of the family refused. “We took care of the family during the lockdown too,” Hembram added. The woman said she has only one problem — she needs a steady source of income to survive. “I need a job from the government for survival. We survive on a pension of Rs 1,000 from my mother and the income of my younger brother, which is not sufficient,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal development minister tests Covid positive on a day of record rise||North Bengal development minister Rabindra Nath Ghosh and his party colleague, Balagarh MLA Ashim Majhi, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday, as the state reported 3,357 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 2,986 recoveries. The number of new infections on Sunday is the highest so far in a day in Bengal. Ghosh, 64, is the Natabari MLA and a key Trinamul leader in north Bengal. Majhi, 57, is a Trinamul leader from Hooghly. The news of their testing positive came a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the pandemic in India had reached the community transmission stage — something the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been denying — a dreaded stage of person-to-person spread when the source of the infection is difficult to trace. Ghosh is the eighth member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet to get infected, after Tapas Roy, Suvendu Adhikari, Binay Barman, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath, and Soumen Mahapatra. With the 3,357 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 2.7 lakh, of which over 2.37 lakh are recoveries, besides 5,194 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.93, ahead of the national rate of 84.12 per cent. Of the 62 casualties, 17 persons succumbed in Calcutta and 19 in North 24-Parganas. As of Sunday, the state government reported 4,417 or 85 per cent as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.55 per cent. The state logged 42,262 tests on Sunday, which took the total past 33.97 lakh. It means 37,755 tests per million people. Positive confirmation rate remained 7.96 per cent. The state reported 37.16 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid beds in 92 hospitals. “Ashim (Majhi) is mildly symptomatic,” said a Trinamul leader, and said there was no cause for worry. On Ghosh, the source said: “Rabida had gone to the nursing home (in Siliguri) for other reasons. His blood-work recently showed high levels of blood sugar and creatinine. He is in the process of recovering from a recent heart attack. So he was going to go for a check-up. He had injured himself while coming down the stairs at home on Sunday. So he was rushed to the nursing home. There, during a mandatory test, it was revealed that he has Covid-19 too.” The source said that in two recent tests before this, Ghosh had tested negative. “However, as a precautionary measure, he is admitted,” he said. “It recently came to light that Binaybabu (Barman) had also tested positive and has recovered,” he added. Over 30 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly, half of from the ruling party, have been infected by the novel coronavirus. So far, four Bengal MPs — the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri — have tested positive for the pathogen. The virus also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre calls meet on hills||The Centre has convened a meeting “to discuss the issues related to Gorkhaland” on October 7 — incidentally the foundation day of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — with the state government and the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, a BJP ally. This is the first time that the BJP-led Centre will convene an official meeting without ambiguity on Gorkhaland. Since 2009, when the BJP first won the Darjeeling seat in the Lok Sabha polls, to 2014 and 2019, when it repeated the victories, it has always been cautious with the choice of words in its poll manifestos on Gorkhaland. In the 2009 and 2014 manifestos, the BJP had said: “The BJP will sympathetically examine and appropriately consider the long pending demands of the Gorkhas, the Adivasis and other people of Darjeeling district and the Dooars region.” The BJP’s 2019 manifesto was worded a bit differently: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” The letter October 3, signed by Renu Sarin, director (Centre-State II), of the Union home ministry, however, has clearly stated that the meeting convened on October 7at Room No 119 of the North Block is “to discuss the issues related to Gorkhaland.” This letter was made public in social media by Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha (Bimal camp). The Morcha is divided in two camps, one with Bimal Gurung, the other with Binay Tamang. Earlier, the Centre had on July 27- which is observed as Gorkhaland Martyrs’ Day in the hills by all political parties, issued a letter convening a tripartite meeting on August 7 between Bengal government, GTA and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha to “review the issues related to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)” . But the “agenda” of the meeting was GTA and not the separate state of “Gorkhaland”. The Binay and Bimal camps had refused to attend that meeting and it was deferred. This time, Binay Tamang camp has not yet received the Centre’s letter. The invitation has been extended to state home secretary, district magistrate of Darjeeling, principal secretary of GTA and president of Morcha whose address is Singamari, Darjeeling. Singamari happens to be the office of the Bimal camp, but the land belongs to the state government for technical reasons. At present, Bimal Gurung is absconding. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Morcha (Binay camp), questioned the logic of invitations. “There are two DMs in GTA area, from Darjeeling and Kalimpong. Only the Darjeeling DM has been invited. Is Kalimpong not in Gorkhaland region? Also, why should a principal secretary of GTA be invited when you are discussing Gorkhaland?” He added that the party “welcomes” the October 7 initiative, provided the BJP is “sincere.” Ajoy Edwards, president, Darjeeling GNLF Branch committee, summed up the politics of Darjeeling. “We welcome the meeting as the agenda is about Gorkhaland and this issues unites Darjeeling, even though we as an ally have not been invited and this is not important” said Edwards. Edwards, however, issued a caveat. “The development (the meeting) has raised hopes in the hills,” he said, and added that the hill people are now wise, “not like in 2007, 2013, 2017 (years when Gorkhaland agitations were revived)”. They will not be fooled again if the meeting has been called only to hoodwink the hills, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||Opinion||Justice is served: Digitization of the judiciary ||Sir — As the whole country changed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian judiciary cannot be an exception. The pandemic-induced lockdown has led to the closure of courts of law for ordinary matters. But the administration of justice is an essential public service that cannot be ‘locked down’. Rather, during a crisis, access to the courts becomes even more critical to prevent executive overreach. The pandemic has also adversely affected the appointment of high court judges with about 100 recommendations pending either with the government or Supreme Court collegiums. This has hit the rate of case disposal and judges’ appointment. Alarmingly the case pendency in high courts has gone up to 52 lakh from 46 lakh since the lockdown was imposed. Given this context, the Supreme Court rightly issued guidelines to conduct virtual hearings with the aim of ensuring access to justice for everyone during the lockdown. But the refusal of many Bar associations and the lack of adequate technology infrastructure in court premises have aggravated the situation and made it difficult for the judiciary to migrate to virtual courts. Hearteningly, high courts and subordinate courts have started virtual courts as pilot projects. An assessment by the Union law ministry shows that during the period between March 24 and July 15, district and subordinate courts alone held 12 lakh hearings online. High courts and the Supreme Court, too, have conducted successful virtual hearings. Even though these steps are meant to temporarily tide over the Covid-19 crisis, they are, in all probability, here to stay, as the Chief Justice of India observed. Going ahead, perhaps the Indian judiciary needs a systematic change to try and introduce technological changes, including the digitization of old cases and keeping digital track of new cases so that future crises do not put a halt to the process of justice. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — One wonders if the digitization of the judiciary will lead to similar consequences as those caused by the push towards online education. Thousands of people who do not have access to the internet or do not understand how to navigate it will be deprived of justice. In a country where judicial dates come around once in a lifetime, this can mean the complete denial of justice for large segments of the population. One hopes that the judiciary takes this into account. Souparna Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The Hubble Space Telescope recently caught the fading of a supernova that was located 70 million light-years away. That the telescope — which is soon to be replaced with a more modern and advanced version — is still capturing and sending back such useful information and stunning images is a testament to its power. For years, Hubble has provided us with a better understanding of how the universe as we know it came into existence. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
05-10-2020||Opinion||What Indians do with their time||What do Indians do with their time? The ministry of statistics and programme implementation sought to answer this intriguing question with the Time Use in India- 2019 survey. Worryingly — but unsurprisingly — the findings suggest a wide gender disparity in the sphere of work. Only 18.4 per cent women participate in paid employment activities compared to 57.3 per cent men. The glass ceiling evidently is intact. Perhaps this is only to be expected given that 81.2 per cent of women have to shoulder the burden of unpaid domestic labour like cooking, cleaning, care-giving and sundry other household chores as opposed to only 26.1 per cent of men. Unpaid domestic labour is crippling in two ways: it undermines women’s rights and agency as well as their ability to make choices. This crushing burden of domestic duty has other collateral damage: it prevents women from pursuing higher education, employment opportunities, raising their skill-level and tending to their own well-being. Last year, the National Sample Survey Office attempted to put a value on such work in terms of the gross domestic product. In a deeply patriarchal society like India, public acknowledgment — official statistics — of the economic importance of women’s unpaid labour would make little difference unless the skewed division of labour remains uncorrected. Ironically, the situation is no better for women who have shattered the glass ceiling. Women having to juggle professional demands with housework, an independent study found, either fall seriously ill or underperform. The survey also revealed interesting aspects about leisure. More than 91 per cent of Indians, irrespective of gender, are engaged in recreation, socializing and religious practice but less than 3 per cent are willing to take on unpaid volunteer work — community service, for instance  — in their free time. This perhaps explains the reason behind the weakening of the culture of empathy in a country that venerated the idea of seva. Moreover, economic progress is predicated upon creativity. Finite employment opportunities, drudgery, the challenge of balancing professional and domestic obligations — Indian women bear this load uncomplainingly — are enough to sap the creative energies of India’s human resources. Policy interventions should, therefore, look not only into making labour roles equitable but also into making work enjoyable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
05-10-2020||Opinion||Side by side: Mathura's temple & Idgah row||The project was being drummed up on the lines of a historic model. A group calling itself “friends of Sri Krishna Virajman” had petitioned a Mathura civil court for possession of the 13.37 acres of land on which the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple of Mathura and the Shahi Idgah mosque have been standing side by side for years. Apparently the mosque stands on the exact spot where the Hindu deity was born. In other words, the mosque must go. The court dismissed the petition, because the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 would not allow this change. While the lawful conclusion to another divisive attempt is to be lauded in these torn times, one aspect of the episode that emerged even before the court’s dismissal must also be welcomed. The trust that runs the Mathura temple objected forcefully to the petition to have the mosque removed. It was clear to the trust that certain ‘unscrupulous’ people were trying to create a controversy ‘out of nothing’. Calling it a ‘ploy’ of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the trust felt that the party at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh expected to gain leverage through this new temple-mosque affair in the 2022 elections. The keepers of the temporary Ram temple in Ayodhya, however, had been active in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Similar movements had reportedly been planned for Mathura and Varanasi. But the statements from the temple trust and the management committee of the mosque reflected amity and a spirit of sharing. Small issues, such as the direction of drains, have been worked out between them; taxes are shared by paying for the area each occupies, and the emphasis is on having coexisted side by side ‘with no problem’ for centuries. Neither has there been any difficulty about followers of different faiths coming to pray in their respective holy places in the same area. Emerging from Mathura in UP, where the state government thrives on divisiveness, the statements represent firm resistance to the poison in the atmosphere. This model can be emulated by all places of worship: if politics drags in religion, religion should reject the touch of politics. The Mathura temple trust’s clarity of perception could also be, speaking hopefully, most people’s view. That alone can stop mischievous and motivated attempts at divisiveness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
05-10-2020||Opinion||Farm bills: India’s fields are on fire||At a time when I see euphoria among mainstream economists over the new set of agricultural reforms, media reports say that the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices has observed that only 12 per cent of India’s paddy cultivators were able to sell their produce at the guaranteed minimum support price during the 2018-19 kharif marketing season. If the remaining 88 per cent farmers were also able to sell paddy at the MSP, the rural economy would have witnessed an upswing. The uneven picture of paddy procurement is not very different from that of wheat procurement in the rabi marketing season where the bulk of procurement operations is confined to Punjab, Haryana and now Madhya Pradesh. This is primarily because the network of regulated markets has remained confined to the traditional Green Revolution belt of the northwestern region. Against the requirement of 42,000 regulated mandis within a five-kilometre radius, there exists close to 7,000 mandis only under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. Nor has MSP price delivery been expanded to cover more regions and more crops. This reflects a historic asymmetry in procurement operations, with the procurement share of paddy in Punjab and Haryana being 95 per cent and 70 per cent, respectively, whereas the share of procurement in Uttar Pradesh (3.6 per cent), West Bengal (7.3 per cent), Bihar (1.7 per cent) and the northeastern states have remained minuscule. With most farmers getting a distress price, farm incomes have remained very low in these states. This prompted the CACP to suggest: “Therefore, concerted efforts should be made to extend the benefits of procurement to small and marginal farmers in general and eastern and NE States in particular.” The importance of this recommendation can be gauged from the fact that deprived of the right price, truckloads of paddy from UP (and earlier from Bihar) are being transported to be sold in Haryana where farmers at least get an assured MSP. This is not the first time that paddy and wheat from UP and bajra from Rajasthan are being brought to be sold in Haryana, which has a robust marketing infrastructure network. With procurement operations restricted in most states, the majority of farmers have remained dependent on markets. If markets were as efficient as is being made out, and provided farmers with a higher price, the question that needs to be asked is why does agriculture continue to be in the grip of a severe crisis? The tearing hurry with which agriculture market reforms have been pushed through, without even consulting farmers for whom these laws are designed, has resulted in huge farm protests in Punjab and Haryana. The government, the industry and some economists are claiming that by providing for ‘one country, one market’ by removing the inter-state and intra-state barriers in agriculture trade and making trading outside the APMC market boundaries to be free of any taxes so as to bring in competition, these laws will help attract private investments while the markets would provide farmers with higher prices. Although APMC markets and the provisions of MSP have remained untouched in the new laws, agitating farmers say that the real intention is to gradually dismantle the APMC mandi network and, in the process, do away with the delivery of MSP to farmers. With several committees pointing to MSP becoming a barrier in price discovery, their fear is certainly not unfounded. APMC mandis have been blamed for monopolizing trade and licensed middlemen in the mandis accused of exploiting farmers. There is no denying that over the years APMC mandis have seen certain distortions emerging but farmers say the need is to reform the mandi structures and not to render these markets redundant. Leaving farmers to face the vagaries of markets has not been useful anywhere in the world. Knowing that unregulated markets will further exacerbate the farm crisis, protesting farmers are demanding a right-based security net. The demand is for another law that makes MSP a legal right for farmers. Since MSP is announced for 23 crops every year, but is effectively implemented for two crops only — wheat and paddy (also to some extent for cotton, mustard and some quantities of pulses) — farmers want no trading to be allowed below the MSP. The real freedom for farmers will be if all paddy and wheat farmers as well as farmers growing other crops are assured of receiving the MSP. Even for contract farming, the price should not be below the MSP announced. Given that private companies are promising to provide higher prices to farmers, this should not be a problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
05-10-2020||Opinion||Ancient wisdom||Can ancient mythology help us gain a clearer insight into human relationships? I would like to use the frame of Indian mythology — specifically, its unique treatment of vice — to understand the contentious relationship between Gandhiji and his eldest son, Harilal. The strained, hostile relationship between Gandhiji and Harilal was the cause of much pain and suffering for both the parents and the son. While some people justified the father’s actions, others sympathized with the son. These two versions run almost parallel with no sign of convergence. Given the inevitable dead end, we need to explore other avenues that can shed new light on this relationship. It is possible to understand Harilal’s hostility towards his father even if one does not condone his behaviour or life choices. As a young man, Harilal had tried to follow his father’s ideals with sincere dedication, winning the appreciation of many. So his father’s subsequent declaration that he was born in sin as a result of carnal desires is not correct. The causal explanation by inference by the first person, namely M.K. Gandhi, does not seem justified in light of Harilal’s supportive behaviour in the earlier years. I would, therefore, like to take Harilal’s action out of this theological explanation. This brings us to the well-known scholarship issue that seems to have created an irreversible misunderstanding between father and son. The disagreement, however, is not the result of a simple confrontation between the two. The discord has an underlying complexity that is not so natural. Let me explain. Traditionally, a father is expected to work for the family, especially to build a secure future for the children, helping them in their education and career and seeking out opportunities to improve their lot in life. At least this is how Harilal seems to have understood the paternal role. However, his father, while very much remaining a member of the family, was increasingly preoccupied with his commitments outside of the home. Gandhiji’s deep involvement in social reform and the freedom movement demanded all of his time and energy and intensive levels of personal sacrifice not only from himself but also his family members. This led to the complete unravelling of conventional family ties. As the father, Gandhiji could perhaps have explained to his son the conflict or mismatch between a conventional family structure and the commitment required of him in his chosen path as a political and spiritual leader. Such clarity could have provided his son with some comfort. This would have brought a lot of clarity to his son. Or, perhaps, like the Buddha, Gandhiji too could have distanced himself from his family. However, he decided to enjoy the benefits of remaining within the family fold while, at the same time, not sufficiently explaining the unusual situation or trying to ease matters for his son. Harilal, too, did not understand the complexity at work in those unprecedented times. The ensuing confusion sowed the seed of estrangement between father and son, a rift that caused immense suffering and anguish on both sides. In order to understand this father-son relationship better, we need to approach it not at the level of reality but as an abstract concept, phenomenologically bracketing it with the pain and suffering of their actual situation. This will allow us to neutralize the emotional aspects and explore the structural elements. Elevating the relationship to a higher level will also save it from being sullied further. Next, we will need to build a scaffolding, which will require a significant relocation of positions in the relationship. For instance, if we replace son and father with teacher and student, respectively, teaching and learning can substitute the pain and suffering associated with the actual relationship. We can now use the frame of Indian mythology for a new perspective on human frailties. Vice, in ancient Indian mythology, is regarded as transitory, not absolute, and is subsumed under leela (or divine play), usually through the use of a curse. A good person inadvertently commits an offence, incurring the wrath of a sage who curses him. This kick-starts a long chain of events culminating in the release of the curse. Jaya and Vijaya, the dwarapalakas or gatekeepers of Lord Vishnu, were cursed by sages to be born as mortals on earth. When faced with the option to be in exile for seven births as devotees of Vishnu, or three births as the Lord’s enemy, they decided on the latter. In order to shorten the duration of separation from their beloved Lord, they chose to be born as enemies of Lord Vishnu in three yugas — as Hiranyaksha and Hiranya Kashyap in Krita Yuga; Ravana and Kumbhakarna in Treta Yuga; and Shishupala and Dantavakra in Dwapara Yuga. All three yugas are governed by this cosmic leela in which Jaya and Vijaya fulfil their roles by being aggressive adversaries of their beloved Lord. Drawing a parallel with this mythological tale, we can see father and son in a new light, performing different roles. In this transformed relationship, Harilal is the accursed devotee, challenging his father. In this context, it will be interesting to pose a counterfactual: what if Harilal had not been what he was — the deeply troubled, estranged son — in the life of Gandhi? My aim here is not to eulogize but to gain a better understanding of this difficult relationship by elevating it to a different level. There are many such instances of fractured relationships in modern India. For instance, the relationship between C.V. Raman and his son has many resemblances to the relationship between Gandhi and Harilal. But they need not be accepted exactly as they are in real life. They can be philosophically transformed, enabling us to look beyond and understand them better. The unique tales from our ancient mythology can thus help us explore alternative ways to deal with enmity and evil. More importantly, they can also provide clear insights into approaches that can be emulated and tell us what needs to be avoided. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three women dead in Jamtara while excavating for white soil||At least three women were killed and a few more feared trapped when a mound of earth caved in at Manjladih (under Narayanpur police station) on Monday. All the bodies were recovered in the evening following a daylong rescue drive undertaken by the state disaster response force (SDRF), Jamtara district administration confirmed. The accident site is situated along the Sahibganj- Govindpur state highway, over 300km from Ranchi. Deputy commissioner Faiz Aq Ahmed Mumtaj said that one of the women was identified as Sahnaj Khatun (25) while attempts are on to identify the two others. She, along with other women of the area, ventured out last midnight to excavate white-soil, a regular practice by local women to make a living, said local sources. Talking to reporters, Mumtaj said, “Three bodies were recovered, of which one has been identified. The women are from the nearby Kakdibaad area.” While the rescue mission was concluded in the evening, a few local sources apprehend that some more bodies may be trapped in the debris. A local villager said, “Usually, family members of the deceased don’t claim the body in such cases fearing police action.” According to a local journalist, women mining white-soil is a common practice in the region to earn easy money. “The soil is used for painting houses or making clay idols and is sold in the market at Rs 25-30/kg. For many in this underdeveloped region, it is the only source of livelihood round the year,” he said, accusing local police of ignoring the menace despite the looming threat on lives. The DC, however, said that the district administration conducts drives from time to time to curb the illegal practice. “We shall deploy local police in the area for regular patrolling,” he said. Jamtara Congress MLA Irfan Anasari, who also visited the site after the mishap, said that he will try to grant government compensation after speaking with chief minister Hemant Soren. He said, “Ahead of the festival, the women ventured to collect white-soil to paint their homes when the mishap occurred. It’s a sad incident and I shall soon speak with CM to extend some financial compensation to the poor family members of the deceased.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Artisans unable to cope with rush of orders for Durga idols  ||Steel city artisans are being swamped with last-minute orders for Durga idols and are now unsure whether they will be able to deliver them in time. Subodh Gorai, who used to make around 20 idols of Goddess Durga every year, had come to terms with making 15 idols this time, given the Covid restrictions on lavish Pujas. But with the state government’s Puja guidelines, issued on October 1, allowing idols but restricting their height to 4 feet, many organisers who had decided on holding pujas this time with a photograph of the goddess, have changed their minds. "All those Puja organisers who had given orders for idols earlier had asked for small idols, ranging from 4 feet to 5 feet in accordance with a decision taken locally by the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Committee two months ago,” he explained. But after the government notification was issued on October 1, five organisers have come to him and placed orders.  “Though I have not refused them, I now realise that it is going to be very difficult to make these idols within such a short period," Gorai said, referring to the Puja that begins on October 22 with Shasti. There are over 50 artisans who make idols for 320 puja committees in and around the steel city. This time, at least 25 per cent of the organisers had decided to do away with idols, unsure whether these would be allowed in the first place. They agreed to use a symbolic “ghat” or “kalash” or photographs in keeping with the district administration’s decision to keep celebrations low-key in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. But many changed their minds after the state government came out with guidelines allowing idols if these were within 4 feet. Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Committee president Rambabu Singh confirmed that over 25 per cent Puja organisers had not placed orders for idols. "I have persuaded artisans on my behalf to somehow make the idols despite the delayed orders.  After all, that is the tradition," said Singh while talking to this website. Narayan Chandra Das, an office-bearer of the Bara Govindpur Durga Puja Committee in Govindpur, said they weren’t sure whether their idol would be ready in time. "Worshipping an idol will give us and our visitors more satisfaction. It is certainly better than worshipping a ‘kalash’," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s largest central jail now Covid-19-free||Jharkhand’s largest prison, Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, which had emerged as one of the hotspots of Covid-19 with over 300 infections is now Covid-free, prison authorities said on Monday. In all, Birsa jail has 3,625 prisoners. Since August, 1,239 prisoners have been tested for Covid-19 in the jail and none of them was found infected, said jail superintendent Hamid Akhter. “We do not have any active cases of infection. All the infected prisoners and staff have recovered, and no fresh case of Covid-19 infection has surfaced in the past one month,” Akhter said. The rapid spread of the virus among prisoners and staff at the central jail had become a cause for concern for the authorities in August. Nearly 350 prisoners and staff had tested positive for Covid-19 in the jail by the end of August, forcing the authorities to take precautionary measures and provide additional healthcare facilities to prisoners. “We conducted three Covid testing drives in the past month. Around 100 to 150 prisoners were tested in every such drive,” said the jail superintendent, adding that the jail authorities intensified testing to identify asymptomatic patients and ensure that no case of infection goes undetected. While prisoners were infected in other state jails too, Birsa Munda Jail was the only jail that reported cases in triple digits, authorities said. Of the 350 that tested positive, 221 were prisoners, while the rest were members of the staff. However, there are still a few active cases of Covid-19 infection in other jails in Jharkhand. Besides the one in Ranchi, there are four other central jails in East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Dumka and Daltonganj, in addition to over a dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails. Owing to the explosion of cases at the Birsa Munda Central Jail, authorities took special measures to boost the immunity of prisoners. Special basil saplings were planted in the jail premises to ensure that prisoners and staff are served kadha (a therapeutic herbal drink) every day, jail authorities said. “We also served boiled eggs to the infected prisoners. Vitamin D and vitamin C supplements were also administered to the prisoners in a bid to boost their immune system,” said Akhter. Even though there were no cases of infection in the jail anymore, the authorities are still taking precautionary measures and providing a healthy diet to prisoners as well as staff members in the jail, Akhter said. “Swab samples of random prisoners will be collected even in the days to come to ensure that the virus does not enter the jail premises again,” he added. As many as five doctors were keeping a watch on the prisoners in the jail to spot symptoms. Besides, prophylaxis, vitamin supplements and paracetamols were made available in sufficient quantities to the jail administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Famous coal town family Puja devoid of usual sheen this year||The famous puja of Chatterjee family, during which more than 20 members of the extended family of Apurba Kumar Chatterjee (73) settled abroad used to participate every year, will be devoid of the usual sheen this year, as no one from abroad will participate due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We had decided on a grand get-together this year with more than forty members of our family settled in USA, UK, Australia and Canada, but fate had other plans. No one from abroad can come due to the present conditions,” said Chatterjee, a retired administrative officer of the LIC of India, talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday. “Some of our family members living in Jamshedpur and Calcutta have decided to come via car, but we are not sure whether they will be able to. However, we will organize our puja at home at Chiragora at Dhanbad on a small scale with an idol of less than four feet,” he said. Chatterjee said the 120-130 family members who come during Durga Puja every year are accommodated at their palatial home. “Some of our neighbours also help in accommodating our family members as they also participate in our puja,” he said.  Regarding the huge expense for puja, Chatterjee,  said that those having jobs have to contribute six days of their salary income while those in business contribute 10 days of their average per-day income. “But the retired persons have to contribute nothing,” said Chatterjee, and added that every year the guests from abroad as well as other parts of the country like Banglore, Goa, Jamshedpur, Calcutta arrive on Panchami, and after enjoying the puja they return on Dashami, or a day or two later. “We don’t organize any fair or anything special in our puja but since so many people of our family from across the world participate, it is quite famous in the coal town and elsewhere,” he said. The combined family puja started in 1979 during the lifetime of the septuagenarian’s father Amrit Kantha Chatterrjee, who settled here in 1921 and worked in the colliery. He later shifted to Dhanbad town after an accident in the colliery in the early 1930s, said Chatterhee, adding that the family members of all six brothers of his father as well as eight of his own brothers take part in the puja. “My elder son, an engineer settled in Houston, along with his wife and children also get the opportunity to visit his birth place during puja only,” said Chatterjee and added that his daughter, who is married to a UK-based doctor, also visits her ancestral place during Puja. “My younger son, who operates the Jack and Jill school, lives along with the family at Dhanbad,” said Chatterjee. Out of eight of his brothers, five are alive and two others besides him are living in Dhanbad and help in organizing the puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tribal girls in Jaskandih village lead the path to knowledge||They say if you educate a woman, you educate a nation, and two tribal girls in Jaskandih village in the outskirts of Jamshedpur are setting such an example.   Laxmi Besra (23) and Laxmi Munda (19) are all set to start a community library in their village from October 7. Supported by some social organisations and individuals, the community library-cum-study centre equipped with solar lighting aims to give children a place to study in a place where daily power cuts hamper everyday studies. "Power cuts are frequent and affect education for school and college-going children. Thus, we decided to build a centre where children can come and study. The place also doubles up as a library with books on literature, science and other subjects that empowers the village youth to dream big," said Laxmi Besra, who belongs to the Santhal tribe and is a history graduate. Laxmi Munda belongs to the Bhumij tribe. Both the girls are a part of Medhavini, a tribal girl education project initiated by Jamshedpur based organisation Kalamandir CCAF and supported by the Tata Steel Downstream Products Ltd. The Medhavini project was launched to prevent school dropout and motivate tribal girls to pursue higher education. The girls say that being a part of this project gave them the freedom to think beyond their boundaries.  Though they had a dream, implementation of the idea was difficult with scarce resources. When they presented the idea to Kalamandir, they immediately agreed to support the idea. The Kalamandir CCAF and Inner Wheel Club of Jamshedpur helped the girls build the library while books were donated by Jusco School, Kadma. Some individuals from the Inner Wheel Club also donated solar lights, blackboards and furniture.  The girls wish to make the library an education hub not just for children but also for adults who are illiterate. On the inauguration day, they aim to invite the mukhiya of their village and people from nearby villages too for a low-key ceremony.  "For tribal girls in a village, this was a dream come true. We want this centre to become a hub. There are many senior citizens and elders who do not know reading and writing. Thus have decided that we will run an adult literacy programme too," said Laxmi Munda who is a second-year economics student at LBSM College.   Those who supported them expressed their happiness.  "We had adopted this village as a part of the village adoption project. These young girls wanted the library and we were happy to support them We have already set up a retail shop that sells essential items in the village. We have more plans like building toilets and introducing women empowerment schemes which will be implemented gradually," said project coordinator of Inner Wheel Club of Jamshedpur, Alokanandi Bakshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s largest central jail now Covid-19 free  ||Jharkhand’s largest prison, Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, which had emerged as one of the hotspots of Covid-19 with over 300 infections is now Covid-free, prison authorities said on Monday. In all, Birsa jail has 3,625 prisoners. Since August, 1,239 prisoners have been tested for Covid-19 in the jail and none of them was found infected, said jail superintendent Hamid Akhter. “We do not have any active cases of infection. All the infected prisoners and staff have recovered, and no fresh case of Covid-19 infection has surfaced in the past one month,” Akhter said. The rapid spread of the virus among prisoners and staff at the central jail had become a cause for concern for the authorities in August. Nearly 350 prisoners and staff had tested positive for Covid-19 in the jail by the end of August, forcing the authorities to take precautionary measures and provide additional healthcare facilities to prisoners. “We conducted three Covid testing drives in the past month. Around 100 to 150 prisoners were tested in every such drive,” said the jail superintendent, adding that the jail authorities intensified testing to identify asymptomatic patients and ensure that no case of infection goes undetected. While prisoners were infected in other state jails too, Birsa Munda Jail was the only jail that reported cases in triple digits, authorities said. Of the 350 that tested positive, 221 were prisoners, while the rest were members of the staff. However, there are still a few active cases of Covid-19 infection in other jails in Jharkhand. Besides the one in Ranchi, there are four other central jails in East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Dumka and Daltonganj, in addition to over a dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails. Owing to the explosion of cases at the Birsa Munda Central Jail, authorities took special measures to boost the immunity of prisoners. Special basil saplings were planted in the jail premises to ensure that prisoners and staff are served kadha (a therapeutic herbal drink) every day, jail authorities said. “We also served boiled eggs to the infected prisoners. Vitamin D and vitamin C supplements were also administered to the prisoners in a bid to boost their immune system,” said Akhter. Even though there were no cases of infection in the jail anymore, the authorities are still taking precautionary measures and providing a healthy diet to prisoners as well as staff members in the jail, Akhter said. “Swab samples of random prisoners will be collected even in the days to come to ensure that the virus does not enter the jail premises again,” he added. As many as five doctors were keeping a watch on the prisoners in the jail to spot symptoms. Besides, prophylaxis, vitamin supplements and paracetamols were made available in sufficient quantities to the jail administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Man, marooned on a hillock in a river, saved after 15-hour effort  ||A 45-year-old fisherman, who was marooned on a small hillock in the middle of a river in spate in Simdega district since Sunday evening, was rescued by NDRF personnel after a 15-hour effort that was initiated after a local resident tweeted a video of his plight to the chief minister. Wilson Madki and three others had gone fishing near Ramjol village in Bano block, over 150 km from Ranchi, on Sunday. However, he was swept away by strong currents amid a sudden rise in the water level of Koel river. He scrambled to safety atop a small hillock, while others with him managed to swim ashore. It was already 6pm and his friends raised an alarm as soon as they reached the village. Police, accompanied by villagers, tried to rescue him but the gushing waters of the river and poor visibility prevented them from making a headway. Madki was forced to spend the night marooned on the hillock in the middle of the river. Rescue efforts resumed Monday morning after a local resident tweeted a video of him to chief minister Hemant Soren’s official handle. Hemant directed Simdega deputy commissioner to mount an effort on priority. Deputy Commissioner C Sushant Gaurav said Madki was finally rescued in the afternoon. “An NDRF team was sent from Ranchi. Madki is in good health and the district authorities are taking care of him,” he said. The NDRF team, which was sent had 15 members and was led by Peter Paul Dungdung. “There were strong currents in the river which made it difficult for us to swim and reach him. We had to use ropes and boats and managed to rescue him,” said an NDRF jawan. Simdega SP Shams Tabrez said he had spoken to NDRF DG S.N. Pradhan, seeking a special rescue team. “NDRF immediately dispatched their local unit from Ranchi to Simdega. Initially, the district administration, along with local residents, tried to rescue him. But they could not,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Quarantined in Goa, JFC players focus on fitness||The Covid guidelines may have kept them in isolation but players from Jamshedpur FC are keeping themselves busy in fitness drills in their respective rooms in Goa, which will host the cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL) next month. Winger Jackichand Singh, Bhupender Singh, William Lalnunfela, mid-fielders Amarjit Singh Kiyam, Isaac Vanmalsawma, left-back Ricky Lallawmawma and defender Laldinliana Renthlei, who arrived in Goa last week, are working out at the luxury rooms of Hotel Vivanta in Panaji. The JFC players have been quarantined for 10 days at the hotel and are currently working under strength and conditioning coach Adrian Dias. “Dias is in Mangalore and is in touch with the players via digital media (whatsapp and email). The players are following his instructions,” a member of the team management said on the condition of anonymity. According to him, the Jamshedpur players have been given fitness schedule and are working out according to that. “It’s daily routine but the players have the liberty to fix their own timing of workout. After all, the fitness drills are taking place indoors. It would be different when all the players, including foreign recruits, begin their outdoor training later this month,” he added. The 10 young footballers from the JFC reserves side are also working out in their respective at the hotel. According to him, Dias is expected to land in Goa sometime next week. “Dias is an experienced strength and fitness coach who has worked with the JFC. He is very attentive on players and tries his best to keep the players in top-flight fitness. After all, fitness is the key to on-field performance,” the team management member said. He revealed that all the players who are in Goa went through Covid-19 tests are have tested negative. “So far things are good. All the players, including ones from the junior team, have tested negative. More tests would be conducted on the footballers,” he informed. He said most of the Indian and their foreign counterparts, including head coach Owen Coyle, will be in Goa later this week. “The entire squad and support staff should be in Goa by October 8. The foreign players will straightaway go into 14-day isolation at Taj Fort in Candoling (near Panjim). The off-shore players will also undergo Covid tests,” he added. The entire JFC contigent will stay in secure bio-bubble throughout the lengthy cash-rich tournament which will stretch till March next year. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said fitness is a main component and they want their players to be fully fit before the start of the tournament. “We want our players to be fully fit and it is good they are already working out,” he added. Senior JFC team management members are in constant touch with head coach Owen Coyle and are giving him the necessary feedback.”Coyle is being updated about the team and related matters, including preparation of training ground at Sangola,” a source said. Barring a player from Asian Football Confederation-affilated nation, Jamshedpur FC’s team formation is complete. The Asian player has already been identified and talks with him are in final stages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town girl ranks 177th  in JEE Advanced||Anushkha Singh emerged as the state topper in the JEE Advanced exams by securing an all-India rank of 177, after results were declared on Monday. Singh, who is the daughter of SN Singh, an administrative officer of the LIC of India, and Pamila Singh, a homemaker, finished high school at Doon Public School, Dhanbad this year, securing 96.4% marks. “There is no shortcut to hard work, and I relied on hard work as the lone strategy for success,” she said while talking to The Telegraph Online. “Though everybody has his own strategy for success, I followed the simple strategy of reading the content to be taught in the classroom in advance and then also carry out a revision of the same after class,” said Anushkha and added that she tried to complete the day’s assignment on the same day. When asked about who in her family helped her with the guidelines, she said, “My elder sister who is currently in her third year pursuing B.Tech in Computer Science Engineering at NIT Jamshedpur tipped me about preparation.” “Five to six hours of self-study at home is crucial besides the classroom study,” said Anushkha who also took coaching at Kota in Rajasthan. “I used to study during the morning hours instead of staying up late during the night,” she said, adding that her schoolteachers ought to take credit for her success as they helped her a lot at the crucial stage of her career. Anushkha is an ex-student Carmel School Dhanbad from where she completed class 10, secured 98.8%, and emerged state topper. “The role models in life are my parents who always supported me and provided guidelines,” said Anushkha and added that revision ahead of the examination is also quite crucial for achieving success. When asked whether she will make a career in Engineering or opt for something else she said that her ultimate aim is to go into civil services after completing her B.Tech from IIT as she is likely to get admission IIT Bombay with her current rank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents to enjoy Durga Puja in the dark||Dhanbad residents this year may have to enjoy Durga Puja in the dark. The puja guidelines released by the government prohibit the use of lights outside pandals, causing consternation among organisers. Samrat Chaudhary, a member of Luby Circular Road Puja Commitee said, “Ever since the puja began about 45 years ago, our committee is well known for organising attractive lighting during which the entire Luby Circular road  of more than one km is decorated with beautiful lighting arrangement but we will not put any lighting this year except for the necessary lighting inside the pandal to make the idols visible.” Chaudhary said the committee has been winning the best lighting award of the district for more than a decade. “We are, however in a fix over the bhog preparations as without bhog, puja is very difficult  to perfom although we will have to abide by the norms and bhog distribution among the pandal hoppers will not be carried out at any cost,” he said. Echoing Chaudhary’s sentiments, Ganpat Mahto, Patron of Sri Sri Durga Puja Samiti, Saraidhela (Kolakusma) in Dhanbad said, “the visitors of our puja pandal are both from rural areas like Govidpur, Baliapur as well as urban centres of Dhanbad and elaborate lighting arrangement  and extensive fair are the two major attraction for the people but people will miss both the attractions this year as any large gathering of people during fair etc will only lead to social distancing violation and resultant spurt in covid cases.” “The Puja will be strictly  restricted the Shiv Mandir Campus where a small pandal will be erected  and lighting arrangement will be carried out only inside the Temple premises and not outside the campus like Dhanbad Govindpur which is carried out from Steel gate to Big Bazar side and also towards the Koylanagar campus” said Mahto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Arjun Munda to ask finance minister for exemption of import duty on bows||Archery Association of India (AAI) president Arjun Munda on Sunday said he would speak to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to exempt import duty on bows. Munda, who felicitated Dronacharya awardee Dharmendra Tiwary at the Circuit House, said doing away with the import duty on both recurve and compound bows will benefit the archers to get the equipment at a lower price. “I would speak to the finance minister in this regard. Exempting import duty would enable the AAI to purchase the equipment in lots and distribute the same among archers,” Munda said. An import duty of 28 per cent is imposed on bows. The union tribal affairs minister said he wants to promote archery across the country and unearth talents from hinterlands. Praising Tiwary, chief coach of Tata Archery Academy, Munda said he should have been awarded much earlier. “Tiwary is the pride of the country and Jharkhand. He has produced Olympians and Arjuna awardees with his training. I hope the country’s archers would win medals in the Tokyo Olympic Games,” the former chief minister added. Munda said he wanted to felicitate Tiwary in a grand manner but had to keep things low-key owing to the pandemic. “Getting the Dronacharya award is a great achievement by Tiwary and I wanted to honour him in a grand manner. However, the pandemic played spoilosport,” he said. Tiwary, who has coached Olympians like Deepika Kumari, Atanu Das, Jayant Lakukdar and Rahul Banerjee, was also the mentor of the Indian men’s archery team in the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janiero. “There is no dearth of talented archers in Jharkhand. The state archery outfit is doing a wonderful job in bringing hidden talents to the forefront. I thank Mundaji for honouring me,” Tiwary said. AAI joint secretary and secretary of Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association Sumanta Kumar Mohanty, JAA secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahto, East Singhbhum District Archery Association chief Dinesh Kumar, coaches B.S. Rao and Harendra Singh were present at the felicitation ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 tally in Ranchi crosses 20,000 mark||The Covid-19 tally crossed the 20,000 mark in Ranchi on Sunday after the district reported over 350 cases in 24 hours. The district reported 374 cases of infection against 291 recoveries on Sunday, which took the count of active cases here up at 3,437, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. As many as 20,053 people have been infected by the virus in the capital district so far. The total number of recoveries crossed the 75,000 mark on Sunday after as many as 907 Covid patients tested negative for the virus in a span of 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. However, the count of active cases saw a marginal increase, as 933 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally up at 87,210. As many as 75531 of the 87,000-odd Covid patients have recovered from the infection so far, while 10,936 are still battling the virus. While the state has registered a recovery rate of 86.60 per cent, which is higher than the national average, the number of deaths have also been on the rise. As per government data, at least nine more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Sunday, taking the death toll in Jharkhand to 743. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.85 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.60 per cent. Three of the nine Covid deaths on Sunday occurred in Ranchi, while two patients died in East Singhbhum. Latehar reported two casualties, while Chatra and West Singhbhum reported one death each. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum reached 308 on Sunday; the toll in Ranchi was 127. The number of active cases, however, reduced in East Singhbhum after the district reported 119 recoveries against 74 cases of infection. There were around 1800 active cases in East Singhbhum after Sunday’s findings. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 19,563 people across the state and 18,630 of them came negative. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 24 lakh people and tested 23.94 lakh of them. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 47.89 days against the national doubling rate of 49.76 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand in the past one week was 1.42 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent, stated National Health Mission (NHM) in a press communique.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||14 girls rescued near Ranchi rail station ||An RPF team rescued 14 tribal girls, including eight minors, who were allegedly being trafficked to Hyderabad, near Ranchi railway station at 11.30pm on Friday. RPF commandant, Ranchi division, Prashant Yadav, said all the girls are from Latehar district in Jharkhand. The girls were being taken by a suspected woman trafficker to Hyderabad on the pretext of getting them jobs after imparting training in stitching and embroidery, he added. “Our RPF team spotted them just in time before they could board the Darbhanga-Secunderabad Express train. After interrogation, we handed over the girls, including the minors, to the Kotwali police station. “The minor girls were then handed over to the child welfare committee of Ranchi. Suspected woman trafficker Meena Devi has been arrested by the Kotwali police station,” said Yadav. He said it was the biggest rescue of tribal girls under Ranchi railway division of South Eastern Railway so far. Sources in the Ranchi RPF said that they had received an alert from the police earlier about increased activity of trafficking groups in the state, who are targeting the migrant women workers and minor girls who had returned from various parts of the country to their villages during the lockdown and might try to lure them back to the big cities on the pretext of employment. “The RPF team had been alerted about the intelligence input from the state police and one of our women constables Khusbu Kumari saw the 14 girls herded near the Ranchi railway station gate. RPF sub-inspector Sunita Tirkey and assistant sub-inspector Mohammed W. Khan started questioning the girls who looked frightened. “The girls could only utter their names, parents’ names, age and address and that they were going to Hyderabad. “But they could not give details about their employer. The RPF team continued questioning the girls who said that they were being taken by Meena,” said an official of Ranchi RPF. The RPF team started searching for Meena with the help of the girls and located her near the station gate. “When the RPF team started interrogating Meena, 25, she could not provide any details about the firm where the girls were being taken for stitching and embroidery training, the fees, duration and placement. She could not show any documents of the firm. “We then got the contact number of the parents of the rescued girls and got in touch with them. They were also in the dark about the Hyderabad firm. We lodged an FIR against Meena and handed her over to the Kotwali police station,” said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP yet to announce bypoll candidates||The ruling Grand Alliance and the Opposition in Jharkhand have decided on parties that will contest the byelection for the two Assembly seats, Dumka and Bermo, on November 3 but only the JMM has declared its candidate. The two seats fell vacant because chief minister Hemant Soren who had won two seats in the last Assembly elections in December 2019 vacated Dumka and retained Barheit while Congress MLA of Bermo Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May. The ruling combine decided that the parties that the seats in the last Assembly elections would contest those, meaning the JMM and the Congress would contest for Dumka and Bermo respectively. The Opposition, on the other hand, announced that the BJP would contest both the seats. “Ajsu Party is an old ally and we will work together for BJP candidates to help them win both the seats,” said BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, adding that he, along with the party’s state unit general secretary Dharampal Singh had met Ajsu chief Sudesh Mahto at the latter’s Ranchi residence on October 2 when Mahto agreed on BJP contesting both the seats. The BJP, however, is yet announce the names of its candidates for those two seats though the party’s state election committee discussed the issue in its meeting on Friday. “The meeting authorised state president Deepak Prakash, leader of the party's legislature party Babulal Marandi and state general secretary Dharampal Singh to prepare a list of candidates and send that to the national leadership for their consideration,” BJP state unit vice-president and MP Sunil Singh said in a statement issued after the meeting. The political circles, however, believe that the BJP could field Louise Marandi in Dumka and Yogeshwar Mahto in Bermo. They both had won those seats in 2014 but lost in 2019. The JMM has already declared that it would field Basant Soren, chief minister’s younger brother, in Dumka that Hemant had won in 2009 and 2019 while the Congress would field its candidate in Bermo. “We all will work together for the mahaganthbandhan (grand alliance) candidates in these seats and ensure their win,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. “We are discussing it but will announce the name of the candidate only after taking the high command into confidence,” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey replied when asked who would their candidate in Bermo. “There is still enough time left for that,” Dubey further said, reminding that filing of nomination papers would start after the notification that will be issued on October 9. Rajendra Prasad Singh won the seat six times since 1985 though he lost it twice and it is widely believed that one his sons, either Jai Mangal or Anup, will be the Congress candidate this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ansari laid to rest at Pipra in Deoghar||Jharkhand minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari was laid to rest in his native village at Pipra in Deoghar district on Sunday. The four-time MLA from Madhupur died of cardiac arrest on Saturday afternoon at a private hospital in Ranchi after defeating Covid-19 the night before. Chief minister Hemant Soren, JMM cadres, local leaders from the BJP and the Congress attended his funeral. As his mortal remains were wheeled out from his ancestral home in Pathalchapdi in Madhupur to Pipra draped in the Indian flag on Sunday morning, thousands of people lined up on both sides of the road for a final glimpse of him. Haji represented Madhupur four times since his electoral debut from this seat on a JMM ticket in 1995 and became the first Muslim to become a minister in the state government in 2010 during former chief minister Arjun Munda’s regime. Following his death, the Jharkhand government has announced a two-day state mourning starting from Sunday and declared Monday a holiday. Akash Agarwal, 20, an industrialist and partner of Renuka Ispat, a private factory at Rajganj in Dhanbad, was on Sunday allegedly abducted and then released within two hours due to police pressure in Topchanchi area. Agarwal, the son of a noted industrialist, was abducted when he was on his way to the factory around noon. Agarwal said: “When I stopped my car about 500m from the factory due to some noise in one of the tyres, five-six persons who came to the spot in a vehicle from behind took me hostage at gunpoint and covered my face. They later pushed me into their car.” “They took my mobile phone and called my father, demanding a ransom of Rs 10 lakh, but later released me after driving around for some time.” Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said: “Agarwal was released due to police pressure and no ransom was paid as we conducted extensive searches and blocked all the roads.” “We are in the process of identifying those behind the incident,” he said. Renu Modi, 64, mother of Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan, died of a heart attack on Saturday evening at his official residence in Daltonganj. She was cremated the same night. Superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar, SDPOs Sandip Gupta and Surjit Kumar, a battery of officials and staff were present during the cremation. Prominent persons from the town, ministers and journalists have expressed their condolences. Ranjan said: “My mother had protracted illness. She was with me. On Saturday, her condition began to deteriorate. “I wanted to rush her to Ranchi but she was sinking and the doctors said nothing could be done. Her condition remained unstable.” Her family has decided to have her last rites in Daltonganj itself. Ranjan hails from village Kusmi in Godda district. He said: “My father and other family members were with me when my mother breathed her last.” Sources said this was the first time a death has occurred in the family of a deputy commissioner at the official residence in the past 40 years or so. Local residents caught an alleged purse-snatcher at Banshidih in the Chas police station area on Sunday. The accused was thrashed by the residents. The officer in charge of Chas police station, Amitabh Rai, said the incident occurred with Seema Devi, a resident of Banshidih, was on her way home from Chas. Two persons on a motorcycle came from behind, snatched her purse and began to flee. She started shouting and upon hearing her, the local residents managed to catch one of the purse-snatchers. The arrested person has been identified as Imtiaz Ansari. His bike has been seized. The police are conducting raids to arrest the other accused. The purse has been recovered. Giridih police have seized a large number of liquor bottles which were being smuggled to poll-bound Bihar at Ghodthambha Outpost in the Dhanwar police station area. Four persons have been arrested in this connection. Security had been beefed up in border areas in view of the upcoming elections. Vehicles were being checked before being allowed to pass. Amit Renu, the Giridih superintendent of police, received a tip-off that a shipment of illegal liquor was being ferried in an SUV to Bihar. While 48 bottles of liquor were found in another car, another 336 were found in the SUV. The arrested persons are Upendra Kumar Soni, Guddu Kumar Pandey, Rajkumar Saw and Lalu Saw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
