06-10-2020||Calcutta||Paytm block alert prompts app download; Rs 12 lakh lost||A Dum Dum Park resident on Sunday received a text message with a number, asking him to call the Paytm customer care as his account would be blocked. He got worried, called the number, followed the instructions of the person on the other end and downloaded an app on his phone and lost more than Rs 12 lakh within 30 minutes. “I was barely awake in the afternoon when I received the text message…. I got a little scared and immediately called the number mentioned in the message,” the man, an official of a central government agency, said. “The person on the phone asked me to download an app. The moment I had downloaded the app, he asked me to make a transaction of just Rs10 through Net banking. I had no clue that he would start accessing my account, once I had logged in.” In his complaint with Lake Town police station, the man has said he hadn’t received any one-time password to validate the transaction from his bank account that is linked to his Paytm account. After some time when he checked his bank statement, he found Rs12,12,082 had been debited from the account in four transactions, he has said. “I was crestfallen when I found that after I had made a transaction of Rs10, more than Rs12 lakh had been debited from my account. I have reported the matter to Lake Town police station,” he said. Preliminary investigation has suggested the person on the phone had linked another e-wallet account with the complainant’s Paytm account and transferred the sum to multiple e-wallets and web portals. The modus operandi was a little different from the regular frauds where callers pose as bank officials and ask people to share OTPs generated on their phones to transfer money from their accounts, an officer of Lake Town police station said. “In this case, instead of depending on OTPs, the accused linked his bank account with that of the man’s Paytm account to gain access to the man’s bank account. Once the two accounts are linked as a payment partner, there is no need to validate any transaction with an OTP,” the officer said. On Monday evening, the man said he was still to get any redressal. Hundreds of bank frauds — the majority of which are made through fake calls — are reported across the city every month. The number of such complaints has gone up during the pandemic when several people are at home and doing various online transactions such as paying bills or buying products, according to police records. Many who had never tried online payments have been forced to go online, at times falling prey to online frauds or phishing mails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Choking on whistle and peanut, two kids face hospital refusals||Two children, a five-year-old who had swallowed a whistle and a one-year-old who had peanut pieces stuck in his trachea, were allegedly denied treatment by several government hospitals before being referred to SSKM Hospital. Both children were gasping when they arrived at SSKM’s ENT department more than a day after the objects got stuck in their bodies, doctors said. They underwent emergency procedures and are now stable. The series of refusals highlights once again the attitude of a section of doctors outside Calcutta, often accused of avoiding critical cases, and also the lack of infrastructure in the government health-care system. Anjan Hembram, 5, who had swallowed a whistle which got stuck in his larynx on Saturday night, had to travel 175km from Bankura to Calcutta to get the object removed. All through the journey the child was having a severe breathing problem, said father Shanti Lal Hembram, a marginal farmer. The resident of Manora village in Bankura had to spend Rs 7,000 to bring his son to SSKM in an ambulance. Anjan was first taken to a government healthcare facility in Bankura’s Khatra but doctors said they could not do anything. “We then took him to Bankura Medical College and Hospital, but there, too, doctors pleaded helplessness. They referred my son to SSKM,” said Shanti Lal. “The X-ray revealed the whistle was stuck in the larynx and the boy was gasping when he came to us. We had to perform bronchoscopy to remove the whistle,” said Ankit Choudhary, ENT surgeon at SSKM, who along with colleague Anindita Sengupta, performed the procedure on Sunday night. In the other case, one-year-old Aditya Mondal from Baduria in North 24-Parganas had swallowed a peanut on Saturday evening and it got stuck in his trachea. He was first taken to Basirhat District Hospital, where doctors admitted him. “But on Sunday they said nothing could be done and referred him to RG Kar hospital,” said the boy's father Paritosh Mondal, a government employee. He hired an ambulance and paid Rs 3,000 for the 60km journey to the city hospital. AT RG Kar, doctors said they could not treat the boy and referred him to NRS hospital. “We went to NRS around 3.30am on Monday. We were sent to the ENT department and from there to the pulmonology department. Doctors said the boy needed to undergo bronchoscopy urgently but there was no doctor to perform it at that time,” said Paritosh. Aditya was then referred to SSKM. “Several pieces of the peanut were stuck in the trachea and it took more than two hours to extract them,” said ENT surgeon Choudhary, who performed the procedure on Monday morning. An official at NRS said their ENT department was facing a staff crunch. “There are two professors and an assistant professor. Three doctors were recently transferred and replacements have not come,” the official said. An official at RG Kar said: “I have to find out why the procedure was not done. We have the equipment and manpower.” A health department official said equipment to perform critical procedures, including bronchoscopes, have been provided to all government medical colleges in the state. “We are ready to train doctors from other hospitals but they have to approach us,” said Arunabha Sengupta, a professor of ENT at SSKM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Tiger drags fisherman into Jhila forest||A fisherman died on Friday when a tiger attacked him as he was pulling the nets fixed on the banks of a creek in the Jhila forest area. Dinabandhu Jodder, 55, was attacked in the same forest in Gosaba, South 24-Parganas, where three men had been killed in tiger attacks in September, a forest official said. At least 17 men, including Jodder, have been killed in tiger attacks so far from April, another forest official said. Jodder was part of a three-member fishing team that had set out from the Satjhelia village, the official said. He and the others had moored their boat to the bank and were pulling the nets during low tide. The tiger struck as dusk fell, the official said. The animal dragged away Jodder before the other two could react. “He was dragged deep into the forest. His body is still to be recovered,” the official said. Thousands of people from the Sunderbans lost their jobs during the pandemic and returned to their villages from various cities to earn a living by farming or fishing. But farms and ponds were flooded with saline water when Cyclone Amphan had struck in May, forcing them to depend on the forest for their earnings. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said forest officials had been engaging with villagers and asking them not to get off boats as “it is extremely risky”. At least 3,000 boats in the Sunderbans have the licence to catch fish in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve and the buffer areas apart from the South 24-Parganas range, Yadav said. The forest department will review the licences so that boats found violating fishing rules and venturing into prohibited areas will have the licences cancelled. “We have held meetings with all fishing associations and even village panchayats asking villagers not to get off boats. We have intensified patrolling in the areas,” Yadav said. Another forest department official said that despite the warnings the  lure of crabs is a strong pull as earnings are higher than fishing, another forest official said. Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, said humans were easier to attack. “More so when someone gets off the boat…. We have asked village heads to ensure this is stopped.” A tiger was spotted on Monday evening seated on a brick pathway in Baikanthapur village in the Kultali Block in Baruipur, South 24-Parganas. Cops from Maipith coastal police station and forest officials have reached the area to ensure nobody gets close to the tiger, a forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Why not JEE in Bengali, if in Gujarati, asks Mamata||If the Joint Entrance Examination can be held in Gujarati, why not in Bengali, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she had asked the Centre. She was addressing students at an online programme organised by the state government to felicitate Madhyamik and Higher Secondary examinees. “This year, too, you had to appear for the JEE in English and Hindi. But we have written to the Centre if the exam can be held in Gujarati, why not in Bengali? It should be allowed in regional languages.” The language barrier leaves village students at a disadvantage. “There are many good students in villages who know both English and Bengali… if they can write the JEE in Bengali they can express themselves better,” she said. In 2020, the questions were in English, Hindi and Gujarati, according to the JEE (Main) information bulletin on the site4 of the National Testing Agency, which conducts the exam. The NTA has said the JEE (Main) advisory committee has decided to drop question papers in Gujarati from January 2021. The question papers will be available only in Hindi and English, The Telegraph had reported. The NTA started holding the exam in 2019, taking over from the CBSE. The CBSE had in 2014 added Urdu, Marathi and Gujarati apart from English and Hindi to the medium of exams. In 2016, it dropped Urdu and Marathi. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had raised the issue last year asking the Centre in a tweet why Gujarati was allowed for JEE (Main) and not other regional languages. The number of students in Bengal who took the JEE (Main) this year during the pandemic saw a significant drop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal sets clean-up plan for Adi Ganga||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has to prepare an action plan to deal with waste accumulation around the Metro piers and under the elevated stations on the Adi Ganga in a month, the National Green Tribunal has said. The plan has to be executed in another month, the tribunal has said. The tribunal issued the order on September 21 and it was uploaded on its website on Monday. The tribunal has asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to clear encroachments along the Adi Ganga and to ensure those evicted are rehabilitated in six months. Three sewage treatment plants that are in various stages of construction should be completed “expeditiously and as far as it may be practicable within December 31, 2020”. The bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda has asked various state government departments as well as the Metro railway authorities to undertake “concerted efforts… to ensure restoration and rejuvenation of the Adi Ganga”. Subhas Datta, the amicus curiae in the case, said the deadline to comply with the orders would be from the date when the order was signed, September 21. The order said Datta could approach the tribunal if the orders were not complied with. The tribunal also laid responsibility for keeping clean the stretches under the Metro stations on Metro Rail. “Appropriate measures shall be prescribed for ensuring that solid waste does not flow underneath the elevated railway stations for which the Metro Railway stations shall be made responsible to ensure regular clearance and desiltation of the stretch within the area covered by the stations,” the tribunal has said. The Metro railway “cannot abdicate such responsibility by throwing it on the Calcutta Municipal Corporation”. A Metro official said the authorities would go through the order and respond. The final date to submit bids for the sewage treatment plants is October 30, a CMC official said. “It was supposed to be completed earlier, but there were too many questions from prospective bidders; a reason why the process got delayed. It is difficult to complete the STPs by the end of the year.” In 1998, the state government had acknowledged in a report to Calcutta High Court that in the 15.5km stretch of the Adi Ganga, from Hastings (the confluence with the Hooghly) to Garia, there were 7,851 illegal structures with close to 40,000 residents, 90 temples, 69 godowns (goods storage depots), and 12 cattle sheds among others. On April 24, 1998, the high court had ordered the removal of all encroachments within a month. Most are still in place, the government has said recently. “Such large-scale continuous encroachment could be possible because of political patronage,” Datta said. A lawyer for the CMC said on Monday that the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority had already earmarked a place to rehabilitate 500-odd encroachers. The technical plan for preparation of the plants will be finalised soon according to the specification of the World Bank, which is funding Adi Ganga’s rejuvenation under the National Mission for Clean Ganga. “Though the bench has mainly passed the order for the stretch falling within the Calcutta municipal area, it has directed the state to demarcate and clean the waterway for the entire stretch,” Datta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Hathras protest pockets sprout in Calcutta||Some of Calcutta’s busiest intersections became protest squares on Monday, with hundreds of marchers led by women demanding justice for the Hathras teenager who died after being allegedly gang-raped and brutally assaulted. The slogans and posters brought back memories of the numerous protests against the new citizenship thrust that rocked Calcutta before Covid-19 struck. One rally started from the Moulali intersection and ended before the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. Another started from Ripon Street and wound its way to the statue of Mother Teresa on Park Street. Participants in a third rally marched from Rajabazar till Rani Rashmoni Avenue. A fourth was held on College Street. A common anguish at all rallies: rapes are not new in India but the state machinery “shielding” alleged rapists is unforeseen. “It is not that rapes did not take place when non-BJP parties were in power. But under this regime, there is a bid to shield rape accused. From Kathua to Unnao to Hathras, there is a similar pattern,” said Mitali Biswas of All India Progressive Women’s Association, who was part of the march from Moulali. She spoke of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi visiting the family of the Delhi gangrape victim in 2013. “The Delhi gang rape was equally horrific. But it (the visit) was a moment of compassion and grace. In Hathras, the people in power are busy tormenting the victim’s family,” Biswas said. Several officials had publicly played down the possibility of the girl having been raped. The family has accused the administration of confining them and trying to throttle their voice. “The impunity with which a section of the establishment is shielding the accused is hard to believe,” said Soma Marik, a teacher and member of Ten to Ten Thousand, a forum against sexual violence. “This brazenness is new in India. Earlier, a rape was condemned by one and all. Now, there are people trying to play a caste card even in a rape case,” said Namita Haldar, from Raidighi in South 24-Parganas. “The girl killed in Hathras was just a few years older than my daughter. I want my daughter to know the reality of the country she is growing up in. She should also know that there are people who are willing to fight oppressors,” said Salma Khatoon, who walked from Ripon Street. A poster showing a severed tongue read: “Jibh kete phelte paaro, boba korte parbe na (you can sever our tongue, but you cannot gag us)”. The Hathras teenager had her tongue severed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Bengal panel cracks bill whip on three hospitals||The state’s private healthcare regulatory commission on Monday asked two  hospitals not to charge a part of the amount it had billed two patients and asked another hospital to return Rs 50,000 to a patient. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission asked Ruby General Hospital not to encash a cheque for Rs 1 lakh a patient's family had given them, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria was asked not to encash cheques for Rs 1.08 lakh it had received from a patient's family. Woodlands Hospital was asked to refund Rs 50,000 to a patient. Swapan Sur, 60, was admitted to Ruby hospital on August 26 and discharged on September 4. He passed away the next day. The hospital had billed the patient Rs 8.87 lakh. The family said they had paid the full amount, while the hospital said they offered a discount and the family had to pay Rs 8.53 lakh. “We have asked the hospital to produce the receipt. If we find the family paid Rs 8.87 lakh, the hospital must return the excess amount,” Banerjee said. “While examining the bill, we found that the hospital charged exorbitant amounts under some heads. For example, Rs 2 lakh was billed as laboratory charges. We compared the rates with that of some other hospitals and laboratories and found Ruby’s charges very high…. We have asked the hospital not to encash a cheque for Rs 1 lakh (received from Sur’s family),” Banerjee said. An official of the hospital said after the order: “The patient’s family had no complaint of medical negligence…. Regarding the commission’s order, we will take necessary action once we receive a copy of it.” The commission asked AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria not to encash two cheques amounting to Rs 1.08 lakh that the family of 67-year-old Papia Basu had given it. “The woman’s family said she was in the hospital for 105 days. She had tested positive for Covid-19, then tested negative and again tested positive. During the hearing the family said the hospital had a moral responsibility for the woman testing positive for Covid for a second time while still being in hospital. But that did not reflect in the bill,” Banerjee said. Basu is still undergoing treatment at another hospital. Banerjee said AMRI officials said during Monday’s hearing that they had offered a discount on the bill. “The woman’s treatment was billed Rs 31 lakh. An insurance company paid Rs 25 lakh. Of the remaining Rs 6 lakh, the hospital had offered a discount of Rs 4 lakh,” said Banerjee. “Without going into the question of moral responsibility, we asked the hospital to not encash two cheques amounting to Rs 1.08 lakh.” An AMRI official later said: “As told by the commission, we will not encash the cheques.” As for the case against Woodlands, Subrata Basu Mullick, 69, was admitted to the hospital on May 11 with urinary tract infection. He later tested positive for Covid and was asked to shift to another hospital. “The patient was billed Rs 92,000 for his 28-hour stay at the hospital. The patient had complaints against the bill. He was billed Rs 36,000 for investigations and Rs 15,000 for medicines,” said Banerjee. “During today’s hearing, the hospital’s representative offered to return Rs 50,000 to the complainant. The complainant agreed to the offer and we asked the hospital to return the money,” said Banerjee. “Although we follow a policy of offering discounts only to the economically weaker section, we offered Mr Basu Mullick, who comes from an economically upper class, a discount of Rs 11,000 against the bill of Rs 93,000 (12 per cent of the total bill) based on his request. However, the honourable commission insisted today to offer Rs 50,000 as a discount. The amount is unreasonable, still we proceeded to honour the order without prejudice,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Business||Netflix airs Bad Boy Billionaires||Netflix has released three episodes of its four-part series about four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations after a state court lifted an injunction, a lawyer for the world’s largest streaming service said on Monday. The Bad Boy Billionaires: India documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Subrata Roy of the Sahara group, IT executive Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi had been set for release last month. But Netflix suspended it after an order from the Araria district court in the eastern Bihar state, where the Sahara group argued it would damage Roy’s reputation. The court lifted this injunction on Saturday, Amit Shrivastava, a lawyer for Netflix, said. Shrivastava declined further comment and it was not immediately clear why the court had overturned its previous order. The official order is yet to be released. Netflix did not respond to a request for comment. On Monday, Netflix made three of the four episodes in the series available on its app for viewers in India. The episode focusing on Raju was unavailable. Raju has obtained a separate injunction from a court in South India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||TCS to announce share buyback||The board of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will consider a share buyback proposal on Wednesday. The announcement led to its shares rallying by more than 7 per cent with its market cap breaching the Rs 10-lakh- crore mark. TCS, the largest IT services firm in the country, has been in focus particularly after Shapoorji Pallonji (SP Group) announced its plans to exit Tata Sons. While the Mistry camp has been eyeing a valuation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore for its 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons, there has been speculation on how the Tatas would fund such a purchase. Proxy advisory firm IiAs had earlier said in a report that Tata Sons will need to sell about 16 per cent of TCS at the current market valuations to raise around $20 billion. The Tatas currently hold a little over 72 per cent in TCS. However, while the possibility of a stake sale remained an overhang for the TCS counter, the buyback announcement removes that possibility for now. According to the current rules, a company buying back its shares from the market is barred from issuing more shares for a period of six months. Despite this condition, Tata Sons can be a beneficiary of the buyback if it decides to participate in the proposed programme. The IT services giant had come up with such a share purchase plan last in 2018 when it announced a plan to purchase 7,61,90,476 shares under a tender offer at a price of Rs 2,100 per share. The promoters had then participated in the programme and 4.97 crore shares (65 per cent of the total shares that were bought back) were accepted from Tata Sons. In 2017, too, TCS had undertaken a similar share purchase programme and these are part of its long-term capital allocation policy. TCS has cash reserves of Rs 73,993 crore. In a buyback, a company buys its shares from the market, which are subsequently extinguished. Share buybacks generally improve earnings per share and help return surplus cash to shareholders. On the bourses, TCS became the second Indian firm after RIL to attain a market valuation of more than Rs 10 lakh crore. The stock rose 7.30 per cent to close at Rs 2,706.85 on the BSE. During the day, it rose 8 per cent to a record high of Rs 2,727. Similarly, on the NSE it rallied 7.55 per cent to end at Rs 2,713.95.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Google Play Store billing relief for Indian developers||Google on Monday said it is deferring the deadline for developers in India to integrate with its Play billing system by six months to March 31, 2022. The development comes days after many Indian developers and start-ups had raised concerns around Google’s Play billing system, saying the tech giant cannot force Indian app developers/owners to sell digital services by compulsorily using its billing system. Interestingly, Paytm — which competes with Google Pay — has announced the launch of its Android Mini App Store to support Indian developers. In a blogpost on Monday, Google said it had heard some additional questions from the developer community in India after posting its clarification to its Play Payments policy at the end of September. The company is also setting up “listening sessions” with leading Indian start-ups to understand their concerns and will also hold “policy workshops” to help clear any additional questions about its Play Store policies, it added. “We’re also extending the time for developers in India to integrate with the Play billing system to March 31, 2022. This will give them enough time to implement the UPI for subscription payment option that will be made available on Google Play for all apps that currently use an alternative payment system,” Google said. Walmart-owned Flipkart on Monday said it has partnered fintech major Paytm to provide customers a slew of offers and benefits during its festive season sale. “This partnership will enable millions of Paytm users to conveniently pay through their Paytm Wallet and Paytm UPI while shopping on Flipkart during The Big Billion Days. In addition, Flipkart customers will enjoy instant cashback to their Paytm wallets,” a statement said. Flipkart will host its annual “The Big Billion Days” sale from October 16-21, while Myntra will hold its “Big Fashion Festival” between October 16-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||IT sector expected to lift results gloom||The IT sector is expected to be one of the few shining stars as corporate India heads for another results season. Buoyed by an uptick in spending as work from home continues to remain the norm, technology firms are set to report a robust quarter marked by a strong deal pipeline and an upward revision of revenue guidance for the year. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will be the first off the block as it will announce the July-September 2020 numbers on Wednesday. It will be followed by Infosys on October 14. “We expect companies to announce their highest order books in history, substantial revenue acceleration, modest margin expansion and a massive outlook upgrade,” Sandip Agarwal and Pranav Kshatriya of Edelweiss said in a note. Analysts at Kotak said that the deal pipeline looked robust and that Infosys can up its guidance for the third quarter even as Wipro is expected to resume quarterly guidance. “We remain positive on the sector to reach pre-Covid revenue by the third quarter of 2020-21,” a note from HDFC Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Hush-hush hearing on Mallya||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate “secret” legal process in the UK, which is “judicial and confidential in nature is resolved”. The Centre said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings as the government of India is not party to the process. The ministry of home affairs, in its affidavit filed in the contempt case in which Mallya has been held guilty, said this legal issue is “outside and apart from the extradition process” and is “confidential and cannot be disclosed”. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, which took up the matter through video conferencing, asked Mallya’s lawyer to apprise the court by November 2 what kind of “secret” proceedings were going on to extradite him. The bench told advocate Ankur Saigal, representing Mallya, that as the government of India says it has no idea about the proceedings, he has to apprise the court about the nature of proceedings, when these proceedings would get over and when the contemnor (Mallya) was going to appear before the court. Mallya, an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Contain contagion, spend smartly says Joseph Stiglitz||Nobel laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz made a strong case for spending money to combat the long-term economic damage of the pandemic, saying that India would be well advised to focus on containing the contagion as the economic aftermath cannot be tackled without tackling the pandemic. Bracketing India with Brazil and the United States for its “utter failure” to deal with Covid-19, Stiglitz described ”India as a poster child of what not to do”, saying the lockdown failed to have any impact and the migrant labour crisis precipitated the contagion. “It (India) picked up one idea that is important. Lockdown. Did not think about what it means in a poor country. How are people going to live, large number of people moving across the country. One could not have imagined anything worse for spreading the disease,” said the professor of Columbia University in the US. Speaking at a web conference hosted by business chamber Ficci, the outspoken economist suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his party must get rid of the politics of division as “the source of economic prosperity of the last 250 years is one of tolerance”. “I will start by trying to create an inclusive society. Politics of division is an antithesis of what needs to be done. Modi has tried to divide your country, Moslems against Hindus, and that is going to undermine your society and economy no matter what else happens. This fundamental division will weaken India forever. “So if I were to say where to begin, I would say the politics of division, get rid of that,” he said when asked what India should do to prosper in a post- pandemic world. Several prominent industrialists participated in the event, moderated by Rudra Chatterjee, chairman of Ficci West Bengal State Council. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman of HUL, asked what his advice would be to the India government, which has been a little circumspect in spending money to kick-start the economy because of fiscal concerns even as it did a good job ensuring no one goes hungry. Stiglitz, the author of several celebrated books, including “Globalisation and its Discontent”, said the first option should be to print money as there is a compelling case to spend money. “If we don’t, there will be long term damage.  Companies that go bankrupt don’t go un-bankrupt in two years time,” he said. The Nobel winner for economic sciences in 2001 suggested what could be done if there were budget constraints. “Use your money well. Make sure that money is well targeted to places where it is really needed. “The first priority is to help the vulnerable but also contain the disease. Spending the money in a way that prevents contagion and also helps people gives double dividends. Let me say very clearly, you can not control the economic aftermath if you cannot control the pandemic,” Stiglitz said. He also suggested allocation of resources judiciously. “Targeting is really important. Some spending gives a big bang for the buck and others that don’t. By shifting money from those areas to areas where impact is high, you can maximise the effect even within budgetary constraints,” he said. The professor also argued that taxes on the rich may be increased to meet the shortfall. “Raise taxes on the very rich — you have a lot of billionaires in India — and spend the money well, it can stimulate the economy,” he argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||SpiceJet to fly non-stop to London||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet will launch non-stop flights connecting Delhi and Mumbai with London’s Heathrow airport from December 4. These flights will operate under the air bubble agreement with the UK, the airline said in a statement on Monday. “The airline will operate thrice a week to London, including twice from Delhi and once a week from Mumbai,” the airline said. SpiceJet will use an Airbus A330-900 Neo aircraft for these flights. The 371-seater twin-aisle A330 has a configuration of 353 economy and 18 business class seats. “This is a huge milestone for us and I am proud of the fact that SpiceJet will be the first Indian low-cost airline to operate non-stop long-haul flights to the UK. London is one of the busiest long-haul destinations from India and our convenient flight timings should suit the convenience of our passengers perfectly,” said Ajay Singh, chairman & managing director of SpiceJet. The low-cost airline’s announcement comes less than two months after Vistara launched its maiden flight to London. The two airlines, along with Air India, continue to operate charter flights to London. Till April 2019, Jet Airways was among the dominant players on the routes to London. But since it stopped operations, Air India was the only Indian carrier to fly to London. SpiceJet has launched the new service with a promotional return fare of Rs 53,555 on both the Delhi-London and Mumbai-London routes. “The one-way starting fare will be Rs 25,555 on the Delhi-London and Mumbai-London routes, and Rs 29,555 on the London-Delhi and London-Mumbai routes,” the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Centre bows to states on GST||The Narendra Modi government had to eat humble pie on Monday when it was forced to back down on its contentious plan to deny states a payout of the Rs 1.38 lakh crore arising from the anticipated shortfall in goods and services tax (GST) collections this year. The sudden volte-face came during a stormy, eight-hour meeting of the GST Council where Opposition-ruled states, including Bengal, Kerala and Punjab, challenged the Centre’s despotic stand in disclaiming its constitutional obligation to fully compensate the states for any shortfall in tax collections this year. The Centre was also forced to concede the states’ demand that the compensation cess, which is levied on luxury goods like cars and tobacco products,should be extended beyond 2022. The cess will be used to cover the shortfall that the Centre had attributed to the outbreak of Covid-19 --- and which it had initially argued it was not obliged to compensate under the law. There was near-chaos late in the evening when finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey abruptly called an end to the daylong, clamorous discussion, with several states furious that a mere bureaucrat had usurped the right to terminate a Centre-states meeting when the finance minister — the chairperson of the council — was present. A source quoted Pandey, who is also the revenue secretary, as saying: “The meeting is closed. The department of economic affairs has assured that it would help the states to borrow. The meeting is closed.” “Such an incident has never happened in the last 41 meetings of the council. There are CMs and finance ministers and the meeting was closed abruptly,” said a furious participant at the meeting. On August 29, the Modi government had estimated the overall shortfall in GST collections this year at Rs 3 lakh crore. It feared a yawning gap of Rs 2.35 lakh crore as the compensation cess that is levied on a small group of luxury goods like cars and tobacco would yield only Rs 65,000 crore this year. The Centre had arbitrarily attributed a sum of Rs 1.38 lakh crore to Covid-related causes and disclaimed its responsibility to fork out the sum since it was not covered by the GST legislation. The Modi government had offered two choices to the states: borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore from a cheap loan window that the Reserve Bank of India would open for them, or raise the entire sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of loans at market rates. Sitharaman told reporters that 21 of 30 states and Union Territories had accepted the first option -- a claim later contested by the state finance ministers who had attended the meeting. They said Andhra and Puducherry had not opted to borrow on their account and had instead asked the Centre to borrow the sum and pass it on to the states. Pandey’s abrupt move to end the meeting threw the entire meeting into disarray. “This meant that the states would have no choice but to accept Option 1: that is, borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore on their account,” a source said. The Opposition-ruled states immediately sought a vote and said the outcome would then be binding on all. “(They said) let this be a decision of the GST Council. At least two states, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh, who were said to be siding with the Centre and were rooting for Option 1, immediately turned around and said they wanted the Centre to borrow instead,” the source said. The vote was not eventually held -- presumably because the Centre was no longer confident of the result. Sensing trouble, Sitharaman immediately struck a conciliatory stand and said she wanted to build consensus on the controversial issue of GST compensation. She offered to schedule another meeting on October 12 where the differences would be ironed out. The finance minister looked upset at her virtual media conference, held after the meeting, as it became obvious that the Modi government had come away with egg on its face after being forced to concede the states’ demand to extend the term of the compensation cess beyond 2022. “The GST council has approved to extend the cess (surcharge) beyond five years,” the finance minister said in her opening remarks at the media conference. The surcharge on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products, which varies from 12 per cent to 200 per cent, is part of the national goods and services tax (GST) introduced in 2017, and was due to expire in 2022. In another effort to appease the Opposition-ruled states, Sitharaman said the shortfall of Rs 97,000 crore that had been attributed to GST implementation — and, therefore, covered by the constitutionally backed compensation obligation — would be raised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. For the first time, she explained how the Centre had arrived at the sum. Under the law, the states have been promised an annual increment of 14 per cent in GST revenues for the first five years. Any shortfall has to be compensated by the Centre through the surcharge on luxury goods. The Centre had initially estimated the base revenue growth this year at 10 per cent instead of the promised 14 per cent. The figure of Rs 97,000 crore was calculated on the basis of this gap between promise and achievement. The states have argued that this calculation was flawed -- and insisted that the gap should be calculated on the basis of a 7 per cent anticipated increase in revenue this year. The Centre buckled before the pressure and, therefore, raised this sum to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. A perturbed Sitharaman said: “There are some states which have not chosen any (borrowing) option and the suggestion was that the Centre should borrow. On this, there was a lot of discussion. Coming almost to the end of the day, it was felt that you cannot really decide on the basis of 21 states who have written to you and that we need to talk further.” “I was also gently reminded that I cannot take anybody for granted,” she added. “I do not take anybody for granted; I said this there and I am saying it here. And, I have always been open for more and more talks.” Thomas Isaac, finance minister of Kerala, tweeted after the marathon meeting that “10 states demand that full compensation should be paid to the states during the current year as per clauses in the law and centre should borrow. Decision was postponed to the next meeting on 12th of October.” The 10 states are Bengal, Kerala, Punjab, Delhi, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra, Rajasthan and Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Supreme Court seeks clarity on interest relief plan||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Centre’s response did not contain the “necessary details” and asked it and the RBI to furnish the Kamath committee report on debt restructuring to sectors affected by the unprecedented pandemic situation in the country. The RBI had set up the committee under K.V.Kamath, former CEO of ICICI Bank, to recommend various measures and resolution plans for sectors hit by the virus. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R.Shah passed the direction after the real estate and other business expressed dissatisfaction over the government’s affidavit filed on Friday in which it had announced the waiver of compound interests (interest on interests) for the six-month moratorium period ending on August 31 to all those who had availed themselves of loans below Rs 2 crore such as housing, credit cards and MSMEs. “The affidavit (of October 2) does not give necessary details as was required by this court’s order dated September 10. Tushar Mehta, solicitor general and V. Giri, senior counsel, pray for further time to file additional affidavit bringing on record the relevant decisions and circulars issued,” the bench said. The apex court, while giving time to the Centre and the RBI to file their additional affidavits by October 9 on the concerns raised by various sectors, posted the matter for further hearing to October 13. At the hearing on Monday, senior advocates Kapil Sibal, C.A. Sundara, Huzefi Ahmadi and others, appearing for various petitioners, said the relief of compound interest waiver had been extended to only eight sectors whereas other crucial sectors such as real estate had been left out. Further, it was complained that no consequential orders or circulars had been brought out by the government or banks to give effect to the assurance of waiver of interests on loans. Meanwhile, Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (Credai) and other parties have been granted liberty by the bench to file their responses to the affidavit of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Rush to clear GST dues of states||The compensation cess of Rs 20,000 crore collected this fiscal will be disbursed to states on Monday night itself, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the meeting of the GST Council. In a bid to lower compliance, tax payers whose annual turnover is less than Rs 5 crore will submit GST quarterly returns instead of monthly filings. Besides the council has accepted the Sushil Modi-panel proposals on the sharing of proceeds collected on the movement of goods and services across states — the integrated goods and services tax (IGST). Earlier, there was no formula for the devolution of IGST, which had resulted in several anomalies in its distribution. For states which received less amount of IGST for 2017-18, Sitharaman said the Centre will next week transfer a cumulative sum Rs 24,000 crore. Excess IGST apportioned to certain states would be retrieved. However, the minister did not mention the amount. “A committee under Bihar minister Sushil Modi has worked out a way to resolve IGST devolution issue. A sum of Rs 24,000 crore which has to go to states that received less will get the amount now. We aren’t asking states that received more to pay back dues now,” the finance minister said. The council also extended the GST compensation cess beyond 2022. However, on the issue of borrowing options to meet revenue shortfall, there was no consensus. “Entire compensation is going to be paid back to the states. Compensation shortfall which has arisen due to GST implementation or due to Covid-19 is all going to be given back to the states,” Sitharaman said. Some changes have already been made, based on inputs from states, to the borrowing options to meet the shortfall in compensation, the finance minister said. In the first borrowing option, instead of Rs 97,000 crore provided earlier, the amount has been raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore. On repayment schedules, the minister said, interest on borrowed amounts will be the first charge on the cess which gets collected beyond five years. The next charge could be 50 per cent on the principal amount which gets borrowed. “The gap in compensation arising due to the extraordinary situation because of Covid-19 will be paid out of the cess which gets collected after five years,” Sitharaman said. From January 1, taxpayers whose annual turnover is less than Rs 5 crore will not be required to file monthly returns such as GSTR 3B and GSTR-1. They will only file quarterly returns, said finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey. “Ease of compliance holds the promise of more taxpayers coming forward to be compliant and thus truly transforming GST to become a good and simple tax,” Atul Gupta, partner at Deloitte, said. From April 1, 2021, for B2B suppllies, taxpayers with a turnover of more than Rs 5 crore will have to compulsorily mention HSN codes up to six digits. Those with turnover less than Rs 5 crore will have to mention HSN code up to four digits. In certain classes of goods where the government feels the need for closer tracking, HSN codes will be of eight digits. These will be notified by the government, Pandey said. The GST Council also exempted satellite launch services by ISRO, Antrix from GST. As for refunds, in order to keep a check on them, they will be given to those bank accounts validated by PAN and Aadhaar. “The GST Council has decided that the refund application can be signed via Aadhar,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||India||BJP says Nitish to be CM, even if it outperforms JD(U)||Ending days of intense speculation, the NDA on Tuesday announced its seat-sharing formula for Bihar assembly polls under which JD(U) will contest on 122 seats and BJP 121 out of a total of 243 seats.  BJP backed to the hilt Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as its leader in the state and rebuffed a rebellious Chirag Paswan, while acknowledging his LJP as an ally "at the Centre".  At a press conference which was attended by top leaders of the JD(U) headed by Kumar and the BJP, it was made clear that "only those who accept the chief ministers leadership will be deemed to be a part of the NDA in Bihar".  The two parties have settled for a formula wherein each constituent gets almost an equal number of seats and misgivings about the BJP changing its mind post-polls in the event of a better strike rate than the JD(U) were summarily dispelled.  "We have agreed to a formula under which the JD(U) has got 122 seats and the remaining 121 have gone to the BJP.  "The JD(U) will part with seven from its quota to accommodate HAM. The BJP will accommodate Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), the new entrant in the NDA, Kumar said.  In the outgoing assembly, RJD was the largest party with 73 MLAs followed by JD(U) 69, BJP (54), Congress (23), CPI-ML (3), LJP (2), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and AIMIM of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi one each and Independent (5). A total of 12 seats are vacant.  Incidentally, HAM, led by former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, had on the previous day made public the names of candidates for the seven seats it will fight.  Manjhi himself will be seeking re-election from Imamganj (reserved SC) seat in Gaya district.  VIP, floated a couple of years ago by former Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni, was with the opposition Grand Alliance till last week.  Sahni announced an abrupt exit in protest against "back- stabbing" by RJD, which helms the opposition coalition, and its de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav.  His entry into the NDA followed his visit to New Delhi over the weekend during which he is said to have been in talks with top leaders of the BJP.  The crowded press conference was held nearly two hours after a marathon meeting held at the Chief Ministers official residence which was attended by top leaders of the BJP, including its national general secretary in-charge for the state Bhupendra Yadav, election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis and state president Sanjay Jaiswal.  After the meeting was over, Jaiswal appeared at a media centre set up by the party at a city hotel to give a soundbite, less than a minute long, wherein he reaffirmed the NDAs full support to Nitish Kumar.  Notably, the saffron partys cryptic silence over the belligerence of LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who had been taking potshots at the JD(U) chief for quite some time and openly revolted against him a couple of days ago, is said to have raised suspicions in the JD(U) camp.  The BJP, on its part, is said to have grown uncomfortable with Paswans talk of helping formation of a government headed by the saffron party besides his insistence on using the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and slogans seeking to drive a wedge between BJP and JD(U).  The saffron party is also said to have been riled by a development earlier in the day when Rajendra Singh, a senior BJP leader from Bihar with deep roots in the Sangh Parivar, was inducted by Chirag into the LJP at New Delhi.  Expressing rejoice over the development, Chirag had announced that Singh will be fielded from Dinara constituency in Rohtas district, from where the JD(U) has fielded sitting MLA and minister Jai Kumar Singh.  Kumar, as well as Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi and Sanjay Jaiswal both of whom spoke on the BJPs behalf expressed their fondness for Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan who had founded the LJP, but sought to make light of his sons antics.  "Did Ram Vilas Paswan become a Rajya Sabha member without the JD(U)s support?" asked Kumar in response to a query about Chirags allegation that the Chief Ministers party never gave allies their due.  "I believe in doing my job. I wish to take forward the growth trajectory that began under my stewardship 15 years ago.....I do not have anything to say about inconsequential things which some people may utter to derive some pleasure", Kumar said dismissively, seeking to attach little importance to Chirags agenda of Bihar First Bihari First.  The 37-year-old LJP president has sought to pit his agenda against "saat nishchay" (seven resolves) programme of the Chief Minister.  Journalists present at the press conference also posed a question about whether the BJP will insist on having its own Chief Minister if it performed better than the JD(U) in the October-November polls.  Speculations in this regard have grown strong since the Lok Sabha polls of last year wherein both BJP and JD(U) contested 17 seats each and the former won all but the latter settled with all but one.  "Please be rest assured. Nitish Kumar will be our Chief Minister irrespective of which party gets how many seats", Sushil Kumar Modi said in reply to the question.  Asked whether the LJP would cease to be a part of the NDA following the developments in Bihar, Sushil Modi replied cryptically "as Sanjay Jaiswal has already said, LJP is our ally at the Centre".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
06-10-2020||India||Health ministry releases SOPs for festive season ||With the festive season posing a major challenge during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union Health Ministry has issued guidelines for large gatherings, including ensuring adequate area for events with a detailed site map and proper markings to maintain social distancing and not allowing touching of idols and holy books, to prevent the spread of infection. Festive events shall be permitted only outside the containment zones, while people residing in the restricted areas may be encouraged to observe all festivals inside their homes and not move out, according to the ministry. Releasing the 'Standard Operating Procedures', the ministry said that the period from October to December witnesses large gatherings for religious worship, fairs, cultural functions, processions, etc, and it is important that necessary preventive measures are followed for such events which may last a day, a week or more. As far as feasible recorded devotional music/songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed, the SOPs stated. Keeping in view the physical distancing norms, event sites should have adequate floor area and proper markings at all locations which are likely to be visited by the public, the SOPs said underlining that only those staff and visitors who are free of symptoms shall be allowed inside the venue. All staff and visitors will be allowed entry only if they are using face cover/masks, which have to be worn by all at all times and physical distance of a minimum of six feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the venue, as far as feasible has to be followed. Specific markings for the purpose may be done. "In case of events that run for days or weeks, the crowd density doesn't remain the same throughout and usually peaks around certain hours of the day and some previously known auspicious days. "Planning for the event should specifically factor this so that crowds are regulated and managed to ensure physical distance and frequent sanitization," the SOPs said. In the case of rallies and immersion processions, the number of people should not exceed the prescribed limit and proper physical distancing and wearing of masks must be ensured. Events such as rallies, and processions spread over long distances may require the support of ambulance services, it underscored. The competent authority may implement additional measures within their jurisdiction as per their local assessment and in line with activities permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) as per its orders issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 from time to time. Disinfection of premises has to be undertaken if any person is found positive. "Identify spatial boundaries and prepare a detailed site plan which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing, sanitization etc," it said. Close-circuit cameras etc. may be considered to monitor compliance of physical distance norms, wearing of masks at each venue. In the case of rallies and processions, route planning, identification of immersion sites, ensuring cap on numbers, physical distancing, etc. must be planned and measures for enforcement outlined. All events must plan for medical care arrangements with linkages to the nearest hospitals to attend to health emergencies, the guidelines stated. The guidelines issued for theatre and cinema artists will apply to stage performers. According to the SOPs, the event sites should have a designated isolation room or space for isolating any person found symptomatic during the events, till such time that medical help is available. Preferably multiple and separate entry and exit points for visitors shall be ensured, the ministry said adding the structure or venue for the event must also have adequate natural cross-ventilation and entrances should have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions. Proper crowd management inside and outside premises like parking lots, waiting areas, stalls, eateries, etc. duly following physical distancing norms shall be ensured. For entry into religious places, footwear needs to be preferably taken off by the people inside their own vehicle. If needed they should be kept in separate slots for each individual or family by the persons themselves, the guidelines said. The SOPs outlined that seating arrangement in pandaals, food courts and shows must ensure adequate physical distancing. Any shops, stalls or cafeteria outside and within the premises too shall follow physical distancing norms at all times and there should be arrangements for safe drinking water. Community kitchen managers and business owners of food outlets have been directed to ensure adherence to the highest level of personal and environmental hygiene all the time. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. This applies to the event managers and staff as well, the guidelines said. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on commonly touched surfaces and areas including lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations/areas. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, barricades, seats, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) should be made mandatory in all public utility common areas, the SOPs stated. On Tuesday, the Health Ministry put the caseload in India at 66,85,082. The total recoveries surpassed 56 lakh improving the recovery rate to 84.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
06-10-2020||India||Cinemas may be opening, but no new movies as of now  ||The government has given the green signal for cinemas to reopen in a new Covid-19 normal defined by rigorous dos and don'ts and theatre owners are getting ready too, but it may be a while before audiences get to see a new movie. On Tuesday, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announced the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that cinema halls must put in place before they open on October 15 after seven months of being closed. The SOPs include one seat distance in theatres, 50 per cent capacity, masks at all time, proper ventilation and air conditioner temperature settings at above 23 degrees Celsius. “Cinema halls have been shut for the last seven months. They are now opening from October 15. For the safety of people, we have come out with SOPs to be followed,” Javadekar told reporters. It is good news for multiplex and theatre owners who have long maintained that it was time for the curtains to go up and also for movie aficionados missing their big screen experience. But the wariness persisted. Was it safe? How many people would actually brave the threat of Covid-19? What about the cost factor involved in getting theatres ready for the corona era? Given the extreme caution, there is unlikely to be any fresh content in the next few months, industry insiders indicated. No one wants to take a chance. Sibashish Sarkar, Reliance Entertainment Group CEO, said reopening of cinemas is a positive sign for the industry but screening new releases will be difficult. "We are not releasing any film on Diwali (on November 14). It is not possible to release a film on Diwali now. As of now, all cinema houses are not opening from October 15. Even if it opens on November 1, how can you release a film in a 10 or 15-day notice period? he asked. Films such as Akshay Kumar and Katrina Kaif-starrer Sooryavanshi and Ranveer Singh's 83 that are complete and ready for release won't be seen on the big screen anytime soon. While many films moved to OTT platforms during the lockdown that started in March, the much awaited Sooryavanshi  and 83 did not. Sooryavanshi , which was scheduled to release on March 24, just a day before the lockdown came into effect, was supposed to hit the screens on Diwali. "We are not sure whether we will change both Sooryavanshi or 83' or we will just shift one film... It is clear... from December to March is the realistic timeline, Sarkar told PTI. In fact, some cinemas will screen old content even when they open. Raj Bansal, a multiplex owner from Jaipur, said the distribution and exhibition sector has been waiting since August for theatres to open but his own theatre will stick to old fare. "We have 15 days to plan things. We have software for a few Dhoom series, Golmaal, Munnabhai..., Hera Pheri and some small films that are ready to be released in theatres," Bansal told PTI.  He said the cost of operating cinemas will go up by at least 10 per cent as the premises will need to be sanitised regularly. Cinepolis India CEO Devang Sampat is clear that cinema halls can't get back to regular business unless there is fresh content. He said they have implemented stringent safety protocols in line with global best practices and are ready to welcome patrons back to a safe and secure, world class movie experience. “We request the state governments to provide clearance for cinemas to open in their respective states,” he added. T-Series president Vinod Bhanushali added that it is exciting to have cinemas make a comeback after months of uncertainty. In Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, theatres might open by November or pre-Diwali and the company is getting films ready for a theatrical release. The company has films such as Indoo Ki Jawani and the yet untitled biopic on badminton ace Saina Nehwal. “We will be happy if our films that are to be released on OTT will come in theatres. However, this decision is between OTT and exhibitors and distributors,” Bhanushali told PTI. "We believe stars or superstars are made or born in theatres. The fun of watching films is on the large screen," he added. Producer Boney Kapoor said it will take a couple of weeks for the audience to get used to coming to theatres. "Footfall will increase gradually. Hopefully by Diwali, we should have a better understanding or how good the situation is. We will think of the release once we complete the shoot of our films," Kapoor said. Film exhibitor Akshay Rathi, who has cinema houses in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, said the audience will want a safe and secure environment and all SOPs would be implemented. “We will ensure the best of movies are released in theatres for audiences to come in big numbers. For this producers, exhibitors and distributors will have to work together to rebuild the movie-going habit," Rathi said. Theatres across the country had to shut their doors in March due to the coronavirus-led lockdown. As the government started easing other businesses, theatre chains said they should be allowed to resume services as they were already facing losses to the tune of Rs 9,000 crore. “We are committed to ensure a safe, secure and a hygienic cinema going experience for the movie lovers of our country. As always, we would continue to assign topmost priority to the health and well-being of our guests and employees,” said PVR Cinemas CEO Gautam Dutta. INOX Leisure CEO Alok Tandon is also hopeful of a turnaround in the industry. “We are completely geared up and prepared for the new normal, which would assign topmost priority to safety and hygiene,” Tandon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
06-10-2020||India||Cinema halls to reopen with 50 per cent capacity||After seven months of shut down due to Covid-19, cinema halls will reopen on October 15 with 50 per cent capacity and one-seat distance between the viewers, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said Tuesday. "Cinema halls are shut for last seven months. They are now opening from October 15. For safety of people, we have come out with SOP to be followed," Javadekar said. "Cinema halls shall be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity only and people will maintain one-seat distance. Alternate seats will be left vacant for social distancing. Wearing masks at all times inside the hall will be important," he added. Briefing the press at his residence, the Union minister also said that online booking of tickets will be encouraged but box office will be open for single-screen theatres. "In single-screen theatres, ticket counters will be opened. However, we encourage online booking for contact-less transactions. Proper ventilation has to be ensured and temperature setting of all air conditioning should be above 23 degree Celsius," he said. The minister, releasing the SOP, said sufficient time interval between successive screenings on a single screen as well as on various screens in a multiplex should be provided to ensure row-wise staggered entry and exit of the audience. "The show commencement time, intermission period and finish time of a show at any screen shall not overlap with the commencement time, intermission period or finish time of a show at any other screen in a multiplex," the ministry said in its SOP. The SOP document said only packaged food and beverages will be allowed and online payments will be encouraged at food and beverage counters. Delivery of food inside the cinema halls will be prohibited. The Ministry of Home Affairs had in its unlock guidelines issued on September 30 allowed reopening of cinema halls from October 15. According to the SOP, seats to be left vacant will be marked "not to be occupied" and physical distancing of at least six feet will have to be followed outside the auditoriums. The SOP advised use of Aarogya Setu mobile application. "Given the current Covid-19 outbreak in India, it is important that various stakeholders involved in the activities of exhibition of films take suitable measures to restrict transmission of the virus while conducting their operations and activities," it said. It said thermal screening of visitors and staff will have to be carried out at entry points and only asymptomatic individuals should be allowed to enter the premises. "Provisions for hand sanitization should be made available at all entry points and in work areas. Designated queue markers shall be made available for entry and exit of the audience from the auditorium and the premises," it said. "Efforts shall be made to avoid overcrowding in the common areas, lobbies and washrooms during the intermission. Audience may be encouraged to avoid movement during the intermission. Longer intermissions may be used to allow audience seated in different rows of the auditorium to move in a staggered manner," it said. The auditoriums will be sanitised after every screening and cross ventilation has to be ensured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||SC asks to be notified about steps taken by UP govt to protect witnesses||Terming the Hathras incident as "horrible", the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to inform it by October 8 about the steps taken to protect witnesses in the case in which a Dalit girl was allegedly brutally raped and died due to injuries. The apex court directed the Yogi Adityanath government to file an affidavit in this regard and also ascertain whether the victim's family has chosen a lawyer. The apex court observation came while hearing a PIL during which the state government expressed willingness to refer the investigation to the CBI on the ground that fake narratives were being spread about the case with political motives. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it will ensure that the investigation is smooth in the case. The top court also asked all parties appearing before it to give suggestions on the scope of proceedings before the Allahabad high court and how the apex court can make it more relevant. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, said, Narratives after narratives being spread in Hathras case, this this needs to be stopped." The CBI probe in Hathras case will ensure no vested interests will be able to create fake, false narrative with oblique motives, Mehta told the court. The state government told the top court that probe in Hathras case may be conducted by the CBI under the apex court's supervision. Mehta said the state government is not opposing the plea for a fair probe by the CBI or a Special Investigation Team and said a young innocent girl has lost her life, but nobody should sensationalise it. Investigation should be fair, appear fair. Senior Advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for few intervenors, asked the top court to provide protection to the victim's family. Jaising said the family has expressed that they are not satisfied with the CBI taking up the case and said an SIT, monitored by the apex court, should probe the case. At this point, the bench asked Jaising what her locus standi was in the case. You don't have any locus in this matter. But we are hearing you because the case is such and of huge importance. We are hearing your because this a shocking incident, but we are still pondering over your locus in this case," said the bench. Advocate Kirti Singh, appearing for few woman lawyers, said the probe should be under the supervision of the court. The apex court said this is a horrible incident but it does not want repetitive arguments in court. It is horrible incident but the question is how many similar arguments should we hear? Please understand that there is no need to duplicate concerns in the court of law," the bench said. Court of law need not hear the same argument by every party. This is not a comment on the incident but please understand our point of view, it added. The Uttar Pradesh government earlier in the day sought a CBI probe into the alleged gang-rape and death of the Dalit woman, saying it will ensure that no vested interest is able to create a fake and false narrative with "oblique motives". In an affidavit filed in response to a PIL, which has been listed for hearing before a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, the UP government said it is important that the investigation is carried out by an independent central agency. It said the state has already requested the Centre that the CBI take over the investigation as it would obviate hindrance being created by certain vested interests in the fair and impartial investigation. The CBI probe will also ensure that no vested interests will be able to create a fake and false narrative with oblique motives, it said. Quoting FSL reports, it has however denied the charge that rape was committed. The government said that it itself prays to the top court to keep PIL filed by social activist Satyama Dubey pending allowing the investigation by CBI to be conducted under the supervision of this court in a time bound manner. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi''s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Tapasee, Anushka in India's 'most dangerous celebrity' list ||Bollywood actresses Tabu, Taapsee Pannu, Anushka Sharma and Sonakshi Sinha are among the top 10 personalities generating the riskiest search results online in India, due to the malicious sites and viruses linked to their names, according to a list released by a cybersecurity company on Tuesday. But it was global football sensation Cristiano Ronaldo who claimed the number one spot on McAfee's Most Dangerous Celebrity list 2020. On number two is Tabu, who recently starred in Mira Nair's series adaptation of "A Suitable Boy", followed by "Thappad" actor Pannu at three, actor-producer Sharma at four, and Sinha at five. The second half of the list is also ruled by the entertainment industry, with singer Armaan Malik in the sixth place, actor Sara Ali Khan coming seventh, soap star Divyanka Tripathi in eighth spot, Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan in the ninth place and playback singer Arijit Singh in the tenth position. With only Ronaldo representing sports, the 14th edition of the McAfee's Most Dangerous Celebrity list 2020 is dominated by the names from showbiz. Venkat Krishnapur, vice president of Engineering and managing director, McAfee India, said as consumers scout the web for free entertainment now more than ever, cybercriminals trail close behind, capitalising on this interest. "Unsuspecting users often look for free and pirated content such as major sports events, movies, TV shows, along with images and leaked videos of their favourite celebs. Bad actors (cybercriminals) leverage consumers' fascination with pop culture and drive unsuspecting fans to malicious websites that install malware on their devices, potentially putting personal information at risk," Krishnapur said in a statement. "When consumers compromise on security in favour of convenience and freebies, they put their digital lives at risk. It is vital that fans stay vigilant, avoid suspicious links that promise free content and think twice before clicking," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Hathras: UN expresses profound sadness and concern||The United Nations has expressed profound sadness and concern at the continuing cases of sexual violence against women and girls in India, prompting the external affairs ministry to overlook certain complimentary references and describe the statement as “unwarranted”. “The recent cases of alleged rape and murder in Hathras and Balarampur are another reminder that despite the impressive progress made on a number of social indicators, women and girls from disadvantaged social groups face additional vulnerabilities and are at greater risk of gender-based violence,” UN resident coordinator Renata Dessallien said in a statement. “The UN in India is profoundly saddened and concerned at the continuing cases of sexual violence against women and girls in India,” the statement added. Resident coordinators are usually the highest UN official and the chief of the world body’s diplomatic mission in a country. The statement was issued on a day Uttar Pradesh police lodged at least 19 FIRs across the state against unknown persons on charges ranging from attempt to provoke caste conflict to sedition. Rights-based concern was expressed from another quarter, too, with India’s record again catching the attention of the European Parliament. Maria Arena, the Chair of the European Parliament’s Subcommittee on Human Rights, listed a litany of areas of concern in India with a reminder: “It is high time for India to translate words into action.” Dessallien, the UN resident coordinator, was appreciative of the steps taken by the government for the safety of women and acknowledged the “Prime Minister’s call for strict action against the culprits”. The Prime Minister is yet to make any public statement on the Hathras atrocity but Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had claimed that Narendra Modi had asked him to take strict action. The UN official added that it was essential that the authorities ensured the perpetrators were brought to justice speedily, and that families were empowered to seek timely justice, social support, counselling, health care and rehabilitation. “Entrenched social norms and behaviour of men and boys that lead to gender-based violence must be addressed,” Dessallien said. The Indian government did not take it well. Reacting to her statement late in the night, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Some unwarranted comments have been made by the UN resident coordinator regarding some recent cases of violence against women. “The UN resident coordinator in India should be aware that these cases have been taken extremely seriously by the government. Since the investigation process is still underway, any unnecessary comments by an external agency are best avoided. The Constitution guarantees equality to all citizens of India. As a democracy we have a time-tested record of providing justice to all sections of our society.” The UN official’s statement was issued in spite of the Uttar Pradesh government using the services of a public relations firm to offer its spin among foreign and Indian media after the Hathras incident. The salvo from Europe was more direct and comprehensive. In a statement on Monday, Arena, the Chair of the European Parliament’s human rights panel, reminded India that as a sitting member of the UN Human Rights Council, the country had pledged to “continue to foster the genuine participation and effective involvement of civil society in the promotion and protection of human rights”. “Therefore, I call on the Indian government to meet this pledge, in a manner worthy of the global role model it aspires to be. It is high time for India to translate words into action. In this context, I also wish to call on the EU to address these concerns within the EU-India Human Rights Dialogue.” Pointing out that the rule of law is the very cornerstone of the EU’s relationship with India, Arena referred to the Amnesty International India report on human rights violations committed by Delhi police during the riots in the capital in February. She supported the call for a “prompt, thorough, independent and impartial investigation” into all such violations committed by law-enforcement agencies. “Marginalised communities, religious minorities, particularly Muslims, a vocal and vibrant civil society and critics of government policies have been under increasing pressure for a long time. Widespread protests over the proposed citizenship verification process and the discriminatory citizenship law amendments have resulted in arbitrary detentions and an unnecessary loss of life. Journalists and other peaceful critics continue to be arrested under draconian counter-terrorism and sedition laws, while human rights defenders are unceasingly and severely targeted by the authorities,” Arena noted. She also expressed concern over Amnesty International India being forced to halt its work in the country “due to government reprisals”. The European Union has already raised the Amnesty International India closure with the external affairs ministry through its mission in New Delhi. In a background note circulated along with the statement, it was pointed out that the 2004 EU-India Strategic Partnership is based on shared values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Further, it was pointed out that both countries had endorsed the “EU-India Strategic Partnership: A Roadmap to 2025” during the 5th European Union-India Summit on July 15, reaffirming commitment to promoting the shared values of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Earlier in January, six different political groupings in the European Parliament had moved separate resolutions against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Together, the resolutions had the backing of 626 members of the 751-member European Parliament. Indian diplomats had to work overtime to defer the vote to March, by which time the pandemic bailed India out of the tight spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||IITs halve cut-offs for BTech admission||The cut-off marks qualifying students for BTech admission in the IITs this year are half the figures prescribed in the brochure, marking a new low that some academics said could be the combined outcome of difficult questions, the pandemic and increased seats. Some 43,204 candidates have cracked the JEE Advanced exam, taken by 150,838 students in September. Last year, 1.61 lakh candidates had sat the exam. Of the successful candidates, 17,823 are in the Common Rank List (general category); 9,195 have qualified for the 27 per cent OBC quota; 5,087 for the 10 per cent Economically Weaker Sections quota; 7,852 for the 15 per cent Scheduled Caste quota and 2,811 for the 7.5 per cent Scheduled Tribe quota. Apart from these candidates, there are the successful differently abled students. Every year, the IITs prescribe an aggregate cut-off of 35 per cent for the general category, followed by 31.5 per cent for the OBC and EWS students, and 17.5 per cent for the SC and ST students. Most years, the cut-offs are eventually lowered to try and fill seats. Besides, the general candidates need to obtain at least 10 per cent marks in each individual paper — mathematics, physics and chemistry. This cut-off is nine per cent for the OBCs and EWS and five per cent for the SCs and STs. The subject cut-off is rarely, if ever, lowered. But this year, both cut-offs have been halved, with several IIT professors saying they could remember no precedent. The IITs have reduced the aggregate cut-off for the general category to 17.5 per cent, compared to 25 per cent in the last two years, and the subject cut-off — not reduced in at least the last four years — to 5 per cent. (See chart) The aggregate cut-off for the OBC and EWS students is 15.75 per cent, far lower than the last two years’ 22.5 per cent. For the SCs and STs, the aggregate cut-off is 8.75 per cent, against the last two years’ 12.5 per cent. The subject cut-offs for these categories too have been halved. “The aggregate cut-off is usually lowered to ensure seats are not left vacant. But I don’t remember the subject cut-off being ever reduced,” former IIT-JEE chairman H.C. Gupta said. The JEE Advanced website does not give full details of the cut-offs adopted for the 2015 exam. Another former JEE chairman said the aggregate mark was certainly lowered in 2015 but he was not sure whether the subject cut-off had been lowered that year. “There were fewer examinees this year, perhaps because of the fear of Covid. When there are fewer students, the cut-off may fall,” an IIT Madras teacher said. The JEE Advanced chairman for this year, Sidharth Pandey from IIT Delhi, said that about 3,000 seats had been increased to accommodate the EWS quota and the 20 per cent supernumerary seats for women students. He said the questions too had been tougher than usual. “The question papers were difficult; the number of seats rose from about 13,000 to 16,053. Government policy requires us to select twice the number of required candidates in every category so that no seat remains vacant. To select the required number of candidates, the cut-off had to be lowered,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Covid count below 1m, but caution sounded||India’s counts of active coronavirus patients have remained below 1 million for 14 days amid a decline in daily new cases since mid-September, but experts say any laxity in precautions could trigger fresh surges in the coming weeks. The Union health ministry on Monday described the “two straight weeks” with active patients’ counts below 1 million as a “landmark milestone” and pointed to the downward trend in active cases that have fallen from 1,010,824 on September 20 to 934,427 on October 4. Medical experts tracking the epidemic say the overall national decline in new cases is encouraging and is a likely outcome of the decrease observed over the past two weeks in some states that made up large proportions of the daily new cases. In Maharashtra, the state with the largest counts, for instance, the seven-day average daily count has declined from around 21,000 to 14,000 over the past two weeks. In Uttar Pradesh, the average daily count has reduced from 6,000 to 4,000. But the reductions aren’t uniform across India. The daily counts show only modest reductions in some states such as Karnataka (9,700 to 9,200 over the past 14 days) and Tamil Nadu (5,605 to 5,598). In three states, the seven-day average daily counts have increased — in Kerala, from 3,920 to 7,786, in Manipur from 146 to 222, and in Rajasthan from 1,797 to 2,167 — over the past two weeks. The numbers of samples tested daily have ranged over the past 14 days from a low of 7.09 lakh to a high of 14.92 lakh, and health officials have said the decline in numbers has occurred despite steady testing levels. Experts say there is no evidence yet to suggest that the two-week fall in the daily new infections is the outcome of fewer tests. “Any gross missed cases through laxity in testing would have consequences — the infection would spread and we would see surges and an increase in demand for hospital care,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. But epidemiologists are concerned that any let-up in the adoption of precautions such as wearing masks or avoiding crowds could push the numbers upwards again. A national sero-survey has suggested that hundreds of millions of people across the country — in urban and rural areas — have not yet been infected by the virus and are thus susceptible to the infection. The health ministry on Monday recorded 75,442 new cases, raising the country’s total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections to over 6.62 million, of whom over 5.58 million have recovered and 102,685 patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||If it is CBI, it must be poll time||The CBI on Monday searched multiple premises owned by or linked to Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar in Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra in connection with a disproportionate assets case. The raids, which continued for 12 hours from 6am, triggered protests by the Congress and allegations of witch-hunt. After the searches ended, Shivakumar, the Congress’s chief trouble-shooter in Karnataka who has faced raids by multiple central agencies, urged supporters gathered outside his home to give a befitting reply in impending bypolls. Raids were conducted at Shivakumar’s Bangalore home and 14 other properties — nine in Karnataka, four in Delhi and one in Mumbai. The premises searched included the Delhi apartment of Shivakumar’s younger brother and Lok Sabha member D.K. Suresh and their family home in Ramanagara, near Bangalore, where the leaders’ mother, Gowramma, lives. The CBI, believed to be acting on inputs provided by the Enforcement Directorate in the money-laundering case, had on Sunday procured a warrant from the agency’s special court in Bangalore to search the premises, including Shivakumar’s home in Sadashivanagar. Some 60 CBI officers were part of the operation. After coming to power in the state last year by toppling the JDS-Congress government, the BJP dispensation had ordered an investigation into allegations that Shivakumar owned assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. He had spent a month in Tihar jail during September-October 2019 in connection with the money-laundering case. The income tax department had claimed it had unearthed “unaccounted money” to the tune of Rs 11 crore during raids on the leader’s properties in 2017. Shivakumar was neither allowed to leave his home nor consult anyone after the CBI sleuths knocked on his door. After the raids, Shivakumar told a large crowd outside his home: “Let God do good to those who are trying to harm me and my family. But let me assure you all that neither me nor my family has done anything to bring a bad name to our party.” He urged his supporters to respond appropriately in the bypolls. Five days ago, the Election Commission had announced that bypolls to the Sira and RR Nagar Assembly constituencies would be held on November 3. Congress MLAs who defected last year to help the BJP form the government represent the two seats. State Congress legal cell chief A.S. Ponnanna said the CBI officers refused to furnish any information when Shivakumar asked them. “We have no information about the reason for this action,” Ponnanna said. “The high court had asked them not to precipitate matters when we objected to the state government’s permission (to prosecute Shivakumar). What is the meaning of saying ‘do not take coercive action’?” he asked. In an interim order on Shivakumar’s plea, Karnataka High Court had on September 28 said “there shall be no coercive action against the petitioner”. After the raid on Shivakumar’s family home in Ramanagara, his mother Gowramma told reporters that “neither did they ask me anything, nor did I ask them anything”. The Congress accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa of “witch-hunt” to rattle the Opposition party ahead of the bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Four on way to Hathras arrested||Four people were arrested in Mathura on Monday while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi, police said. The police claimed they were associated with the Popular Front of India (PFI) and an allied outfit. Uttar Pradesh police had earlier sought a ban on the PFI. The four, who were in a car, identified themselves as Atiq-ur Rehman of Muzaffarnagar, Siddique of Malappuram, Masood Ahmed of Bahraich and Alam of Rampur, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||FIR against minister for Covid rule violation ||An FIR has been filed against school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash for violating the Covid guidelines while attending the funeral ceremony of former minister and seven time MLA Pradeep Maharathy who passed away on Sunday. A similar complaint has also been lodged against the Satyabadi MLA Uma Samantray. Both Dash and Samantray hail from Puri district to which Maharathy belonged. Convener of Shree Jagannath Sena Priyadarshan Patnaik said: “We have lodged complaints against them with the police at Sea Beach police station. The government has issued guidelines for attending funerals. However, the minister set a wrong precedent by violating the guidelines in this regard while attending the funeral ceremony of Maharathy at Swargadwar in Puri on Sunday.” Patnaik said not only the minister attended the funeral ceremony along with hundreds of his supporters MLA Uma Samantray also joined the funeral procession. “What is most unfortunate is that both of them were tested Covid positive a few days back. They put thousands of people in danger by joining the funeral ceremony at Swargadwar in Puri. They should show their Covid negative report to us. They are the super spreaders,” said Patnaik, adding that police should immediately arrest the two leaders. Earlier, some BJP leaders in the social media had hinted about violation of Covid-19 guidelines during the funeral procession. Minister Samir Ranjan Dash said: “I was tested positive on September 14 and was admitted into the hospital and released within a week. Since then I have been in home isolation. I have not violated any norms. I had gone to the cremation alone. I don’t know about the other people who were there.” The MLA Samantray could not be contacted for his comments. The Odisha Assembly on Wednesday had passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill 2020. The bill envisages a fine up to Rs 1 lakh and imprisonment up to two year or both for anyone violating the Covid guidelines. According to the guidelines, a maximum number of 20 people can attend funerals. At least two metre physical distance should be maintained between people on such occasions and people should wear masks and carry sanitisers with them. However, during the funeral procession on Sunday, hundreds of people thronged the cremation ground to have a last darshan of Maharathy, who had established himself as a mass leader of Puri district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Murder charge against Lalu’s sons||Politics in poll-bound Bihar went on the boil on Monday after murder charges were slapped against six Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders, including party chief Lalu Prasad’s sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav and Anil Kumar Sadhu, in the killing of a former Dalit leader of the RJD in Purnea. Shakti Malik, a former secretary of the SC (Scheduled Castes)/ST (Scheduled Tribes) cell of the RJD, was killed on Sunday morning at his home in Purnea, 320km northeast of the state capital Patna. The RJD cried foul and said that the case had been registered at the behest of the ruling powers in the state, and that the party would not be cowed down. Shakti was planning to contest from Raniganj (SC) Assembly constituency in Araria district, and had recently released a video alleging that Tejashwi and Anil had demanded a donation of Rs 50 lakh to provide him a party ticket to contest the polls, which he refused. Tejashwi is the Opposition leader and will lead the Grand Alliance in the three-phase elections in the state from October 28 to November 7. Anil is a son-in-law of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, but quit the Lok Janshakti Party a few years ago. In the footage that is circulating on social media platforms, Shakti also accused Tejashwi of hurling abuses on caste and threatening to ensure that he will never become an MLA. The Telegraph could not verify the authenticity of the video. It is also unclear whether Shakti left the RJD himself, or was removed from the party. The FIR was registered at Khazanchi Hat police station in Purnea on the statement of Shakti’s wife Khushboo Devi. Purnea superintendent of police Vishal Sharma said investigations were being conducted on different aspects in the case with CCTV footage and technical evidence being accessed. Police sources also said that a call from a landline number at former chief minister Rabri Devi’s house is among the things that are being probed in connection with the murder. A call allegedly went from the number to one of the accused. “My husband was taking care of our youngest son when three persons with faces completely covered entered my house and shot him dead. I suspect Tejashwi, Tej Pratap, Anil Kumar Sadhu, Kalu Paswan, Manoj Paswan and Sunita Devi to be involved in the killing,” Khushboo told mediapersons. “He (Anil) wanted to contest from Raniganj and a fight was going on over the ticket. Tejashwi was demanding Rs 50 lakh for it. Kalu had threatened him with dire consequences,” she added. RJD Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson Manoj Jha asserted that the FIR was a condemnable move registered at the behest of the ruling powers in the light of the approaching elections. Attacking chief minister Nitish Kumar, Jha said: “Chief minister ji, what drama are you doing? The police and the administration are yours. Hang him (Tejashwi) but only after investigation. Ensure an impartial probe and hang Tejashwi if he is found guilty. But do not make it a political and media investigation. Do not indulge in headlines management.” Jha asserted that the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was indulging in dirty tricks after being shaken by Tejashwi’s statements on the Hathras gang rape and murder. He also said that the telephone number from which a call purportedly went to one of the accused was removed from Rabri’s residence in 2016, but a caller identity application still shows it as belonging to Tejashwi. “The said phone number was allotted to the environment and forest department in 2018 and then taken away in 2019. It should be a matter of investigation as to who is now using that number. “The government has stooped so low that it is now getting false cases registered,” the RJD spokesperson said. JDU leader and spokesperson Sanjay Singh said the video released by Shakti and his subsequent murder points towards a deeper conspiracy and “shows that Tejashwi has no love for the upper castes, backward castes or the Scheduled Castes. He has love only for his family and money”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||China can’t get the better of us: IAF chief ||The Indian Air Force is “very well-positioned” to take on China along the border in eastern Ladakh where troops of both countries have been locked in a five-month-long standoff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said on Monday. “We are very well-positioned. There is no question that in any conflict scenario, China can get the better of us,” Bhadauria said while addressing a media conference in New Delhi ahead of Air Force Day on October 8. He, however, acknowledged that India was not underestimating the adversary. “Their strength lies in the surface-to-air systems they have put up in the area. They have long missile systems. We cater to those in our matrix… We can take on that threat,” the IAF chief said. Asked about the possibility of a two-front war, Bhadauria said that amid an “emerging threat scenario in our neighbourhood and beyond”, India was prepared for any conflict that it might face. On whether China could use Pakistani air bases, he said it would mean a collusive threat and the IAF was ready to tackle it. “We are aware they are cooperating closely. There is significant threat, but so far there is no such indication that they are colluding for a two-front war,” the air force chief said. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the Rafale fighter jets that had arrived from France had given the IAF an operational and technological edge. “Integration of the Rafales brings in a platform which is way ahead and gives the capability to strike first and deep in a contested airspace,” he said. The five newly inducted Rafales, part of a 2016 deal for 36 jets, have been made operational in the Ladakh theatre and have been carrying out sorties regularly. Replying to a question on whether the armed forces had been caught by surprise by the Chinese aggression in Ladakh, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said: “We acted swiftly and it will not be correct to say we were surprised. We do hope the talks between the military commanders continue on the expected lines. The Chinese troops are trying to dig in for the winter and we are also taking actions to set up air assets...” So far both India and China have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the military standoff but no breakthrough has been achieved as the Chinese troops have refused to withdraw from multiple areas it has intruded into since May. Top commanders of the two armies are scheduled to hold a fresh round of talks on October 12 with the specific agenda of firming up a road map for disengagement of troops from the friction points. India and China have deployed around 50,000 troops each along with heavy weaponry in the high-altitude region to deal with any eventuality. Besides the Rafales, the IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets such as the Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft at the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF has also been carrying out nighttime combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region. A military veteran said: “It is very much clear that dialogue is not working at all. Amid the continuing Chinese aggression, the Indian Army has no choice but to stay there in the winter in the most isolated battlefield in the world.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Students, teachers demand safety and justice for Hathras family||Students and teachers from two leading institutions, as well as Ambedkarite scholars from abroad, have demanded safety and justice for the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim. Nearly 200 faculty members and students of IIM Bangalore have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking punishment of the accused persons, said to be upper caste men. “We demand justice for the family who was even denied access to participate in her last rites. We seek assurance that the family will not be intimidated, but rather supported to get justice. We demand that in addition to the perpetrators of the rape, those who seek to bury this matter with such impunity are also punished,” the letter said. The signatories demanded that the law-and-order system follow due process and mete out justice. “Not encounters. Not cover-ups. Not extra-judicial killings. Not use of tools of governance against us every time we peacefully protest actions of our government. We demand that the government and the police do their jobs and ensure safety and security for every Indian citizen,” the letter said. Faculty members of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) held a candlelight march on the campus to express outrage at the Hathras tragedy. In a statement, the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) said the incident had exposed the complete failure of the administration and the law-and-order machinery. “Indeed, the handling of the matter by the UP police and the administration — its desperate efforts to somehow exonerate the accused without a full investigation, the display of an utterly callous attitude towards the girl’s family through her forcible ‘cremation’ and then the attempts to threaten and silence them, the blocking of media coverage and curbing of protests — reflects not only entrenched caste bias but also the consequences of increased politicisation of the law enforcement machinery, and erosion of its accountability to the law and to the Constitution,” the statement said. In a statement, Ambedkarites from the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, New Zealand, Belgium, Hungary, Australia, the UAE, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Malaysia said Dalits were more vulnerable to crimes due to the “casteist mindset of caste Hindus”, who have a predominant presence in the police force and the administration. They demanded that the central and the Uttar Pradesh governments stop protecting the perpetrators of such crimes. “The NRI Ambedkarite community demands strong punitive actions against the perpetrators of the crime and strong protection measures to safeguard the Dalits, especially the women, and take steps to prevent such caste-related hate crimes from happening in the future,” the signatories said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||‘Confused’ class, too, shows signs of disquiet||Protests are continuing unabated on the streets and on social media over the Hathras atrocity, with those who had been somnolent till recently also stirring into action. Demonstrations were held in 28 cities on Sunday, and sanitation workers went on strike at several cities in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. By nightfall, Twitter users posted messages using the hashtags “DalitLivesMatter”, “IfWeDoNotRise” and “RiseWithRage”. Pictures and videos of protests were shared widely, as were news and statistics on atrocities. Delhi-based activist Shabnam Hashmi said: “The #IfWeDoNotRise campaign involving putting out poems, visual images and graphics and talks yesterday got around 15 lakh views across Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. The (number of) participants has grown much beyond the activist community and those who are generally vocal on these issues…. While street protests will necessarily be smaller due to the pandemic, social media is a major vehicle.” Instagram, a picture-sharing platform used relatively less for protests, was flooded with artwork condemning Hathras atrocity and the administrative harassment of the family. “Especially in Mumbai, artists organised themselves. Shireen Gandhi of the Chemould Art Gallery wrote to artists to put out their work as part of the campaign,” Hashmi said. Mumbai-based theatre and film personality Joy Sengupta said: “There are broadly three spaces post-2014 — those who uphold constitutional values, the Right wing, and the confused. People in the third space have begun to listen to their conscience, particularly after the economy has collapsed. They still may not be fully convinced that demonetisation was bad, or may associate lynchings with cattle theft and so on. But they feel disturbed, especially about the future of their children, when they see hatred all around.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Militant attack on CRPF jawans in Srinagar||Two militants on a motorcycle killed two CRPF men and injured three others in indiscriminate firing on the outskirts of Srinagar in a grim reminder of how the city has emerged as the focus of militant activities since the scrapping of Article 370 last year. Official sources said there have been around a dozen militant attacks or gunfights between security forces and militants this year, seen as a sharp escalation in violence in the city that witnessed fewer such incidents previously. Sources said the bike-borne militants fired upon a road opening party of the 110 battalion of the CRPF at Kandipzal area of Nowgam bypass. An official said the five injured were rushed to 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar where two cops succumbed. The slain were identified as constable Shailendra Singh and constable driver Dhirendra Tripathi. “The firing was brief but indiscriminate and the militants managed to escape by taking advantage of the movement of civilian vehicles on the road,” an official said. Security forces rushed to the area in large numbers and sealed the entry and exit points to hunt down the militants. Valley police chief Vijay Kumar claimed Lashkar was involved in the attack. He said Pakitani militant Saifullah and his local associate were behind the attack. This was the second attack in Nowgam in less than two months. In August, militants killed two policemen in a nearby locality. Kumar said militants were using the crowded and busy national highway to carry out attacks. “Any retaliation can lead to civilian casualties and militants are taking advantage of this,” he said. The city has witnessed around half-a-dozen encounters between security forces and the militants at Batmaloo, Nawakadal, Zoonimar, Malbagh, Mujgund, Parimpora and Panthachowk this year. A series of attacks also took place in Pandach and Nowgam. Suspected militants are believed to have killed lawyer-activist Babar Qadri at his home in Srinagar’s congested Hawal locality. When the BJP-led government scrapped Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir last year, it had claimed the move would end militancy in the region and bring peace, which has remained a far cry so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Modi ‘dials’, Yogi’s rivals delighted||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, passed over for the top job in the state in favour of Yogi Adityanath, on Monday bubbled with exuberance after receiving a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring how he was recuperating from Covid-19. Maurya’s effusive social media posts, a “rare” call from Modi involving matters of personal well-being and the timing of the telephone conversation prompted many to float tantalising theories at a time the Adityanath administration has been besieged by allegations of high-handedness and protests demanding the chief minister’s removal, particularly in the aftermath of the Hathras atrocity. Some BJP leaders ventured as far as to compare Maurya’s advantages with Adityanath’s perceived shortcoming and assert that the latter is not “fit for an administrative job”. Maurya, who was on Monday hailed by some in the BJP as a more mature politician, tweeted: “Despite being very busy, the brilliant Prime Minister, respected Narendra Modiji, asked me over the phone today morning about my health and gave me necessary directions with regard to my health. I am proud of our supreme leader. A current of new energy flowed in my body when you asked me about my wellbeing.” Maurya, who tested positive for the coronavirus two days ago, laced his tweets with the hashtag “ModiPoochaHaal”, or “Modi has asked how I am doing”. BJP sources said it was an open secret that Adityanath and Maurya did not get along. They also pointed to the sudden twist of fate in 2017 when Maurya was widely believed to be the BJP frontrunner for the chief minister’s post but the party sprung a surprise by selecting the saffron-clad Gorakhpur MP and temple mahant, pulling him out of local politics and disregarding the fact that he was never a state-level leader. In Delhi at that time, Maurya had fallen sick, complaining of restlessness, and had to be admitted to hospital soon after Adityanath’s ascension to the seat of power was announced on March 16, 2017. A senior BJP leader said the Prime Minister was not known to have called up other leaders in Uttar Pradesh afflicted with the novel coronavirus. “Many ministers have tested positive for the coronavirus in the past three months. Two ministers — Chetan Chauhan and Kamla Rani — have died. The Prime Minister never called them or their family members. The Prime Minister has never called Yogi to enquire about personal matters. We see a message in his conversation with Maurya.” The BJP leader, who requested anonymity, said Adityanath, 48, and Maurya, 51, were in the same age group. “The deputy chief minister is more mature than the chief minister. The Brahmins and Dalits are very angry with Yogi and they believe that the chief minister is pro-Thakur. The Prime Minister knows that we need to change this perception if we have to win the 2022 Assembly polls. Maurya is an OBC and his reach among the masses is far better than that of Yogi, who has no support base outside Gorakhpur,” the leader said. With the Assembly elections in the politically crucial state not too far away, a perception is gaining ground that Adityanath’s style of functioning is costing the BJP dearly. The BJP leader said the “mishandling” of the cases of gangster Vikas Dubey and the gang rape and murder of the Dalit teen in Hathras had “proved that Yogi is not fit for an administrative job”. “It is also no secret that Maurya and Yogi have argued many times over several issues. Modi must be aware of everything and thinking of correcting a wrong,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||New farm laws will spare none: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the new farm laws would hurt not only the farmers and farm labourers but everybody else, too, because they would destroy the country’s food security. “Koi nahin bachne wala (Nobody will be spared) —farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, traders, youth, women,” Rahul told a farmers’ rally on the second day of his Kheti Bachao Yatra (Save the Farm March). “The day the agriculture sector is taken over by these two — Adani and Ambani —the whole of India will be enslaved. It’s not a farmers’ issue, it’s about food security, it’s linked to the people’s freedom.” Rahul warned: “Don’t trust me now, but remember what I’m saying. When your farms are snatched, when you are enslaved, recall what Rahul Gandhi said. It is my duty to tell you the truth. You too will have to face the truth after a few years. The prices of essential commodities will soar — what you buy for Rs 10 now will be available for Rs 50. You may not understand the conspiracy today but wait for a few years for the truth to manifest itself.” The former Congress president argued that all the policies of the Narendra Modi government had been tailor-made to help a few corporate houses. “There won’t be any choice for the people. Adani on one side; Ambani on the other. Only two. Small and medium businesses were destroyed by notebandi, the flawed GST and the lockdown. Now these farm laws,” he said. “Why couldn’t Modi wait for a year; why did he bring these laws in now? Because he thought the farmers won’t be able to protest during the Covid-19 restrictions. Any political resistance won’t be possible under these circumstances. But he doesn’t know the strength of farmers. We will together show him what we can do.” Rahul predicted that the job scene would worsen once the farm sector — which he described as India’s backbone — was broken. He wondered how the people of Punjab and Haryana were silent in the face of such an assault on their freedom. Invoking the message of Guru Nanak that nobody can escape from the truth, Rahul said: “Punjab gave food to the whole of India. And now Modi is trying to snatch the rights of Punjab farmers. How do you tolerate it? Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat… should rise united in protest. I will stand by you. I’m not scared of them.” He linked the Chinese aggression on the borders to Modi’s policies that he said had weakened India. “How dare China encroach on our land? They have captured 12km of India’s land. And Modi says nobody entered. Then how were our 20 soldiers killed? Where were they killed if nobody entered our territory?” he said. “China was emboldened by a weak India, because our economy (that was) growing at 9 per cent has slumped to minus 24 per cent. Modi has destroyed this country in the process of helping his friends.” Rahul’s march, which has attracted large crowds over the last two days, is to enter Haryana on Tuesday. A confrontation had seemed probable when the Haryana home minister said Rahul would not be allowed to enter the state, but the threat has receded amid a signal that the Congress leader would be let in if he came without a cavalcade. The tractor rally from Punjab looks likely to terminate at the Haryana border, allowing Rahul to proceed without any conflict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Reopen rules for schools ||The Union education ministry released guidelines on Monday for the reopening of schools from October 15, which include thorough cleaning and disinfection of the premises, flexibility in attendance, no assessment for up to three weeks and ensuring a smooth transition from home-based schooling during the lockdown to formal schooling. It also asked the states and Union territories to frame their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) for health and safety precautions based on their local requirements. “Schools must arrange and implement for thorough cleaning and disinfecting of all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, storage places, water tanks, kitchens, canteens, washrooms, laboratories, libraries and ensure air flow in an indoor space,” the ministry said. The ministry recommended that the schools adopt flexible attendance and sick leave policies. “Flexible attendance and sick leave policies may be developed and implemented to encourage students and staff to stay at home when sick. Students may attend schools only with the written consent of parents... There shall be no assessment up to 2-3 weeks of school reopening and use of ICT and online learning shall continue to be encouraged,” it said. According to the guidelines, schools can implement re-adjusted school calendar and redesigned Annual Curriculum Plan, remedial classes or conduct back-to-school campaign among other steps. “Physical distancing and social distancing should be ensured while planning the seating plan, functions and events should be avoided. There should be staggered entry and exit timings, points of schools and timetable. All students and staff should arrive wearing a face cover or mask and continue wearing it all through, especially when in class, or doing any activity in groups, such as eating in the mess, working in the laboratories or reading in the libraries,” the ministry said. “Schools should all students have access to prescribed textbooks before school reopens,” the guidelines added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||JDU set to  fight in 122 seats, BJP 121||The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) finally arrived at a seat-sharing formula between chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday for the Bihar Assembly elections. The JDU will contest 122 seats and the BJP 121 in the 243-seat House. “Our party will contest from 122 seats and the BJP will contest from 121. The agreement has been reached. Both the parties (JDU and BJP) will go to the polls together and campaign jointly,” JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi told The Telegraph. The JDU will accommodate former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular). Sources said five seats in southern Bihar would be given to the party and Manjhi was expected to fight from two among them. The BJP is expected to spare a few seats for the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of Bollywood set designer Madan Sahni. He had quit the Opposition Grand Alliance on Sunday soon after finding out that the party had not been given any seat while the allocation was being announced. An official announcement on the NDA seat-sharing deal is expected on Tuesday. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which broke away from the NDA in Bihar on Sunday, had already announced that it would contest from 143 seats, including those from which the JDU would field candidates. LJP leader and MP Chirag Paswan appealed to people on Monday not to vote for the JDU. “This is a decisive time for Bihar and a matter of life and death for its 12-crore people. Even a single vote given to JDU candidates will force your children to migrate from the state,” Chirag said. Bihar will go to polls in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The counting will be done on November 10. The nomination filing process for the first phase started on October 1 with the last date being October 9. However, the JDU started distributing tickets to its candidates on Monday itself, long before people could get a wind of the seat-sharing deal. Several existing and former MLAs made a beeline for Nitish’s official residence at 1, Aney Marg in Patna after getting calls from senior party leaders asking them to collect their candidature papers and symbol to file nomination. Altogether 71 constituencies, including those affected by Left-wing extremism in southern, central and western parts of the state, will witness voting in the first phase. JDU secretary-general Tyagi said: “Since there is already an understanding on the number of seats each party will contest, our party has started distributing tickets to candidates. I think the BJP is also distributing tickets.” However, there was no word from the BJP on the distribution of tickets till late on Monday evening. Its leaders said the party’s Bihar in-charge, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, and other senior leaders were expected to reach Patna on Monday night and make the announcements on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee tests positive for Covid, shifted to hospital||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, health officials said. He has been admitted to a hospital in Calcutta, they informed. The octogenarian actor was unwell and he tested positive for the infection on Tuesday morning, a senior health official said. "His samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday and the reports came today," he added. Soumitra Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under the direction of Chattopadhyay. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Soumitra Chatterjee, a celebrated Bengali actor, is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. Apart from that, Soumitra was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more. The news of Soumitra Chatterjee testing positive has raised concerns within the Bengali film circuit or 'Tolly para' as it is fondly referred to as. Several of Soumitra colleagues have wished for his speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Congress MP Abu Hasem tests Covid positive||Malda South MP and Congress veteran Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury was diagnosed with Covid-19 and admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta as Bengal on Monday reported 3,348 new infections, 61 deaths and 3,009 recoveries. Abu Hasem, 82 is the brother of late Bengal Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury. Khan Choudhury is the fifth Bengal MP — after the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri — to test positive for the pathogen. With the 3,357 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 2.73 lakh, of which nearly 2.41 lakh are recoveries, besides 5,255 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate reached 87.95, ahead of the national rate of 84.52 per cent. Of the 61 deaths, 16 were from Calcutta and nine from North 24-Parganas. Bengal’s overall mortality rate was 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.54 per cent. As of Monday, the state government reported 4,462 or 84.9 per cent as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. The state logged 40,140 tests on Monday, which took the total past 34 lakh, to 34.38 lakh, at 38,201 tests per million people. Having begun testing in early February, the state took over three-and-a-half months to conduct one lakh tests. Over the next four-and-a-half months, it conducted over 33 lakh. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate remained 7.96 per cent. The state reported 37.51 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals and over 2.95 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre changes agenda of tripartite Gorkhaland meeting||The Union home ministry issued a “corrigendum” on Monday evening and changed the agenda of the tripartite meeting slated for Wednesday from “the issues related to Gorkhaland” to “issues to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. “The sudden change in the agenda is nothing but an egg on the face of not only the BJP but also the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Both were portraying the scheduled talks as the beginning of a process to meet the Gorkhaland demand,” said an observer of hill politics. The Bengal government and the Gurung faction of the Morcha were invited to the talks. On Saturday, the Union home ministry had issued a letter stating that the agenda was to “discuss the issues related to Gorkhaland”. On Monday, the home ministry issued a corrigendum stating “that the subject of the meeting in the heading and body of the notice may be read as “issues to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. Following the latest development, Gorkha National Liberation Front leader Neeraj Zimba, who had won the Darjeeling Assembly seat in a bypoll on a BJP ticket, also said the Union home ministry should be “more serious”, get “intelligence report” about the ground realities from Darjeeling and stop getting “confused” regarding the issue of Gorkhaland. Zimba was probably peeved that elected members like him and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista were not invited to the meeting. His allegation of the home ministry not being serious probably stood ground as the letter was issued to the “Gorkha and Janmukti Morcha”. The Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha was in the I-told-you-so-mode following the corrigendum. “They are taking the hills for a ride. Such has been the callousness that even the party is addressed as ‘Gorkha and Janmukti Morcha’. I had said yesterday (Sunday) that something was fishy as they were inviting the principal secretary of the GTA and the Darjeeling district magistrate to the meeting where they claimed the issue to be discussed was Gorkhaland,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesman for the Tamang camp. Earlier in the day, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gurung camp, had asked the GNLF and the CPRM to accompany them to the Gorkhaland meeting. The CPRM had decided to attend the meeting as a “watchdog” so that no issue other than Gorkhaland was discussed. The GNLF had not yet made up its mind and was pondering whether the “meeting has really been called to discuss Gorkhaland”. Following the change in the agenda of the meeting, none of the hill parties is expected to attend the meeting. The Gurung camp had not reacted to the latest development till the time of filing this report. “The pan-Bengal sentiments against the creation of Gorkhaland probably forced a change in the BJPs thought,” said an observer. The Mamata Banerjee government has decided against attending the tripartite talks in a bid to register its grievance over the manner in which the meeting was called. Sources in the government said the stand remained unchanged even after the Union home ministry had issued a corrigendum, saying the meeting’s agenda would be the “issues to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. “The Centre can inform the state that a meeting has been called. But it cannot dictate who should attend the meeting. It is the state’s prerogative to decide who would represent it at the meeting,” said a senior official. So far, sources said, the Centre used to send letters to the chief secretary or the home secretary, informing the state about the date and the subject of the meetings. “But this time, the Centre has sent letters to the district magistrate and the principal secretary of the GTA, asking them to attend the meeting… even the corrigendum says it. This is something but interference in the state’s affairs, which can’t be accepted,” said another official. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP fury vs Dilip Ghosh faux pas||The BJP went on an overdrive on Monday over Sunday’s murder of a close aide to the party’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, in an apparent bid by the saffron ecosystem to drown the outrage in Bengal over the Hathras atrocity, but the party’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh ended up scoring an own goal. Manish Shukla (not Sukla as reported earlier), the 44-year-old BJP worker previously in the CPM and Trinamul, was gunned down at Titagarh in North 24-Parganas on Sunday evening. Sources in 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane said the BJP state leadership was quick to sense in the murder a chance to generate noise loud enough to — at least for now — blank the outrage over Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and protests against the farm bills passed by the Narendra Modi government. “Shukla’s killing gave us a chance to highlight the breakdown in law and order here (in Bengal),” said a BJP leader. A faux pas by state BJP chief Ghosh momentarily scuttled this narrative. Speaking to journalists, Ghosh alleged lawlessness in Bengal, drawing parallels with two NDA-ruled states, one going to polls in a few days and the other ruled by the saffron camp’s poster boy Yogi Adityanath. “Bengal is slowly going under mafia-raj, just like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Ghosh’s comment prompted some of his party colleagues to wonder if he ever thinks before speaking in public. But the BJP’s narrative was aided by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who purportedly told a delegation of the BJP and Shukla’s family that he would do his best to ensure the murder is probed by the CBI. On Monday evening, after the autopsy on Shukla, the BJP leadership wanted to carry the body to Raj Bhavan, but police stopped the procession near the SN Banerjee Road, resulting in a scuffle between the police and the BJP workers, and halting traffic for over an hour-and-a-half. Later, the police top brass allowed four members from the BJP and Shukla’s family to meet Dhankhar. The BJP’s new national vice-president Mukul Roy — formerly Trinamul’s de facto No. 2 — met Shukla’s family, along with the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and co-minder Arvind Menon. Vijayvargiya and Menon also went to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where the autopsy on Shukla’s body was done. The BJP tried imposing a 12-hour strike in Barrackpore with roadblocks at many key intersections. In Delhi, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said political murders had become the “new normal” in Mamata’s Bengal, and demanded a CBI probe. However, many in the BJP said Shukla was no martyr and “just another mercenary”. A party insider alleged Shukla extorted money from jute mills, and had “no ideology or loyalty”. Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim, on his part, suggested Shukla could have been trying to return to the fold. “Manish was one of my favourites there. Even as recently as the Lok Sabha polls last year, he was a key organiser of our campaign (against Singh). He was coerced into leaving for the BJP and it was well known that he wasn’t happy there. He was looking to come home (to Trinamul)…. That is why this killing is all the more suspicious,” said Firhad Hakim, a Trinamul general-secretary who is part of the apex seven-member steering committee of the party. Several BJP leaders this newspaper spoke to admitted in private that Mamata’s aggressive Hathras campaign – in tandem with that against the farm bills – had caught the BJP off-guard in Bengal. “His murder did serve on a platter a timely opportunity to point fingers at the law and order situation here and play the victim card,” a BJP insider said, adding that the matter is being raised with the Centre, especially Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker murder triggers fear of turf war near Calcutta||The Trinamul Congress-BJP turf war over control of the industrial belt in North 24-Parganas is likely to race closer to Calcutta as several areas in Barrackpore, Titagurh and Khardah, between 18km to 25km from the heart of the city, erupted following the murder of BJP activist Manish Shukla, a close aide to Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. The battle for political control of the areas had begun from the backyard of Bhatpara, home to Singh, soon after the Trinamul turncoat had wrested the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat from his former party in the 2019 general election. “Large parts of Singh’s constituency, like Bhatpara, Jagaddal, Naihati and Kankinara, had remained in a state of strife because of Trinamul-BJP conflict... Now, we will have to live with the same problem,” said a retired teacher of a Barrackpore school. A law graduate, Shukla had associations with the CPM, Congress and Trinamul. Since joining the BJP within months of Singh winning the Barrackpore Lok Sabha, he had become a crucial cog in the party’s poll machinery because of his local connect and the image of a strongman. “He used to introduce himself as a social worker, but Shukla had multiple criminal cases, including murder charges, against him... He was a strongman and had thousands of youths as his followers in the industrial belt, where unemployment is the biggest problem,” said a senior police officer. As a young Hindi-speaking youth, he would often help the working class and the underprivileged through charity shows and donations. Several Trinamul insiders admit that Shukla had played a role in ensuring victory of Shilbhadra Dutta, the ruling party’s nominee in the last Assembly polls from the Barrackpore seat. “Shukla could control these bands of youths... With his death, there will be a clamour to get these youths as the polls are nearing. People would change sides and more conflicts will follow as we are heading towards a do-or-die election,” said a senior district official. Sources said Shukla was with Singh on Sunday as they had attended a meeting at Howrah’s Amta. The two were supposed to return together till Singh decided to meet BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya and Shukla chose to head to Titagurh alone. “Shukla was very close to me. I had brought him over to the BJP after months of my winning the Lok Sabha polls. That was a part of the strategy,” Singh told The Telegraph on Monday. “It pains me that I couldn’t be with him when he needed me the most. It’s a plain murder committed jointly by Trinamul and the police,” he added. The Criminal Investigation Department has taken over the probe into the murder. CID officers visited the spot where he was gunned down and collected evidence before heading to NRS Medical college where the post-morterm was carried out. “It appears those who gunned down Shukla had specific intelligence about his movements and his routine,” said a CID officer while adding that Shukla’s security guard had gone on leave a week ago. “We have collected all details from the local police station. Hopefully, we will get the killers soon.” The manner in which the BJP held protests across North 24-Parganas and the heart of the city leaves little doubt that the party will try to keep the issue alive till the Assembly polls. Trinamul has rejected the charges and blamed internal conflict in the saffron camp for the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Car crash kills patient, wife and three in Alipurduar ||Five persons, including a critical patient who was suffering from liver cirrhosis and his wife, died when the SUV they were travelling  in collided head on with a bus near Falakata in Alipurduar district on Monday morning. Sources said 34-year-old Abhijit Sarkar, a resident of Shantinagar in Alipurduar town, had been under treatment at the district hospital here. On Sunday late evening, doctors told his family members that the patent should be shifted to Siliguri for better treatment. The relatives started scouting for an ambulance and they couldn’t find one initially. At last, they could locate an ambulance of the Indian Red Cross Society. “The ambulance driver, who had just returned from Siliguri, said he was too tired to drive immediately and told the family members that he could take the patient to Siliguri around 6am,” said a source. The tensed family members, however, kept on exploring other options throughout the night and around 5am, they decided to hire an SUV and head for Siliguri. They started for Siliguri with Abhijit. When Mahindra Xylo reached near Balasundar village under Falakata police station around 6.30am, it collided head on with a bus of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation on NH27. Local people said though the bus driver had pulled the brakes and halted on the left side of the road, the driver of the SUV could not control the speed and rammed into the bus. The front side of the bus was damaged while the SUV that had virtually turned into a mangled pack of metal went off the road and fell into a ditch. The local residents rushed for help and informed Falakata police about the accident. The police, along with the local fire brigade, reached the spot and started rescue operations. “We were sitting at a tea stall and saw the car coming at a high speed. The driver could not control the speed on a curve and the SUV collided with the bus and fell into the roadside ditch,” said Ratan Das, an eyewitness. As the passengers were brought out, five were found dead. They were Abhijit, his wife Jhuma, 29, his brother-in-law Habul Sarkar, 40, Basudeb Karmakar, 50, one of his relatives, and Bijoy Mohanta, 42, the driver. Sona Biswas, another relative of Abhijit, was the sole survivor. “There was a crashing sound and then everything went blank,” he said. Abhijit and Jhuma are survived by their only son, who is five-year old. Amitabha Maity, the superintendent of police of Alipurduar, said the preliminary investigation had revealed that the car was running at high speed. “We have started an investigation. The bodies have been brought to Alipurduar and would be handed over to the families.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Bangladesh train trial tomorrow||The Indian Railway will conduct a trial run between Haldibari of Cooch Behar and Chilahati in the Nilfamari district of Bangladesh on Wednesday to check out the tracks which have been laid across the international border to reopen the route to the neighbouring country from Bengal. “The work to connect Haldibari with Chilahati through railway tracks is almost complete. On October 7, a trial run would be conducted. We hope all ancillary works on our part will be finished by this month,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the Northeast Frontier Railway. According to sources, the total distance between the two stations is around 8km. On Wednesday, a railway engine will move from Haldibari to Chilahati and return. “It is a common practice to conduct such trial runs once new tracks are laid or damaged stretches are repaired. As it is an international route, we are making all necessary arrangements,” said an official of the NFR. As of now, there are four existing rail routes which connect Bengal with Bangladesh. These are Gede to Darshana, Petrapole to Benapole, Singhabad to Rohanpur and Radhikapur to Birol. A senior NFR official said trains used to move between Sealdah and Jalpaiguri through the Haldibari-Chilahati route till 1965. Movement of trains halted during the India-Pakistan war. In 2011, during bilateral talks between India and Bangladesh, it was decided to restore the train link between the two countries. Accordingly, work started on both sides and tracks were laid from Haldibari and Chilahati to the border to resume the connectivity. “Once this route becomes operational, it would have a huge impact on the economy of north Bengal and would boost bilateral trade. Initially, it has been decided that goods trains will run but we want passenger trains, too,” said Pradip Chakraborty, a retired railway employee. He mentioned that if some of the Calcutta-bound trains from north Bengal and Northeast were routed through the Haldibari-Chilahati route, it would reduce the travel time by around two-and-half hours. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN), said commencement of passenger train services to Bangladesh would also boost the tourism sector. “There are two other rail routes to Bangladesh in north Bengal (Radhikapur in North Dinajpur and Singabad in Malda) but only goods trains use these sections. If passenger trains are introduced on the Haldibari-Chilahati route, it would benefit the tourism sector of both the countries,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||North East||Three outfits claim hand in Arunachal attack||An ambush in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changland district on Sunday morning, which left one Assam Rifles jawan dead and another injured, was carried out jointly by the NSCN (K), Ulfa (Independent) and the PLA, the armed wing of Revolutionary Peoples Front, according to a statement issued by Ulfa (I) on Monday. However, no official statement has been issued on the attack till Monday evening by Assam Rifles or the army. The statement issued by Deep Asom of Ulfa(I)’s “publicity department” said the “joint military offensive against the occupational forces” was carried out by the cadres of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang), United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) and the Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) at 9am near Senmo village on Manmao road in Changlang district of “so-called Arunachal Pradesh”, killing two on the spot and others injured. The area is around 340km from state capital Itanagar. Assam Rifles in a tweet has condoled the demise of warrant officer Birendra Singh, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh, in the line of duty. “Singh, who was born in 1967, and was from 19 AR, hailed from Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh. We are readying to send his body home. We don’t have much details except combing operations are still continuing,” an Assam Rifles official told The Telegraph. Another jawan was injured in the ambush which was carried out on a water tanker on the way to an Assam Rifles camp, around 5km from the incident site. He is being treated in Changlang. The attack comes three days after the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act was extended in three districts and four police station areas of the frontier state for another six months. The Act gives security personnel unbridled power in “disturbed areas” to carry out its operations, among others. A notification by the Union home ministry announcing the extension of AFSPA said, “...Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts in Arunachal Pradesh and the areas falling within the jurisdiction of the following four police stations in other districts of Arunachal Pradesh, bordering the State of Assam, are declared as ‘disturbed area’ under Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 up to 31.03.2021 w.e.f. (with effect from) 01.10.2020, unless withdrawn earlier.” The attack also come amid reports that India and Myanmar are set to sign a deal to extradite rebels taking shelter in the neighbouring country. Insurgency-hit Changlang, Longding and Tirap are the three districts where AFSPA was extended. All the three districts border Myanmar, which is around 28km from the site of the attack. Changlang and Longding are separated by Tirap district. In July, six militants of NSCN (I-M) were killed and an Assam Rifles personnel hurt during an encounter in Longding district. The Ulfa statement said that for decades the “WeSEAn” (Western South East Asia ) people struggled with blood and tears to protest and defend our freedom enduring endless persecution and torture in the hands of the colonial occupational forces. “ ... India must fully realise either its forceful occupation nor its draconian laws... will break the will of the WeSEAn people for self-determination. The WeSEAn revolution will endure and move forward as long as India illegally occupies and dominates our grievances. “The more India oppresses and refuse to recognise our genuine struggle, we will continue to defend our legitimate rights at all cost,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
06-10-2020||North East||Resume talks at highest level: Muivah||The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) on Monday released an eight-page letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 25 by its general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah on various aspects of the ongoing peace talks, including its resumption at the “highest” level to “save” the process. The letter was released because of the “delay and the lack of response from the office of the Indian Prime Minister to our people”. This is the second time NSCN (I-M) has made public a document related to the peace process to resolve the decades-old Naga political problem. On August 16, it made public the Framework Agreement signed on August 3, 2015, to counter the “manipulated” copy of the document circulated by Nagaland governor and the interlocutor for peace talks, R.N. Ravi. He is also a signatory to the agreement. The NSCN (I-M) has sought the removal of Ravi, compelling the Centre to resume the talks with Intelligence Bureau officials. The Centre, according to reports, had “fixed” September to wrap talks and announce a final deal. However, like last year’s October deadline, this one too did not materialise, because the outfit stuck to its stand of a separate flag and constitution, a demand the Centre has “expressed” its inability to accept. Muivah’s letter states at the outset that after 22 years of political dialogue between the government of India and the outfit, a “serious deadlock” has emerged on the issue of the Naga “National Flag” and “Constitution”. Besides urging Modi to arrive at an amicable and honourable political solution to the Naga issue and citing the reasons for the strained ties with Ravi, Muivah’s letter says that under the given circumstances and in order to “save” the political dialogue, talks should resume at the “highest” level; “without pre-condition and outside India in a third country”. “And if our stay in India is no more welcome, all necessary arrangement must be made for us to leave India and the political talks be resumed in a third country,” Muivah said. The behaviour of Ravi, Muivah has said, towards the Nagas is totally unacceptable. Some of the other points raised in Muivah’s letter: ⚫The NSCN agreed to start political negotiation with the Gol only after it recognised the Naga issue as political and stopped terming it as India’s “Internal Law and Order Issue”. ⚫It has come as a total shock and surprise that the Gol has started branding and accusing the members of the NSCN who are in political negotiation as “terrorist”. ⚫Ravi has again given an ultimatum to the NSCN, “The next date of meeting will be fixed after NSCN submits its draft proposal as was told to them in the meeting dated 30th January, 2020”. This calls for an official clarification from the Gol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
06-10-2020||Opinion||No end in sight: Hathras violence||Sir — The death of a Dalit woman who was attacked and gang raped in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, has once again brought to light the perils faced by women in India, especially those who belong to vulnerable communities (“Paralysed rape victim dies,” Sept 30). The woman was so brutally assaulted that she was paralyzed waist down owing to injuries to her spinal cord. The perpetrators of the crime were four upper-caste Thakur men. One of the perpetrators already had a history of violence with the woman’s family. To make matters worse, not only did certain sections of the administration dismiss it as “fake news” but also allegedly directed the police to cremate the body in the dead of the night while the family was intimidated and locked up. The incident in Hathras is undoubtedly one of caste violence. The question that has been raised since then is whether the accused will be punished appropriately or walk free owing to their caste privileges. The role of caste in violence against women has now become even more prominent. The poem, “Rape Nation”, by the acclaimed writer, Meena Kandasamy, written in response to the brutality in Hathras, including the actions of the police, shed further light on the plight of Dalit women in an increasingly hostile country. According to data by the National Crime Records Bureau, Uttar Pradesh accounts for 14.7 per cent of all crimes against women. Under the Yogi Adityanath government, the state has witnessed a 27.9 per cent rise in crimes against the Dalit community. In Hathras, as in many other cases of horrific crimes that have been regularly reported from UP, there is little hope that the establishment will work to ensure justice. Civil society must play its role now and ensure that there is a proper investigation. It will be a long struggle before justice can be achieved. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The gruesome incident at Hathras that led to the death of the Dalit girl has sparked outrage across the country. The gathering at Jantar Mantar, demanding justice for the girl, was one of the largest protests against violence on women since the 2012 gang rape and murder of a young woman. The presence of the chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, the Bhim Army chief, Chandrashekhar Azad, and the Left leaders, Sitaram Yechury and Prakash Karat, proved that political parties, in spite of their ideological differences, can join hands in moments of crisis. The protesters were rightly appalled at the way in which the UP government had cremated the victim’s body in the dead of night, denying her family the chance to perform the final rites. They have also demanded the resignation of the UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, reportedly alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party administration is shielding the accused. However, four of the individuals involved in the crime have been arrested. Considering that, perhaps it is premature to accuse the state government of abetting criminals. Birkha Khadka Duvarseli,Siliguri Sir — As an ordinary citizen of India, I am outraged at the utter cruelty faced by women in this country. Politicians from across party lines have come out in support of the young girl who was raped and murdered in Hathras and her grieving family. It is the need of the hour that all political parties come together to find effective ways of battling this menace. While many people over the last few years have called for violent measures to be taken against perpetrators, including capital punishment and castration, the fact remains that no matter the intensity of the punishment, nothing will change unless we strike patriarchy and casteism at their root. In fact, contrary to popular belief, stricter punishment, rather than reducing crimes, can have the opposite effect. Punishment must be meted out to the guilty, but it is essential that we think of ways that will bring about long-term change. It is time that our policymakers devised a solid plan of action. Soumendra Datta,Calcutta Sir — The gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman has maligned the image of the Yogi Adityanath government beyond repair. The administration failed to take immediate action against the perpetrators and reportedly prevented the family from performing the last rites. This speaks volumes about the intentions of the incumbent government. Crimes against women, minorities and Dalits have increased alarmingly over the last few years. It is a clear sign that the government is failing in its basic duty of providing safety to all citizens. Hopefully the probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation will succeed in bringing justice to the woman’s family. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Safety first Sir — The carnival in Rio de Janeiro has been cancelled for the first time in a century as global Covid-19 deaths cross one million. Brazil, which has the second-worst death toll worldwide with 1,39,000, and the third-most cases, with 4.6 million, has taken the right decision to cancel the parade. Reports indicate that Kerala, after celebrating Onam,  witnessed a surge in cases. With Durga Puja around the corner, it can be safely assumed that Bengal, too, will see an increase in infections. At least for this year, state governments must prioritize public health and cancel all such events that would lead to large gatherings. Anamika Saha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||Rights wronged: No country for workers||In a recent judgment, a Supreme Court bench struck down an order by the Gujarat government, which had allowed employers to deny overtime wages as prescribed by law to workers during the period of the lockdown induced by Covid-19. The Supreme Court has pointed out that the right to life guaranteed to every person under Article 21 of the Constitution includes workers, and that social and economic freedom cannot be guaranteed without just and humane working conditions. The apex court also opined that the right to life is not contingent upon the mercy of the employer or the State. This would be an affront to workers’ right to life and the right against forced labour secured in Article 21 and Article 23 of the Constitution. Covid-19 cannot be considered as a public emergency. The entire burden of the economic slowdown should not be borne by workers alone. The notification issued by the Gujarat government had increased daily working hours from 9 to 12 and permitted employers to pay overtime wages at a rate proportionate to their usual wages instead of what was mandated under Section 59 of the Factories Act, 1948. The mandate of the law is to pay workers twice the ordinary wage rate if they worked for more than 9 hours per day. The court has asked the Gujarat government to ensure that legitimate overtime arrears be paid to the affected workers. The notification in Gujarat is an indication of governments being beholden to industrialists. The power of employers to exploit workers is often buttressed by government notifications and ordinances. Apart from Gujarat, a number of states — Uttar Pradesh is an example — where the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power had quickly taken advantage of Covid-19 and firmly laid the burden of the financial costs arising out of the pandemic on workers. The result, allegedly, has been the weakening of some of their legal rights and privileges. The rationale cited for such action is that quick economic recovery requires investors to be given leeways in reducing labour costs. Such a myopic vision would enhance the likelihood of what is being referred to as a K-shaped recovery where a majority of the populace become worse-off in terms of their economic well-being while a small proportion of rich individuals become wealthier. Given the frightening levels of inequality, this kind of political ‘wisdom’ is unwarranted and callous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||Marked out: Growing crimes against Dalits||The National Crime Records Bureau data present a picture of trends in criminality. It has to be assumed, though, that many crimes are not reported, especially those against women and against those less privileged. Even then, if the scale of crimes against women suggests that much of Indian society is misogynistic, what do growing crimes against Dalits suggest? According to the latest NCRB report, there were nearly 46,000 crimes against scheduled caste members in 2019, up by 7 per cent from 2018. Nine states accounted for 84 per cent of these crimes, although they have 54 per cent of the Dalit population. Of these, Rajasthan has the highest rate of crime per scheduled caste population although Uttar Pradesh is highest in absolute numbers — 11,829. Rajasthan also leads in the number of rapes against Dalit women, while UP and Madhya Pradesh follow. But Madhya Pradesh leads in the rape of tribal women, as well as generally in crimes against members of the scheduled tribes, followed in the second instance by Rajasthan. Crimes against tribal people have risen by 26.5 per cent in 2019 over the previous year. This superficial, if grim, analysis is enough to uncover shameful realities not just of governance but also of continued — and enacted — social oppression. The statewise breakup of data indicates the regions in which such oppression is built into everyday life; a year-by-year analysis and a close study of the crimes could offer ways of correction. But is anyone in power interested in that? The complicity of the dominant sections of society with the political regime is reflected in the fact that cases under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act have a pendency rate of 94 per cent. But that is hardly surprising: the government’s casualness manifests itself most clearly in the lack of chairpersons in the three national commissions — of scheduled castes, of scheduled tribes and of safai karamcharis — for months now. The attitude is shared. The Uttar Pradesh Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has had no chairperson since November 2019. That may seem strange in a country strident about reservations. Whatever the Constitution might have intended, politicians have turned reservations into just a vote-winning tool that has nothing to do with educating society and changing attitudes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||Grim reality: India's informal labour force||The global economic order is dependent on the migration of skilled and unskilled labour. For example, the Gulf countries thrive on the influx of skilled labour from Western countries and unskilled workers from poorer Asian nations. This dynamic interaction between physical and human capital catalyses the world’s economies in varying proportions. India’s huge inexpensive labour force, characterized by the largest working-age population in the world, is one of the reasons why foreign investors find the country attractive. In India, an estimated 22 million workers have relocated to other states in search of livelihood. The current distress of migrant labour is appalling. India has numerous policies for social security when it comes to education, healthcare, skilling, food security and pensions, but most of these schemes are restricted to the organized sector. A large part of India’s informal labour force relies on various social welfare schemes from the government, which has been quite ineffective amidst the crisis. Pandemic-induced unemployment has started to shoot up across sectors, increasing poverty and income inequality. There exist huge regional disparities in the context of labour requirements, available opportunities and labour supply across India. Industrial regions like Maharashtra are a magnet for migrants from labour-abundant states such as West Bengal. Millions of migrant labourers have returned home, disrupting India’s labour markets tremendously. The Indian economy functions with relatively high labour mobility, low wage rates and minimal-to-no barricades on inter-sectoral and inter-state movement of labour. The migrant labour force forms the backbone of India’s productive capacity. Thus, strong disturbances in India’s labour market are bound to impede the effective operation of all value chains associated with foreign investments in the country. For India the problem is twofold. Migrant workers returning to their places of origin would bring down wages on account of an oversupply of labour in these regions. This will not only affect the quality of labour, but also aggravate the problems of poverty, hunger and health. Contrastingly, labour-scarce regions will see an increase in wages in the short term, which many business operations might not be able to afford. Hence in both the cases, domestic and foreign firms with smaller subsidiary operation units involving informal migrant labour are bound to suffer. Second, small businesses associated with foreign companies might not be able to sustain themselves in the short or medium term. This is mainly because production processes might turn inefficient due to the lack of a combination between physical assets and complementary human skill sets from migrant labourers that will no longer be available in the specific regions. From east to west, the migrant distress has been a recurring political issue in India during the pandemic. However, what needs to be understood is that their ordeal also indicates the complete destabilization of India’s human capital base. The potential lack of investor confidence as a result of this is also a worrying sign. It is imperative that the excess labour supply, which has been displaced, is subsumed by creating alternate avenues of labour demand through government welfare schemes, such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme. India has been grappling with low consumption demand for quite some time and the loss of livelihoods for the migrant workers would undoubtedly aggravate the problem. The government can play a critical role by improving food security and executing fiscal measures in the spectrum of social security and welfare benefits. Small and medium enterprises, in particular, should be given adequate support along with an attempt to stabilize the labour market, which will, in turn, augment India’s investment climate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||It’s complicated||In the backdrop of heightened polarization, the 59th quadrennial presidential election of the United States of America is scheduled in less than a month. Unlike in 2016 when a majority of pollsters were proven wrong, this time around there is caution in the air. Irrespective of the result of the 2020 elections, multiple fluid vectors are set to influence the long-term political trajectory of the US. They will provide an understanding of the churn taking place in a multi-ethnic and multi-racial country. In this context, one of the key variables is the growing diversification of the US electorate that may leave its imprint on the battleground states even in the 2020 elections. Early estimates of the 2020 US census reveal that the diversification of the US is taking place earlier than expected. In broad strokes, African-Americans, Hispanics, bi-racial and Asian communities now constitute 40 per cent of the US population. William H. Frey, senior fellow — Metropolitan Policy Program — at the Washington DC-based think tank, Brookings, states, “The new data shows that, by 2019, the white population share declined nearly nine more percentage points, to 60.1%.” These facts are leaving their imprint on the ground as the 2018 mid-term US Senate and Congress elections illustrated. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, with a Hispanic background, got elected for New York’s 14th congressional district. There was Jahana Hayes, the first African-American to represent the state of Connecticut in the Congress; the Somali-American, Ilhan Omar, defeated the Republican, Jennifer Zielinski, in Minnesota to get elected to the US Congress. Then there are Michigan’s Rashida Tlaib, a Palestinian-American, and Ayanna Pressley, the first African-American woman to be elected to the Congress from Massachusetts. Joe Biden catapulting to the Democratic presidential candidate can be attributed to the African-American vote in his favour in the South Carolina Democratic Party’s primaries. In the presidential elections, African-Americans have been at the heart of Democratic Party’s electoral strategy since 1964. In his article, “How the Black Vote Became a Monolith”, in The New York Times Magazine, Theodore R. Johnson cites a report by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies that shows that from 1964 to 2008, an average of 88 per cent of black votes went to the Democratic Party’s presidential nominees, a number that increased to 93 per cent in the last three presidential elections. 1964 is a watershed year in the US’s modern political history. Lyndon Johnson’s Civil Rights Act of July 2, 1964 froze the Democratic Party’s electoral prospects in the five southern states of Louisiana, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina and Mississippi for decades to come although he won the presidential race in November 1964. In the otherwise highly-regulated and controlled US immigration system, it is geography that has driven the recent demographic change due to population movement from other countries in the Americas. Hispanic or Latino, a loose identity threaded around people who speak Spanish and come from various Central American and Latin American countries, made up 18 per cent of the US population in 2019, up from 16 per cent in 2010 and 5 per cent in 1970. Emphasizing the Anglo-Protestant roots and their overall impact in shaping the core identity of the US, the political scientist, Samuel Huntington, in his book, Who Are We?, had pointed to the challenges of Hispanic migration to the US’s core identity and values. He points out that mass migration to the southwest of the country would erode the national identity due to bilingualism, multiculturalism, the devaluation of citizenship and the denationalization of the American elite. However, the reality of Hispanic migration has proven to be a lot more complex than what was envisaged by the academic. The Pew Research Center informs that in 2020 “Hispanics will be the largest racial or ethnic minority group in the electorate, accounting for just over 13% of eligible voters — slightly more than blacks.” “A record 32 million Latinos are projected to be eligible to vote in 2020, up from 27.3 million in 2016. [13% of eligible voters will be Hispanics.] California (7.9 million) alone holds about a quarter of the U.S. Latino electorate. It is followed by Texas (5.6 million), Florida (3.1 million), New York (2.0 million) and Arizona (1.2 million).” Within Hispanics, Mexicans constitute more than 60 per cent. However, like the rest of Central American and Latin American countries, which have their own racial, class and political differentiations, the Hispanic vote is far from a homogenous entity. The racial history of Hispanic Americans is diverse as there are people with European, African and indigenous roots or they are multi-racial. Apart from this, there are obvious class differences. For instance, the Hispanic vote in Florida, a battleground state which literally decided the 2000 presidential elections, comprises a large number of relatively richer Americans of Cuban descent. Many who came to the US in the 1960s from Cuba were highly skilled and were quick to seize the opportunities available for professionals. As their parents or grandparents were asylum-seekers after Fidel Castro took over the country, present-day Cuban Americans viscerally oppose the US’s détente with the current communist regime in Cuba. They endorse a stronger stance against Cuba as outlined by the Republican Party. In the 2016 elections, although he trailed in the popular vote, Donald Trump won on account of his narrow victories in the three states of Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. He polled a mere 79,646 votes more than Senator Hillary Clinton and those three wins gave him 46 electoral votes. That is why in 2020 smaller ethnic or religious groups have also acquired importance in some of these states. For instance, in Michigan, an ethnically diverse Muslim population, a large number among which are Arab-Americans, forms around 2.75 per cent of the population. Till 2000, many Muslim-Americans were favourably disposed towards the Republican Party. This is not surprising as Republican supporters and the American-Muslim community shared a common perspective on a number of public policy issues. The bond between the Republicans and Muslims started to break after 9/11. Asian-Americans make up 4.7 per cent of all eligible voters even though they are quite diverse as a group. The unprecedented proactive reaching out by both parties to the Indian-American community, a relatively richer ethnic group, this time illustrates the importance of smaller ethnic groups in fiercely competitive battleground states. Apart from possibly galvanizing the African-American vote, the nomination of Senator Kamala Harris as the Democratic vice-presidential nominee is a factor that will resonate particularly among younger and second-generation Indian-Americans. The US political landscape in 2020 is a lot more complex. Diversification alone cannot capture these complexities. However, it can explain some aspects of the politics of today, including the virulent aspects of conservative backlash after the presidential election of 2012 that propelled the rise of Trump. The political elite of the US often rhetorically calls the nation the land of diversity and immigrants. How this diversity impacts the present and the future electoral landscape in the US will be of keen interest to other multi-ethnic democracies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel Plant: One dead and another injured||Steel major Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) witnessed two separate incidents in which a contract worker died and another got seriously injured. The incident occurred seven days after the director in charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, had asked officials and employees to ensure 100 per cent safety inside the plant. Following the incident, trade union leaders raised concerns over safety violations at the BSL plant. Two separate inquiry committees have been set up by the BSL management to ascertain the cause behind the incidents. Meanwhile, Mecon Ltd and the inspectorate of factories of the Jharkhand government have also begun an investigation. While working, Nageshwar Patel probably slipped and fell down in the cellar located around minus 3m and succumbed to head injuries. The first incident occurred in Coke Oven Battery-8 at about 12.40 pm when 51-year-old Patel, a contract worker, died in the cellar. He was employed by NP Contruction of M/S Mecon Ltd. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said: “Patel was engaged in material shifting work as part of the job of shifting of pipeline when the incident occurred." Dhan added: “The job has been taken up by Mecon Ltd from BSL for construction of Coke Oven Battery-8.” “We will visit the spot where the incident occurred inside the BSL plant on Wednesday,” said inspector of factories Dhirendera Singh Munda. Another incident occurred around 2pm in steel melting Shop-2 inside the plant. Dilip Manjhi, 33, a contract worker of M/s Janta Construction, got injured when the transverse stand of mixer crane-1 got unbalanced while being lifted. Dhan said: “Manjhi was immediately rushed to Bokaro General Hospital where he is undergoing treatment for his injuries. An inquiry committee also set up by BSL will be investigating the cause of this accident." General secretary of Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS), the trade union of JMM, B.K. Chaudhary said: “There is sheer negligence of safety inside the BSL plant. The department heads remain ignorant about the safety issues. Contract labourers are under pressure as workload is large and the manpower is less. Unskilled labourers are also adding to the rise in accidents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll jumps to 757 after 10 more die||The Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand jumped to 757 on Tuesday after 10 more patients, including five in Ranchi alone, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. The recovery rate in the state rose further up to 87.86 per cent after 1,246 patients recovered from the infection against 847 fresh cases surfacing during the day, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, three of the 10 Covid-19 victims in Jharkhand were from East Singhbhum, the district that accounts for nearly half of the state’s casualties. The number of Covid-19 fatalities in East Singhbhum reached 312 on Tuesday, while the toll in Ranchi jumped to 133. These two districts account for 58.78 per cent of the total deaths in Jharkhand. Giridih and Koderma reported one Covid death each on Tuesday. After Tuesday’s findings, the number of active cases reduced significantly in Ranchi but increased marginally in East Singhbhum. Ranchi, as per government data, reported 280 cases of infection during the day against 440 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases here down to 3,114. The count of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,694 after the district reported 97 fresh cases against 151 recoveries, government data stated. The number of active cases in Jharkhand dropped further down to 10,027 on Tuesday, while the number of total recoveries stood at 78,089. The government in Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 24.68 lakh people and tested 24.65 lakh of them. Of those tested, 88,873 were found infected. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 35,954 people and 35,107 of them tested negative. Government reports put Jharkhand’s Covid-19 mortality rate at 0.85 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infections in Jharkhand was 65.67 days against the national rate of 55.36 days. In the past one week, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 1.06 per cent against the national average of 1.26 per cent. Of the 757 Covid-19 victims in the state, at least 566 were older than 50 years, government data highlighted. As many as 148 coronavirus victims in Jharkhand were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 33 deceased were younger than 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur puja committees to meet CM for tweaking guidelines ||Durga Puja guidelines, which were supposed to be issued three months ago, has now left puja committees in a fix as preparations are already underway. Although the state government announced the guidelines on Oct 1, committees say it is too late. Members of the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity, the apex body of puja committees in the steel city, having met chief minister Hemant Soren once. has decided to meet him again to eliberate upon issues faced by them. "The problem is that puja committees have already ordered idols, some of them 9-11 ft in height. Now artisans cannot make a new idol within 17 days. We are thankful that the government heard us, but this needs a practical solution. So, we will once again meet the chief minister to regularise what is already in place," said general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity, Arun Singh. Singh said they will also request the chief minister to allow the preparation of bhog, but as a takeaway. Members also feel that 25 people, instead of the recommended seven, be alowed in the pandal at a time.  They also seek to ask for dhakis and loudspeakers to play at the time of mantra recitation and aarti. "Food takeaway was already permitted, hence bhog shouldn't have a problem. Puja committees have ensured social distancing and we think we must cooperate with them. I believe we can enjoy the festival responsibly with a few improvisations in the guidelines. It's just that the government needs to think and consider these points," said C.N. Banerjee, president of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity. "Although our idol is only five foot, the rest of the guidelines are almost impossible to follow. Seven people in a puja pandal is too less and loudspeakers have got nothing to do with the pandemic. Also if the government can allow restaurants to open, what is the problem with bhog," said Chitrodeep Bhattacharjee, a member of the New Farm Area Sarbajanin Durga Puja Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Angry with RJD, JMM decides to go it alone in Bihar  ||The JMM will fight the Bihar elections on its own and not in alliance with the RJD, its partner in the Jharkhand government, but clarified that it will continue to honour its commitment towards the grand alliance that unseated the BJP in Jharkhand. JMM’s general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We have decided to fight alone in Bihar, on our own strength. Initially, we have finalised seven seats but since the polls are in three phases, we will announce more seats after internal discussion within the party forum.” Party sources told Telegraph Online that chief minister Hemant Soren, who is also JMM working president, held talks with RJD working president Tejashwi Yadav on Monday night, but the talks failed. No one, however, confirmed it officially. But an irked JMM posed a question to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad for his silence over his party’s double standards. “We accommodated RJD in the grand alliance in Jharkhand both during last year’s general and Assembly polls despite negligible presence of the party in this state. They only managed to win one seat in the Assembly polls in Jharkhand last year. Still we inducted their lone MLA into the cabinet. We gave them full respect but now it seems they didn’t deserve that respect. Why is Laluji, who often talks about social justice and political inclusiveness silent now?” said Bhattacharjee. The JMM spokesperson, however, clarified that the party won’t go back on its commitment in Jharkhand. “The JMM-Congress-RJD alliance in Jharkhand will stay intact as of now,” he said. In August, the JMM announced that it would fight Bihar polls as a part of the mahagatbandhan under the leadership of the RJD. Following several rounds of meetings, JMM put forth a list of 12 seats for itself. Later, JMM demanded six more seats. But the JMM maintained that it was open to negotiations with the RJD and was even ready to downsize their demand of 18 seats in the interest of the grand alliance. But Bhattacharjee said they did not hear from the RJD leadership. “We waited to hear from the RJD about a respectable number of seats. But now the scope for negotiations is over. The JMM will not compromise with the party’s self-respect for the sake of fighting polls. For us, mutual respect is more important. But perhaps, RJD doesn’t want to treat us with respect,” Bhattacharjee said. He said the JMM would emerge as a force to reckon with during government formation Bihar and went on to name seven seats in Bihar where it would put up candidates. “These are seats where we are sure of winning, namely, Jhaja, Chakai, Katuria, Dhamdaha, Manihari, Pirpainti, and Nathnagar.” Bhattacharjee said they would decide on some more seats later. The last time JMM fought alone in Bihar was in 2005 when it won only a single seat (Chakai). Bhattacharjee, however, insisted that the JMM would not go back on its commitment in Jharkhand and reminded RJD about the JMM’s contribution during the time of undivided Bihar. “When Laluji became CM for the first time, it was with our support. Later, he went on to become CM thrice. We had even supported JDU’s Nitish Kumar when he first became CM for only nine days. In the 2015 Assembly polls in Bihar, the JMM had extended support to the JDU-RJD alliance,” he said. Bhattacharjee said JMM was always a key player in government formation. “In the first polls in 1952, we were the largest in the Opposition with 32 MLAs. Since then, we maintained our stronghold in south Bihar regions (most of which is in Jharkhand now) and remained a deciding factor in the formation of governments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||State’s largest Covid centre coming up at Ranchi Sadar Hospital ||A Covid care centre with 300 dedicated beds for symptomatic and severely-ill patients is set to come up at the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi by mid-October, officials said on Tuesday. Ranchi Deputy Development Commissioner Ananya Mittal told this correspondent that the facility will have 30 beds with ventilators, while all the remaining 270 beds will have oxygen support. Once ready it will be the largest such facility in the state. “The dedicated Covid care facility will come up on the third, fourth and fifth floors of the hospital. Only symptomatic patients will be treated in this facility,” she said. This Covid care centre will have a separate entry and exit in a bid to ensure that other departments of the hospital continue to function unhindered. Attendants and doctors visiting the Covid centre will not treat patients in the other wards of the hospital, they added. As of now, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has the largest Covid ward for symptomatic patients in the city. There are 100 dedicated Covid beds at RIMS. There are more than 12,000 Covid beds in Jharkhand, including the ones for asymptomatic patients at private facilities, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. However, hardly 1,000 beds were available for symptomatic patients. The Sadar Hospital is located at a stone’s throw from Albert Ekka Chowk, the heart of the city, and is easily accessible from all parts of the state capital. Currently it has 200 beds. Of the existing 200 beds, 150 are for the maternity ward and the remaining 50 for paediatrics. At the time of its inauguration, the state government decided to exclusively treat pregnant women and newborns in the facility. The hospital already has a dedicated medicine OPD, a physiotherapy unit, child care OPD, an in-patient department (IPD) and ICU, female care OPD, IPD and ICU, labour room and nutrition unit. “The Covid care centre should be ready for patients by October 15. It will be the largest Covid care centre for symptomatic patients in Jharkhand so far,” said the DDC. At present, Covid patients suffering from severe symptoms undergo treatment either at RIMS or private hospitals. Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi has dedicated ICU beds for Covid patients. The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur also have dedicated wards for symptomatic Covid patients. As per latest figures with the NHM, there were 10,436 active Covid cases in Jharkhand. As many as 88,026 people have been found infected across Jharkhand so far and 76,843 of them have recovered. The virus has claimed the lives of at least 747 people in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Single-screen halls not keen on reopening in Dhanbad ||Cinema hall owners of the coal capital aren’t enthusiastic about reopening their auditoriums, their reaction coming on Tuesday, hours after the Union information and broadcasting ministry issued SOPs for screening films, specifying a host of restrictions centred around social distancing and temperature control. Nitesh Shahabadi, owner of Ray Talkies, the oldest cinema of Dhanbad, said, “People come to cinemas to be entertained and not to feel harassed. Unfortunately, with guidelines like keeping a seat empty between each viewer and mandatory wearing of masks, many will find it difficult to enjoy a movie.” He also raised another fundamental question. “What exactly will we exhibit as no big movie is being released now? Also, the occupancy at halls, which is usually around 10 per cent, will go down further if we screen old movies instead of blockbusters,” he said. Shahabadi added shopkeepers and those who ran eateries near cinema halls, most of whom have already lost their earnings, were not in a position to reopen. Notably, SOPs released on Tuesday call for entry and exit of audience members according to rows in a staggered fashion and sufficient time between shows so that there is no rush. Regarding seating arrangements, the SOP specifies a 50 per cent cap. This means, one seat will have to be kept empty between two viewers. Prashant Singh, owner of Puja Talkies in the heart of town, said, “The SOPs talk of frequent sanitisation of hall premises, including common areas that are accessed by all. This will escalate our costs.” He said although hall owners of Bihar and Bengal are gearing up to open single-screen auditoriums, they were yet to take a call. “It will be difficult to manage the expenses,” Singh said, adding that he was in any case facing difficulty to pay salaries to his staff. “Because of the lockdown we are paying 50 per cent salaries. But after reopening we will have to pay full salary. Now, we are awaiting the state government’s guidelines,” he said, adding that they would take a final call after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Special athlete in need of financial help to treat paralysed mother ||Special athlete Vijay Mishra is running from pillar to post for the treatment of his ailing mother. The 37-year-old Mishra’s mother Eva suffered brain haemorrhage some days back and  underwent treatment at Mercy Hospital in Baridih. She was discharged from the hospital on Saturday as doctors said she should undergo treatment at her home. Eva’s condition is said to be critical and she is showing signs of memory loss. Intellectually impaired Vijay, who was part of the Indian football team that claimed silver in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games held at Connecticut in the US in 1995 and later represented the country in floor hockey in the World Winter Games in Busan, Japan in 2005, said his mother’s blood pressure shot up and subsequently she suffered brain haemorrhage. “ The right side of my mother is also paralysed. I am in need of financial aid for meeting her medical expenses. She was admitted to the hospital on September 22. So far my relatives have helped us out but they also have their limitations. A sum of over Rs 20,000 has already been spent and doctors have said a further Rs 50,000 was needed for medical treatment. My mother is bedridden. I am very worried and seeking help from various quarters. But so far no help has come my way,” Vijay, a resident of zone number 4, Birsanagar said. The former international medallist lives with his 65-year-old mother at his aunt’s home. His father has passed away. Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, who visited Eva at the hospital last week, said she (Vijay’s mother) failed to recognise him. “I think she has lost her memory. Money is urgently needed for her medical treatment,” he added. Sahota, a former international cyclist, said they have requested Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) to extend financial help to Vijay so that he can meet the medical expenses of his mother. “We have requested the SOB and have also highlighted Vijay’s financial condition,” he added. According to him, they have also requested members of SOJ to contribute Rs 1,000 each for Vijay’s help. “Some members have sent money to Vijay’s bank account. SOJ area director Bailey Bodhanwala will also chip in with Rs 10,000 from his side. After all, Vijay has made us proud by winning silver in the World Games,” Sahota, resource person (for cycling) in SOB, said. Special Olympics Bharat, a national organisation which works for the promotion of intellectually impaired, had given Rs 20,000  as financial assistance to  Jamshedpur-based special athlete Sanjeev Das who needed money for the treatment of his pregnant wife in June this year. Sanjeev, who worked at a firm in Baroda (Gujarat) lost his job in view of the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown. He returned from Baroda and went to New Delhi to be with his wife’s side at her in-law’s home. Moreover, a senior SOB functionary and a UK-based businessman had also provided Rs 10,000 each to special powerlifter Neha Rajak whose family was facing problems during the lockdown. Neha had won four bronze medals in powerlifting in the World Summer Games held in Abu Dhabi last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Recovery rate close to 88 per cent, more than 800 cases in a day in Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate drew close to 88 per cent on Monday after nearly 1300 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours against 816 fresh cases of infection surfacing during the same period, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. The state’s Covid recovery rate of 87.29 per cent, officials said, was among the best in country, and above the national average of 84.30 per cent. However, despite the high recovery rate, over 10,000 people were still battling the virus across various districts of Jharkhand. As per government data, health workers have so far collected swab samples of 24.21 lakh people and tested 24.18 lakh of them. Of the 24 lakh-odd people tested, as many as 88,026 were found Covid infected and at least 76,843 of them have recovered, states government data. There were 10,436 active cases in the state by Monday night. The Covid toll in Jharkhand also jumped to 747 on Monday after four more patients died during treatment. The four deceased were from West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Ranchi. However, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate dropped to 0.84 per cent on Monday against the national average of 1.60 per cent. The number of active cases reduced in Ranchi as well as in East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts, after Monday’s findings. Ranchi reported 478 recoveries against 319 fresh cases, which brought the number of active cases down to 3,275. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,751 after 236 patients recovered in the district and 70 fresh cases surfaced. Dhanbad reported 100 recoveries against 43 cases, while Koderma reported 45 recoveries against only three cases. The number of active cases, however, shot up in Bokaro after the district reported 50 fresh cases and not even a single recovery. There were 488 active cases of infection in Bokaro on Monday night, as per latest government data. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 50.32 days against the national Covid doubling rate of 48.76 days. The figures indicate that the number of cases in Jharkhand will double in around 50 days if the current trend of Covid cases continue. The growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.34 per cent. As per government data, out of the 747 Covid victims, at least 309 were from East Singhbhum alone and 128 from Ranchi. The figures highlight that these two districts account for nearly 60 per cent of total Covid casualties in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Armed criminals fire at mob, 2 injured||Two persons were injured seriously when a gang of armed criminals shot at a mob in Dhatkidih A - Block under Bistupur thana area on Monday afternoon. The incident took place after a gang of six turned up at their friend Mohammed Zeidy’s house to meet his parents. Zeidy was receiving treatment at Tata Main Hospital for allegedly trying to commit suicide. An altercation between the gang and the parents led to neighbours gathering outside the house. When they tried to intervene, the gang became violent and hostile. The gang had pistols on them and fired over a dozen rounds before fleeing on their bikes. Two of the neighbours sustained bullet injuries. Mohammed Salman, the gang leader, is absconding, said city SP, Subhash Chandra Jat. Jat said, one of the injured, Mohammed Mustaqeem had sustained a bullet in his chest and will be undergoing a surgery. Police have recovered five empty cartridges from the spot at A-Block in Dhatkidih and are trying to get CCTV footage related to the violence. Ghanshyam Rai, professor in charge, Training and Placement of BIT Sindri was given the best Academician of year award on Monday at the 2nd International Academic and Research Excellence Award-2020. The award is an initiative of GISR foundation of senior researchers to honour and acknowledge extraordinary talents from all walks of life. The award was given during a function held at Goa. Rai has been selected for the award for his outstanding contribution in academics. Two members of an inter-state gang allegedly involved in supplying hashish in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha were arrested with ganja (Hashish) worth more than Rs 5 lakh. Garhwa SDPO Bahman Tuti said a 23-year-old woman and a driver from Uttar Pradesh were arrested on Sunday late evening when they were going  to supply a large quantity of ‘green ice hashish’ Nagar Untari near railway crossing. The police caught the two when they were coming back from Odisha’s Jharsugoda village -- which is popular for drugs and trance parties. They were on their way to Shaktinagar (Uttar Pradesh). Police recovered 57 kg of hashish, which was hidden in the bolero jeep in a bag. Cash worth Rs. 22,120 were also recovered from them. “The recovered hashish is worth Rs 5 lakh in international market,” the SDPO said. The arrested have been to judicial custody. Himmat Singh Chauhan, the newly appointed general manager of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), Sindri on Monday held a meeting with the officials of Fertilizer Corporation of India, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Fertilizer Corporation of India and Electrical department officers of the HURL. Chauhan has assured to address the grievances of Sindri residents by taking the matter further with the General Manager of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Paritosh Kumar, and other authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Scores of Bokaro students crack JEE Advanced||At least 70 students, majority of them from Delhi Public School (DPS) and Chinmaya Vidyalaya, cracked the Joint Entrance (JEE) Advanced Examination 2020 in the district. The results were declared on Monday. Sarthak Kumar, a student of Rainbow Public School, scored the highest in JEE Advanced in the district with an all India rank (AIR) of 432. Sarthak, who also scored highest in the JEE Mains in the district, is the son of Santosh Kumar, an employee of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). “I am elated. My ambition is to become a computer engineer and get admission in IIT, Mumbai. Regular and focused study is the mantra of my success,” said Sarthak. He was followed by Pranshu Gaur, a DPS student with an AIR of 537. Two dozen students from DPS, Bokaro have cracked the IIT JEE Advanced. Harsh Agarwal, Utkarsh Aditya, Rahul Shrestha, Suryansh Arya, Tanay Singh, Aditya Kumar Singh and others are in the list of successful candidates. Principal, DPS Bokaro, A S Gangwar congratulated the successful students and said "This is reward for relentless effort put in by our students”.  Chinmaya Vidyalaya students also cracked the entrance in large numbers. “It is a matter of great pride as Chinmaya Vidyalaya creates history with more than 35 students qualified in JEE Advanced. Our student, Uttam Kumar with AIR-661 has become one of the toppers in the district,” said Mahesh Tripathi, Secretary, Chinmaya Vidyalaya. Four students of Sree Ayyappa Public School, three students of Pentecostal School Assembly, two of MGM Higher Secondary School and one of ARS Public School have also cracked JEE Advanced. Many schools are yet to declare names of students who qualified JEE Advanced as institutions were closed. Coaching institutes have also announced good results. Several students from FIITJEE, Pace Bokaro, Bansal Classes have passed the prestigious examination. Majority of the successful candidates claimed by coaching institutes are students studying in different schools of the town.. “Bokaro is known for producing a large number of students who crack the IIT entrance tests in eastern India since the past decade,” said S S Mahapatra, Director, Sree Ayyappa Public School. Principal of Pentecostal Assembly School, Dr Karuna Prasad said students have performed well as like last year. The candidates who have cleared the exam will be eligible for admissions to undergraduate courses at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Protesting villagers refuse to allow NTPC coal transportation||Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand and superintendent KarthiK S visited Chepakala village in Barkagaon block (35 km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter) on Monday to convince protesting villagers to allow resumption of coal transport. Villagers have been on satyagraha since September 2 at the National Thermal Power Corporation’s (NTPC) Pankri Barwadih coal mining project, demanding increased compensation, jobs and compliance with other norms. They have blocked the routes for transportation to 40 different NTPC projects across the country since then. As a result, a stock of 5.5 lakh metric ton of coal has accumulated, and smoke was reportedly seen rising up recently from the dump. NTPC officials met Anand on Friday evening, requesting immediate intervention to start transportation, fearing massive fire hazard and loss.. The meeting started at 5 in the evening and ended at 7 PM with villagers refusing to call off their agitation. Anand said NTPC has been able to control the flames for now, but it will be difficult for them to contain the risk if the entire coal stock catches fire. This will also result in an environmental disaster, apart from denting the government’s coal reserves. Taking cognizance of the villagers’ demands, Anand said the government will duly consider them, but coal transportation should resume as soon as possible. NTPC's executive director Prashant Kashyap, sub-divisional officer Vidya Bhushan Kumar, SDPO Bhupendra Raut, circle officer Vaibhav Kumar Singh and block development officer Prawesh Kumar Saw were also present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mixed response to Jharkhand Durga Puja guidelines ||The guidelines for Durga Puja issued by the Jharkhand government have evoked mixed reactions from the organisers. They are happy that the government at least allowed them to organise Durga Puja this year but at the same time, they are disheartened that some of the restrictions are too harsh. The guidelines issued by the home and disaster management department under the signature of chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on October 1 said the government “considered it important to strike a balance” between conducting rituals traditionally and ensuring that there are no congregations which could lead to spread of Covid-19 infection. According to the guidelines, there will be specially erected small pandals “that shall be covered on all sides in a way to prevent any public view of the idols” where rituals will be performed “without public participation”. The pandals will have no theme and decoration with lights, the guidelines said. It said the idols would be less than 4 feet in height and only seven persons, including the organisersand priests, can be present at any given time who will also wear masks and maintain a distance ofsix feet. There will also be no distribution of bhog or prasad, no public address system and no function of any kind, the guidelines said, adding that violators would be prosecuted under the provisions of the law. “Most of us had apprehended the pandemic could continue and decided to make the puja a low-key affair this year,” said Munchun Rai, coordinator of Ranchi Mahanagar Durga Puja Samiti, the apex body of community pujas in the state capital. He said that they would follow the guidelines. “But there is a resentment about the height of the idols as some committees may have built them a little higher,” he said. Rai said they would approach the administration to offer leeway on the height as it was difficult to replace idols at this stage. The goddess is normally seen astride a lion and thereis also a frame behind the idol, Rai pointed out. It was difficult to restrict the height within 4 feet, he added. He, however, said that very few idols could cross that height. “We are glad that the puja has been allowed to be organised,” said Rambabu Singh, general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti. He said that they would adhere to the guidelines. “We shall also follow the guidelines and will do away with mandatory pushpanjali (a floral offering), besides cancelling the traditional sindoor khela (Vijaya Dashami ritual) this year,” said Partha Sarathi Sengupta, an organiser of Hirapur Hari Mandir Sharadiyo Sammilani, a popular puja destination in Dhanbad. He said they were making a small idol standing at around 4 feet only. Most of the people, however, opined they could not imagine a community Durga Puja with just seven persons participating in it while making it out of bounds for all others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Plea for ration card camps in Ranchi slums ||The state units of Right to Food Campaign and All India People’s Forum (AIPF) requested the deputy commissioner of Ranchi to organise ration card application camps in slum areas. A delegation comprising economist Jean Dreze, Swati Narayan of Right to Food Campaign  and Nadeem Khan of AIPF met DC Chhavi Ranjan on Monday and handed over a formal letter requesting him to organise such camps “so that all eligible persons are able to apply for green ration cards”. The Jharkhand government has recently announced it would issue 15 lakh more such green ration cards under Jharkhand state food security scheme for bringing eligible persons under public distribution system (PDS). Mentioning that “without help many of them are likely to be unable to apply”, they requested the DC to organise ration card application camps in slum areas, adding those should be held at convenient places such as schools or marriage halls. They further requested Ranjan to arrange “community level publicity and outreach such as loudspeaker announcement to spread information” about those camps. They also requested the DC to give special attention to include disabled and homeless persons,  single women,  beggars and other vulnerable persons of the community, particularly those who do not have Aadhaar numbers. They also requested the administration to help getting applicants such necessary documents as caste, disability and death certificates and Aadhaar numbers,  adding civil society organisations may also be approached for making the camps successful. “The DC agreed to arrange camps within a few days,  with due preparation and proper publicity,” Swati Narayan of Right to Food Campaign told after their meeting with the DC. “We expect those camps will be held within a week or so,” added Nadeem Khan of AIPF, clarifying their intention was to include every eligible person under the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
