07-10-2020||Calcutta||We can’t afford to remain spectators: Students on Hathras horror||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Extortion bid posing as minister’s relative||A man whose surname is “Biswas” tried to extort a woman on the phone by promising her a government job and introducing himself as minister Aroop Biswas’s relative sometime last week. Akash Biswas got caught when the woman became suspicious and reported the matter to police on Monday afternoon. He was arrested in he night based on a complaint minister Biswas lodged with Regent Park police station. He has been booked for attempting to cheat and extort, and for defaming the minister, the police said. The woman, Mitali Bhattacharya, alerted Regent Park police station. She accused the man of demanding Rs 10,000 for a government job with the assurance that the minister would look into it. “Akash Biswas had claimed to be a relative of the minister. The woman got suspicious and decided to alert the police station. We got in touch with the minister and told him about the man who was trying to extort people by using his name,” an officer of Regent Park police station. “The minister immediately filed a complaint based on which we arrested the man.” Cops tracked the phone number the man had used to call the woman and zeroed in on him, the police said. Preliminary investigations revealed the woman might not be the only person whom the man had introduced himself as the relative of Aroop Biswas, the minister in charge of PWD and youth services and sports department, and his brother Swaroop Biswas. “He is unemployed. Earlier, too, he had claimed to be a relative of the minister. We are trying to ascertain if he had taken money and cheated anyone else in the past,” the officer said. Cops have seized the mobile phone that had been used to call the woman. Earlier this week, filmmaker Raj Chakraborty had alleged that at least three people had been trying to cheat guardians of children by claiming to be employees of his production house and offering children jobs as child artists. He has lodged a case of attempted cheating, fraud and defamation against the three with Kasba police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Amphan dues: West Midnapore receives Rs 24 crore ||The state government had transferred Rs 24.74 crore to West Midnapore authorities to clear pending compensation of those hit by Cyclone Amphan a day before chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting in Kharagpur town on Tuesday. The move came more than four months after the cyclone had struck on May 20. In between there have been agitations by the CPM and the BJP amidst allegations of dole-related fraud at the panchayat level. The doles ranged between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500 for farmers whose land and crop had been destroyed in the cyclone. At the meeting on Tuesday, she said: “All the farmers who are eligible will be paid immediately. The SP (West Midnapore) has compiled a list…. I will tell the DM to ensure no one is harassed.” Mamata was referring to lists sent by district police stations to Nabanna in July and August, detailing individual dole complaints by farmers. The move comes in the midst of Trinamul-led statewide protests against the BJP government’s new farm legislations. “Besides being involved in dole corruption, Trinamul workers deliberately did not pay BJP workers. They politicised the calamity. We protested and so they have responded,” BJP district secretary Arup Das said. District agriculture officials denied politics behind the delay in paying more than 100,000 farmers, suggesting banking problems were involved. “We have allotted funds for those who have been left out and most have been remitted… the rest will be done in a couple of days. There are banking issues for a few; so, it might be a little delayed,” district assistant director of agriculture (planned protection) Debkanta Kanda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Mamata's directive on viral load||The administration should closely monitor Covid patients’ Ct (cycle threshold) value, considered a key indicator of the viral load in an infected person, to keep potential super-spreaders in check, Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. Ct is a number indicating the presence of a gene in a swab sample. The lower the Ct value for a specific gene, the higher the presence of that gene in the sample. In Covid-19, a high Ct value is considered to indicate a lower viral load. Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,370 new Covid-19 patients — the highest intra-day spike — 63 deaths and 3,036 recoveries. The chief minister stressed the need to keep tight vigil on Covid-19 patients with Ct value of less than 20. Mamata was speaking to officials at an administrative review meeting for West Midnapore in Kharagpur when she asked district magistrate Rashmi Kamal — a physician — and the chief medical officer of health if they had been monitoring those with low Ct values. “Track the Ct values; the lesser the Ct value, the more dangerous that infected person is, by way of his/her ability to spread the disease. Ct value is being given as part of the results now,” the chief minister said after realising the administration hadn’t been doing it. Mamata, also the health minister, instructed chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to make a note of it for conveying to all concerned. Although there is no conclusive evidence to correlate Ct value with the contagiousness of the novel coronavirus, it is being considered an important indicator of viral load and most Bengal laboratories approved for Covid-19 tests have been reporting it in their results for more than two months now. “Categorise them into A, B and C groups for tight vigil,” Mamata said while asking former chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to explain what it meant. Sinha, currently the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, said every Covid positive result from laboratories now came with the Ct value mentioned. “If the Ct value is higher than 20, that person is likely to be less of a spreader of the infection. If the value is less than 20… the lower it is, the riskier it is. That indicates higher viral load and the ability to spread the disease more and infect more people,” Sinha said. “The chief minister has been saying this repeatedly to us and the health department has been issuing instructions… monitoring those with Ct values less than 20 is important,” he said. It must be done daily, the chief minister added. The districts administration must locate those with Ct value of less than 20 on its daily list of new cases. “These people will not only spread the disease more but also be more ill than other infected people. This is over and above the monitoring of co-morbidities…. This must be kept in view and monitored closely; a lot of problems will then be solved.” “If such people do not wear masks, do not adhere to Covid-19 protocols, they can infect 20-22 others. Even in home isolation, such persons have to be kept under cautious watch,” she said. “Such simple concepts: Ct value, co-morbidities… if we are aware of these and ensure incisive intervention, this pandemic can be better managed.” Sinha stressed the need for close monitoring of all active cases daily. “Only the active cases (per district) is not very tough to keep track. Especially the sixth and 10th days… you know are potentially very risky days. For those days, categorise them as red and track them so that there is timely hospitalisation for those in need.” With the 3,370 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 277,000, of which close to 244,000 are recoveries, besides 5,318 deaths. The recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.98, still ahead of the national rate of 84.68 per cent. Of the 63 deaths, 16 died in the city and 15 in North 24-Parganas. As of Tuesday, the state government reported 4,515 or 84.9 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 1.91; still behind the national rate of 1.54 per cent. The state logged 42,382 tests on Tuesday, which took the total past 348,000 at 38,672 tests for every million people. The positive confirmation rate remained at 7.96 per cent. The state reported 38 per cent occupancy of the 12,715 Covid beds in 92 hospitals and more than 299,000 telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Improvement tests start for ICSE, ISC in Calcutta||The ICSE and ISC improvement and compartmental exams for 2020 started on Tuesday. But principals of several schools said hardly any student had appeared for the improvement exams in Calcutta. The improvement exams for both ICSE and ISC are to be held in subjects where exams could not be held in the initial days of the pandemic. “For subjects that have been held, the ICSE council is not holding any improvement exams,” the principal of a city school said. On Tuesday, 60 students appeared for the compartmental exams in ICSE across 12 centres in the city. For ISC, the number was 200 across nine centres. A convener has been assigned for each of the centres. Students can appear for compartmental exams if they have failed to secure pass marks in any of the three subjects in ISC and any of the four subjects in ICSE, apart from English. Securing pass marks in English is compulsory to appear for compartmental exams. The council had on September 23 announced the dates for the compartmental and improvement exams. The improvement exams for ICSE are scheduled for October 6 to 9 and for ISC, October 6 and 7. The compartmental exams for ICSE are scheduled for October 6 and 7 and for ISC, October 6. Candidates have to maintain distancing rules, the council had said. “Since the number of students who took the compartmental exams on Tuesday was low, it was easy to maintain distancing rules,” the principal of a city school, which is a centre, said. The council had decided to change its earlier decision of holding the exams in November to October because of the way the all-India entrance tests such as NEET had been held. Also, students should not face any problem during undergraduate admissions, the council had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Centre rules out Bangladesh raw jute||The Centre has rejected Bengal jute mills’ demand to use imported raw jute from Bangladesh in the manufacture of bags that are used to package foodgrains. In a letter to the Indian Jute Mills Association — a body of jute mill owners — Moloy Chandan Chakraborty, the jute commissioner, ruled out the industry’s demand to import raw jute from the neighbouring country. The Telegraph had on August 27 reported that the association had written to Ravi Capoor, the textile ministry secretary, and Chakraborty, seeking the Centre’s permission to import raw jute from Bangladesh because of a dip in jute production in Bengal in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. “There is enough raw jute available for the coming months and there is no urgency for immediate import,” Chakraborty wrote in his reply. In the letter, Chakraborty said the availability of raw jute — particularly for the production of jute bags — had been estimated at 584,000 bales for the current year. This estimate has been done after considering a dip in production. The estimated demand is close to 480,000 bales, which is “lower by a margin of almost 100,000 bales from the estimated availability”, he said. A bale is roughly equivalent to 180kg. The stand taken by the Centre is likely to benefit jute farmers in Bengal, an industry insider said. “Importing cheap raw jute from Bangladesh could have driven down the price of raw jute here… farmers would have been affected.” The jute packaging material act mandates the use of home-grown raw jute for the production of jute bags, which would be bought by government agencies to pack foodgrains such as rice, wheat and sugar. The availability of raw jute in the country maybe enough for now, but there is a possibility of shortfall in future, an official of the jute mills association said. At a videoconference of the expert committee on jute, held on September 25, the representative from the Bengal government’s agriculture department said a fresh assessment of the production of raw jute was being done after taking into account the damages caused by the cyclone. The pre-cyclone estimate shared by the department was 770,000 bales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Medical college asks for more doctors||The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital is “facing an acute shortage of doctors” as many of them have tested positive for Covid-19, the principal has written to the health department, seeking posting of doctors from elsewhere. The hospital — a Covid treatment centre that has resumed treating non-Covid patients, too — has 700 beds. An official at the hospital said the government wanted to add 100 more beds and if additional doctors were not sent, it would be difficult to augment the capacity immediately. Manju Banerjee, the principal of the medical college, wrote in the letter sent to the director of health services on Tuesday: “Presently, 26 (twenty-six) post graduate trainees including 12 (twelve) faculty members have been tested (+ve) from Covid-19 and were either quarantined or undergoing treatment. As such, the Medical College, Kolkata is facing an acute shortage of doctors in Covid-19 pandemic outbreak with further enhancement of 100 (hundred) beds.” A senior official of the hospital said 38 doctors, 26 postgraduate trainees and 12 teachers, were down with Covid. When contacted by Metro on Tuesday evening, Banerjee said they were not facing any difficulty now but the letter had been sent apprehending problems if more people got infected. “Till now we are managing... but if 10 more doctors test positive, we will be in a difficult situation,” she said. A doctor at the hospital said that he had seen several of his colleagues testing positive for Covid-19 and staying isolated before resuming duty. “We have accepted that each of us will get infected. That is how further infection among doctors in the hospital will stop,” said the doctor. Doctors in other hospitals said that over 30 doctors testing positive for Covid-19 at a single hospital around the same time must ring alarm bells. “It could be that some doctors are not taking adequate precautions in the hospital or outside. It could also be that the quality of personal protective equipment (PPEs) is questionable,” said a doctor of another teaching hospital. If a doctor in a Covid ward at Calcutta Medical College tests positive for the disease, his or her colleagues in the ward are not going into quarantine. “In the Covid ward, everyone wears PPE…. There is no point in going to quarantine,” an official said. But if a doctor from a non-Covid ward tests positive, his or her close contacts are going into quarantine. “They are getting tested four or five days after the last contact with the infected person and resuming duty if the result is negative,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Non-Covid tag draws patients to SSKM||SSKM Hospital now is more crowded than other healthcare facilities in Calcutta, not just because it is Bengal’s apex referral hospital but also because it is one of the few non-Covid hospitals in the city and hence, perceived to be safe. Doctors at SSKM said many of the patients queueing up at the outpatient department of the superspeciality hospital would have gone to private hospitals and clinics had there been no Covid pandemic. SSKM officials said around 7,000 patients were turning up at the OPD on an average daily, compared with the 10,000-odd before the pandemic. The count is much less at other government hospitals. “This despite the fact that the bulk of the patients who used to come from the districts are unable to come because of transportation issues. We had studied that more than 20 per cent of the patients at the OPD would come from Malda and Murshidabad. Patients would also come from other distr- icts and even neighbouring states,” said Raghunath Misra, the medical superintendent of SSKM. He said the hospital earlier had nearly 3,000 beds, including the ones in the neuroscience unit. Now, the bed count has been reduced to 2,000 to follow the distancing protocol aimed at minimising chances of coronavirus infection. More than 90 per cent of the beds are occupied, he said. In the initial weeks of the Covid-19 outbreak in Calcutta, people were averse to going to hospital unless they had symptoms of the coronavirus disease. Many doctors, too, had stopped seeing patients for fear of infection. Doctors and patients both have since started returning to hospitals but the fear of getting infected by Covid is still keeping many away. Sheetal Chowdhury, a school teacher from Behala, was among thousands of people who had queued up at SSKM’s OPD on Tuesday morning. “SSKM is very far from my home and I have never come here to consult a doctor. But someone told me that SSKM is a non-Covid hospital and it’s safer to go there,” said Chowdhury, who had queued up to consult a doctor for an ENT problem. Metro met many other patients at the OPD who prefer to visit private hospitals or clinics in normal circumstances. They said a perception that chances of coronavirus infection would be negligible at SSKM because Covid patients are not treated there was among the reasons that prompted them to visit the referral hospital. The state government has decided not to keep patients who have tested positive for Covid at SSKM Hospital. “SSKM is the apex government hospital in Bengal. It has several superspeciality departments such as neurosurgery, cardiology and nephrology, which are not available under one roof at other government hospitals. So, to ensure that treatment of critical patients is not affected, it was decided that Covid patients would not be treated at SSKM,” a health department official said. The NRS Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Sagar Dutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital are among some of the big government hospitals that are treating Covid patients. The RG Kar Medical College and Hospital has a 150-bed ward for patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infection or SARI, which is a symptom of Covid-19. At SSKM, officials said, 20 per cent of the beds in every ward form an isolation unit where newly admitted patients are kept till their Covid test report comes. “A separate team of doctors, nurses and pathology staff enters those isolation units. If a patient tests positive for Covid, we are shifting him or her to a Covid hospital. If the report is negative, the patient is shifted to the normal ward,” said Misra. To keep chances of infection low, SSKM’s fever clinic has been set up at Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, which is its satellite unit. “We are getting patients who are telling us that they usually go to private hospitals and clinics. Many of them are forced to come here because their incomes have reduced. Others think SSKM is safer than other hospitals,” said Ankit Choudhary, an ENT surgeon at SSKM. Some doctors said patients were also telling them that they were not getting appointments at private clinics. Many clinics and private hospitals have imposed curbs on the number of patients doctors can see in a day. “There is a false sense of safety among some people. We have to remember that Covid could stay for long and treatment of both Covid and non-Covid patients would have to be done simultaneously, maintaining precautions,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert and a professor at SSKM. At the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, an official said they were getting around 5,000 patients at the OPD every day, a little less than the usual count. “People know there is no Covid ward,” said an official. But the hospital has a 150-bed SARI ward. At Peerless Hospital, a private unit, officials said they were getting calls from patients reluctant to visit the OPD and were requesting for video consultations with doctors. “Initially, we were having a low count of non-Covid patients  But since we shifted our fever clinic outside the building, the number has increased,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Coronavirus focus in New Town contest||Housing complexes and cooperative housing societies in New Town will be ranked on the basis of steps they have taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and dengue outbreak, and to reduce pollution and plant trees. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority, which is organising the contest, has asked residential complexes and cooperative housing societies in all three action areas of the township to submit their entries, along with a presentation, by January 21. The entries have to be mailed to newtownranking@gmail.com. “The contest will spur residents to keep the township clean and free of pollution,” an NKDA official said. NKDA has finalised at least nine parameters based on which the participating housing complexes, cooperative societies and residential blocks will be graded. Among the parameters are steps to contain the spread of Covid-19, dengue awareness and prevention programme, cleanliness, plantation initiatives and segregation of waste at source. “Cleanliness, reduction of plastic usage and segregation of waste at source carry the highest weightage,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. “The contest will allow us to rank each gated community as well as residential blocks. This is being done to acknowledge and encourage the work undertaken by residents of New Town.” Every residential block in the township will be graded, too, based on the grades of all housing complexes and cooperative housing societies in it. The participants will be graded by NKDA officials, who will visit cooperative housing societies and housing complexes. In addition to this, a set of “third-party reviewers” will visit the areas and speak to residents at random. “This has been done to ensure that the claims made in the presentation are physically verified and checked,” Sen added. In order to notify the residents of the contest, the NKDA will send out circulars to all blocks as well as gated communities. Reshmi Chakraborty, who stays in AL block of New Town, said residents of their block were trying to make a thorough presentation of what they do the entire year. “This is a great way to showcase what we have been doing for the welfare of residents throughout the year,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Children pushed from school to work||Many school-going children from underprivileged families who ideally would have been in school have not just dropped out but have taken up odd jobs during the Covid pandemic, said those working with such children. Many of the parents have no work and those who have are getting much less in payment than what they got before the pandemic, said the founder of an NGO that works with the children of such families. The children are being pushed to work and earn whatever little they can, said a member of another NGO. The NGOs have got reports that some of the children have started working in plastic factories and roadside shops, or have been engaged in loading and unloading of goods. “A section of students is increasingly getting detached from studies and taking up jobs in plastic factories in the area or whatever they can manage,” said Mamoon Akhtar, the founder of Samaritan Help Mission, which works among 6,500 children in Howrah. “The parents have no money. Those who have got back work as labourers or in factories are getting half of what they would earn before. The children are helping out or are wandering in the slums,” Akhtar said. Some NGO workers feel dropping out of the school happened naturally in the absence of mobile phones or inability to recharge their phone balance. Since in-person classes cannot be held amid the pandemic, schools are conducting online classes or classes on digital platforms. The families of many children have not been able to pay school fees. Supporting the family financially is now the top priority among the members, said a teacher. “Children are taking up whatever work is coming their way. Many are working in roadside shops, which are now gradually opening up,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of the NGO Calcutta Social Project, which works in south Calcutta. “Children’s education is a silent disaster during the pandemic, especially Class VI and VII upwards. Dropping out is common and earning is sporadic,” said Dutta. Getting work is not easy either. A teacher attached to an NGO has seen a child begging at a major intersection in the city. The parents first denied but later confessed that they had been pushed by circumstances, an NGO member said. “Some parents are also pushing the children into begging because they have nothing to eat. The propensity to drop out has gone up during this crisis because many of the families do not have work as smaller units have closed down,” said Vinita Saraf, the founder and trustee of Ek Tara, which mostly works with families in Tiljala and Topsia. Members of Ek Tara have also been counselling families to not let children drop out but it is not easy to keep track during a pandemic. “We are sending volunteers to the homes of the children we work with but it is hard to keep track and we are losing out a few children,” said Saraf. Lack of jobs has also forced some families to migrate back to the villages, she said. The situation on the outskirts of the city is equally bad and some of the older children from those areas are migrating to big cities in search of work. “Currently, the registration for Class XI is on and I noticed that about 10 per cent of the students have not turned up. I came to know that they have gone to other cities like Mumbai and Pune in search of work,” said Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas. He said some had taken up fishing in rivers but they at least turned up for registration for Class XI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcuttans steer clear of familiar hotspots||The city is opening up in the run-up to the festive season. Restaurants and malls are back to being busy. But for some places synonymous with the city, things are a far cry from the past. Metro finds out: On September 25, the parking area outside Prinsep Ghat had several two and four-wheelers. Scores of people strolled on the walkway. There was a semblance of maintaining distancing rules in the seating pattern on benches and the concreted tree bases. But the food stalls selling pav bhaji, bhelpuri and phuchka were relatively empty. A series of empty boats were anchored near the ghat. The boatmen were huddled on benches and stairs leading to the river, some smoking bidis. “There is hardly any customer,” Bakar Sheikh, a boatman, said. An hour’s ride costs Rs 500 and a 30-minute one Rs 300. The fare is usually split between the owner, the boatman and his helper. September is generally a good time for boatmen. The weather is not harsh and customers drop by in the afternoons as well. There are close to 25 boats near Prinsep Ghat and each get around five rides every day in the run-up to Durga Puja. But not this time. “On many days, there is not even one ride for a boat,” another boatman said. The lockdown had forced Sheikh to row downstream and reach home to Falta in South 24-Parganas in mid-April. He worked in a farm and did “odd jobs” before returning to the city in September. The food stalls outside Vardaan Market were busy but lacked the usual weekend din. There were a couple of customers at Victoria Vada. The stall had turned heads in November 2013 when visiting British Prime Minister David Cameron dropped in. The owner’s son, Anurag Chauhan, rued the “days gone by”. “Selling fewer than 120 plates on a Saturday or Sunday was unusual before the lockdown. Now, 60 plates every Saturday or Sunday are more than acceptable.” From 10kg of pulses on a weekend, he now uses less than 4kg to prepare the vada mix. “Even then, some part of the stuff remains unused,” Chauhan said. Since April, May and June saw almost zero business, he is relieved to be able to “earn something”. Around 4km away, at Vivekananda Park, Jitendra Pandit, counted among the best phuchkawalas in town, had a similar story to tell. His stall reopened on August 15. But business is a fraction of what it used to be. “My daily sales have been less than Rs 800 on average,” Pandit said. Till last winter, his sales figures crossed Rs 3,000 on “good days”. Pandit prides himself on his craft. It “hurts” him to see his signature dahi phuchkas remaining unsold. But like Chauhan, he is content to be able to do business. Between April and August 15 he had to stay indoors. The most eye-catching thing outside the northern gate of Victoria Memorial, currently shut, was the long row of horse-drawn carriages. On September 25, Metro found none, barring a few horses grazing on the Maidan. Many of the carriages were found lying under the Kidderpore bridge and children trying to get on to them. Javed, a coachman, sat on the ground close to the dumped carriages. He said he had been without income for months before he could secure a job at a Kidderpore eatery. “To see your children hungry is the worst feeling ever,” Javed, 38, said. An advertising professional said people were sceptical about places that did not “flaunt investment in sanitisation”. “People will go to a mall… a thermal gun and huge banners of Covid protocol hanging from the ceiling will greet them. But they are not sure of the local phuchkawala.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Tiger strays into Sunderbans village||A tiger that had strayed into a village in the Sunderbans on Monday evening killed livestock and squatted on a brick road for hours before retreating into the forest. The intrusion of tigers has come down substantially after nylon nets were installed on the edges of the forests. The latest intrusion drew a crowd of a “few thousands” and police and foresters had a tough time restraining the assembly. By Monday night, several pictures that showed the tiger at a stone’s throw from an extended hand with a mobile phone started doing the rounds on social media. The tiger came from the Ajmalmari forest and crossed a tributary of the Matla before entering Baikanthapur 6 village, under Maipith Coastal police station, a forest department official said. The village is around 30km from Kultali town and 75km from the heart of Calcutta. The forests of the Indian Sunderbans have a nylon net fencing spanning over 200km. “The tiger must have sneaked out through a hole in the net. People venturing into the forest often cut the nets,” said a forest official. It seems the big cat’s first stop was a cowshed where it is said to have killed a cow and a goat. “Members of the family which owns the cowshed came out alerted by the noise and raised the alarm once they spotted the big cat,” said Ajay Das, president of the Joint Forest Management Committee of Baikanthapur 6. The tiger was first spotted around 6.45pm. A team from Maipith Coastal police station, led by officer-in-charge Farooq Rahman, reached the spot within 20 minutes. “Many people had come from adjacent villages to see the tiger. People were constantly trying to take pictures, with the tiger less than 200 metres away,” said Rahman. The police barricaded the area and used hailers to restrain the crowd. Villagers said a team of foresters arrived at the spot after an hour. The team fenced the village area with nylon nets and used crackers and flashlights to drive the tiger away. Eventually, the tiger went back into the thin forest. “We patrolled the entire area throughout the night. In the morning, we used drones to scan the area and the river once more to be sure that the tiger had crossed the river back into the Ajmalmari forest,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said patrol boats filmed the tiger in the river, headed towards the forest. “It was an old tiger. Our team responded promptly and reached the spot. They had tranquilliser guns and trap cages. The entire area has been fenced off and vigil has been beefed up,” said Yadav. Constant vigil is needed because the tiger might turn up in the village again, said a forest official. “It had killed cattle but could not eat them. Tigers have a tendency to come back for the kill,” he said. Wounded and aged and ailing tigers are known to target easier prey like cattle and humans. Pugmarks can be studied to identify a tiger but heavy rain in the area has washed most pugmarks away, said a local forest official. “A female or pregnant tiger chased away by a male tiger can also stray into a human settlement,” said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict in the Sunderbans. At least 17 men have been killed in tiger attacks in the Sunderbans so far from April, according to official figures. But all of them had ventured into the forest, said officials. “The tiger intrusion is the first in at least two years. There was one in 2018 in Jharkhali. But even then, there was no human casualty. Nor did we have to tranquillise the tiger,” said a forest official at the headquarters. Before nylon nets were in place, around 10 tiger intrusions were reported every year. Many more used to go unreported. Since 2012, when the net project was complete, the intrusions have come down to around one or two every year, said forest officials. A tiger was captured in a trap cage in the patch of forest on the edge of Baikanthapur 6 on Tuesday evening. The trap had been laid because the tiger spotted earlier was expected to come back for the kill, said a forest official. “The captured tiger seems to be the same cat that had strayed into the village. It will be taken to the tiger rescue centre in Jharkhali. A team of vets will examine it on Wednesday,” said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
07-10-2020||Business||Electrosteel Castings: Promoters’ share buying stirs disquiet||The promoters and directors of ductile iron pipe maker Electrosteel Castings bought close to 1.02 crore shares from the market in the run up to the announcement of a proposed merger with an associate company. Data available with the stock exchange — filed under section 7(2) of Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations, 2015 —  reveals 25 transactions involving promoter group entities and directors starting from August 25. In all, they acquired shares worth Rs 17.36 crore up to September 29, 2020, translating into 2.35 per cent of the equity capital of the company. On October 5, ECL informed the bourses that it intended to merge Srikalahasthi Pipes Ltd, an associate company of Electrosteel Casting based in Andhra Pradesh, with itself. The merger will be done through a share swap deal under which shareholders of SPL will get 59 shares of ECL of face value Re 1 for every 10 shares of face value Rs 10 held in SPL. Promoters held 48.15 per cent stake in SPL, which includes 41.33 per cent direct shareholding by ECL, which has a plant in Khardah on the outskirts of Calcutta. The merger terms say that ECL, as promoter of SPL, will be excluded from the share swap deal. ECL stock hit a 52-week high on the bourses on October 5, rising prodigiously at the end of September. The stock had closed at Rs 16.07 a share on August 25, when the promoter group started buying through market purchase. It rose to Rs 27 during the market hours on October 5, representing a gain of 68 per cent in a little over one month. However, after hitting a high, the ECL stock came off sharply to close the day at Rs 21.50, losing by close to 20.5 per cent. The sharp volatility prompted BSE to seek clarification from ECL on Tuesday. The company replied that it understands that the significant price movement may be due to the intimation of the draft merger scheme with SPL. The Kejriwal family from Calcutta held 52.41 per cent stake in ECL as on June 30, 2020. Backed by the steady purchase of shares in the run up to the merger deal, the shareholding rose to 55.19 per cent at the end of September 30, 2020. Under the proposed scheme, the shareholding of the promoter group will dip to 44.01 per cent in the merged entity. While ECL had a turnover of Rs 2,479.89 crore, SPL clocked Rs 1,662.9 crore in 2019-20. The share swap ratio had a telling effect on SPL stock, which tanked 29.3 per cent after the deal was announced. The fact that promoters were buying shares leading up to the announcement calls for a suo motu investigation by the market regulator Sebi, said Shriram Subramanian of InGovern, a proxy advisory and corporate governance firm. “Anybody who is in possession of unpublished price sensitive information must not use it. A merger would not have happened overnight. It must have taken at least a month or more, during which the shares were bought,” Subramanian said while responding to a question from The Telegraph. This newspaper reached out to Ashutosh Agarwal, executive director (group finance) and CFO of ECL for comment. He said the management had no information about it. Text messages sent to Umang Kejriwal, managing director of the company, also failed to elicit any response. “The problem in India is that there is a lack of fear among the promoters about the market regulator, which creates its own problem,” Subramanian argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Mobile phone firms’ plans cleared||The government has cleared investment proposals of 10 mobile phone makers and six electronic component producers, including Foxconn, Wistron, Pegatron, Samsung and Rising Star, under its new production-linked incentive  and phased manufacturing programme schemes that are designed to attract investments into the country. The other companies cleared are Lava, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics (Dixon Technologies), UTL Neolyncs and Optiemus. Foxconn, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer, assembles Apple devices among other brands and had announced plans in May to invest $165 million (Rs 1,300 crore) in a new production facility near Bangalore. The move comes at a time Apple is looking to shift 20 per cent of its production capacity to India from China. Samsung Electronics Co and Apple’s assembly partners are among the 22 companies that have pledged to invest Rs 11,000 crore ($1.5 billion) to set up mobile phone manufacturing units in India. “The ministry of electronics and information and technology has approved 16 eligible applicants under the PLI Scheme,” an official statement said. This will generate more than 2 lakh direct jobs and nearly 6 lakh indirect employment opportunities, it said. “The companies approved under the scheme will bring in an additional investment in electronics manufacturing to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Abu Dhabi bet on Reliance Retail shopping spree||Reliance Industries on Tuesday announced another investment from a global investor in its retail arm. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority’s (ADIA) wholly owned subsidiary will invest Rs 5,512.50 crore into Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL). Like the previous deals, this investment values RRVL at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.285 lakh crore. ADIA’s investment will translate into a 1.20 per cent equity stake in RRVL on a fully diluted basis. With this investment, RRVL has raised Rs 37,710 crore from global investors, covering  Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG and ADIA in less than four weeks. These investors have picked up close to 8.50 per cent in RRVL. In June, ADIA had invested Rs 5,683.50 crore in Jio Platforms, the digital services subsidiary of RIL. While the announcement came after market hours, the RIL stock on Tuesday ended at Rs 2,210.15, showing a marginal fall over its previous close. Reliance Retail, a subsidiary of RRVL, has around 12,000 stores in the country. Reliance Retail has now embarked on digitalisation of small and unorganised merchants and is looking to expand this network to over 20 million of these merchants. “We are delighted with ADIA’s current investment and continued support and hope to benefit from its strong track record of over four decades of value creation globally,’’ Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries, said. “On the very low base of the first quarter, we expect the retail business to recover broadly on the back of lockdown easing, a note from BofA Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Additional Tier 1 bonds kept out of retail reach||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Tuesday made it difficult for retail investors to subscribe to additional Tier 1 bonds (AT1 bonds). The market regulator said that banks can only issue these instruments to qualified institutional buyers, adding that the minimum allotment should be at least Rs 1 crore and that the minimum trading lot size should also be Rs 1 crore. Earlier this year, Yes Bank was dragged to the courts with writ petitions filed against it and others in the Bombay and Madras high courts with regard to the write down of these bonds in its rescue plan. The bank wrote down bonds worth Rs 8,415 crore, impacting retail investors that included senior citizens who alleged that the instruments were mis-sold to them. AT1 bonds are hybrid instruments with features of both equity and debt. The bonds offer high interest rates but run the risk of getting converted to ordinary shares or even be written-down if the  bank’s common equity tier 1  ratio falls below a threshold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Retail inflation check on policy rate cut||The newly constituted monetary policy committee — which has been packed with notable doves — is expected to keep the policy rates unchanged on Friday as retail inflation stubbornly hovers above 6 per cent, the outer bound of the RBI's tolerance limit. The meeting of the MPC from October 7 to October 9 was announced by the RBI on Tuesday not much later than the Centre’s midnight announcement of the panel’s three new independent members — Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide. Soon after the appointment of the trio, observers were looking at  their leanings  on rates: while Goyal is a dove, Varma may have a dovish tilt even as Bhide could be neutral. A note from Nomura said overall the new external members appear to be “more neutral-to-dovish” in their policy views. Nomura said they are likely to be vocal on liquidity, credit market dynamics and may not shy away from advocating unconventional or untested measures. “`They are likely to look through the current phase of elevated inflation and find space to lower rates further. In the previous external panel, Chetan Ghate was more hawkish; so the composition of the current MPC has turned incrementally more dovish, in our view,” Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi said. However, the note said, the members were inducted following considerable policy easing, which limits the scope to turn incrementally more dovish. It is largely felt MPC will leave the repo rate unchanged at four per cent and any cut is likely only in the next calendar year. However, there are others who expect a cut in December as inflation is likely to soften after September. Nomura sees RBI governor Shaktikanta Das and Goyal as the firm doves; Jayanth Varma may have a dovish tilt. On the other hand, Bhide and RBI executive director Mridul Saggar are seen as being neutral while deputy governor Michael Patra is having an hawkish tilt. “We do not believe the new appointments dramatically change the near-term monetary policy outlook,” said Rahul Bajoria, economist with Barclays. “We believe that room to cut rates further will likely open up only in Q1 2021.” All 66 respondents in a Reuters poll conducted ahead of the originally scheduled MPC meeting said they expect the repo rate to remain unchanged at 4 per cent and a large majority saw no cuts until the January-March quarter. The apex bank has so far slashed rates by 115 basis points in response to the Covid-19 pandemic since late March. The RBI however is expected for the first time since February provide guidance on how the economy is performing amid the coronavirus pandemic and give its outlook on inflation and growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Deep divide on GST payout||The Narendra Modi government on Tuesday ruled out a vote on the compensation issue while arguing that that borrowing by states did not require the approval of the GST Council. The government, which headed off a vote on the contentious issue at Monday’s meet after failing to rustle up the numbers, appeared to have changed its tactics as it sought break Opposition unity on an issue that has divided the Council that is due to meet again on October 12. States can borrow on the basis of future receipts of compensation, for which they do not need the GST Council's recommendation, finance ministry officials said. Borrowing is not under the council's jurisdiction; voting can only take place on issues that fall within its jurisdiction, they said. The officials said the council can only decide on the extension of cess beyond five years, and that was done on Monday. “The issue of borrowing by states is not something that comes within the jurisdiction of the GST Council,” officials said. “It has the jurisdiction to extend the levy of cess to compensate for the shortfall in the compensation. It has done that.  Now the ball rests in the court of individual states, not the GST council.” The officials pointed to Article 293 of the Constitution which “empowers each individual state to borrow”. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac has now said the states will have no choice but to move the Supreme Court if the Centre tries to push for the implementation of the first borrowing option that entitles states to borrow a sum of Rs 1.10 lakh crore from a cheap loan window. The Centre has refused to set up a dispute resolution mechanism — and therefore a petition before the apex court is the only way out. Article 279A (11) of the Constitution states that the GST Council can create a mechanism to resolve disputes between the central government and states or among two or more states. Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram in a series of tweets complimented the states that rejected the two options given by the Centre to bridge the gap in the GST compensation cess and asked them to stand firm at the next meeting of the GST council on October 12. The former finance minister said the states should not borrow as the liability to provide GST compensation as well as the onus to find resources fall on the Centre. “I compliment the 9-10 states that stood firm and rejected the two options given by the Centre to bridge the gap in the GST compensation cess. The liability to provide the GST compensation to the full extent falls on the Centre, as admitted by the FM. The onus of finding the resources also falls on it,” he said in his tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||India||NCW summons BJP politician for making offensive comments on Hathras victim||The NCW on Wednesday summoned BJP leader Ranjeet Srivastava for reportedly making offensive remarks against a 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. The National Commission for Women said it has sent a notice to Srivastava, asking him to appear before it on October 26 at 11 am to give an explanation. The commission tweeted, "@NCWIndia strongly condemns the offensive and defamatory remarks made by political leader #RanjeetSrivastava regarding the #Hathras victim. The Commission has sent him a notice directing him to appear before NCW on October 26th at 11 AM to give an explanation." NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said Srivastava is "not fit" to be called the leader of any party. "He is not fit to be called leader of any party. He is showing his primitive and sick mindset and I am going to send notice to him," Sharma earlier tweeted. According to media reports, Srivastava made offensive comments on the victim's character. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped in a Hathras village by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. She was cremated in the dead of the night, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in such an early hour. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The incident led to protests across the country with people from different sectors demanding justice for the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
07-10-2020||India||Workers in India facing severe stress, finds out Microsoft survey||Employees in India are facing increased burnout due to lack of separation between work and personal life as well as concerns of contracting Covid-19, a report said on Wednesday. According to Microsoft's latest Work Trend Index, that surveyed over 6,000 information and first-line workers across eight countries globally, India had the second highest percentage of workers facing increased burnout in Asia at 29 per cent. Moreover, India came out on top with over 41 per cent of workers citing the lack of separation between work and personal life as negatively impacting their well-being, resulting in increased stress levels, the report said. "In the last six months, we have seen how Covid-19 has created an era of remote anywhere. It has led to the evolution of a new workplace from a physical space to one residing in a virtual world," said Samik Roy, Country Head, Modern Work, Microsoft India. Roy further noted that "as businesses adapt to a new way of working, it is important to examine the multifaceted impact that the new working conditions are having on employees. This is helping us provide relevant and timely solutions to all our customers and users". The pandemic increased burnout at work, in some countries more than others. In India, 29 per cent of workers are experiencing increased burnout at work, owing to its increase in workday span by 1 hour. While, workers in Germany saw very little change to workday span or feelings of burnout, the report said. Data showed that, globally, even six months past the first work-from-home orders, people are in significantly more meetings, taking more ad hoc calls and managing more incoming chats than they did before the pandemic. "As people adjusted to remote working, after hours chats, or chats between 5 pm and midnight, have also increased," the report said. Further, for remote workers in Asia, no commute is hurting and not helping productivity, the report said adding that for years, Microsoft's research group has been studying how commute has helped maintain work-life boundaries and worker's productivity and well-being. Microsoft said a series of updates have been launched within Microsoft Teams to support employee wellbeing. These include a virtual commute experience that helps users prepare for the day and mindfully disconnect in the evening. Microsoft has also partnered with Headspace to bring a curated set of mindfulness and meditation experiences into the Teams platform and launched new Teams experiences for first-line workers to support them with the tools they need to work more safely. This Work Trend Index report looks at how the pandemic has impacted well-being at work globally. It studied how productivity patterns in Microsoft Teams have shifted since early this year and surveyed over 6,000 information and first-line workers in eight countries including Australia, Brazil, Germany, Japan, India, Singapore, the UK, and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely, says SC on Shaheen Bagh ||Occupying public places for protests is not acceptable and areas like Shaheen Bagh -- which had seen prolonged anti-CAA demonstrations starting December last year -- cannot be occupied "indefinitely", the Supreme Court held on Wednesday. It said protests should be at a designated place and any occupation of public places or roads by demonstrators, which cause inconvenience to a large number of people and violate their rights, is not permissible under law. The apex court also said that the authorities concerned should not hide behind courts and act on their own in such situations. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said balance has to be struck between the right to protest and other public rights like the right to movement. "Democracy and dissent go hand in hand," said the bench, also comprising Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari. It does not mean that the agitating people should adopt means and modes of protest that were used against colonial rulers, it said, adding that public places cannot be occupied "indefinitely" for protests like in the Shaheen Bagh case. The verdict came on a plea against the anti-CAA protests which had led to the blocking of a road in Shaheen Bagh here last December. Pronouncing the verdict via video conferencing, the bench said the authorities like Delhi Police ought to have taken action to clear Shaheen Bagh area from the protesters. The authorities have to act on their own and cannot hide behind courts in dealing with such a situation, it added. The verdict came on a plea of lawyer Amit Sahni against the blockade of a road in Shaheen Bagh area by persons protesting against the CAA which aimed to provide Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The top court had reserved its verdict in the case on September 21 by observing that there cannot be a "universal policy" on right to protest and possible curbs as also balancing it with acts like blocking of roads are needed because the situation may "vary" from case-to-case. Sahni had initially approached the Delhi High Court seeking directions to Delhi Police to ensure smooth traffic flow on the Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch, which was blocked by anti-CAA protesters on December 15. The high court had urged local authorities to deal with the situation keeping in mind law and order. Sahni then filed a special leave petition in the apex court against the high court's order. The plea had sought directions to the police to ensure smooth traffic flow on Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch. It had sought supervision of the situation in Shaheen Bagh, where several women are sitting on protest, by a retired Supreme Court judge or a sitting judge of the Delhi High Court in order to circumvent any violence. Restrictions were imposed on the Kaindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch and the Okhla underpass, which were closed on December 15 last year due to the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). However, later due to the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent protocol to deal with it, the protest area was cleared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Rhea steps out of Mumbai jail after almost a month||After spending 28 days in prison, actor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested in a drugs case related to her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput's death, was released on bail on Wednesday. Rhea stepped out of the Byculla prison here around 5.30 pm amid heavy police deployment, an official said. A police vehicle escorted her car as a large number of media persons had gathered outside the prison. Earlier in the day, the Bombay High Court granted her bail but rejected her brother Showik Chkraborty's bail plea. A bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal also granted bail to Rajput's aides Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda, but rejected the bail plea of Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty, who is also an accused in the case. The court also rejected the bail plea of alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and the other accused were arrested last month by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its probe into the drugs angle related to the case of Rajput's death. The HC, while granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty and two others, directed them to deposit their passports with the NCB and not to leave the country without permission of the special NDPS court. The HC asked Rhea to deposit a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and said she must visit the nearest police station at 11 am for the first 10 days after being released from judicial custody. It directed her not to leave Mumbai without the NCB's permission and to not tamper with evidence while out on bail. The HC also directed Rhea to visit the NCB office at 11 am on the first day of every month for next six months. All those who have been granted bail, including Rhea, will also have to seek permission of the NCB's investigating officer to go out of Mumbai, the court said. Rhea and her brother had approached the HC after their bail pleas were rejected by a special NDPS court here last month. Justice Sarang Kotwal said in his judgement that he had dealt with extensive questions on law vis-a-vis the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act during the arguments. He also refused to accept the NCB's request for a stay on his order to allow the agency to challenge the order. "I have already imposed very stringent conditions in the bail. If your appeal is accepted and the bail order is stayed then what prejudice will be caused to you?" the judge asked the NCB. Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said they were are delighted by the high court order. "Truth and justice have prevailed and ultimately the submissions on facts and law have been accepted by Justice Sarang V Kotwal," he said. The arrest and custody of Rhea was "totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law", Maneshinde said. "The hounding and witch-hunt by three central agencies--the CBI, ED and NCB --of Rhea should come to an end. We remain committed to truth," he said. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 this year. Following extensive hearings last week, the HC had closed all arguments and reserved its verdict on the pleas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||UP govt provides SIT 10 more days to complete Hathras probe||The UP government has given an additional 10 days to the three-member SIT investigating the alleged gang rape and killing of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras as the "probe is not complete", a senior official said Wednesday. The special investigation team, constituted on September 30 and led by Home Secretary Bhagwan Swarup, was initially given seven days to submit its report. But the UP government later sought a CBI probe into the case and the criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict it has suspected. On Tuesday, it told the Supreme Court it wanted an apex court-monitored CBI inquiry into the incident to ensure "no vested interests will be able to create fake, false narrative with oblique motives". "Yes...the time for submitting report for the SIT has been extended by 10 days," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. Asked about the reasons for the extension, he added, "The reason is one. The probe is not complete." The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family". The government has claimed that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the alleged rape of the woman by four "upper caste" men on September 14. Quoting an FSL report, it has denied the rape charge. Referring to 'recent' incidents , Chief Minister Adityanath has said that anarchist elements were trying to trigger communal and caste violence in the state. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in response to a PIL, the government said there have been "orchestrated efforts to malign the image of the government on social media by attributing baseless comments and building up a distorted narrative on the Hathras case . The woman died on September 29 of the grievous injuries she suffered during the assault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Probe sought into false ‘propaganda’||A team of women activists that visited the family of the Dalit teen who was gang-raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month demanded the suspension of the district magistrate in addition to the cops already benched, and also a probe into “diversionary propaganda”. The team that went to the victim’s village on Monday included Annie Raja, general secretary of the CPI’s National Federation of Indian Women; Poonam Kaushik, general secretary of the CPIML-New Democracy’s Pragatisheel Mahila Sangathan; and Shabnam Hashmi of Act Now for Harmony and Democracy, a civil rights group based in Delhi. In their report released on Tuesday, they said the village had a history of Dalit women being harassed by men from the dominant Thakur community. “The girls and women of Dalit families face harassment on a regular basis when they go out. One of the accused had in fact tried several times in the past six months to harass the deceased girl and as a result she had stopped going out alone… From the moment they took her to Hathras police station to her forced cremation, they faced intimidation, threats, manhandling (and) also allurement of money once the case became public. The family was particularly distraught at the atrocious manner in which the police cremated her without allowing any of the family members to take a last look,” the report said. They accused the Uttar Pradesh government and the BJP of spreading false information. “We note with grave concern and indignation that despite the deceased’s dying declaration and circumstantial evidence, various members of the ruling party and members of the dominant caste have started building a narrative that the victim was not raped. “The head of the BJP IT cell tweeted a video of the girl disclosing her identity, which violates the law, in an attempt to say that she was not raped…. The UP government has filed cases against those who organised protests against the brutal attack on the Dalit girl by men of high caste, and is now calling it an international conspiracy to malign the Yogi government and create caste riots in UP,” the report added. Besides iterating the demand for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resignation, a time-bound probe and protection of the family, the activists also sought the suspension of Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar under whose watch the forcible cremation took place. The team demanded “an enquiry into the role of all authorities, including public representatives, in denying justice”, and “that NHRC should investigate why all dissent is being criminalised”. The team also spoke to doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh where the girl had been admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Hathras incident horrible, shocking: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday termed as “shocking”, “horrible” and “extraordinary” the “gang rape” and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. The court directed the state government to explain measures undertaken to provide adequate protection to witnesses and facilitate a transparent investigation and trial. The court said it would “ensure” that the investigation into the case was “smooth” but indicated that since Allahabad High Court had already taken cognisance of the incident, it would examine the modalities that could be evolved for a free and fair trial, possibly under the high court. The apex court will hear the matter again next week. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a three-judge bench, asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government: “We want to know from you how the witnesses’ protection is being done… whether the victim’s family has chosen a lawyer.” Mehta told the court that protecting the witnesses was the bounden duty of the State, which had already been taken care of. “Ms Jaising is asking for witness protection but many people don’t know that the witnesses are already under protection,” Mehta said, referring to lawyer Indira Jaising. Jaising is among several lawyers who are appearing for separate petitioners who have sought a court-monitored CBI probe into the incident. Some of the petitioners have also sought transfer of the entire trial to Delhi. The Supreme Court bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, asked Mehta and other counsel about the status of the Allahabad High Court’s proceedings. The CJI said: “We want suggestions from you all on how we can widen the scope of the proceedings before the HC.” Mehta told the court that the state was not opposed to a CBI probe but the incident should not be sensationalised or politicised. “I am only praying that this court should supervise the probe,” he said. When some of the counsel for the PIL petitioners wanted to argue, Justice Bobde said: “…The case is indeed shocking and extraordinary”. But he questioned the locus standi of the petitioners to file petitions in a criminal case as only the State as the prosecution agency or the victim’s family can be heard. Later, the Congress accused the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh of running a massive cover-up operation, claiming that blatant lies were included in the affidavit to the Supreme Court. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev said: “Isn’t it mysterious that the PIL is not even listed, no notice was issued, but the Uttar Pradesh government files a 136-page affidavit? The affidavit is full of blatant lies. They have denied rape and claimed that cremation was done with full rituals in front of the family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Hathras child dies after rape in Aligarh kin home||A six-year-old Hathras girl who had allegedly been raped by a cousin and an accomplice at her aunt’s home in Aligarh, where she had been staying after the death of her mother, died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday after battling for life for 19 days. The girl had allegedly been raped and locked up in a bathroom at her aunt’s home in the Iglas area of Aligarh and was rescued by children who heard her cries while playing nearby. The crime and its aftermath resemble the case of the Dalit teen in Hathras who was gang-raped and murdered last month. In this case too, police have been accused of dithering in registering a case. The six-year-old girl had initially been taken to a local hospital and then shifted to JN Medical College in Aligarh and from there to Sarojini Naidu Medical College in Agra where she breathed her last. The medical report at the Aligarh medical college, from where she had been shifted to the Agra hospital on Sunday, has confirmed rape and found that the six-year-old had suffered vaginal damage. The local police in Aligarh registered a case on September 24, seven days after the crime, when the condition of the victim started to deteriorate. Her 15-year-old cousin has been arrested and sent to a remand home. Another accused, described as the main perpetrator by the girl’s family, and the victim’s aunt are absconding. Perhaps chastened by the widespread condemnation over its handling of the case of the Hathras teenager and a protest held on Tuesday amid the charged atmosphere in the district by the six-year-old’s family with her body, the police moved swiftly to suspend the station house officer of Iglas. Aligarh senior superintendent of police Muniraj G. said the cousin had confessed to his crime. The girl’s family sat on a dharna on Mathura Road near their village in the Sadabad area of Hathras for about five hours, demanding the arrest of the “main accused” and action against the police in Iglas. The girl’s father said: “Her aunt (mother’s sister) had taken her to her home in January after my wife died. A youth of that village and her son gang-raped my daughter and locked her up in a bathroom. Some children who were playing nearby heard her cries and rescued her. “Some members of (the NGO) ChildLine heard about the incident and admitted her to a local hospital the same evening (September 17). From there, she was shifted to Aligarh and then to Delhi, where she died on Tuesday morning.” He alleged that the police in Iglas had refused to register a complaint on September 17. “A case was registered against the aunt and her son when the police realised that my daughter could die. But the main accused is roaming freely in the village and I have told the police about him. I want the suspension of all the personnel at Iglas police station and the arrest of the main tormentor of my daughter,” he added. Muniraj, the Aligarh SSP, said: “Praveen Kumar Mann, the station house officer of Iglas, has been suspended because he didn’t take the complaint seriously. The accused has been arrested and sent to a remand home. The aunt is absconding. The government has announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for the family.” The officer said the family withdrew the dharna after the local administration assured them that the police would look into their allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Fault lies with raid on institutions: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday contested the popular perception that a weak Opposition allowed free run to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, pointing to a much bigger crisis of forcible capture of institutions that enabled the BJP’s dominance over India’s polity. Asked at a news conference in Patiala about the widespread belief that the Opposition’s weaknesses and absence of unity helped Modi despite his failures, Rahul said: “Opposition in any country functions within a framework. What is that framework? It is the press, the judicial system, and the institutions that protect the voice of the people. That entire framework has been captured.” Rahul added: “The entire architecture of giving voice to the people of India is captured and controlled by the BJP. If the entire institutional architecture is captured, then to say that the Opposition is weak…it doesn’t, that’s not really a correct statement. Give me a free press, give me institutions that are free and the government will not last.” Without elaborating on the role of judiciary any further, the former Congress president said: “I can give proof, clear-cut proof… for example, the Rafale deal. I can bring it to you but you won’t show it. At a certain level, frankly, you are also not doing your job. It is okay for you to blame the Opposition, to say that the Opposition is weak but you (media) are also walking into slavery.” Expressing his frustration over the role of the media, which he believes is a manifestation of institutional capture, Rahul said: “In any other country of the world, it is not possible that the media says nothing if 1,200sqkm of land is taken by another country. The girl is raped, her neck is broken… and the administration is attacking the family. This is forcible capture. If captured with affection, I will support it. But it is captured by force.” He persisted with his dismay over the media’s attitude when asked about the BJP’s criticism that he was sitting on a sofa placed on the tractor and his visits to trouble spots were part of political tourism. He burst out, “and no questions are asked when Modiji buys a plane worth Rs 8,000 crore. Because his friend Donald Trump has that plane, he also wants it. But if I am sitting on a tractor, somebody put a cushion on the seat, that’s an issue.” He added: “I do my job. I work with the people. Media and other institutions are captured and they won’t ask questions when MSMEs are destroyed, youth don’t get jobs. The youth will accept the reality one day. I am patient, I will wait for a while.” In response to another question, he said: “I am a person who instinctively feels against injustice, that’s what I have been, I was attacked when I fought for Land Acquisition Act. Niyamgiri, MGNREGA and now farm bills….I am standing with the people. My political path would have been easier had that not been in me. But that’s what I am.” To another question about the government and the BJP leaders making a mockery of his stand on farm laws, he said: “People will judge whose understanding is correct, I won’t say anything on that. When I warned of corona, they made fun of me. The Prime Minister said corona battle would be won in 21 days. When workers were walking home, dying on the way, Modiji didn’t utter a word. Now food security system is being destroyed. Wait for six months to see what happens. From notebandi to farm laws, all these decisions were taken to help Adani-Ambani. They have ordered Modi to clear the way for them.” He then gave the example of Chinese intrusion to question Modi’s credibility, saying: “Modi said India’s land has not been captured. 1,200sqkm has been captured. Ask any army general and he will tell you. China knows this man will give 1,200sqkm to protect his image. Modi lied to the country. Call the Prime Minister to a press conference and ask him. Why is he scared? He is interested in only his own image. He waves his hand in an empty tunnel. He knows the media is in control, no questions will be asked.” When pointed out that the BJP considers demonetisation, goods and services tax, lockdown and farm laws their achievements, the Congress leader shot back, “Don’t trust me, ask the MSMEs, small shopkeepers and farmers. Why are farmers protesting? Why doesn’t Modi come to Punjab and talk to farmers?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Festival advisory discourages choirs  ||The Union health ministry on Tuesday urged people 65 years or older, children 10 years or younger, people with underlying health disorders and pregnant women to stay away from public gatherings for worship, festivities, exhibitions, fairs, or rallies in the coming months. The ministry released a set of standard operating procedures for festivities that also prohibit any events within containment zones and call on all people living within containment zones to observe festivals inside their homes. The SOPs for festivities come amid a downward trend in daily new cases nationwide observed over the past two weeks, but lingering concerns that crowding during the upcoming festive season from October through December could trigger fresh surges in cases. India’s seven-day average daily new case count has fallen at a near-steady level from around 97,800 on September 16 to 77,100 on October 5. But health officials and medical experts are worried about a rise through crowding during festivals. Kerala’s daily counts increased since Onam. The rules discourage any choir or group singing, citing concerns about the risk of spread of the coronavirus. “As far as feasible, recorded devotional music or songs may be played and choir and singing groups should not be allowed,” the rules specify. Anecdotal evidence and scientific studies have pointed to singing as a significant source of spread of the virus. In one event in the US, 32 of 61 people who had attended a two-and-a-half hour choir session with one symptomatic person became infected. A Swedish study last month examining aerosol dispersion had shown through experiments that singing — particularly loud and consonant-rich singing — could spread droplets. The health ministry rules specify that face masks will be mandatory for all people in public places, individuals will need to maintain at least six feet from each other, and no one with any respiratory symptoms should be allowed into venues. The events’ organisers would need to arrange personal protective equipment such as face masks and hand sanitisers for staff, facilitate sufficient numbers of ticket counters to maintain physical distancing norms and make provisions for “contactless payments.” Organisers of exhibitions, fairs, puja mandals, Ramlila pandals, concerts and plays would need to ensure caps on the numbers of people entering the venue through staggered timings or restrictions on the number of entries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Herbal cocktails but trials still on ||The Centre on Tuesday released a protocol that prescribes specific dosages of herbal cocktails to prevent and treat the new coronavirus infection although clinical trials to assess their effect on Covid-19 are yet to be completed. The Union ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha, and homeopathy (Ayush) ministry has listed several remedies, including formulations based on ashwagandha, guduchi and a product called AYUSH 64, for the prevention or treatment of asymptomatic or mild Covid-19. The ministry said the recommendations had emerged from a panel of medical experts and were based on “knowledge from ayurveda classics and experience from clinical practice, empirical evidence and biological plausibility, and emerging trends of ongoing clinical studies”. The protocol lists traditional homemade remedies such as warm gargles, turmeric-laced milk and warm decoctions of spices. It also recommends 500mg ashwagandha, 500mg guduchi and 10gm chyavanaprash for preventive care and a mix of guduchi and pipali and AYUSH 64 for patients with asymptomatic or mild Covid-19. “These remedies should go along with standard precautions such as masks and physical distancing — they should not convey a false sense of security,” Ayush secretary Rajesh Kotecha said. “We believe based on accumulated evidence that these remedies will help in early cures.” Kotecha said the expert medical panel led by former Indian Council of Medical Research chief Vishwa Mohan Katoch had taken into account in-silico (on computer), experimental, clinical and safety studies done over the years in making the recommendations. There are 254 experimental and 30 clinical studies on ashwagandha showing its immuno-modulatory and anti-viral effects and five in-silico studies suggest that ashwagandha can block the entry of SARS-C0V-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, into human cells, Kotecha said. Similarly, he said, 38 clinical studies have already established the immuno-modulatory and anti-viral effects of guduchi, while 25 experimental studies and eight clinical studies have shown the potential benefits from AYUSH 64. The Ayush ministry had earlier this year initiated multiple clinical trials at sites across India to assess the efficacy of various Ayush remedies, including ashwagandha, guduchi and AYUSH 64, specifically against Covid-19. “We are also seeing positive trends from these ongoing trials,” Kotecha said. However, several principal investigators engaged in the trials told The Telegraph on Tuesday that the trials themselves or their data analysis was yet to be completed. Data from a nationwide trial by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences seeking to test the efficacy of guduchi as a preventive agent on around 30,000 people living in containment zones are still “under analysis”, a senior CCRAS official told this newspaper. The Ayush ministry has initiated six trials on AYUSH 64, of which one trial in Jamnagar, Gujarat, has been completed, the trials’ investigators said. The AYUSH 64 trials in Chandigarh, Delhi, Jodhpur, Hassan (Karnataka) and Ahmedabad are not complete yet, they said. Some medical experts have questioned the decision to recommend dosages without sufficient evidence. “None of the remedies listed in the protocol has proved their mettle through controlled trials,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. Kalantri questioned the absence of peer-reviewed published evidence demonstrating the magnitude of the benefits from each of the remedies. “We must note that a sick person may attribute symptomatic relief to an otherwise ineffective therapy due to the placebo effect or the natural recovery from the infection,” he said. Kalantri and other doctors cautioned that unproven health recommendations could lead to some individuals forgoing potentially effective treatment such as dexamethasone. “In waiting, they may lose the opportunity to obtain timely treatments,” he said. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of modern medicine doctors, has also questioned what it has described as the government’s effort to introduce traditional systems of medicine into Covid-19 treatment without adequate evidence of their efficacy. “Science should be based on double-blind controlled clinical trials,” said R.V. Asokan, secretary-general of the IMA. “It is for the claimants to bring evidence of credibility.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Plea to SC on held journalist||One of the four persons arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on Monday night while they were on their way to Hathras and accused of instigating communal violence is a journalist who had been travelling to the district to meet the family of the rape-and-murder victim, a journalists’ association has said. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Tuesday filed a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court against the arrest of Sidhique Kappan, saying the move was illegal and unconstitutional. The association has sought his immediate production and release from “illegal detention”. Uttar Pradesh police on Monday night arrested four persons — identified as Sidhique Kappan of Malappuram, Masood Ahmad of Bahraich, Atiq-ur-Rahman of Muzaffarnagar and Mohammad Alam of Rampur — and said they were members of the Popular Front of India. The PFI is a Right-wing Muslim outfit on which the Uttar Pradesh government had sought a ban in the aftermath of the protests against the new citizenship regime earlier this year. The PFI, too, has said Kappan is not a member of the outfit. The PFI has often landed in controversies in Kerala and Karnataka too. Prashant Kumar, the additional director-general of police of Uttar Pradesh, had said on Monday that the four arrested persons were PFI members who had instigated communal violence through social media and other means over the Hathras tragedy. “The police arrested four members of the PFI from the Manth toll booth in Mathura district while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi. They are involved in hatching a conspiracy to instigate communal and casteist violence,” Kumar had said. However, after the KUWJ said on Tuesday that Kappan was a journalist, Mathura rural police superintendent Shirish Chandra accepted that this could be true. “We have seized their mobiles and laptops and are investigating their role. We have recovered some dubious literature from them. But we have also come to know that one of them is a journalist,” Chandra said. He said the four had been booked under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The section allows “a police officer knowing of a design to commit any cognisable offence may arrest, without orders from a magistrate and without a warrant, the person so designing, if it appears to such officer that the commission of the offence cannot be otherwise prevented”. Earlier in the day, KUWJ president Miji Jose wrote to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath mentioning that Kappan was the union’s Delhi unit secretary. According to Jose, Kappan has worked for several media houses and is currently associated with a news website. He was going to Hathras to cover the gang rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit teen and meet her family. The Uttar Pradesh government has dealt with protests against the atrocity and the police’s mishandling of the case with an iron hand, with cops assaulting politicians and civilians alike and also allegedly harassing the victim’s relatives and showing extreme insensitivity by burning her body after locking up her parents. “Our efforts and the efforts by some advocates based in Delhi to contact him (Kappan) were not successful…. Kappan was trying to do his duty as a reporter. We urge you to get him released at the earliest,” Jose wrote in the letter to Adityanath, whose police had also stopped the media from covering the Hathras crime for days. Jose said in a text message to The Telegraph: “Spoke to SP Rural, Mathura Shirish Chandra. He said (Kappan) charged only under 151 CrPC. No other charge. Bail can be taken from concerned Sub Divisional Magistrate’s court.” In its plea to the Supreme Court, the KUWJ has stated that the arrest had been made in violation of the mandatory guidelines laid down by the apex court and with the sole intention of obstructing the discharge of duty by a journalist. The petition alleged that Kappan’s family and colleagues had not been informed of the arrest. “The ultimate test of democracy lies in the ‘freedom of speech and expression’. The media is the breath of democracy. Denial of access of the journalists to the place of news seriously connected with the dignified life of citizens for reporting is a gross violation of Article 14 (right to equality), 19(1)(g) (free speech) and Article 21 (life and liberty) of the Constitution,” the petition filed through advocate Shweta Garg stated. “The present writ petition is confined to facilitate a dignified democratic working atmosphere according to the letter and spirit and philosophy of the Constitution of India, for the members of the petitioner who are all working journalists, including access to Hathras and for the immediate release of Mr Sidhique Kappan, a journalist with more than 10 years’ experience, presently working with the news portal www.azhimukham.com, and member of the petitioner union,” the petition, which is yet to be listed for formal hearing, added. The PFI has denied the allegations levelled against the outfit and its arrested members. Anis Ahmed, the PFI general secretary, said in a video message: “We can see that the police and the government are spreading the rumour after the arrest of those four that the PFI is instigating communal and casteist violence. It is an unfounded and childish allegation. It makes clear that the government of UP is diverting the focus from the real issue.” Ahmed said two of the four arrested persons — Atiq-ur-Rahman and Mohammad Alam — were national and state leaders of the Campus Front of India, a students’ organisation affiliated to the PFI. Anis Ahmed said Kappan was a journalist, and did not refer to Masood Ahmad at all. A source claimed that Masood was a student of Jamia Millia Islamia university. “The question arises whether an intention to meet the family members of the victim is a crime. It is clear that the UP government is dragging the name of the PFI into this to hide its failed law-and-order machinery and to save itself from the anger of the people, which is visible across UP and India,” Anis Ahmed said. “They (the state government) are saying that a conspiracy is going on to malign the image of UP and Yogi. It is public knowledge that the Yogi government’s image is already very poor across the world. So, making an allegation against the PFI is baseless. The PFI condemns the arrest as it is the peoples’ democratic right to meet anybody and protest,” he added. “The PFI condemns the action and demands the immediate release of the journalist and the others.” Mohammad Shamoon, a PFI spokesperson, told this newspaper that they would weigh legal options if the four were not released soon. Bahujan Samaj Party chief and former chief minister Mayawati ridiculed the Uttar Pradesh government and wondered whether the allegation that Opposition parties were instigating casteist and communal strife over the Hathras tragedy was “genuine or political manoeuvring”. “Time will tell whether the allegation is genuine or is political manoeuvring. The government should focus on ensuring justice to the family of the Hathras victim,” Mayawati said. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said: “We have a communal government in UP that is trying to protect the criminals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||City link to Nobel winner   ||Amalkumar Raychaudhuri, a young teacher at Calcutta’s Ashutosh College in 1955, had developed a mathematical formulation that served as an elegant basis for the research by British physicist Roger Penrose a decade later that brought him the Nobel Prize on Tuesday. The Calcutta physicist’s formulation, known as the Raychaudhuri equation, sought to quantify certain but tricky aspects of geometry with widespread use in Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity, essentially a geometric description of distortions and bends in space and time. Penrose teamed up with the celebrated late British physicist Stephen Hawking and used the Raychaudhuri equation for a mathematical description of black holes — objects with such intense gravitational pulls that not even light escapes them — and singularities, extreme situations where laws of nature break down. It is for these singularity theorems that the Nobel committee awarded Penrose the prize, citing that he showed that “…at their heart, black holes hide a singularity in which all known laws of nature cease”. Without Raychaudhuri’s formalism, and Hawking’s early work connecting it to black holes, this work of Penrose may have not happened at all. When I was a student at Oxford in the mid-eighties, Penrose and Hawking had still been working on some aspects of these ideas. Penrose, as a mathematics professor, had also been working on various other forms of mathematics. I once knocked on the door of Penrose, together with one of his students, to ask whether I could attend his course on Spinors, the theory of which he was then developing. He had company, but in addition to saying yes, he asked where I was from. When I mentioned I had come from Presidency College in Calcutta, he asked whether I was related to THE Raychaudhuri. I nodded, and said that while he was no relation, he was of course the head of my undergraduate department, and that Amalkumar Raychaudhuri had indeed taught us mathematical physics in the first year, and electromagnetism in the second. On the side, he had taught us general relativity, which wasn’t in our syllabus. The other person in the room, who introduced himself as Stephen Hawking (in his own voice still), said that I had been fortunate to have been taught by AKR himself, and that they hoped to meet him one day. Later on, of course, as a PhD student in Cambridge, I attended several courses given by Hawking, and I continued to meet Penrose, including several times in Pune. Lord Martin Rees, another of my gurus from Cambridge, has rightly said today: “There would be a consensus that Penrose and Hawking have done more than anyone else since Einstein to deepen our knowledge of gravity. Sadly, this Nobel award was too much delayed to allow Hawking to share the credit.” Somak Raychaudhury is the director of the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pune||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||You don’t have to be PM to be a leader||Saturday: Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes a ride in the mint-fresh Atal Tunnel in Rohtang, igniting possibly the biggest online manhunt in recent memory to find out who he was waving at in what looked like an empty passageway. The same day, a policeman grabs Priyanka Gandhi Vadra by her kurta, and the following day, Noida police apologise to her. In between, the manners nannies on social media cock their ears and catch an “untimely” giggle from inside the car that was ferrying Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi to the home of the brutalised and murdered girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Sunday: Rahul takes a tractor ride in Punjab as part of the farm law protests, prompting a hawk-eyed Smriti Irani to ridicule him as a “VIP kisan” who “uses a sofa to sit on a tractor”. Tuesday: If the entire institutional architecture is captured, then to say that the Opposition is weak…. That’s not really a correct statement. Give me a free press, give me institutions that are free and the government will not last, says Rahul. Under the radar and away from the ruthless scrutiny usually reserved for those in power in many parts of the world but not in India, others have been spotting in these very same events something that has largely been missed or deliberately ignored by a large section of the mainstream media in the country. These few, perhaps very few, band of brothers, probably unknown to one another, are saying that what they have seen over the weekend is making them want to believe in Rahul Gandhi, who the Right wing goes out of its way to portray as a loser and worse. Some have been moved enough to write down their thoughts in black and white or lend their voice to such sentiments. What is remarkable is that there is no general election in sight, there is no one talking about the possibility of any change of guard in the next four years and there is still no pronounced articulation that the majority of Indians want any change. No one seems to be more aware of the ground reality than these admirers whose feet appear to be firmly planted on the ground. “Now it does not matter to me whether the INC (the Congress) forms any government or not, whether Rahul Gandhi becomes Prime Minister or not. As long as he is in the public domain fighting for the common Indian, it’s enough. My country will still have hope, humanity and a future,” wrote a Twitter user with the handle Solitary Shadow and who describes himself or herself as “in a desolate world, a lone soul”. The Twitter user says the picture of Rahul, hand on the knee of a stricken relative of the Hathras victim and head bowed, changed everything for a person who never followed politics. “This was an image which shook me to the core,” the tweeter writes. “Whether the whole event was politically motivated or a photo opportunity…, I no longer care.” The person adds: “But for me, this was the image of just not that day, but of a lifetime. "This is a man sitting in front of the father of a helpless girl, brutally raped, illegally burned, denied not just justice but also dignity, even in death. "This is a man burdened with guilt of all humanity, shouting silently with his body posture for not being able to save her. "This is a man asking for forgiveness from the father subjected to such a huge loss, injustice and torture… without uttering a single word. "…All his actions now reveal deeper meanings and the course he's charted becomes clear." The tweeter then says it does not matter whether Rahul becomes Prime Minister and concludes: "And so, I turned into a believer." Indignant Right-wingers are certain to claim such tweeters are paid lackeys or stooges. But the fact remains that rarely has such words been written about an Opposition leader who does not seem any closer to power than he was six years ago. Cut to Kerala in the south, where a community leader penned a note on what it meant for the country when Rahul was roughed up and pushed down on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on Thursday. As MP, Rahul represents Kerala's Wayanad. "Fascist police shoved and pushed down not just a man called Rahul but the psyche of democratic India that questions injustice," wrote Basheer Faizy Deshamangalam, 42, chairman of Maneesha, the cultural wing of Samastha Kerala Jamiyathul Ulama, an influential Sunni body. "This is not a political analysis to gauge the sincerity behind that effort. But, in the darkness, it is a silver lining that this man has become at least a symbol of those embracing marginalised lives. That young, sobbing Rahul who witnessed the passing of his grandmother and father has now grown as tall as our expectations," he wrote on Facebook. Deshamangalam later told The Telegraph that he was touched by the manner in which Rahul, accompanied by Priyanka, defied the odds and ensured that they visited the Hathras family. "The whole thing might backfire on him politically since UP and the rest of the northern belt are dominated by upper-caste politics. Even then, he took it up as a humanitarian issue," said Deshamangalam, who often comments on issues related to communal harmony. Deshamangalam added in his note: "When Fascism dances without a care, this young man symbolises hope. At least let the citizens glimpse in that hope the promised dawn." The note points out that "Rahul has been the butt of a lot of ridicule, then as well as now". But "those who joined the chorus did not realise how dangerous a game they had become a part of." The note does not lose sight of what many feel are Congress home truths. "You soldier on, more or less like the commander of a one-man army. It cannot be denied that those willing to fight by your side are not numerous. Even if you lay bleeding in the battlefield, your defeat was an honourable one," Deshamangalam writes. Asked about this, he said: "I regret to say that many in the Congress have not kept pace with Rahul Gandhi. I am afraid Rahul is riding the turbulent waves without much support from his own party. The Congress didn't even mount a decent protest in Kerala after Rahul was pushed down by UP policemen." "The Congress has indeed made mistakes. But please do not destroy our last hope by piling relentlessly on his shoulders the baggage of mistakes. Not because he is perfect but because he is the best possible in India, democratic India should step forward to strengthen his arms and fight the battle led by him," Deshamangalam wrote. The post was quickly converted into a YouTube video narration, albeit without the knowledge of its author. Shihab Faizi, who recently graduated from an Arabic college in Kerala, lent his moving voice and soothing tone to narrate the Facebook post by Deshamangalam "since I thought it needed to reach many more". "I was more than willing to lend my voice when my friend Mohammed (who runs a YouTube channel named Hanan Media) asked me to. At least, that way we did our bit to make it more popular," Faizi told this newspaper. On Tuesday, Rahul himself explained why he thinks he is often at the receiving end. Asked why Punjabis should trust him, Rahul, who is leading a protest against the farm laws, said: "Look at my actions, you will see that I am a person who, when I see some injustice is done, I feel for that person instinctively. If you see one strong man beating a weak man, automatically I am on the side of the weak. In fact, this is why I get beaten up so much in politics. I am also thinking to myself, why. But I have that inside me. "If I feel injustice is being done to Punjab I will stand for Punjab, no matter what. If I feel injustice is being done to a Dalit girl in UP, I will go there, I will take two-three lathis, no problem. That is my nature, that is what I have been taught. I don't know any other way."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||BJP tries to pacify Nitish Kumar||The BJP queered the pitch for ally Lok Janshakti Party on Tuesday by asserting that only those parties which accept the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar can stay in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar. Senior leaders of the BJP also revealed a plan to write to the Election Commission to ensure that only NDA members could use the picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi while campaigning for the Assembly elections. However, apart from issuing the threat, the party that leads the NDA government at the Centre in which LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan is a minister, stopped short of criticising his son Chirag, who is on a warpath with Nitish. Neither did the BJP talk about any punitive action against the LJP, adding more to the prevailing confusion and lending credence to some secret pact between the two parties to undermine Nitish. The BJP iterated an unbreakable alliance with Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and contended that he was the chief ministerial candidate irrespective of the poll results. Senior BJP leader and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi declared that there were “no ifs and buts” about it. “Our alliance (BJP-JDU) is unbreakable. We are contesting the polls together. Nitish will be the chief minister irrespective of which party wins more seats or less. Our leaders Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have made their stand on Nitish clear at least a dozen times,” Sushil said. Nitish declared that he did not pay attention to undue criticism by others and that people had freedom to speak. “Nitish was angry over the recent developments. He might have refused to come to the announcement of the seat-sharing deal. Our leaders had to assure him that they would clarify on the situation and the matter was diffused,” a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||Grief pours for Mulayam after namesake dies||Tweets from the Samajwadi Party’s official handle announcing the death of a namesake of Mulayam Singh Yadav without properly clarifying the identity fuelled rumours that the Uttar Pradesh stalwart and former chief minister had passed away, triggering a blizzard of condolence messages and even a Wikipedia update. On Monday afternoon, after many hours of confusion, former chief minister Mulayam’s daughter-in-law cleared the air by saying that the leader was alive and healthy. “By the grace of god, our affectionate Netaji, Mulayam Singh Yadav, is healthy,” Aparna tweeted at 1.10pm. Mulayam, 80, is said to be ailing for some time because of complications arising out of a urinary tract infection. He is reported to be at home. Around 9pm on Sunday, the official Twitter handle of the Samajwadi Party had tweeted: “Veteran Samajwadi Party leader and Member of Legislative Council Mulayam Singh Yadav has passed away. Mulayam, 92, breathed his last at his native village in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district around 9pm on Saturday. His last rites were performed on Sunday.” The social media handlers of the party, however, appeared oblivious to the potential of such a message being misunderstood, given that the leader who had died shared his name with the Samajwadi Party founder and three-time chief minister. Also, rumours had already been rife after a private individual had uploaded a similar message thin on specifics on Sunday. Soon after the Samajwadi Party’s, social media users and former chief minister Mulayam’s supporters began paying tribute to him on Twitter and Facebook. Wikipedia, where users can update information, for a brief period mentioned the veteran leader’s death day as October 3, 2020. However, the social media accounts of the Samajwadi Party made no attempt to clear the air. Another message posted on the party’s official Twitter handle at 3.53pm on Monday read: “Senior Samajwadi leader of Auraiya and former MLC Sri Mulayam Singh Yadav has died. Condolence to the bereaved family. May God give peace to the departed soul and strength to the family.” Yet another message, at 5.19pm, said: “Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav has offered his condolences on the demise of Mulayam Singh Yadav, who breathed his last in his ancestral village.” Akhilesh is the son of Samajwadi founder Mulayam, who had also been the country’s defence minister in the United Front government from 1996 to 1998. Incidentally, the Mulayam who passed away had been close to former chief minister Mulayam, the Mainpuri MP who traces his roots to Etawah. The Samajwadi messages also erred in its mention of the deceased Mulayam’s constitutional designation — he was a former MLC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||Sikkim sticks to tourism unlock||The Sikkim government has decided to go ahead with the unlocking of tourism in the state from October 10 despite a bar on the entry of tourists imposed by the local bodies of many popular destinations like Lachung in North Sikkim. Kapil Meena, the director-cum-additional secretary of Sikkim’s tourism and civil aviation department, said the first phase of unlocking would commence from October 10 as announced earlier. “The tourism sector in Sikkim will reopen from October 10. The date is final and decided. No changes in the date. Plus the guidelines have been finalised,” he said. In the first phase, only domestic tourists and foreigners residing in the country would be allowed to enter Sikkim. “The foreigners will have to have valid documents. They must have valid visas and inner-line permits. If they have proper documents and are residing within India, and not coming from other countries, they would be allowed to visit Sikkim,” Meena said. Over 14 lakh domestic tourists and nearly 1.5 lakh foreign tourists had visited the Himalayan state in 2019, which is about two-and-a-half times more than the close to seven lakh population of Sikkim. Sikkim was the first state in the country to shut down tourism completely in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak. It had barred the entry of foreign tourists on March 5 and domestic visitors on March 17. It had also restricted the inter-state movement of people before lifting the bar from October 1. Unlike in the past, tourists cannot enter the state at random. They must first register online with the Sikkim tourism department and also must have tested negative for Covid-19 at least 72 hours before setting foot on the state’s soil. “Once a tourist register’s on the web portal, a travel card will be generated. This travel card will be like an identification document. The cards will have to be shown at the check-posts and even hotels,” he said. According to guidelines, hotels, lodges and homestays would also have to register with the tourism department. “Only those hotels and other accommodation units that have registered on the tourism website will be allowed to operate. This will help the tourism department in monitoring the arrival and movements of tourists,” said Meena. The tourism official also said over 1,100 hotels and about 50 tourists had already registered with the department till Tuesday afternoon. Tourists wouldn’t, however, be allowed to visit many hotspots, including Lachung in North Sikkim and Yuksom in West Sikkim, since local bodies had imposed a ban on the entry of any visitor for various lengths of time because of Covid-19 fears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||Cry to reopen Puri temple  ||A section of servitors of the 12th Century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri on Tuesday demonstrated before the shrine demanding its reopening for the general public. They said that closure of the temple in the wake of corona pandemic has ruined them financially and they were facing a livelihood problem. “Unlock process has already started in the country and many religious institutions have been  opened. Then why the delay in reopening this temple? Many servitors are struggling to arrange two square meals a day. They also have medical expenses. How will we survive if the temple remains closed?” said senior servitor Damodar Mahasaura. On being pointed out that the temple was  giving them a monthly allowance of Rs 5000, Mahasaura said: “How can one run a family on  Rs 5000?   The families of servitors depend on the donations of devotees. If they don’t come, we will not be able to sustain our families.” The servitors demanded that devotees should be allowed into the shrine with strict adherence to the Covid guidelines. “Only 50 devotees should be allowed at a time into the temple. They should be asked to go in a queue maintaining required physical distance,” he said. However, several servitors opposed the idea of opening  the temple. “We have lost around 8 servitors. More than 600 servitors are in home isolation. The corona pandemic is at its peak. In winter, the situation may get worse. We should not take any risk,” a senior servitor told The Telegraph. “The administration is not in favour of opening of the temple till the end of November. According to government directives the temple will remain closed till October 31,” said a senior official of the temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||West Bengal||GJM raises Gorkhaland demand at meeting with Union minister ||A delegation of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) met Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday and demanded the creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland comprising Darjeeling and its adjoining areas in Bengal. The GJM team came to the national capital to participate in a tripartite meeting convened by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to discuss "issues related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)", officials said. However, no representative of the Bengal government attended the meeting, they added. GJM working president Lopsang Lama said they did not discuss the GTA, but submitted a memorandum demanding the creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland. "We have not discussed anything about the GTA. We have submitted a memorandum on how and why the GTA has failed. The GTA is not working. Our only demand is a Gorkhaland state and we have raised that," Lama told reporters after the meeting. He also said the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had promised in its poll manifesto that it would find a political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. GJM leader Kalyan Dewan said the Union minister gave them a patient hearing and assured them that the dialogue on their demands would continue. Later, in a statement, Lama said the seven-member delegation raised the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland and grant of ST status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. "When the issue of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration was raised, the GJM delegation submitted that the delegation was there to discuss the statehood demand and grant of Scheduled Tribe status and not the GTA since the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the Union of India, government of Bengal and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2011 was not honoured by the State of Bengal," the statement said. The memorandum submitted by the GJM delegation mentioned about the alleged "irregularities, interferences and obstacles committed by the state government, thereby rendering the GTA defunct". The GJM said, moreover, all the elected members of the GTA had resigned en masse in 2017, rejecting the said body. The delegation further submitted on the issue of Gorkhaland being the oldest statehood demand in the country and presented various materials supporting it, the statement said. "The hon'ble minister, after giving a patient audience, assured the delegation that the government would consider all the materials presented before it and announce the next meeting after speaking with the Hon'ble Union Home Minister Amit Shah and briefing him about the contents of today's meeting," it added. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and other senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Ex-gratia & job for kin of Maoist victims||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced that the Bengal government would provide the job of a special home guard and compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of those who had been kidnapped by Maoists in Jungle Mahal districts and remained untraced for the past 10 years. The announcement fulfils a long-standing demand of the families who had been victims of Maoist terror that had gripped vast stretches of Jungle Mahal districts in the last few years of the Left Front government before Mamata took over as chief minister in 2011. The move is seen as Mamata’s attempt to reach out to the crucial Jungle Mahal voters who had not been kind to the Trinamul Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had bagged five out of the six Lok Sabha seats and Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP in 31 of 40 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal districts in 2019. “Several people in the Jungle Mahal had been kidnapped by Maoists and remained untraced even after 10 years. The government will provide Rs 4 lakh in compensation and a job as special home guard to a family member of such a person,” said the chief minister during her administrative meeting in West Midnapore’s Kharagpur on Tuesday. Sources said a similar compensation package would be given to the family members of those killed by the Maoists in the state in keeping with a promise by the chief minister. At an administrative meeting of Mamata in Kharagpur on Tuesday, family members of four persons killed by Maoists were given cheques for Rs 4 lakh each and letters appointing them as special home guard in police. Sources have said there are around 1,300 persons, mostly CPM workers and leaders, who were either killed or kidnapped by the Maoists since 2009 in four Jungle Mahaldistricts — West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura. The families of the victims had formed the Shahid Paribar Joutha Mancha last year and started a movement demanding compensation from the government. The leaders of the platform said they had a record of 102 persons who had been kidnapped by Maoists and remained missing. “As these families of Maoist terror did not get compensation, they voted against us. Many of these families had even voted for the BJP to teach us a lesson. The decision to compensate the families of Maoist terror will help pacify their anger against us ahead of the Assembly polls,” said a Trinamul leader in Bankura. Uday Singha, president of the platform for families of Maoist victims in West Midnapore, said: “It is a victory for us as four persons were given compensation on Tuesday. The family members of all those killed by the Maoists will also receive similar compensation. We are very happy with the chief minister’s announcement.” Farm labourer and resident of Bankura’s Sarenga Bhairav Rana’s mother Chunipala Rana, who was a CPM supporter, was kidnapped by Maoists in 2010. She remains untraced till Tuesday. “We were waiting for years to get the compensation and I am happy that finally the chief minister has understood our problem,” said Rana. The platform was about to launch a movement next week in all the four Jungle Mahal districts ahead of Durga Puja to push their demand. “We had already planned to launch our protest from next week in support of our demand. The announcement has been made but we want to see how long the government takes to implement it,” said Bidhan Duley, the Bankura president of the outfit. That the Jungle Mahal districts are on Mamata’s priority list became clear with the chief minister promoting 4,284 junior constables to control Maoist activities to the post of constables on Tuesday. “We are promoting those junior constables who were appointed to combat the Maoists in Jungle Mahal districts and have completed five years in service. The 4,284 junior constables will be promoted as constables,” she said. Police sources said the junior constables were the local youths of Jungle Mahal districts and had been recruited after Trinamul came in power. Mamata also announced on Tuesday that a family member of those persons killed in elephant attacks, mainly in the Jungle Mahal districts and north Bengal, would get government jobs as a home guard. “We have decided that we will provide a job as special home guard to a family member of a person killed in elephant attack. The incidents of deaths by elephants takes place in Jhargram, West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and in a few north Bengal districts,” said the chief minister. Sources in the forest department have said around 30 persons are killed every year in jumbo attacks in the districts of Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Land rights for refugee families||The Mamata Banerjee government has started regularising refugee colonies on central government land by offering freehold rights to those living on the plots for more than 40 years. The move is likely to settle the citizenship problem of lakhs of people who crossed over to Bengal from neighbouring Bangladesh. During an administrative review meeting of West Midnapore district in Kharagpur on Tuesday afternoon, the chief minister herself announced that the process of giving the freehold land rights had already started. “We have started the process... But it will take some time for people to get the papers,” said Mamata The move, Trinamul insiders said, would help the ruling party in the forthcoming Assembly polls. First, this will help Trinamul establish that the party has done something positive for people living in refugee colonies, said a Bengal minister. “Second, we would be able to counter the BJP’s Citizenship Amendment Act-based campaign as the freehold rights of land would establish the residents’ citizenship and they would not require any other paper,” the minister added. Recently, the land and land reforms secretary, Manoj Pant, had issued an order to grant freehold land rights to those possessing plots in 119 refugee colonies, many of which are on central government land, across the state. “After the state cabinet cleared a proposal on September 3, the process of giving freehold rights to the possessors occupying land in 119 colonies has begun. Of these, 40-odd colonies were set up on central government land. Remaining were set up on state government and private land. Similar initiative would be taken for the remaining colonies set up on central government land,” said a senior state government official. The move by the state government would help 11,986 families living on 973 acres of land spread across 237 refugee colonies set up on central government land. The initiative to give freehold rights to the residents of refugee colonies holds special significance amid questions on whether the state can regularise the colonies set up on the Union government’s land unless the Centre relinquishes the land to the state. “We had communicated to the railway authorities seeking permission to give freehold rights to the residents of colonies set up on the land of the central utility. But as we did not get any response from the central agency, we have started giving freehold rights to the residents of these colonies,” the official said. A section of the senior government officials explained that as the residents had been living on the plots for over 40 years, there would be no legal hassle if they were given freehold rights. Moreover, officials said there were permanent structures on the plots and it was not possible for any agency to demolish all such structures and evict the occupants. “So, it is assumed that no central agency would try to oppose the move of giving complete legal rights of land to the occupants. In case any agencies move to the court, the occupants would now have some documents in the form of freehold rights issued by the state to establish their claims in the court,” said another bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||3 arrested over Shukla’s murder||The Criminal Investigation Department on Tuesday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla and said the killing was possibly the fallout of a personal rivalry. The father of the deceased lodged an FIR holding two Trinamul leaders from Titagarh and Barrackpore responsible for his Shukla’s death. Mohammed Khurram and Seikh Gulab were arrested after a team of investigators scanned CCTV grabs of the incident and then started a search for two motorcycles that the alleged assailants had used on the night of October 4. One was a Bajaj Pulsar and the other, a Royal Enfield. Shukla had been gunned down on October 4 night. After several rounds of interrogation, the police learnt that Khurram and Shukla had been at loggerheads ever since the former’s father had been killed and the latter was named as one of the accused. Investigating officers said the murder was a fallout of an old rivalry between the two and Khurram had been planning the revenge for long. “There are reasons to believe the assailants had roamed the area several times over the last few weeks and were aware of the time Shukla would usually visit the BJP office in Titagarh,” said a police officer. “They also had specific tip-off that Shukla’s bodyguard was not around for almost a week and he had been moving around unarmed ever since the police had seized his revolver claiming it had a fake license,” added the officer. A Titagarh-based businessman, Khurram, the police said, had hired Gulab for the murder. Nazir Khan, the third man to be arrested, was also a close associate of Khurram. The preliminary post-mortem report said Manish had 14 injury marks on the body. Out of these, four bullets were lodged in his head, neck, throat and chest. Rest had pierced his body. “We are still looking for a few others who may be involved in this case,” said a senior CID officer. “But primarily, this doesn’t appear to be a case of political murder.” Manish’s family, however, were not satisfied with the arrests and the claims made by the police. On Tuesday, Shukla’s father Chantra Mani, a doctor, lodged an FIR with the Titagarh police holding Uttam Das and Prasanta Chowdhury, the immediate past chairmen of Barrackpore and Titagarh municipalities, and Trinamul trade union leader Rajendra Yadav as the key conspirators in his son’s murder. “I have reasons to suspect these three behind Manish’s murder. He had told me on several occasions that three were creating trouble for him and were egging on others to harass him,” Chantra Mani told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The Trinamul leaders rejected the charges. They said it was a ploy by the BJP to tarnish Trinamul’s image ahead of the Assembly elections. “It is a political conspiracy hatched by the BJP. Their local MP Arjun Singh has used his clout to convince Manish’s father to name us in the FIR to tarnish our image,” Das said. Singh, the BJP MP from Barrackpore, said his party would move the high court demanding a CBI probe into the murder. Singh reiterated his claim that sophisticated arms, which are usually used by the police, were used to kill Shukla. Shukla was known for his proximity to Singh. “How can we trust the CID investigation when we have proof that the CID officers are behind the planning and execution of Shukla’s murder,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Expectations  low on GTA meeting||The tripartite talks convened by the Centre on Wednesday are most likely to end in a whimper after the change in the meeting’s agenda from Gorkhaland to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha is expected to attend the meeting, unless there is a last-minute change. But sources in the Gurung faction said they would attend the talks “not to discuss the GTA” but to seek a dialogue on Gorkhaland. “The stand, even by Gurung’s faction, is indicative of the ground feeling of being let down by the BJP, which has won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seats consecutively since 2009,” said an observer. The Bengal government is also likely to skip the talks. The GNLF and CPRM, allies of the BJP, which were planning to attend the meeting, decided to stay away because of the change in agenda. “With the change in the agenda, there is no question of attending the meeting. We have instead called a central committee meeting of our party in Darjeeling tomorrow (Wednesday),” said Mahendra Chettri, GNLF general secretary. Some optimist voices in the hills, however, were of the opinion that “the issue of dissolving the GTA , which would pave the way for discussion on statehood, could well be discussed at the meeting.” But the observer said: “The GTA had been formed under an act passed by the Bengal assembly. It can never be dissolved at a meeting where neither the state nor GTA officials are present.” On Tuesday, Trinamul organised a rally in Siliguri against the tripartite talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Court orders removal of jail head||A court here on Monday ordered the home department to remove the superintendent of Calcutta’s Presidency Jail from duty for failing to present before the court an accused in a deposit mobilisation fraud on October 3. The order was issued by additional district and sessions judge of Tamluk (third court) Mou Chatterjee. The accused is Manoranjan Roy, the managing director of now-defunct Pincon Spirits, a firm based in Calcutta. The ruling was in connection with a judgment passed on October 3 sentencing eight officials of Pincon Spirits to life imprisonment for duping investors of over Rs 864 crore across 21 states, including Bengal, in 2015 . Manoranjan had appeared for the ruling online from a private hospital in Calcutta. The ruling said the Presidency Jail authorities did not inform the court that the accused would not appear in person to hear the verdict. The court has also ordered the state health department to investigate the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Youth shot at by bike lifters in Raiganj||A group of miscreants opened fire at a resident of Raiganj on the outskirts of the town on Monday night as he tried to resist them from stealing his motorcycle. Nur Alam is under treatment at the Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital. Sources have said Alam, a resident of Paschim Birnagar of Raiganj, works in a private company. He had started for his in-laws’ place around 10pm because of some urgency. As he was moving through the Hatmani area of Bahin, on the outskirts of Raiganj, some youths waylaid him. “They held me at gunpoint and snatched my cellphone and Rs 2,500 in cash. As they tried to take away my motorcycle, I resisted. This made one of the miscreants fire at me. The bullet hit my right leg. I collapsed on the road. The miscreants tried to take away my bike but as some residents rushed out of their homes, they fled,” said Alam. Police officers, who visited the spot, said they were conducting raids to nab the attackers. “Similar incidents have been reported in the district in the past. We are trying to find out whether an organised racket is active in the district,” said a police officer. In another incident, a person died and two others got injured as they clashed during an altercation over grazing of cattle in an agricultural field on Tuesday. The incident occurred at Rampur village under Raiganj police station. Sources said Mohammad Hossain and Mohammad Eshahar, who are neighbours, were having problems over the ownership of a plot. On Tuesday, Hossain had tethered his cattle in the plot for grazing. Eshahar and his family members objected to it and made Hossain take away the cattle. After some time, Eshahar and his family members went to Hossain;s house and assaulted him. He was hit on his head with a wooden plank repeatedly and shoved to a ditch. Two others, who tried to stop the attackers, also got injured. Later, all three were taken to RGMCH where doctors pronounced Hossain dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Probe on mark bribe slur over||The inquiry committee constituted by Siliguri College to probe into the allegation that Amitava Kanjilal, a faculty member in the political science department, had promised pass marks to a student against money, submitted its report to the college authorities on Monday. The seven-member committee comprising senior faculty members of the college and academics was constituted by the institution’s governing body 20 days ago. On Monday, it submitted the 10-page report. The committee was constituted after the final-year under-graduate student had alleged that Kanjilal had promised her pass marks against the payment of bribe and filed a complaint with the college. “The college has received the inquiry committee’s report. A governing body meeting will be held on October 9 when the report would be examined. Then the college will take a decision,” said Jayanta Kar, the president of the governing body. Suprakash Roy, a member of the inquiry committee, said the statements of both the teacher and the student were included in the report. The committee members also spoke to some officials of North Bengal University and police officers, said sources. Though none from the committee is willing to talk about the content of the report, sources said, there were discrepancies in the statements given by Kanjilal. “During the inquiry, he said the audio clips (of the alleged phone conversation between the teacher and the student) are half truths and he had spoken to the girl more. However, he did not deny that the voice was his,” said a source. The college had also served a show-cause on the accused teacher. Although a police complaint had been lodged against Kanjilal by the NBU registrar, the sources said, there was no progress in the probe. “We feel the police should conduct a proper probe and come up with their findings,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Cattle to get tags to check smuggling||The state animal resource development department has decided to take up the mammoth task of tagging nearly one crore cattle heads in north Bengal in a bid to check the rampant smuggling of the animal to Bangladesh. Senior officials of the department said they would soon start vaccinating cows and buffaloes against foot & mouth disease (FMD). The infectious viral disease affects cloven-hoofed animals and can sometimes prove fatal for them. “Around 90 lakh cattle heads will be vaccinated in north Bengal. At that time, each bovine animal would be tagged with a 12-digit identification number. The tag would be pierced into an earlobe so that each animal will have a unique number,” said Uttam Kumar Dey, a joint director of the ARD in north Bengal. The exercise, he said, will start from November 15 and continue till December 31. The tag will be made of polyurethane which will contain the name and address of the animal’s owner, besides the identification number that will be updated on a central data server. Sources said the issue of cattle smuggling had time and again been mentioned at different quarters, both at state and central levels. In the past few weeks, it was found that politicians and even some officials of the BSF were allegedly involved in the smuggling. Once the tagging is done, the data would be shared with police in each district, along with the Border Security Force and the Customs department. “This, we believe, will help in reducing cattle smuggling. If a herd of cattle is noticed near the India-Bangladesh border, the police and the BSF can find out whether any local person owns the animals or they have been brought from outside with a wrong intention of smuggling. If any animal goes missing, it can be easily located with the help of the tag,” said the joint director. The employees of the ARD department, he said, will visit the tiny hamlets located on the fringes of reserve forests to vaccinate and tag the animals. “The cattle from these villages often enter the reserve forests for grazing and thus, there is a risk as wild animals might get infected from the cattle. That is why, vaccination is important in these areas,” said Dey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||North East||Ahom ruler cited  in attack on BJP ||Senior Congress leader Debabrata Saikia on Tuesday invoked Sukapha, the first Ahom ruler considered the architect of greater Assam, to “expose” the BJP’s “divisive” politics to divert attention from burning issues ahead of next year’s Assembly polls. Chaolung Sukapha was the founder of the Ahom dynasty that ruled Assam for about 600 years. He entered Assam through Burma (Myanmar). He is considered the architect of greater Assam or Bor Asom created through his policy of assimilation of various tribes and communities through unity and amity. The Assam government observes Asom Divas on December 2 every year to commemorate Sukapha and his reign. The trigger for Saikia’s criticism was the “communal and divisive” speech delivered by senior BJP leader and cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at the state executive of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha at Sivasagar on Sunday. Sarma had said that a specific civilisation would now flourish and another civilisation would be wiped out in Assam, according to Saikia, an Ahom. A video of the speech uploaded on social media shows Sarma claiming that polls in the state would be a fight between two civilisations, one that will abide by the ideals of Vaishnavite saint Srimanta Xankardeb and the other which will try to encroach his birthplace and use false names to indulge in “love jihad”. He also accused the Opposition Congress of surrendering before the AIUDF to check the BJP in the Assembly polls. The Congress and the AIUDF are working on a pre-poll alliance. Sarma has not specified who represents the civilisation that would encroach Xankardeb’s birthplace but he was alluding to the migrant Muslim population by referring to “love jihad” and the AIUDF, which the BJP claims espouses the cause of illegal migrants, a highly emotive issue in the state. Saikia said it was reprehensible that a message loaded with incitement and divisiveness should have been issued by Sarma from Sivasagar, which was the base of  Sukapha, who came as a migrant but stayed on to lay the foundation of a composite greater Assam. He described as an “insult” to the secular traditions of Sukapha and the Tai Ahom community by the attempt to “create” communal conflict at an event where the BJP leaders and workers had donned Ahom headgear and carried Ahom swords, among others. The Ahoms are an influential community with significant presence in Sivasagar, Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Golaghat, Lakhimpur and Dhemaji districts. He said the Ahom dynasty had united various tribes and ethnic communities to build a greater Assam where everyone lived with honour and individuals secured jobs and rewards on the basis of merit, irrespective of caste or creed. As a result, at different times during the reign of the Ahom dynasty the likes of Ismail Siddique alias Bagh Hazarika fought shoulder to shoulder with Lachit Borphukon and others when armies of Turbak or the Mughal army, led by Rajput king Man Singh, attacked Assam. “The Battle of Saraighat was not a battle based on religion but a battle between invaders and the people of Assam,” Saikia said, advising Sarma to read the history of Assam “more thoroughly” and refrain from “distorting” historical facts. “The Ahom Swargadeos (rulers) displayed equal magnanimity in donating land to Azan Pir for propagating Sufi philosophy and donating land for namghars (community prayer halls), xatras (Vaishnavite monasteries), temples, etc, with the goal of creating a secular Assamese society,” Saikia said. The leader of the Opposition in the Assembly said such speeches are an attempt to divert attention from public grievances regarding important issues such as unemployment, poverty, settlement of the illegal migrants, revival of the Nagaon and Cachar paper mills, boosting of the agriculture sector and improvement of the work culture. Saikia urged the youths of Assam not to fall into the “trap of bigotry laid down by the BJP” and consequently make “wrong choices”. He also pointed out that at various times other BJP leaders such as Shiladitya Dev, Ramakanta Deuri and Mrinal Saikia had been guilty of utterances which were calculated to divide society along sectarian lines. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s silence implied tacit approval of such nefarious tactics, Saikia said. BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami told The Telegraph that the Congress sees communalism in everything. “Our minister (Sarma) spoke about civilisation, not communalism. It has got nothing to do with religion while it is the Congress which believes in the politics of vote bank and appeasement,” Goswami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
07-10-2020||Opinion||Historic scar: Babri demolition accused exonerated||Sir — The judicial exoneration of all the 32 surviving accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case does not seem to correspond with the actual events of December 6, 1992 in Ayodhya (“Cleared”, Oct 1). The mosque was demolished in broad daylight. The absence of conviction has wounded India’s soul and marked its retreat from secularism. The court reportedly even recorded its appreciation of some of the accused for allegedly trying to prevent the frenzied mob from pulling the mosque down. One cannot help but wonder that if the place of worship of any other faith were razed in a similar fashion, would the instigators and perpetrators have got off scot-free owing to ‘lack of evidence’? Hindutva, or the politicization of Hinduism, aims to assert the predominance of one religion over others on the basis of numerical strength. By dividing countrymen on the basis of faith, it has made the idea of religious tolerance — for which India has been universally famed — a casualty. This has changed the political climate of the country beyond recognition. Yet, for all its overarching appeal, Hindutva cannot be relied on to bring about any improvement in the material circumstances of the impoverished multitudes. The only hope for the nation lies in the fact that many Indians are still secular in their mindset and put humanity above religion: their collective moral strength could see us through this difficult phase of history and ensure that we all live together in harmony. It is now the duty of every citizen to promote the cause of religious unity. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Nearly three decades after the Babri Masjid was brought down, India seems to be no closer to knowing who were actually responsible for the disgraceful act. It has only been said that it was some “anti-social elements” who climbed upon the dome of the mosque that day. Yet, the rath yatra led by L.K. Advani that culminated at Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 with thousands of kar sevaks assembled there is common knowledge, making it difficult to believe that the demolition was not pre-planned. In the months that followed, the incident sparked communal violence in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country, leading to around 2,000 people getting killed. It changed the course of India’s politics, paving the way for the rise of the right wing. The verdict of September 30 is therefore potentially provocative. It must be ensured that it does not stoke the already-simmering feeling of discontent among the minority communities. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The lukewarm reaction of the political class to the verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case is along expected lines. Given that the demolition of the mosque involves the religious sentiments of the majority community, most of the main political parties have been cautious about their response. But prominent Muslim and Left leaders, especially from South India, came down heavily on the judgment. The president of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Asaduddin Owaisi, reportedly said the verdict was meant to satisfy Hindutvavadis. The verdict was pronounced after a series of delays — it has been 28 years since the incident. Given that most cases get entangled in court procedures, such delays have become commonplace. But this case was not an ordinary one. Yet, successive governments were uninterested in resolving it. This reveals their placation of the followers of Hindutva; all political parties are concerned more with electoral gains than moral principles. As the construction of the Ram Mandir is underway, the demolition of the Babri Masjid continues to fester. Truth and justice remain buried deep under the debris of the edifice as communalism rages on . Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Play by the rules Sir — The former Argentine footballer, Diego Maradona, often amuses his fans with his antics. However, last week, things took a serious turn when some spectators and journalists reportedly made fun of his choice of personal protective equipment at a match — they compared him to the animated character, Buzz Lightyear, as he sported a domed visor. Later, Maradona highlighted the importance of using proper PPE during the pandemic. Indeed, when millions are dying of Covid-19, tabloids and magazines would do well to encourage the use of PPE instead of ridiculing those who follow the rules. Anjana Bardhan,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
07-10-2020||Opinion||Let go: The law against sedition||Indian politicians love to hang on to laws from the colonial era — the law against sedition is an example. Inscribed as Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, sedition is the incitement through speech or act to rebel against the authority of the government or the monarch. It made sense when there was a colonial government. The law becomes irrelevant in a democracy where the relationship between the people and their government is supposed to be different; even the United Kingdom repealed it in 2010. In a multi-party democracy that sees freedom of expression as a fundamental right, criticism and dissent are to be expected. Evidently Indian politicians feel too insecure to let go of old, repressive laws. They cannot let the law against sedition go in spite of having formulated such laws as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for example, against alleged ‘offences against the State’. Data under this head in the latest National Crime Records Bureau report show that although the number of cases under sedition has risen through the last few years, the conviction rate has fallen sharply, especially in comparison with the cases under the UAPA. Among cases heard, two people were convicted of sedition in 2019 and two in 2018, while 29 and 21 people were acquitted respectively each year. Yet 93 cases of sedition were filed in 2019, although 70 in 2018, and 56 in 2017. The story behind the data is a comment on the attitude of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre that is reflected also in the culture of BJP-ruled states. The law against sedition is simply one weapon in an arsenal to silence dissent: the Jharkhand chief minister, for instance, ordered 3,000 charges of sedition against anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protestors to be dropped. Recommendations to repeal the law have been ignored; the present government says it is needed to combat “anti-national, secessionist and terrorist” elements. But it is one thing to file a sedition case, quite another to prove it. It is not a question of bundling out foreign rulers or a king. This is a democracy where freedom of expression is the people’s fundamental right. The NCRB data on poor conviction rate in sedition cases would be comic had not the reason behind the cases been so grim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
07-10-2020||Opinion||Spot the cracks: LJP parts ways with JD(U)||Political alliances, a wag summed it up nicely, are often a marriage of convenience between strange bedfellows. In poll-bound Bihar, the Lok Janshakti Party has seemingly decided to reveal the undercurrent of competition — animosity? — in the bond that the Bharatiya Janata Party professedly shares with its partner, the Janata Dal (United). The LJP, complaining of ideological differences, has decided to part ways with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), while remaining hitched to the BJP at the national level. The reason for this split is to be found not in ideological spots but political pragmatism. Mr Kumar is seeking to return to power for another term. Chirag Paswan, who is now helming the LJP, may have sensed a degree of public disillusionment with Mr Kumar. This may have encouraged Mr Paswan to fight the polls on his own, hoping that an improved showing — his party had won 2 and 3 seats, respectively, in 2015 and 2010 — would elevate the LJP to the role of the kingmaker. The BJP would not be unhappy with the turn of events: it believes that it is time to stake claim for Bihar as a senior partner of the alliance or, still better, with a bit of help from outside. The BJP’s optimism is based on two factors. The Opposition — in the absence of Lalu Prasad’s formidable presence and experience — is a Grand Alliance only in name. Moreover, Mr Kumar, the BJP argues, has benefited from the charisma of Narendra Modi and won polls earlier. A rag-tag Opposition, coupled with Mr Kumar’s own vulnerability, may have emboldened the BJP. A good showing by the LJP — it has the ability to sink its teeth into the JD(U)’s vote share — may help the BJP bag the throne by rendering Mr Kumar and the JD(U) dispensable. There may even be a moral underpinning to this tale of shifting allegiances. Mr Kumar has himself to blame for his enhanced dependence on the BJP. His propensity for jockeying for power — he had joined forces with the Rashtriya Janata Dal to rout the BJP in 2015, only to dump Mr Prasad’s party and return to power in the BJP’s embrace — may have dented his image considerably. The raging pandemic and a crippled economy — Bihar has a significant migrant population that is facing difficulties — may have dimmed Mr Kumar’s halo further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
07-10-2020||Opinion||New lines being drawn in Kashmir||On August 22, six major parties in Jammu and Kashmir got together to issue a joint statement that called for the rollback of the constitutional changes of August 5, 2019. The parties were unable to meet to discuss the statement. So they worked their phones to arrive at a common stand. But few in Kashmir expected the statement to be so unequivocal and evocative. The use of such phrases to describe the August 5 decision by the Centre as “spitefully short sighted”, “measure to disempower”, “times of pain” and so on reflected the deep sense of hurt and humiliation being felt in Kashmir over the loss of autonomy. Lending the statement — also called Gupkar Declaration 2.0 — its significance is that the parties signing it make up almost the whole of the political mainstream of J&K. It included the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, the two leading establishment parties, the Congress along with smaller outfits like Sajad Lone’s Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference, the Communist Party of India and the Awami National Conference. This makes the Gupkar Declaration an articulation of the predominant public sentiment in J&K, especially in the Valley. Does this increase the odds of its resonance with New Delhi? Not at all. More so when the Union government is run by the Bharatiya Janata Party that has withdrawn Article 370, which granted J&K its semi-autonomous status under the Constitution. While there’s little possibility of the Centre changing its mind, the nature of the post-Article 370 dispensation in the region has made it impossible for political opposition to the August 5 intervention to have a decisive impact, let alone succeed. The only way mainstream parties could have undone some of the administrative and legislative changes over the last year would be for these parties to form a majority government if J&K were a state. But in a Union territory, even if they were to secure a landslide majority in a future election, the parties will remain subservient to the lieutenant-governor. Making things further difficult for them, the Centre in a new order has put even the police and the IPS beyond the remit of a future chief minister. Moreover, the Centre, as looks likely, may prolong this state of affairs by indefinitely delaying the restoration of statehood. The restoration may not take place before there is certainty that Kashmir’s political parties are not in a position to undo any law or order passed during lieutenant-governors’ rule. There are concerns that New Delhi seems to have a plan in place. The Hindu-majority Jammu division is to be given parity and, subsequently, a majority in a future state assembly. This is to be accomplished through an electoral and demographic re-engineering of the Union territory. To this end, the Centre has set in motion the delimitation of J&K whereby Jammu, it appears, would be given greater legislative representation in the assembly. In the erstwhile J&K state assembly, Kashmir Valley, with a population of around 70 lakh, had 46 seats; Jammu with a population of over 53 lakh, had 37 seats; Ladakh, with 2.74 lakh people, had 4 seats. More seats for Jammu can change the composition of a future assembly and create political parity between Kashmir and Jammu. This will make it difficult for a Kashmiri party to undo any legislative or administrative changes made over the last year. Considering that the new domicile rules have thrown J&K open to settlement by people from other states, the anticipated demographic change is expected to further move political power away from the Valley and be vested in Jammu. One option for mainstream political groups would be to mount a sustained public resistance against the erasure of special status. But there are valid doubts about the scope for such resistance at a time when the Centre has squeezed the space for any democratic dissent. The signatories to the Gupkar Declaration are mindful of this fact: they issued a joint statement but refrained from calling for a peaceful protest, a public rally, a press conference, or a hartal. Even if the parties were to mobilize public opinion against the withdrawal of Article 370, their ability to force a shift in the Centre’s policy will be minimal. They are up against a new national consensus on Kashmir that sees the ‘integration’ of the former state as fait accompli. The demand for the restoration of Article 370, much like that of autonomy, could well be transformed into a long-standing political plank for the NC and the PDP. This could be a gain for New Delhi, for autonomy and self-rule demands concessions that went beyond the special status enjoyed by J&K under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
07-10-2020||Opinion||Fading legacies||This month, we observe the anniversaries of three eminences in ways that have turned farcical, even fraudulent. It would have been a mercy had we stopped at lip service as the annual rites of remembrance; we’ve brutally wolfed those legacies. The first among the three is, of course, the man who has become familiar to us, courtesy his round-rimmed glasses embossed on ‘Swachh Bharat’ tumblers and streamers. October 2 became an occasion to trigger a rampant online celebration of his assassin, such is also our manner now of greeting the man we call Father of the Nation. The other two are entities we routinely invoke and consign where they belong for safekeeping — in the shuttered almirahs of necessary hypocrisies. One belonged to Akbarpur in east Uttar Pradesh and died on October 12 nearly half a century ago. The other came from Sitabdiara, a riverine island between the Ganga and the Ghaghra on the shifting margins between eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. He was born on October 11. Both travelled West to study as young men during the first half of the twentieth century. Both turned to public life during the freedom movement under the Congress canopy. Both were protégés of Jawaharlal Nehru and occupied the socialist precincts in the party. Both rebelled in later years, turned critics of Nehru, and became rallying posts of anti-Congress politics. The man from Akbarpur chose pre-war Germany for further studies, if only to thumb his nose at imperial Britain and its educational institutions. He returned as anti-capitalist as he was anti-Marxist. Capitalism he called the “rich man’s exploitation machine”; Marxism he called a fad and Europe’s ideological tool against Asia, a system that imposed the dictatorship of a party over people. He espoused a home-minted socialism moored to social and economic equality, medium enterprise, and a notion of government as servant rather than ruler of the people. He wanted governance drastically decentralized and people given the right to recall governments. He was against the mildest police action against democratic protest. He was militantly anti-English, which he called the language of imperialists and the ruling elite. Nehru and the Congress he closely associated with that elite. The first non-Congress, multi-party governments to assume power in the northern states in 1967 were chiefly a consequence of his efforts. He was a feisty battler at home and abroad. Nehru had noticed the internationalist in him and picked him to head the foreign affairs cell of the Congress in the 1930s. He joined anti-racism barricades in the United States of America, anti-imperialist marches across Europe, and jati-todo (banish-caste) crusades in India; sau mein saath was his maxim on castes, that backward castes should get a 60 per cent share in politics and governance, commensurate with their share of the population. He travelled incessantly, wrote copiously, lived an erratic on-the-road life, and became somewhat of a legend in his lifetime, a rough-hewn radical who spawned a distinct school of socialism; its many alumni, though divided and scattered across political parties of North India, continue to inform the political discourse of their dummy hero’s memory, though not his ideals. After breaking from the Congress and launching the Samyukta Socialist Party, he unveiled a seven-fold manifesto, what came to be known as the sapt-kranti, the seven revolutions: gender equality, end of discrimination based on caste and colour, liquidation of colonialism and the establishment of a world parliament, end of inequality generated by big capital, growth through decentralized planning, mass civil disobedience, and end to armaments. He was a maverick. After the Chinese left India militarily and psychologically bruised in 1962, he called for developing a nuclear bomb. He died early and unexpectedly after a minor prostate-related surgery in 1967, probably of accumulated excesses and neglect of a lifetime; he chain-smoked and drank coffee and tea incessantly, he barely bothered with eating. The man from Sitabdiara went to Berkeley to study sociology in the early 1920s after finishing as a merit scholar at Patna’s Bihar Vidyapeeth, a Congress-driven school. There, to pay his fees, he laboured on vineyards, packed fruits at a canning factory, washed dishes, worked at a car garage and in a slaughter house, sold lotions and accepted casual teaching jobs. But Berkeley was still unaffordable and he moved to Wisconsin, where he turned animated over the Bolshevik consolidation in Russia, read Marx and Engels, and became a communist. On returning home, he found his young wife, Prabhavati, deeply immersed in Gandhian practice. She had left their Patna home and moved to the ashram on the Sabarmati. She might have had some influence in her husband joining the Congress rather than India’s fledgling Communist Party. All his life, he swivelled uncertainly between a Fabian brand of socialism and Gandhian beliefs; he wore khadi and, often, even joined his wife on the charkha, Gandhi’s emblematic spinning wheel. He remained in the Congress much longer than the man from Akbarpur, although he grew disenchanted with power politics and refused to contest elections. He became a near-recluse in his Patna home, which Prabhavati’s mission had turned into a spartan Gandhi ashram. He turned, for a time, to the Gandhian sage, Vinoba Bhave, and his benevolent Bhoodaan, or voluntary land donation, movement, but not with any great conviction or commitment, it appeared. He took a tolerant view of Nehru’s promotion of daughter Indira and, later, of her accession to power. He often advised her, and ran freelance missions for her, such as a roving ambassador to convince world capitals why India was intervening militarily in East Pakistan. But soon thereafter, he turned vociferously anti-Indira and came to be adopted as the patriarch of many oppositional currents to the Indira Congress: the socialists, the Jan Sangh, a wing of communists, ultra left-wingers, angered student activists protesting price rise and political authoritarianism. When Indira Gandhi swung against the motley, burgeoning collective, imposing the Emergency and putting many leaders, including the Sitabdiara elder, into jail, the tide against her thickened. He was freed on grounds of failing health, but he took to the streets and called for Total Revolution, an ambiguous charter, but, at that time, catchy and effective. He came to lead what many prefer to call India’s second Independence movement — the overthrow of the Emergency and the return to democratic elections in 1977, which put the first non-Congress government in power in Independent India. He mentored the government, never joined it, and died a bitter man looking out of the window of his Jaslok Hospital bed in Bombay, watching his pupils tear at each other and bring the non-Congress experiment down. This man was known as Jaya Prakash Narayan, or JP. One might wonder how he’d have viewed the state of civil rights and fundamental constitutional freedoms in India at the moment. The man from Akbarpur was called Ram Manohar Lohia. One might wonder what he’d have said of what’s transpiring around Hathras, and how he might have thought to respond. One might also wonder, and wonder deeply, why none of the three — neither Gandhi nor JP nor Lohia — ever held office in this nation of ours. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Son of daily wage labourer secures first rank in Akanksha-40||The son of a daily wage labourer has secured first position in Akanksha-40, a test conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC). Akanksha-40 is conducted for candidates unable to afford coaching for engineering and medical entrance examinations. This year, 309 candidates had appeared in the test from 24 districts across the state. Of these, 40 who have passed the exam are given coaching classes with residential facility in Ranchi. Anil Kumar always dreamed of becoming an engineer from any Indian Institute of Technology. “I was worried what he would do after schooling, as we didn’t have enough money for his studies. But as now he has cracked Akanksha, I believe he will be able to make his future nice,” said Phoolo Devi, his mother. “My father is a labourer but he never stops me from studying. We are two brothers and a sister. I always dream to study in IIT and become an engineer. Atleast hundred of students every year crack the JEE examination in Bokaro. I always wanted to be one among them. I am happy that God gave me the opportunity to prepare for the JEE examination. I will study hard and bag this opportunity,” said Kumar. In Bokaro, three students have secured rank under 40 in engineering and two in medical. The first rank in engineering is shared by two candidates. Sharan Burnwal of Jamtara district also secured first rank apart from Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Excise department destroys 6,000 cartons of beer cans at Bhilaipahadi||The excise department on Wednesday destroyed a huge stock of beer that had expired due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Over 6,000 cartons of canned beer were smashed and destroyed by an excavator that the Excise department officials of the East Singhbhum district had employed in the presence of a designated executive magistrate on the premises of Jharkhand State Beverage Corporation Ltd (JSBCL) godown at Bhilaipahadi along the NH33 about 16km away from here towards Ghatsila this afternoon. The destroyed commodity is part of the total 17,000 cartons of beer which are scheduled to be destroyed during the next two days. Excise inspector Pravin Kumar Rana said they have dug a 12X8ft pit in the premises of the JSBCL godown for the disposal of the destroyed bottles. "In the first lot, we decided to destroy the beer cans; the total stock was 12,000 of the 17,000 cartons.  The remaining 5,000 cartons are ordinary beer.  We have destroyed 6,000 cartons of beer by pressing an excavator today and as much amount will be destroyed on Thursday. The remaining 5,000 cartons of ordinary beers will be destroyed in other ways," said the excise inspector while talking to The Telegraph Online. Rana said that more pits were required for the disposal of the entire stock. Before the disposal, several youngsters hailing from the adjoining villages had gathered to retrieve the remainder of the stock. Arun Mishra, assistant excise commissioner, said the total stock of the expired beer was collected from 134 licensed liquor shops, 40 beer bars and five clubs in and around the steel city. "As beer remains consumable only for six months after its manufacturing, we had started identifying the liquor shops, beer bars and the clubs from June 1. We had also checked the stock of the beverage, especially the expired beer at the beer bars, including in the clubs which are still non-functional. The bulk of the expired stock recovered was from the JSBCL godown," said Mishra while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Congress to hold farmers' rally in Ranchi on October 10||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) has announced to organize a farmers' rally (kisan mahasabha) on October 10 in Ranchi, against the new "anti-farmer and pro-capitalist" farm laws. Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, has been holding a series of activities since last two weeks as part of the party’s nationwide campaign against the laws. JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also state’s finance minister said, “Kisans (farmers) will attend the rally on October 10 in Ranchi where deliberations will take place against Modiji’s farm laws, which he has undemocratically enforced to suit his corporate friends. Farmers will speak up against the dubious laws to expose the union government." The rally is scheduled at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground and over 100 farmers are expected to be invited for the event, party sourcesinformed. A host of lockdown restrictions are still in force in Jharkhand, and organizing public gatherings continues to remain banned. However, political parties of both the ruling and opposition camps have been blatantly violating the rule as of late. Oraon said, “We will hold the rally with due permission from the district administration. Restricted number of people will attend the rally and we shall ensure all covid safety norms.” The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has also been critical of the new farm laws. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is also JMM’s working president, last month said that he will try to block the new laws, stating they will further debilitate the annadata (farmers). Sonia Gandhi to name Congress candidate for Bermo Meanwhile, state Congress unit held a meeting of its election committee, under the aegis of Oraon, on Wednesday in the wake of the upcoming bypolls in Bermo and Dumka. After the meeting, Oraon said that the party is going to authorize All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi to declare the candidate for Bermo seat. “District and block leadership recommended as many as four names to the state unit for choosing a candidate for Bermo. We have deliberated upon every aspiring candidate and will soon send our recommendation to the central leadership. The party is authoritising our national president Sonia Gandhi to take a final call,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dalma jumbo turns 11, birthday celebrated||Ranji, a female elephant undergoing rehab at Dalma wildlife sanctuary, turned 11 on Wednesday. Like every year, foresters celebrated her birthday. The celebration was kept simple owing to the pandemic, znd was attended by forest guards, a few members of eco development committees, and village chiefs. Rajni was helped to slice an 18-pound cake, as Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra and guards fed her bananas in the presence of Champa, Rajni’s 60-plus year old companion. “We celebrate Rajni’s birthday every year. It makes us happy and we also feel we care about animals. We did not invite government school children and animal lovers this time since the pandemic forced us to keep things simple,” said Chandra. Rajni was rescued from inside a well in Ichapur village of Seraikela-Kharsawan in 2010 and was subsequenty brought to Dalma for rehab. She was earlier treated for her injuries at Tata Steel Zoological Park hospital in Jamshedpur. The elephant, who loves to play with village boys and girls, lives with Champa under a shade at Makulakocha, the main entrance to the sprawling sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. Champa was rescued from the clutches of beggars in Jamtara in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi administration to not open religious places without SOPs||The Ranchi district administration is unsure about reopening all religious places from Thursday, in accordance with the state government’s unlock order. District administration officials on Wednesday said that this was primarily because of the lack of any standard operating procedures (SOPs), Earlier in the day, they issued a communiqué announcing to postpone the reopening to Saturday, but later withdrew it. Despite this, several establishments have already undertaken massive cleaning and sanitization activities over last few days. Ranchi’s ADM law and order Lokesh Mishra said, “Temple, churches, mosques etc will be opened only after we get SOP from the state government.” Earlier this month, Jharkhand government allowed opening of all religious places from October 8, but hasn’t yet detailed dos and don'ts. All the religious places were shutdown in March, the state government in August allowed reopening of Deoghar’s Baba Baidhyanath Dham temple and Dumka’s Basukinath temple following a PIL in Supreme Court. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said that even after reopening of places of worship, the district administration will continue crackdowns in case of excessive gatherings or violation of any Covid-19 safety norms. “Although we are approaching the unlocking stage, the pandemic is still far from being over. This is the time when everyone should be more cautious when it comes to personal and public safety. Hence, everyone venturing out of their homes will be mandated to put on masks, while all establishments will have to follow with compulsory provision of sanitisers, systems for crowd control, among other advisories issued by central and state government,” she said. Trains and inter-state state transport are yet to be opened even though bus owners are increasingly demanding for their recommencement citing losses ahead of the festive season. Talking to reporters on Tuesday night at Project Building, chief minister Hemant Soren didn’t make any commitment on this issue. He said, “We will be taking a call as per the need keeping all aspects in mind. We have already opened many things and the call on train and inter-state buses too will be taken soon. Government’s first focus is public safety.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||250 protesters dispersed, 30 caught and subjected to Covid tests||Around 250 decorators, demonstrating near the collectorate on Wednesday to demand they be allowed to ply their trade, had to face the East Singhbhum district administration’s wrath for violating social distancing norms: not only was the gathering dispersed, 30 protesters were detained and released on bail only after they were subjected to Covid tests. The protesters, under the aegis of All Decorators’ Sangharsh Samiti, had gathered at Aam Bagan ground in Sakchi at 10am and then marched towards the district collectorate, shouting slogans on loudspeakers fitted onto two vehicles. The protestors were standing close to each other and many of them were without masks. During the protest, ADM (law and order) Nand Kishore Lal arrived with a police force and ordered them to disperse. The police resorted to a mild lathicharge after which most protesters fled. Those who couldn’t _ around 30 _ were rounded up. The 30 protesters were lodged at a camp jail at Motilal Nehru Public School. "We took action as the protestors were not following social distancing norms. Many of them were not wearing masks. They were also shouting slogans on loudspeakers, the use of which is prohibited," Lal said. The ADM (law and order) said they needed to act as people had become lax and were ignoring safety measures. “The administration will do everything to keep people safe,” he added. Convenor of the samiti Sumeet Srivastava, who was leading the protest, said the Centre had allowed the reopening of hotels, clubs and restaurants with Covid restrictions, and had also allowed gatherings of 200 people. But the Jharkhand government, he said, was yet to open up. "We had to speak through loudspeakers because our families are on the verge of starvation. Since the past seven months, we are sitting idle at home, whereas in other states people engaged in our profession have started earning money as the government of those states have implemented the Centre’s directives,” he said. Srivastava said they were appealing to the Hemant Soren government to make it convenient for decorators to carry out their businesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi pujas keen on delivering ‘bhog’ at home||A conglomerate of over 300 Durga Puja committees in Ranchi has decided to deliver bhog at the doorsteps of people staying in the vicinity of various pandals and is set to seek permission for it from the government, puja organisers said on Wednesday. Members of the umbrella body of Durga Pujas in the state capital, the Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), said on Wednesday that all member pujas would follow all precautionary measures and ensure contactless delivery of bhog to residents of Ranchi. The president of the committee, Ashok Purohit, said that representatives of various puja committees in the city will soon meet concerned officials of the district administration and float their demand for home delivery of bhog. “Pujas cannot happen without offering bhog to Maa. We cannot throw out that bhog. It has to be consumed by devotees,” said Purohit, adding that various puja committees will take the responsibility of delivering bhog to the houses in the vicinity of their pandal. “When we can allow Swiggy and Zomato deliver food from restaurants, then why can’t we allow puja committee members to home deliver bhog?” asked Purohit. Members of the committee met chief minister Hemant Soren a day before the government issued its guidelines for Durga Puja celebrations. However, the committee members did not know then that the government would prohibit distribution of bhog and installation of loudspeakers during puja. “If we knew that the government was planning to prohibit distribution of bhog and playing mantras on loudspeakers, then we would have asked the government to make amendments in the guidelines the very day we met the CM,” Purohit said. The Mamata Banerjee-led government in neighbouring West Bengal has left it to puja organisers to decide how they wanted to distribute bhog.  Ranchi committee members said they were expecting revised guidelines from the Jharkhand government in the next 48 hours. The committee has also assured the government that all puja committees would take additional precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus during the four days of Durga Puja. “We would never want to be blamed for the spread of the virus. Therefore, we will be taking additional precautionary measures during those four days,” said Ramesh Singh, a member of the Chandrashekhar Azar Puja Committee in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Driving license issuance to resume from October 16||Preparations are being made for the relaunching of driving license issuance work done by the district transport department in Dhanbad. More than 9783 license applications are pending at the Dhanbad district transport office, out of which 6258 applications are related to license renewal, while around 2525 applications are related to the issuance of new licenses. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, district transport officer of Dhanbad, Om Prakash Yadav said, “Extensive preparations are being made for maintaining social distancing at the counters, and we are working out a module where a limited number of persons are called slot-wise for driving skill testing.” He said they are not going to increase the counters, as it will lead to more gatherings and a resultant violation of social distancing norms. "For main licenses, we will be carrying out the entire process of testing etc. at the spacious Golf Ground in Dhanbad," said Yadav. After the initial experiment with around 100 per day, they may gradually increase the number of applicants per slot if a system to follow the social distancing measure is developed. All work of the transport department, including the issuance of license, permit, fitness certificate etc were stopped after the imposition of lockdown in March. Though, some work has started, license issuance work after testing of driving skills is scheduled to begin from October 16. "I shifted to Dhanbad in February from my ancestral house in Jharia and wanted to buy a scooter, but I cannot purchase the same until I get the license, Shilpee Mishra, a homemaker from Bekar Bandh area said. “I am eagerly waiting for the license issuance work to resume, and feeling a bit relaxed after hearing the news about the relaunching of the process,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mandatory masks, no tilaks during visits to these ancient Jharkhand temples||Two ancient and famous temples of Jharkhand are making foolproof arrangements before opening gates for devotees on Thursday. At the Ma Chhinnamastika temple in Rajrappa, Ramgarh and the Ma Bhadrakali temple in Itkhori, masks will be made mandatory for entry and priests have been asked not to touch devotees or apply tilaks on their foreheads. Subdivisional officer of Ramgarh Keerthishree G reached the Chhinnamastika temple on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. She passed directives to the temple committee, asking them to follow social distancing norms during darshan. Priests said only 150 devotees will get entry into the temple, besides a hundred in the temple campus. Only five people can enter the sanctum sanctorum at a time, they added. Priests Subhashis Panda and Asim Panda of the temple committee said all devotees will be sanitised properly at the entrance gate before entering. Deputy commissioner Sandip Singh said a police team along with a magistrate will be deployed at each gate to take action against those flouting Covid guidelines.  At  the Bhadrakali temple, devotees have been asked to enter from the main gate but leave the campus through a different gate leading towards the Mahotsava ground. Each and every devotee will have to go through a temperature check before entering. The temple management committee led by secretary Baidyanath Kamti, who is also circle officer of Itkhori, asked priests as well as devotees to come for darshan wearing masks. He added that with the coronavirus raging, it is best to follow guidelines so as not to get infected. Sellers of puja paraphernalia outside the 9th-century temple were directed not to sell anything to people without a mask on. A man from Bihar’s Nalanda, Kamlesh Yadav scaled 1575 feet to reach on the top of Kauleshwari Pahad in Hunterganj, Chatra, carrying his 100-year-old mother on his shoulders so they may worship the goddess. The hill is has several ancient Hindu, Buddhist and Jain temples. Yadav said his mother was eager for darshan, so he carried her on his shoulders and climbed the stairs from foothill to the very top. “We prayed outside the locked temple and my mother is now happy and satisfied, so we are going back to Nalanda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Intellectually impaired students of Jeevika make diyas for festive season||The pandemic may have forced them indoors for six months, but the intellectually-impaired have not lost their touch when it comes to modelling and painting diyas for the festival of lights. Five special students of Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO working for the promotion of the intellectually-impaired, are on the job for the past couple of days. They are presently varnishing the diyas and would later pour wax in them and also paint them. “We would gradually increase the number of students as it would not be wise to call all of them in Covid times. We have procured some clay diyas from Sakchi market but most of the consignment will be bought from a potter in Asanbani in  East Singhbhum. We have already given orders for diyas to the Asanbai potter,” said Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur. Ganga Bai, Akash Sharma, Ankit Mukherjee, Ryan Francis and Pankaj Kumar remain busy for about four hours daily at the Jeevika centre.  They are assisted by Anuradha Kumari, a temporary staff of Jeevika. “We are modelling and painting aound 2,000 diyas for Diwali which falls on November 14. Six hundred decoration pieces as well as decorative eco-friendly bags will also be made by our special students,” said Jeevika founder Avtar Singh. According to him, they would not be putting up stalls at the schools this year and hence the number of diyas would be sold in less numbers this year. “We are aware that there will be an unprecented demand for diyas since Indians are boycotting Chinese products, including diyas. We are against taking unnecessary risk since there will be rush of people if we display more numbers of diyas for sale. We need to be very cautious in dealing with the pandemic,” Singh explained. The intellectually impaired model and paint over 5,000 diyas every year in run-up to Diwali. The diyas – in various shapes and sizes, the most unique being the turtles – are a hit among people from Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The diyas invariably get exhausted much before Diwali. The diyas are also purchased by different companies and social organisations of the steel city. Ganga Bai, who won a gold and two silver medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Athens, Greece, in 2011, said she was happy to be working on the diyas. “Mujhe yeh kaam achha lagta hai. Mujhe painting karna bahut pasand hai (I love modelling and painting diyas. I also like painting),” she said. Three of intellectually impaired and Ganga Bai paintings had featured in 2016 annual calendar of Tata Steel. The intellectually impaired stand a chance of getting pat and cash from the special school after Diwali. “We have plans to recognise the toil of our students. Their hard work and patience should be recognised,” said Singh. Jeevika is striving hard to bring special athletes to the social mainstream. Some of its students have got married and are leading a happy live. Seven of its students have landed employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Attack on Jamshedpur home after residents complain about ‘antisocial’ elements||Two cars parked near a home at Kharangajhar near Telco Colony in the Telco police station area were damaged allegedly for revenge over a dispute regarding gambling and boozing in the locality. Jowhar Devnath’s cars were damaged after he led a group of local residents to the police station to complain about gambling and boozing in the area by some residents of adjoining Jyotinagar. Apart from damaging the cars, the accused also pelted stones at Devnath’s home. Devnath, a businessman, on Tuesday lodged an FIR against half a dozen persons and named three of them: Chhotku Prasad, Roshan Kumar and Vijay Gaunder. The spot where the incident occurred is opposite Kharangajhar Community Ground. In the evenings, the ground turns into a den of antisocial activities. This has struck fear among the children and women of the locality. “For the past five-six months, the number of antisocials has increased manifold. They often tease women and girls. This was why we, the residents of the locality, had approached the police. However, I had to pay a heavy price,” said Devnath. He said that he had called 100 for police assistance and a police vehicle had visited the locality early on Tuesday. But it wasn’t enough to stop the criminals. The officer in charge of the police station, Akhilesh Mandal, confirmed that the attack had taken place. “We have registered an FIR in connection with the incident. We will soon find those involved,” Mandal said. The subdivisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad, on Tuesday instructed sweet producers and sellers, as well as merchants like foodgrain traders, to mention the “best before” date on the packets of foodstuff. “In case of sweets kept on the tray in the shop, the ‘best before’ date should be mentioned on the tray itself,” said Prasad and added that mustard oil should be sold without being mixed with any blended oil. In Bokaro, a special administrative team on Tuesday conducted checks at more than a dozen sweets shops and restaurants to ensure that the “best before” date of the food items on sale were mentioned. The team, headed by district food safety officer Apoorva Minz, also checked whether restaurants were observing Covid-19 protocols. Minz said the team found three sweets shops, Kozy Sweets, Nutkhut and Sweet India, had mentioned the “best before date” on the sweets displayed at their counters. The other shops were warned on implementing the guidelines. The checks were conducted at Chas and Bokaro townships on the direction of subdivisional officer, Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh. She said India’s food regulator, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), had directed that sweet outlets must display the date of manufacturing and “best before” date of their products. The idea is to ensure that consumption of such products does not pose a health hazard to the consumers. The step has also been taken to control the issues of adulteration and use of sub-standard products. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Surendra Prasad on Tuesday held a meeting with the office-bearers of Dhanbad Bar Association and discussed organising a camp soon to test more than 3,000 members of the body. Prasad said asymptomatic cases detected during the camp will be given the facility to quarantine at home while more serious patients will be admitted to the hospital. He assured the lawyers that he would be the first person to be tested at the camp. “The testing of such a large number of lawyers will create a record, besides helping break the chain of spread,” he said. Police in Koderma seized a huge cache of explosives on Tuesday after a tip-off. Superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib said a pick-up van was seized on Monday in which they found power gelatins. Mumtaz Mian, the arrested driver, during interrogation gave details following which a raid was conducted at a home at Manjhaldih village in Nawalshahi police station area. Waquarib said 1,400 gelatin sticks, 600 pieces of power gel and 725 detonators were seized. An FIR has been registered in this connection. An unidentified elderly woman died during illegal mining at Jamunia colliery in the Baghmara area, about 20km from the Dhanbad district headquarters, on Tuesday morning when the coal mound under which she was working collapsed on her due to which she was buried alive. The family members of the woman who were also working with her took away the dead body before police could arrive. The officer in charge of Baghmara police station, Santosh Kumar Jha, said: “We have no information with regard to the death of any person during illegal mining.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Vigilantes damage eye of wood ‘smuggler’||More than 30 villagers assaulted an alleged timber smuggler on Sunday night leading to damage in his right eye and kept him hostage for over 10 hours at a village in Shikaripara block of Jharkhand’s Dumka district, in another instance of alleged mob justice in the tribal hinterland. Police later rescued him from captivity. According to Shikaripara police, residents of Inderbani village claimed that “wood smugglers” from other parts of the district had been coming to their village and illegally cutting sonajhuri (Acacia auriculiformis) trees on private land at night for the past few weeks. On Sunday night, the villagers could again hear sounds of trees being cut by machine and they gathered and quickly reached the spot around 11.30pm to find six persons escaping on a bike. However, they managed to catch Rajkumar Gorai, 37, a resident of Saraydaha village under the same police station area. Inderbani is around 17km from the Dumka district headquarters and around 285km from state capital Ranchi. “The irate villages beat up Gorai and the assault caused damage to his right eye as there was profuse bleeding from it. They also kept him locked in an Anganwadi (rural childcare) centre with an intention to punish him further in the morning. “We got information and rushed to the spot. We rescued him around noon on Monday after a police team led by Dumka subdivisional police officer Noor Mastafa managed to convince the villagers,” said Sanjay Kumar Suman, officer-in-charge of Shikaripara police station. The police officer said that an FIR has been lodged against five villagers on the basis of the statement of Gorai on Monday evening. However, no arrest has been made even 24 hours after the rescue. Mustafa said that they found Gorai tied with ropes and kept inside a locked Anganwadi centre on Monday. “Despite the resistance of villagers we managed to rescue him and took him for treatment to a private hospital in Mohulpahadi. Doctors there referred Rajkumar Gorai to Dumka Medical College and Hospital. “On Tuesday, the doctors at Dumka Medical College and Hospital referred him for advanced treatment to Calcutta. We would be in a position to say if the vision would be restored in his right eye only after treatment in Calcutta. We sent him to Calcutta on Tuesday evening. “We will be taking stern action against all the accused named in the FIR so that such instances of mob justice are not repeated,” said Mustafa. According to data collected by Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a platform of human rights organisations, around 29 Muslims and tribal people have been allegedly lynched in the state since 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
