08-10-2020||Calcutta||Clashes erupt between police and BJP workers in Bengal||Clashes broke out between the Bengal Police and BJP workers as the saffron party activists tried to break through barricades during their march towards state secretariat Nabanna on Thursday, police said. Thousands of BJP workers from Calcutta and Howrah began marching towards Nabanna to protest the "worsening" law and order in the state. Police personnel resorted to lathi-charge and used tear gas and water cannons on the BJP workers at Santragachi in Howrah district, causing injuries to BJP state vice- president Raju Banerjee and MP Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato. The law enforcers also resorted to baton-charge in Hastings area in Calcutta. Four major rallies, two each from Calcutta and Howrah, will move towards Nabanna in Shibpur in Howrah district, BJP sources said. The ruling Trinamool Congress government in the state on Wednesday denied permission to the programme citing the Pandemic Act and stating that democratic rallies within "permissible parameters" of only 100 participants will be allowed. The state government has also announced that Nabanna will be closed for two days from October 8 for "sanitisation".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Packed audience for future Nobel laureate||Roger Penrose, who has won this year’s Nobel Prize in physics, had almost a cult following even 14 years back when he had come to Calcutta and delivered a lecture at the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science. November 7, 2006. The auditorium was packed and hundreds were still waiting to get in when Penrose got on stage to talk about his research on Big Bang, black hole and the origin of the universe, the research that won him the Nobel along with two other scientists. All doors to the auditorium had to be closed half an hour before the lecture was to begin. This reporter had to slip through a back gate. “He has always been hugely popular for his work on black holes, but perhaps more so for his excellent oratory that could explain the hardest theory in such a simplistic manner. And that day was no exception,” Sujata Sen, the then director of British Council, said on Wednesday. British Council had co-organised the event to mark the birth anniversary of another Nobel laureate physicist, C.V. Raman. Sen had failed to find a seat in the auditorium and listened to the 90-minute lecture - Beyond the Big Bang - standing at a door. “There existed another universe before the Big Bang. Our universe emerged from it,” Penrose had said in the lecture, while shifting effortlessly from one overhead projector to another, and from Einstein’s Theory of Relativity to the Weyl curve hypothesis. He was not carrying any laptop, nor was the lecture illustrated by any powerpoint presentation. There were only overhead projectors and transparent handwritten sheets, which had by then almost become extinct props among scientists. “I think learning one technology is good enough in one life,” Penrose had said after the talk. A host of city-based physicists had attended the lecture. “It was an amazing experience listening to Penrose. His work on black holes is well known. He has also been working in the sectors of time and mind, to which I am particularly interested,” Dipak Ghosh, an emeritus professor at Jadavpur University, said on Wednesday. Another physicist Partha Ghosh, who like Penrose is trying to popularise physics among the young, had said after the talk that he was pleased to notice “the immense interest among the people, especially the younger generation, in basic science and the universe”. Sen said on Wednesday: “Roger Penrose is a very humble and approachable human being, unlike many scientists of his stature, as many of us found out during a boat trip on the Ganges. He enjoyed the river and the city beside the banks.” Penrose visited Calcutta a number of times. He would have come again in June had there been no Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Amphan-hit Calcutta racecourse trees back on their feet||Five trees outside the boundary of racecourse opposite the police training school that had tilted when Cyclone Amphan had struck in May were restored recently and made to stand straight again. Despite the restoration happening more than four months later, the trees did not die. This was possible because the roots were still tied to the soil and could draw nutrition from it, according to naturalists. The restored trees include Kadam, Krishnachura and Aswathya, naturalist Arjan Basu Roy said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation completed the restoration about 10 days ago. “We completed the restoration work after getting the Eastern Command’s approval. I do not remember exactly when we approached the army for permission to restore the trees,” a CMC official said. The army’s permission was needed as it is the custodian of the Maidan and the trees were outside the boundary of the racecourse, the CMC official said. “As the roots of the trees had not been severed from the soil, the trees had a supply of nutrition from the soil, which is why they survived even in the tilted position,” a naturalist said. The branches and leaves had been chopped off before the trees were put back in erect position. Basu Roy, who had inspected the tilted trees, said he found that the perimeter of the girth of a tilted Aswathya tree was 12m. The tree could be a century-old, he said. Basu Roy was not involved in the restoration work. Author Amit Chaudhuri who had knocked on several doors to restore the trees said he was happy that the tree had been restored. Many of the trees Calcutta lost during Amphan were ancient ones, he said. “These were trees that our parents’ generation or people older than our parents have seen. Losing something that old and beautiful is not worth it. This is the same reason I fight for saving old and beautiful houses of Calcutta. “After seeing the trees outside the racecourse I felt putting them back to their original position would not be a tough thing. I thank the CMC and the army for doing this.” The Kadam and Krishnachura trees will be close to 30 years old, Basu Roy said. There is no count on the number of trees Calcutta lost to Amphan that had struck the city on May 20. Many had fallen but the roots had not lost touch with the soil. Many such trees had to be chopped off because they had either blocked the road or had tilted towards the road and keeping them in that position posed a threat to people. “The trees near the racecourse were not tilted towards the road; so, there was no urgency to chop them off. Only about 30 per cent of trees that had tilted during the cyclone but had not lost connection with soil could be restored,” Basu Roy said. The CMC should regularly water the roots and tree trunks to ensure they don’t become dry, he said. Also, insects are known to infect trees around this time of the year. “Since these trees would be weak, they should be treated immediately if they get infected with insects.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Vow to spread Hathras protest||Campuses must play a key role in spreading the protests against the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, said college and university students who organised a torch rally on Wednesday evening to denounce the barbarity. Hundreds of students descended on the streets and marched from the Jadavpur University campus till Golpark. Many of the marchers were holding a flaming torch and carrying posters that read: “Only two months ago the Modi government had performed Bhoomi Pujan at Ram Mandir. Two months later Sita was murdered and set ablaze. Welcome to Ram Rajya”. “This sheer treachery forms the bedrock of Ram Rajya where women are dis-respected blatantly. The Hathras incident reflects this treachery,” said Abhratanu Chowdhury, a BTech student at Jadavpur University and one of the protesters. “Sita is extremely unsafe in this Ram Rajya. They are now blaming the woman’s character to shield the culprits. But the BJP will not utter a word advising men to mend themselves.” Wednesday’s march was the third protest rally led by students in as many days, triggered by the Hathras horror. Campuses are closed but still students assembled in hundreds as they did not want the spirit of protest to extinguish. “The ruling dispensation will do everything to suppress the protest. But we cannot let the voice of dissent die down. As students it is our duty to sensitise and awaken the common man. Campuses must play a lead role in spreading the protest,” said Prerana Bhowmick, an MSc student at JU. She walked with a poster that had the words “Women will destroy Hindu Rashtra” written on it. Across the road from the university’s gate number 2, from where Wednesday’s protest march started, a JU teacher had been assaulted by some men and women when she protested alleged hate speeches against the institute at a BJP rally in support of the amended citizenship act on December 30. A case was started under IPC sections related to outrage of modesty following a complaint by the assistant professor. Mekhla Bhowmick, a student at Calcutta University who came from Salt Lake to join the protest march, said outraging the modesty of a woman had become a routine affair in Uttar Pradesh and incidents like the one that happened in Hathras must be protested so long as they happened. “The intersection of caste and gender violence, which we see in UP, is something we condemn. We know, as students, that it has a long history. But this is something we have to fight as long as it is there. The torch that we are holding aloft expresses the smouldering rage that we carry among ourselves,” said Mekhla, who is doing her MPhil in economics. “Whether classes are being held or not, we will take to the streets. Campuses will rise in rage and spread the protest to the farthest corner”. Duhita Biswas, a student at IGNOU who was walking next to Mekhla, said she did not know “what else is required to happen to a woman for the students and the entire society to come out in protest”. “How long can this go on? One after another rape is happening. I cannot keep myself quarantined at home. I had to hit the protest path,” said Duhita.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Mentor role for Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira||The Centre has written to Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, that it should consider mentoring “other educational institutions in the neighbourhood in improving their academic excellence”, given its stellar performance in the national level over the past few years. The letter to the autonomous college has been signed by Sanjay Dhotre, the Union minister of state for electronics and information technology, communications and human resource development. Dhotre has congratulated Vidyamandira for its ranks in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and said: “Therefore, I believe, apart from setting the highest standard in academic excellence, it is also important to expand the role outside the academic sphere. This may include mentoring of other educational institutions in the neighbourhood, in improving their academic excellence. “You may also think of sharing your expertise with other government/ non-government institutions to help them deliver their service in a more effective manner….” Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of the college, said the June 11 letter reached the institute on October 6. “It’s an important responsibility that we have been advised to discharge. We will meet to decide how we can mentor other institutions. We believe this advice has come as a recognition of our consistent performance in the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) ranking over the past three years,” the monk told Metro. “As an institution, Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira believes in the principle of helping others in attaining success and excellence”. Dhotre’s letter is addressed to Swami Shastrajnananda, who was principal of Vidyamandira in June. Swami Shastrajnananda has since joined Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, as principal. Vidyamandira ranked ninth, 11th and seventh in the NIRF rankings in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively. Senior monks and teachers of the college said they would have to speak to the state education department to identify the institutions that might require their mentoring. The social outreach committee of the teachers’ council at the 79-year-old institution now undertakes a planned programme to provide academic support to needy students of schools in the neighbourhood. Teams comprising teachers and monks visit a number of schools and address students and liaise with teachers and the administration. The college also offers free tuitions in the evening, where teachers and former students involved in academics take classes. “The ministry wants us to expand the role. So we need to speak to the state education department to deliberate on how we can reach out to more number of institutions as a mentor,” a teacher at Vidyamandira said. An official of the education department said Calcutta University had in April last year paired 39 of its affiliated colleges preparing for the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) rating with colleges that have already secured at least B+ grade with the idea of mentoring them. The accredited colleges have been asked to help the ones preparing for the accreditation to draw up a strategy for betterment, identify strengths and weaknesses and take steps to overcome drawbacks. “Similarly, Vidyamandira can advise colleges on how to improve performance in the NIRF rankings that could help attract bright students and more funds from the UGC,” the official said. Vidyamandira was started as an Intermediate Arts College in 1941 in keeping with Swami Vivekananda’s idea of comprehensive education and was upgraded to a degree college in 1960. It was granted autonomy in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools bank on loan, fixed-deposit break||Several city schools are resorting to new ways to tackle the financial crisis because of fewer people paying fees. A school in central Calcutta had to take a loan to pay teachers and members of the non-teaching staff their salaries. Another school has created a platform with online content that students of other schools can use and help generate revenue for the school. A Christian missionary school in south Calcutta had to break a fixed deposit to pay members of its staff salaries. Many schools are faced with a financial crisis as most parents haven’t paid fees in the past six months. Some have paid for a few months. “In the initial months we used some of the reserve and after that the school had to take a loan to pay teachers and others salaries,” Perminder Dasani, the administrator of Chowringhee High School, said. “There are administrative expenses as well and till July we had sustained with the school reserve.” So far, only 15-20 per cent of parents have paid, which is slightly better than the 5 per cent in the initial months, Dasani said. La Maternelle High School started a digital platform, Gyaankosh, to provide online content in the form of small videos in mathematics, science and English for students of classes I-X. “In the initial days, we saw how students of our school were struggling with online education because they did not have high-speed Net connectivity or dedicated smartphones. Teachers prepared and sent them videos,” Vandana Paul, the principal of La Maternelle, said. “We have now come up with this idea, which will help us reach out to children with limited access to smartphones or the Net. Organisations or NGOs can avail themselves of the online content at an affordable rate. The children who can manage to get smartphones at some point of the day when their parents are at home can access these videos. It will help the school tide over this financial crisis.” Only 22 per cent of the parents have paid so far, the head of the south Calcutta school that had to break the fixed deposit said. “The tuition fee is fixed depending on the salary of the staff. So, the entire salary liability is dependent on the tuition fee, which is very poor now. So, breaking the fixed deposit was the only option.” In many small schools, parents are not from the high income group. But they want to send their children to private English-medium schools. Some are hawkers or app cab drivers who want their kids to learn and speak English in the hope of a better future. Their earnings have taken a hit during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||CMC parks to reopen for Durga Puja from October 15||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will throw open all parks from October 15 for the benefit of several puja committees during the pandemic. “More than 250 pujas are held in various parks across the city. We will open the parks from October 15; the exact timings and other details will be prepared after we get the government advisory,” Debasish Kumar, the member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of parks and gardens, said. Many puja committees that organise Durga Puja in parks have been requesting the CMC for the past few days to reopen its parks. “How can we hold the puja unless the CMC decides on reopening the parks,” Joydeep Saha of Belgachhia Sadharan Durgostav said. , It organises Durga Puja on circus maidan in Tala Park, one of the many parks in north Calcutta maintained by the CMC. “Several stall owners have been approaching us. The police have already ruled out joy rides. We have applied for permission not knowing whether parks will reopen,” Saha said. Some of Calcutta’s biggest pujas are held in parks — Bagbazar Sarbojanin, Maddox Square, Deshapriya Park, Mohammad Ali Park, Kumartuli Park, Santosh Mitra Square and Jodhpur Park. After a puja organiser applies for police permission, a team visits the park to go through the arrangements as part of physical verification. The CMC maintains 756 parks across Calcutta, an official said. A few like the Rabindra Sarobar at Golpark-Dhakuria and the Subhas Sarobar at Kada-para off the Bypass are maintained by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority. A majority of these parks have been closed since March when the Centre announced the lockdown. In June, the CMC opened a few parks to morning walkers with restricted timings. Many committees who organise Durga Puja in parks have been banking on collecting some revenue from stalls since corporate sponsorship and advertisements are hard to come by. In the absence of clear directives from the CMC, the committees cannot decide whether to allow stalls. “This year, committees organising Durga Puja in open areas will bank on stalls for some income. But on Tuesday, the police told us not to decide anything about setting up stalls till they give the permission,” Pabitra Basak of Kumartuli Park puja committee said. “Last year, there were close to 40 stalls apart from joyrides…. We are not sure what will happen this year.” The police have been going through applications of committees that hold Durga Puja in parks maintained by the CMC. “The chief minister has clearly said pandals should have clear circulation of air. In parks, this will be easier… than the pandal in lanes and on roads,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Free medical test for wrong report in Calcutta||The health-care regulatory commission has asked private hospitals and diagnostic laboratories to “offer free of cost repeat test at the earliest” if a doctor suspects errors in the first report. While passing an order on complaints of errors by laboratories, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission said on Wednesday that the pathologist concerned should be cautious while signing a report because a data entry operator might make a mistake while transcribing results. But “the pathologist must take responsibility for such mistakes and the laboratory would own the responsibility”, the order said. “Numerical mistakes and name mistakes would have disastrous results if such a report is accepted by the treating doctor and further treatment is proceeded on that basis. In such a situation the testing laboratory must take full responsibility for the injury that may be caused to the patient because of such a wrong report,” the order said. But it also added that “there cannot be any straightjacket formula. It has to be on a case by case basis”. “We have been receiving allegations of errors in diagnostic test results from patients. Doctors treating these patients apprehend that the results are not correct and the patients have to undergo repeat tests,” retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said on Wednesday. Later in the evening, a composite order on the complaints heard during Wednesday’s hearing was passed. The order cited two types of mistakes in reports — typographical mistake and testing mistake. “If the report is transcribed by the data entry operator, there might be a mistake. When the pathologist concerned would sign the report, he must be cautious. If there is any abnormality found in the result… the pathologist must take responsibility... and the laboratory would own the responsibility,” the order read. “We feel, whenever any laboratory is confronted with the report they should first offer a refund... and go for a free of cost repeat test….” About testing error, the order said as and when laboratories were “confronted with the report,they must offer a repeat test at the earliest that would ameliorate the grievance of the patient. Generally, the treating doctors would always compare the result with his own observation while examining the patient and in case of any doubt, they would advise for a repeat test…. We feel the laboratory, without going into any controversy, should offer free of cost repeat test at the earliest….” The order added: “Whenever there is any injury caused by such a wrong report, the laboratory must be appropriately penalised. Otherwise there can be token compensation to be awarded in favour of the patient so that in future, the laboratories would be cautious enough before issuing any test report.” The order was passed after the commission awarded a compensation of Rs 10,000 to a person who was given a wrongly transcribed report by Medica Superspecialty Hospital. “We have also asked Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre, New Town, to pay a thyroid patient the cost of a repeat test done in another laboratory,” Banerjee said. The first test was done at the Bhagirathi Neotia hospital. A doctor at the hospital advised a repeat test after suspecting an error in the report. An official of the hospital said: “It would be premature to comment till I get a copy of the order.” At Medica, a man who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 underwent a D-dimer test, which helps determine blood clot, on September 18. “The result was 410.32, but because of a typographical error the report showed 41032. The man and his wife were Covid positive. Their 15-year-old daughter fainted after seeing the result,” said Banerjee. An official of Medica said: “We called the man the next day and offered a repeat test for free. He went to another laboratory.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||December 2021 target for East-West Metro||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the completion of the East-West Metro at an estimated cost of Rs 8,575 crore, which will boost public transport in the city and reduce commuting time. The target date for the project’s completion is December 2021, rail minister Piyush Goyal said while making the announcement. The rail ministry’s share in the cost is Rs 3,268.27 crore and the housing and urban affairs ministry’s Rs1,148.31 crore apart from a loan of Rs 4,158.40 crore from Japan International Cooperation Agency, a release issued by the Centre said. The project cost calculated 12 years ago was Rs 4,874 crore. “As promised earlier to make Phoolbagan Metro station functional by Durga Puja, we inaugurated the station on October 4,” Goyal said. The total route length of the East-West Metro corridor is 16.6km with 12 stations. The project envisages the construction of a corridor between Salt Lake Sector V and Howrah Maidan via a stretch under the Hooghly. The project will reduce commuting time and fuel consumption, reduce road infrastructure capex and ease traffic in Calcutta. Officials involved with the project in Calcutta said fund was never a problem. The project got delayed by several years because of land logjam. Also, the Bowbazar cave-in while boring a tunnel delayed it further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans: Trapped tiger released in wild||A small trawler stood on the edge of the Thakuran river near a forest in the Sunderbans on Wednesday evening. It was low tide. As soon as the doors of a trap cage on the trawler were lifted, out jumped a tiger. The big cat landed on the soft river bank. Egged on by a few human voices, it took a few sprightly steps and vanished into the dense forest on the other side. The tiger was captured in a trap cage on the edge of Baikanthapur 6 village in the Sunderbans on Tuesday evening. Forest officials said it was the same big cat that had strayed into the village on Monday evening. The tiger had killed livestock and squatted on a brick road for hours before retreating into the forest. Forest department officials had said the tiger had entered the village, around 30km from Kultali town in South 24-Parganas, after swimming across a tributary of the river Matla. “The tiger was trapped around 8.30pm on Tuesday. It was taken to the tiger rescue centre at Jharkhali (in the Sunderbans). A team of vets and forest officials examined the tiger on Wednesday. The pugmarks matched with that of the one found in the village. There were no injuries and the tiger was found to be fit for release into the wild,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. The tiger, a male aged around “five-six years”, was released into Chulkata forest in the South 24-Parganas division of the Sunderbans, on the banks of the Thakuran river and not far from Jharkhali. Officials examined the animal to check whether it had any external injuries that might have prompted it to enter a human habitat. “The trap was laid because big cats had a tendency to come back for their kill. The tiger killed a cow and a goat on Monday but could not eat them, apparently because thousands of people assembled to catch a glimpse of it,” an official of the forest department said. The tiger that had strayed into the village is said to have come from the Ajmalmari forest. A tributary of the Matla river separates Baikanthapur 6 from the Ajmalmari forest. The forests in the Sunderbans are fenced by nylon nets. The tiger is said to have sneaked out of a hole in the net, crossed the river and the thin forest cover before entering the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Rs 5 lakh stolen from Rajarhat ATM||A gang broke into an ATM of a public sector bank near the Narayanpur crossing in Rajarhat and made off with Rs 5 lakh early on Wednesday, police said. “The burglars first broke a camera outside the kiosk and then sprayed black paint on the CCTV camera inside. They then used a gas cutter to cut a part of the machine and access the vault where the cash is kept,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Like many ATMs in the city, this was unguarded, too. The ATM is located in a bustling neighbourhood, around 5km from City Centre 2, but the area becomes deserted by 10pm. An officer of Narayanpur police station said the men had come in a four-wheeler. No one was arrested till late on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta hospitals prepare for rush||Private hospitals are recruiting medical officers, increasing critical-care beds, renewing contracts with hotels for satellite treatment centres, and tying up with ambulances, apprehending a surge in Covid-19 cases during and after Durga Puja. These hospitals feel more critical care beds will be needed during the festive season, officials of several such hospitals said. Hospitals are installing more monitors and ventilators at their units to convert general beds into ICU and HDU facilities. AMRI Hospitals has 250 Covid beds at its three units, Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. Of these, 110 are critical care beds. “We plan to convert 20 general beds into ICU and HDU beds, thus increasing the total number of critical-care beds to 130. We are going to compensate for the decrease in general beds through our satellite units,” Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI, said. The hospital has tied up with two hotels and has the capacity of keeping 48 Covid patients with mild or no symptoms, he said. At the moment, barely 20 patients are there. Barua said the demand was more for critical care beds. In September, the group’s hospitals had to refuse admission to 87 critical Covid patients for want of beds, he said. “We will need more machines, trained nurses and doctors for augmenting the number of critical-care beds. We are recruiting junior doctors. At present, we need 20 more junior doctors,” Barua said. ILS Hospital Dum Dum has increased the number of critical-care beds. The hospital has 60 Covid beds, of which 27 are for critical patients. “We plan to increase it to 35… we need more equipment and we are recruiting junior doctors,” Debasish Dhar, group vice president, ILS Hospitals, said. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences plans to increase its critical-care facilities. “Since more Covid patients are willing to go for home isolation, we feel the pressure on hospitals will be from critical patients who require ICU care, which we are fully prepared for,” R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, said. The RN Tagore is its flagship hospital. “We now have growing experience in treating such patients and there has been a corresponding decrease in hospital length of stay. We feel confident we will overcome any surge in numbers,” Venkatesh said. Peerless Hospital plans to convert one more ward for treating Covid patients, expecting a rush during Durga Puja. Hospitals expect satellite units to have more occupancy during the festive season when many people will reach Calcutta from other cities. So, there can be a problem in home isolation in crowded households, officials of several hospitals said. At present, most hospitals have low occupancy at their satellite units and some have already terminated the contracts. “But we have again asked hotels to keep rooms available for any mild or asymptomatic Covid patient who might need isolation during Durga Puja,” Dhar of ILS said. The hospital is tying up with private ambulances during the festive season because Covid patients might find it difficult to reach hospital at that time, he said. These ambulances belong to private agencies but the hospital will operate them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal pulls up Bengal||The National Green Tribunal has said the state authorities are not “serious in discharging their responsibilities” to stop the pollution of Santragachhi Jheel in Howrah and granted another six months to complete all work related to the preservation of the water body. The order, in response to a petition filed by environment activist Subhas Datta, was passed on September 30 but was uploaded on the tribunal’s website on Tuesday. “It may be noted that the case had been instituted on 18.01.2006 and the proposals and steps had concretised way back in the year 2017,” pointed out the principal bench of the tribunal comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda. “We find it difficult to accept that the process would take such an inordinately long time. From this, we can only infer that the authorities had not been serious in discharging their responsibilities….” the bench observed. However, taking into consideration the affidavits filed by various departments, the bench granted the state authorities six months to complete all work related to the preservation of the sprawling water body, which draws thousands of migratory birds every winter, and asked the authorities to submit a compliance report by April 4, 2021. In June, the tribunal had directed the Bengal government, Howrah Municipal Corporation, Railway Board and Mackintosh Burn Limited to state what they had done over the past two-and-a-half-years in regard to the bench’s earlier order. In 2017, the bench had passed an order specifying the responsibilities of each agency in cleaning up Santragachhi Jheel. The bench had stated in the 2017 order that the railways would provide land to set up a sewage treatment plant and the cost of the project would be borne by the Howrah civic body and the railways. Untreated sewage now flows into the water body. The bench had ordered that the sewage, post-treatment, would have to be drained somewhere else. In the 2017 order, the bench had assigned the responsibility of constructing the treatment plant to Mackintosh Burn, a state government company. “Most of the pending issues have been sorted out, including that of the land,” government lawyer Bikas Kar Gupta told Metro. “We are yet to receive any formal letter on land and other issues,” said a representative of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College webinar with Muhammad Yunus||A Nobel laureate and a veteran economist will discuss the impact of Covid-19 on livelihoods in a webinar on Thursday afternoon. “The COVID 19 Pandemic — Lives, Livelihood and Challenges” is being organised by the Post Graduate Department of Economics of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Kolkata, in collaboration with Yunus Centre Bangladesh. Muhammad Yunus, Bangladeshi social entrepreneur who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006, will be one of the speakers at the webinar. Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, professor of economics and political history at the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta, is the other speaker. By the end of September, the global death toll from Covid-19 had breached the million mark. But even that number is no match for the number of livelihoods lost because of the pandemic. Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College, will deliver the keynote address. “The webinar will be attended by delegates, research scholars, faculty members, academics and industrialists from across India and Bangladesh. The thought-provoking sessions are expected to emphasise on the trade-off between lives and livelihoods during these trying times,” Father Savio said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Business||India's GDP likely to contract by 9.6 per cent this fiscal, says World Bank||The World Bank on Thursday said that India's GDP is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent this fiscal which is reflective of the national lockdown and the income shock experienced by households and firms due to the COVID-19 pandemic, noting that the country's economic situation is much worse than ever seen before. The Washington-based global lender, in its latest South Asia Economic Focus report ahead of the annual meeting of the World bank and International Monetary Fund, forecasts a sharper than expected economic slump across the region, with regional growth expected to contract by 7.7 per cent in 2020, after topping six per cent annually in the past five years. India's GDP is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year that started in March, the World Bank said in the report released here. Regional growth is projected to rebound to 4.5 per cent in 2021, it said. Factoring in population growth, however, income-per-capita in the region will remain 6 per cent below 2019 estimates, indicating that the expected rebound will not offset the lasting economic damage caused by the pandemic, it said. The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before, Hans Timmer, World Bank Chief Economist for South Asia told reporters during a conference call. It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook, he said. There was a 25 per cent decline in GDP in the second quarter of the year, which is the first quarter of the current fiscal year in India. In the report, the World bank said that the spread of the coronavirus and containment measures have severely disrupted supply and demand conditions in India. With the intent to contain the spread of COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with effect from March 25, announced a nationwide complete lockdown that brought as much as 70 per cent of economic activity, investment, exports and discretionary consumption to a standstill. Only essential goods and services such as agriculture, mining, utility services, some financial and IT services and public services were allowed to operate. Dubbed as the world's biggest lockdown, it shut a majority of the factories and businesses, suspended flights, stopped trains and restricted movement of vehicles and people. According to the World Bank, monetary policy has been deployed aggressively and fiscal resources have been channeled to public health and social protection, but additional counter-cyclical measures will be needed, within a revised medium-term fiscal framework. Despite measures to shield vulnerable households and firms, the trajectory of poverty reduction has slowed, if not reversed, it said. We have seen from the rapid survey that many people have lost their jobs, Timmer said, adding that this is happening against a background when India's economy was already slowing down before the pandemic. We had seen a rise in non-performing loans. Those are all vulnerabilities that India has to deal with, he said. Responding to a question, Timmer said what the Indian government has done with limited resources and limited fiscal space is very impressive. We have seen a loosening of monetary policy. You have seen attempts to increase credit to the private sector to help a company survive, he said, adding that there have been big efforts in the health sector and expansion of a social safety net. But with every big crisis, I think, we have to realise that this will not go over anytime soon. And it will actually change the longer-term future also. What this reveals is really as good as federal policies, especially the policies related to the informal sector. There's a big problem that the informal sector has no coverage in social insurance. What we see now is that especially the informal workers in the middle of the income distribution have lost their jobs. There are no systems in place to support those people, Timmer said. Responding to another question, Timmer said that as a result of COVID-19, the World Bank estimates that in one year, the number of people living below the poverty line has increased by 33 per cent. In its report, the World Bank said that the response of the government of India to the COVID-19 outbreak was swift and comprehensive. A strict lockdown was implemented to contain the health emergency. To mitigate its impact on the poorest, it was complemented by social protection measures; to ensure that businesses could maintain their operations, the Reserve Bank of India and the government also provided liquidity and other regulatory support, it said. Nonetheless, there was a massive contraction in output and poor and vulnerable households experienced significant social hardships specifically urban migrants and workers in the informal economy, the bank said. After fiscal 2017, during which the economy grew at 8.3 per cent, growth decelerated in each subsequent year to 7.0, 6.1 and 4.2 per cent. This was on account of two mutually reinforcing dynamics: emerging weaknesses in non-bank financial companies (a major source of credit growth, making up for risk aversion from banks) and slowing private consumption growth, the bank added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Bandhan Bank advances up 20% ||Bandhan Bank on Wednesday said it has posted a 20 per cent year-on-year growth in total advances during the second quarter ended September 30, 2020. In a regulatory disclosure to the bourses, the bank said its total advances during the quarter was Rs 76,724 crore against Rs 64,186 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. The total deposits of the bank during the quarter was Rs 66,153 crore, up 34 per cent over Rs 49,195 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. The bank logged a 3 per cent growth in advances and a 9 per cent increase in deposits over the first quarter ended June 30, 2020. However, the city-based bank lowered its interest rate on savings bank deposits to 3 per cent per annum from 4 per cent during the quarter. The collection efficiency of the microfinance segment, which took a hit during the lockdown, has recovered to 89 per cent  during the quarter. It was around 15 per cent at the start of June. The overall collection efficiency of the bank, which includes mortgage and other lending, has increased to 92 per cent for the period. The bank is also making core changes in its management. Having earlier announced the appointment of Kumar Ashish as the head of emerging entrepreneurs business, the bank has also recently announced the appointment of Rahul Parikh, former CEO of Bajaj Capital as the executive president and chief marketing and digital officer of Bandhan Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||AirAsia debt rejig for long-haul arm||Malaysia’s AirAsia X Bhd, the long-haul arm of AirAsia Group Bhd, said it wanted to restructure $15.3 billion of debt and slash its share capital by 90 per cent to continue as a going concern. Hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic as closed borders have grounded most of its planes, the budget airline said it had severe liquidity constraints and, with no return to normalcy in sight, added, “Imminent default of contractual commitments will precipitate a potential liquidation.” Its statement late on Tuesday came just days after Malaysia Airlines, the other major carrier, said it was very low on cash and had reached out to lessors, creditors and suppliers for urgent restructuring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||UP government signs pact for Noida airport||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday signed a concession agreement with representatives of Zurich Airport International to develop the green field Noida International Airport at Jewar in the National Capital Region. The “concession agreement” for the airport, estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore, was signed between the Uttar Pradesh government’s agency and Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, a special purpose vehicle floated by Zurich Airport for the project. The agreement grants Zurich Airport International the licence to design, build and operate Noida International Airport for 40 years. The airport will be developed under the public private partnership (PPP) mode and will operate as a fully digital airport. The airport will be the first net zero-emissions airport in its class. On November 29 last year, Zurich Airport had emerged as the highest bidder to develop the Jewar airport, outbidding competitors such as Adani Enterprises, DIAL and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holding. Daniel Bircher, chief executive officer of Zurich Airport International (Asia), said: “When phase 1 development is completed in 2024, we will provide capacity for 12 million passengers per year. Construction will start in 2021, while operations are expected to begin in 2024.” “The airport will initially have one runway and 90 per cent of the traffic in these years will be domestic,” he added. “We are expecting 12 million to 16 million passengers annually at the Jewar airport,” said Arun Vir Singh, a board member of NIAL. NIAL officials have earlier stated that the airport in Gautam Buddh Nagar district in western Uttar Pradesh will be spread over an area of 5,000 hectare and is billed to be the biggest in India with six runways upon completion. The first phase of the project will be spread over an area of 1,334 hectare and is expected to cost Rs 4,588 crore, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Pay less to gulp beer||Beer prices of some of the most popular brands in Bengal will be cut, said an order from the West Bengal State Beverage Corporation notifying the declared prices and the maximum retail price to be charged. The state government had introduced a 16-slab excise structure on beer which included an excise duty of Rs 50 per bulk litre for strong beer and Rs 40 per bulk litre for mild beer. The additional excise duty is in the range of Rs 66 to Rs 640 per bulk litre depending upon the price slab. Popular brands from Anheuser Busch Inbev India such as Budweiser, Corona, Heywards, Hoegaarden, Foster’s, Beck’s Ice and from United Breweries’s stable such as Kingfisher, Carlsberg, Tuborg along with three other companies would see a revision in prices. The prices will come down by 15-60 per cent depending upon the brands from the rates charged since March. The state had imposed an additional 30 per cent duty to shore up revenue during the lockdown. But this compounded brewers’s problems as sale of beer declined 90 per cent on a year-on-year basis during the early months of the Covid-19 lockdown. Beer sales were already down in the previous two years because of a change in pricing in the state. A 650-ml bottle of Kingfisher strong beer will cost Rs 130 under the new pricing against Rs 170 earlier. A similar sized Budweiser will now cost Rs 154 against Rs 250 earlier. The state beverage corporation had sought expressions of interest from breweries and after evaluating the financial bids from technically qualified bidders had arrived at the declared price and maximum retail price per unit. “It is a very good policy and timely as well because the festive season is here. Last 2-3 years have been difficult for because of the rise in prices. So this is a welcome move. Moreover, the state excise is encouraging consumption of mild beer which is also a good move,” an industry source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Renewed calls for economic fiscal stimulus ||The economy needs continued fiscal stimulus to get back on a growth path, says Pronab Sen, chairman of the standing committee on statistics and programme implementation. Without stimulus the growth rates of 2019-20 cannot be achieved before 2024-25. The economy will see a marginal growth towards the end of 2020-21, driven by pent up demand. However, if the government does not take action this growth will not be sustainable. “There is a hope that by some magic the economy will bounce back and will attain the level it has had in 2019-20 by the end of next year. I am sorry to say that if the government does not do anything, that is not going to happen,” Sen said at a session organised by the Bharat Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday. Without any additional stimulus from the government, he said, after a 24 per cent contraction in the first quarter, there would be two consequent quarters of contraction followed by a small positive in the fourth quarter and a positive growth in the first quarter of the next fiscal. “The choice before the government is either you do something now or you get to a situation where your finances will continue to slide and FRBM would be almost impossible to meet,” he said. He added that when Covid-19 struck India, there was already a negative momentum and capacity utilization had gone down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Exporters seek freight rate relief||Exporters have flagged concerns over the spike in shipping freight rates by about 40 per cent to destinations in the US and Europe because of shortage of containers and have sought the intervention of the government. Sharad Kumar, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), said sea freights have started increasing gradually since July and all the shipping lines have increased the freights by 20-40 per cent depending on the destinations. The exporters also expressed the need to set up a regulator for the sector. “We expect the proposed National Logistics Efficiency Advancement Predictability and Safety Act would be formulated and implemented soon to protect the exim (export-import) sector from such sudden and abrupt changes,” the FIEO president said. “The availability of containers has become a big issue. Almost all shipping lines are giving reasons of container shortage and have jacked up the freights for October by a massive $300 to $800 per 40 feet full container load, particularly for the European and North and South American ports,” he said. According to Kumar, all the major carriers have consolidated. They are abruptly increasing the rates by forming cartels and actions should be initiated against such practice. It is experienced that the shipping lines are offering vessel space of 3 weeks to 4 weeks ahead. Even after such a long date for shipment, lines are shutting out the containers abruptly and are not liable to pay any compensations to the shipper for delays. The shippers are charged with demurrages and detention charges for any small delay of any sort, but there is no responsibility of the carrier in case they delay the cargo for their operative reasons, he added. Saraf  said exports have started picking up turned positive for the first time in the last seven months registering a growth of about 5.3% in the month of September and "therefore, this important component of export logistics needs immediate attention, else our exporters would not be able to capitalise on the new opportunities". He also said the government order to pay terminal handling charges to ports directly should be implemented across ports, as it will bring down logistics costs for the export sector and make them more competitive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||RBI let off the hook for failure to curb inflation||The Centre has asked the RBI to consider July as the starting month for inflation targeting as there was a break in the inflation series in April and May, meaning the apex bank will not have to submit a report as to why it has failed in the targeting for three quarters running starting January. According to the RBI Act, if the central bank is unable to meet the inflation target (4 per cent with a band of +/- 2 per cent) for three quarters in a row, it will have to send a report to the Centre, citing the reasons for the failure to achieve the target, the remedial actions proposed to be taken and an estimate of the time period within which the inflation target shall be achieved after the implementation of the remedial actions. However, in what could be a face saver to the government, it has now asked the central bank to consider the retail inflation data from the quarter beginning July 2020. The Centre is taking refuge in the break in the CPI series during April and May, which had prompted it to give an imputed inflation data for these two months. Since January this year, inflation has stayed above the 6-per-cent mark. Economists project the headline CPI inflation in September to also remain well above the upper band of 6 per cent. According to a Nomura note, the sharp unseasonal rise in vegetable prices is likely to keep headline inflation elevated at around 7 per cent in September. Murthy Nagarajan, head of fixed income, Tata Mutual Fund, also expects headline inflation to remain elevated in the near term on account of higher food, fuel and gold prices. If these projections are right, the average CPI inflation for the July-September quarter will be above 6.50 per cent compared with 6.69 per cent from January-March and 6.52 per cent from April-June 2020 which should compel the RBI to submit a report to the Centre. A Cogencis report said that last month economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj had written to the RBI saying the imputed CPI data for April and May do not reflect the true state of the price situation in the economy from the perspective of the monetary policy. Bajaj said that for the purpose of assessing the failure to meet the inflation target, the RBI is allowed to not include the inflation data from April to June. So, the central bank’s accountability to meet the inflation target will begin from the July 2020 quarter. Meanwhile, the government on Wednesday appointed RBI’s senior-most executive director M Rajeshwar Rao as the deputy governor of the central bank. The post was vacated by N. S. Vishwanathan who stepped down three months ahead of his extended tenure on health grounds The RBI Act mentions three quarters in a row, so inflation numbers for the rest of the months (before July when data was available) cannot be counted. In its meeting held in August, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had said that the NSO has not provided inflation rates for April and May. ``For the purpose of monetary formulation and conduct, therefore, the MPC is of the view that CPI prints for April and May can be regarded as a break in the CPI series’’, this indicating that these two months should not be counted while fixing its accountability on meeting the medium term inflation target. The Government’s move should bring relief to the reconstituted MPC which is set to announce the monetary policy on Friday. It is widely expected to retain the repo rate at four per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||Business||New SBI chief allays fears on asset recast ||The new State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara on Wednesday indicated that the stress on its books because of Covid-19 was within “manageable limits” even as the lender has seen its business now improving to around 70-80 per cent of the pre-pandemic levels. Khara, who took over the reins from Rajnish Kumar with effect from Wednesday, was speaking to reporters at a virtual press conference. Observers say keeping bad loans under check and ramping up credit growth will be the key challenges before Khara, who has been appointed for a three-year tenure. The banking system has seen anaemic loan growth with the latest Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data showing it rising only 5.3 per cent. Here, the SBI chief pointed out that maintaining the quality of the loan book is one of his top priorities. He added that while the retail segment was doing well, corporate houses were not approaching the credit market or banks and were instead tapping the debt markets. “We will have to re-adjust to the new realities and meet their (companies) requirement whether through credit or through the investment market... we have got the wherewithal,” he noted. In August, the RBI had announced a one-time restructuring scheme for individuals and corporate borrowers affected by the pandemic. This will apply to only those accounts that existed in the banks’ books as on March 1, 2020. Following this, the country’s largest bank had launched a facility on its website to help retail customers check their eligibility for the one-time loan recast. Khara said the bank was closely monitoring the cases applying for restructuring  and the numbers were manageable. Further, when it comes to companies too, the bank has not witnessed any unusual numbers. Responding to a query, he reiterated that SBI will come to the aid of any corporate house that is in distress because of the current Covid-19 situation within the framework prescribed by the RBI. The new SBI chairman also disclosed that the bank will continue its annual hiring and his focus will be on skill development of employees. On the bank’s capital raising plans, he said it would depend on the movement of credit growth and at present the bank is adequately capitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||Business||6.7% rise in QoQ profits at TCS||Tata Consultancy Services kicked off the earnings season in an ebullient fashion as its net profits rose 6.7 per cent over the previous quarter to Rs 7475 crore as its clients raised spending on technology solutions. It had reported profits of Rs 7008 crore in the April-June quarter. However, it was 7 per cent lower than the net profit of Rs 8,042 crore in the year ago quarter. TCS also announced a Rs 16,000-crore share buyback programme and declared an interim dividend of Rs 12 per share apart from resuming salary hikes for its employees from October. The pandemic has affected several industries but it has had a positive rub-off on the IT sector as enterprises have accelerated their technological transformation with work from home and work from anywhere becoming the norm. The demand recovery came a quarter earlier for TCS. The IT services giant had earlier said that an improvement would only happen in the third quarter of this fiscal. Revenues during the period came in at Rs 40,135 crore, which is a growth of 3 per cent over Rs 38,977 crore a year ago. This is more than the pre-Covid topline of Rs 39,854 crore in the October-December 2019 quarter. The net profit was lower than Street estimates as TCS has set aside Rs 1,218 crore for the case involving EPIC Systems Corporation. In October 2014, EPIC had filed a legal claim against TCS in the court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin, alleging infringement of its proprietary information. At a virtual press conference on Wednesday, Rajesh Gopinathan, managing director & CEO, said TCS is confident that the current revival will sustain. However, he added that during the third quarter of this fiscal, the company may see a seasonal weakness and it is likely to be more exaggerated in a few verticals or regions. Gopinathan said operating margins at 26.2 per cent are now at an eight-quarter high. Its performance was also broad-based across verticals and geographies during the quarter. The core BFSI vertical saw a sequential growth of 6.6 per cent in constant currency terms. Sectors such as retail, which were earlier deeply impacted by the pandemic, saw a growth of 8.8 per cent. In terms of geographies, North America saw a quarter-on-quarter growth of 3.6 per cent even as other key markets such as the UK and Continental Europe grew 3.8 per cent and 6.1 per cent, respectively. At its board meeting on Wednesday, the directors approved a proposal to buy back up to 5,33,33,333 equity shares (1.42 per cent of its total paid up equity share capital) at Rs 3,000 per share for an aggregate amount of up to Rs 16,000 crore under the tender offer route. This marks a premium of 9.59 per cent to the closing price of the TCS scrip on the bourses on Wednesday. Free cash flow had risen by Rs 20,830 crore to Rs 99,860 crore in the second quarter. Meanwhile, Bangalore-based Wipro also announced that its board will meet on October 13 to consider a share buyback.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||Business||Govt allows affiliate companies to buy gas produced from non-regulated fields||The government on Wednesday allowed affiliate companies to buy gas produced from non-regulated fields as part of giving complete marketing freedom to the operators. The move is expected to benefit Vedanta and Reliance Industries, though the plea to raise the price of gas produced by PSUs ONGC and Oil India from their nominated fields failed to cut much ice with the Modi government. They will get $1.79 per mBtu, which is half their production costs. Between 2016 and 2019, the government had granted pricing freedom to all fields except those farmed out to state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and Oil India on a nomination basis. But there were restrictions on marketing, including a ban on the affiliates of producers buying the fuel and, in some cases, a state nominee being mandated to offtake the gas. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved the natural gas marketing reforms, oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told reporters here. Vedanta will benefit as its prolific Rajasthan block has only pricing freedom. With GAIL being the sole buyer nominated by the government, the Anil Agarwal-company had found it hard to negotiate an optimal price. Reliance will benefit from the sale of gas from its Krishna-Godavari basin. Last year, Reliance and its partner BP had bid out 5 mscmd (million standard cubic metres per day) from their KG-D6 block to firms such as Essar and GSPC. Reliance and BP were keen to buy the gas but rules did not allow. Now, India Gas Solutions Pvt Ltd, an equal joint venture of Reliance and BP, will join the fray. However, there will be rebidding if only the affiliates participate, Pradhan said. A policy debate on who can participate in an auction to sell gas has raged for about three years after Reliance Industries sold all gas from its coal bed methane field in Madhya Pradesh to itself in an open auction. The auction, held in September 2017 for gas to be produced until March 2021, prompted an inquiry by the government. The oil ministry had found that Reliance violated the government policy by selling gas to itself. Pradhan said the CCEA approved a standard procedure for price discovery through a transparent and competitive e-bidding as also “permitting affiliates to participate in the bidding process for the sale of gas”. “This will add 40 million standard cubic metres per day of production from Krishna-Godavari basin and other areas to the current output of 84 mscmd,” he said. Participation of affiliates will “facilitate and promote more competition in marketing of gas,” an official statement said. In February 2019, the government gave ONGC and Reliance pricing and marketing freedoms from the yet to be produced fields. “However, rebidding will have to be done in case only affiliates participate, and there are no other bidders,” it said. A policy debate on who can participate in an auction to sell gas has raged for about three years after Reliance Industries sold all gas from its coal bed methane field in Madhya Pradesh to itself in an open auction. The auction, held in September 2017 for gas to be produced until March 2021, prompted an inquiry by the government.  The Oil Ministry had found that Reliance violated the government policy by selling gas to itself. Last year, Reliance and its partner BP had bid out 5 mscmd (million standard cubic metres per day) from their KG-D6 block to firms such as Essar and GSPC. Reliance and BP were keen to buy the gas but rules did not allow. Now, India Gas Solutions Pvt Ltd, an equal joint venture of Reliance and BP, will join the fray. However, there will be rebidding if only affiliates participate, Pradhan said. "The objective of the policy is to prescribe a standard procedure to discover the market price of gas to be sold in the market by gas producers, through a transparent and competitive process," Pradhan said. He added that it permits affiliates to participate in the bidding process for the sale of gas and allows marketing freedom to certain field development plans (FDPs) where PSCs already provide pricing freedom. Pradhan said the policy aims to provide a standard procedure for the sale of natural gas in a transparent and competitive manner to discover market price by issuing guidelines for sale by the contractor through e-bidding. "This will bring uniformity in the bidding process across the various contractual regimes and policies to avoid ambiguity and contribute towards ease of doing business," he said. In February 2019, the government gave ONGC and Reliance Industries pricing and marketing freedom for yet-to-be-developed discoveries and agreed to levy a lesser royalty in case of state-owned firms raising production from existing fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||India||Letter by Hathras accused goes viral||The four accused in an alleged gang-rape reported from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh have written a letter to the superintendent of police here, claiming that they are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the matter. The letter, written from the Aligarh district jail, where the four are currently lodged, has gone viral on social media. In the letter, the main accused, Sandeep, has also stated that he was friends with the alleged gang-rape victim, due to which her mother and brother had thrashed the 19-year-old Dalit woman, leading to serious injuries that resulted in her death. Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal has confirmed receiving the letter. “The four accused gave the letter to the Aligarh district jail superintendent and he sent it to me. I have received it and action in accordance with law would be taken,” he said. Besides the thumb impressions of the four accused in the case -- Sandeep, Luv Kush, Ravi and Ramu alias Ramkumar -- the letter, dated October 7, also has their names mentioned. It is addressed to the Hathras SP and has been written on behalf of the main accused, Sandeep. It has been stated in the letter that the woman and the main accused were from the same village, were friends and besides meeting in person, often used to talk to each other over the phone, but her family did not approve of their friendship. On the day of the alleged incident, Sandeep said he met the woman but her mother and brother, who were also there, asked him to leave, following which he immediately left for home. It was only later that he came to know from villagers that the mother and brother of the woman beat her up severely over their friendship, causing serious injuries that led to her death, the main accused has said in the letter. He has also stated that he never beat up or did anything wrong with the woman and her mother and brother had framed him and the three others and sent them to jail. The three other accused, including Ravi and Ramu who are his uncles, were sent to jail in this “false” case on different days, Sandeep has pointed out. The accused have claimed innocence and urged the SP to get the matter probed and ensure justice to them. The 19-year-old alleged gang-rape victim died at a Delhi hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
08-10-2020||India||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan dies days after surgery||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who recently underwent a heart surgery, died on Thursday at a Delhi hospital where he was recuperating. The 74-year-old was undergoing treatment at the hospital, and had to undergo surgery "due to the situation that had suddenly emerged," his son Chirag Paswan had tweeted on Saturday, reported ndtv.com and agencies. "Papa… Now you are not in this world but I know you are always with me wherever you are. Miss you Papa," Chirag Paswan tweeted on Thursday evening. He shared an old photo of him and his father along with the tweet. A Dalit leader from Bihar, Ram Vilas Paswan was serving as the Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution in the Narendra Modi government. An eight-time Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha, Paswan went to jail during Indira Gandhi's tenure when an emergency was imposed in the country. He began his political career as a member of the Samyukta Socialist Party and in 1969 became a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, reported The Indian Express. Paswan was elected to Lok Sabha for the first time in 1977 as a Janata Party member and was re-elected for five consecutive times from Hajipur constituency in Bihar. He had formed LJP in 2000 and joined Congress-led United Progressive Alliance in 2004. Paswan had served as a Union Minister under five prime ministers and his party has been a member of all national coalitions. He hailed from Shaharbanni Village in Khagaria District of Bihar. His son, Chirag Paswan currently heads the LJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the passing away of Paswan, saying there is a void in the nation that will perhaps never be filled. Reacting to Paswan's demise, the Prime Minister said, "I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled." "Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji's demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity," he said. Hailing the Lok Janshakti Party patron for his rise in politics through hard work and determination, Modi said as a young leader, Paswan resisted "tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency". "He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Aware about the fake news menace, steps in place to address it: Centre to HC||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that it is aware of the dangers of fake news on social media platforms and rules have been framed under the Intermediaries Guidelines -- which regulate social media platforms -- to deal with the issue. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) also told the high court that any unlawful content on social media platforms like Facebook, Google and Twitter, is to be disabled by a court order, a government notification or by the websites' own grievance officers for violation of their policies or terms of use. The submissions have been made by the ministry in reply to the PIL by former RSS idealogue K N Govindacharya seeking directions to the Centre, Google, Facebook and Twitter to ensure the removal of fake news and hate speech circulated on these and other online platforms as well as disclosure of their designated officers in India. Govindacharya has also moved an application, through advocate Virag Gupta, seeking removal of illegal groups like 'bois locker room' from social media platforms for the safety and security of children in cyberspace. The ministry has said that according to the Intermediary Guidelines, grievance officers of the websites are bound to redress complaints within one month of receiving them. It has contended that in the present case the alleged unlawful content -- relating to 'bois locker room' -- would come under the guidelines for due diligence by an intermediary or social media platform. It further said that it has set up a statutory authority -- CERT-IN -- under the Information Technology Act responding to any cyber security incidents or breaches. On blocking access to any content or website, the ministry has said that such requests have to come through the designated nodal officers appointed for the purpose in each state and government department and no individual can directly ask for it. Govindacharya had earlier told the court that the presence of groups like 'bois locker room' indicate Facebook's "failure in tackling fake news, hate speech and illegal criminal content" on its social media platform. The submission was made in his reply to Facebook's claims in the high court that it has put in place measures like community standards, third party fact checkers, reporting tools and artificial intelligence to detect and prevent the spread of inappropriate or objectionable content like hate speech and fake news. Facebook had also said it cannot remove any allegedly illegal group, like the 'bois locker room', from its platform as removal of such accounts or blocking access to them came under the purview of the discretionary powers of the government according to the IT Act. It has contended that any "blanket" direction to social media platforms to remove such allegedly illegal groups would amount to interfering with the discretionary powers of the government. The tech company further said directing social media platforms to block "illegal groups" would require such companies, like Facebook, to first "determine whether a group is illegal which necessarily requires a judicial determination and also compels them to monitor and adjudicate the legality of every piece of content on their platforms".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||In Covid times, Long-distance emergency care helps save lives  ||It’s the ultimate form of tele-medicine. At the Springer Healthcare command centre in Gurgaon, doctors and nurses are gazing intently into their screens and watching over 600 ICU beds in far-flung corners of the country. They’re monitoring patients in real time, dealing with emergencies and handholding doctors on the spot in remote Madhya Pradesh districts like Neemuch and Guna, Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra’s Aurangabad and Sholapur. Their instructions to local medical personnel can mean the difference between life and death for patients. Tele-medicine’s booming in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. And Springer Healthcare has also been pushed into the fast lane in the last six months. From 275 beds pre-Covid, it now has 600. They moved recently to a new district in Maharashtra, adding 40 more beds there – they’re in six districts in the state. In Haryana, where they moved in more recently, they oversee 100 beds in five districts.  “Requests keep pouring in,” says Sandeep Dewan, managing director of Springer Healthcare. It’s the same story at three-year-old Cloudphysician in Bangalore which is now being flooded by requests from hospitals wanting to click into their tele-ICU services. Cloudphysician had 150 beds in pre-Covid times but that number has shot up to 400 ever since the pandemic altered the way we live. It has been called in by the Maharashtra government which is desperately keen to get high-quality medical services to its smaller towns and rural areas in the wake of Covid-19. Cloudphysician is working with government hospitals handling Covid-19 patients in Sangli, Nashik and Osmanabad. Even before the pandemic it had been collaborating with a Pune hospital and another in Mumbai. In its home state of Karnataka, Cloudphysician is working in Bidar, Gulbarga and even three Bangalore hospitals. “When it comes to ICU facilities, even urban areas are underserved,” notes Dileep Raman, Cloudphysician’s director and co-founder. Seeing a patient on the screen isn’t the same as examining them in person. But India has poor medical facilities in the rural areas, is desperately short of ICU beds and most important of all, doesn’t have anywhere near enough critical care specialists or intensivists, who are crucial to ICU care. What’s more, even though they aren’t on the spot, tele-ICU doctors offer another advantage. Raman reckons that an intensivist in an ICU ward can handle about 10 patients. A tele-ICU intensivist, handholding junior doctors in a ward, can handle about 70-80 patients, he says. That’s why tele-ICU doctors can have an impact that’s out of proportion to their number. Cloudphysician has 14 doctors and 25 nurses and, in the last six months, says it has treated 1,400 Covid-19 patients who’ve been in hospital for 8,000 patient bed days. Springer reckons its before and after figures show how big a difference, tele-ICU facilities can make. Most crucially, there are the lives saved. Dewan says fatalities have decreased by 30 per cent to 40 per cent – and that’s just by supporting the junior doctors on the spot. Other positive statistics are that 40 per cent to 50 per cent of patients are sent back to the wards more quickly. Also, using tele-ICU facilities has resulted in reducing referrals to larger cities by 30 per cent to 40 per cent. How does it all work? First there’s a hi-definition video-camera and an audio link that allows the doctors and nurses on both sides to talk to each other. Even more crucially, patient data – everything from EGC results and oxygen levels to more detailed information — is then transmitted back to the command centre in real time on the Internet. At the command centre, a team of doctors and critical care nurses are keeping a constant watch on patient readings. Dewan says that in an ICU, the nurses who are always present and interacting with the patients, are just as crucial as the doctors. “The nurse is the first responder and they handhold the nurses at the smaller hospitals,” says Dewan. He adds: “The ICU outcome is very dependent on good nurses. We believe the nurses run ICUs. They are there all the time.” Springer has a team of 30 critical care nurses. Springer’s tele-ICU unit has been in action for the last decade, growing gradually. But its growth has speeded up hugely after Covid-19 made online medical consultations a regular way of life and governments had to expand the number of ICU beds even in the most remote areas. About 350 of its beds are now dedicated to Covid-19 patients and 250 to non-Covid ones. Dewan stresses that Springer's Covid-19 work with government hospitals is being done free of cost and the expenses are being covered by grants from foundations and NGOs. The pandemic has forced governments to move at a much faster speed than they normally would have to institute télé-medicine. It has created several 50-bed units and in some very distant Madhya Pradesh tribal areas it has even opened small five-to-six bed units. These are staffed by young MBBS and, in one or two cases, even Ayush doctors. Raman says it took him and co-founder Dhruv Joshi a full two years of travelling to ICUs around the country to figure out exactly what support such wards needed. He and Joshi had returned from the US with the idea of starting a tele-ICU unit, but quickly found that the imported systems from giants like GE and Philips simply wouldn’t work in this country because they were designed for foreign hospitals which worked under entirely different conditions. Says Raman: “It was about frugal innovation. We had to design from scratch. We needed a system designed by Indian doctors for Indian doctors.” Raman and his partner Joshi put in all the initial capital themselves after returning from the US where they had met and worked for several years. In the last six months, they’ve received additional funding. Cloudphysician started out by working with four private hospitals in Motihari, Muzaffarpur, Chapra and Siwan. Raman says he went to Bihar about 12 times to get the systems working just right. To make it all run smoothly “we need a robust Internet and reliable power connections,” he says. But lately, the company has gone into fast forward mode. It went live in Gulbarga in just 11 days and it took only 15 days to rev into action in Nashik. As Nashik was launched post-Covid, the in-house team couldn’t travel across state borders so it dealt with a local tech partner. As well as its Covid beds Cloudphysician now has 170 non-Covid beds. Training the physician on the ground is also crucial for tele-ICUs to be effective. Both Springer and Cloudphysician have training arms. And both companies insist that their mission is not about size or quick growth. Says Raman: “Healthcare is not a quick-growth industry. It’s more about taking care of patients. Growth is not what has been driving us. We want to help as many patients as we can.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Freedom of speech and expression misapplied the most lately, observes SC||The Supreme Court Thursday said freedom of speech and expression is the most abused right in recent times. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which was hearing pleas of Jamiat Ulama I Hind and others alleging that a section of media was spreading communal hatred over Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of Covid-19 pandemic, pulled up the Centre for its "evasive" and "brazen" affidavit on the issue. Freedom of speech and expression is the most abused right in recent times, the apex court said. The bench observed this when senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Jamaat, said the Centre in its affidavit has stated that petitioners are trying to muzzle freedom of speech and expression. To this, the bench said, They are free to make any averment in their affidavit, like you are free to make any argument you want. The bench was irked over the fact that instead of secretary of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, an additional secretary filed the affidavit which contained unnecessary and nonsensical averments with regard to media reporting in Tablighi Jamaat issue. You cannot treat this court the way you are doing in this case, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court sought an affidavit from the I&B secretary with details of steps taken in the past to stop motivated media reporting in such cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Direct phase three vaccine trial nixed ||An Indian drug regulatory panel has rejected a proposal for a direct large-scale phase 3 clinical trial of a Russian candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease in India and sought an additional preceding phase 2 trial. The expert panel examining proposals relating to Covid-19 for the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation has asked the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to submit a proposal for a phase 2/3 clinical trial of the candidate vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy’s had submitted to the regulatory body a phase 3 trial protocol along with overseas data from phase 1 and phase 2 studies and non-clinical toxicity data. The company in partnership with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the Russian government’s sovereign fund, had last month signalled their intention to propose a phase 3 trial of Sputnik V in India. Neither Dr Reddy’s nor the RDIF responded to The Telegraph’s queries on the panel’s decisions. A phase 3 trial is typically a large-scale exercise in which the vaccine candidate is given to several thousands of volunteers to determine its protective efficacy. Under standard procedures, a phase 1 trial examining safety and a phase 2 trial examining the immunogenicity need to precede a phase 3 trial. Russian authorities have said phase 1 and phase 2 trials of Sputnik V in that country have already shown the candidate to be safe and immunogenic and have launched a phase 3 trial there on around 40,000 volunteers. But the CDSCO panel has noted that the safety and immunogenicity data in the overseas phases 1 and 2 studies are “small” and that there is no data available on Indian volunteers. Russian researchers had conducted phases 1 and 2 trials of the Sputnik V candidate in 76 volunteers between June 18 and August 3 and reported that it had a good safety profile and generated strong immune responses in the recipients. The panel has recommended that Dr Reddy’s should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct phase 2/3 clinical trial in India with proper monitoring for immune responses. The panel has asked the company to submit a protocol for such a trial. Dr Reddy’s and the RDIF had also announced last month that the RDIF would supply 100 million doses of the vaccine starting late 2020 but subject to successful completion of trials, registration and approval by the regulatory authority. Independent vaccine researchers have said a scientific paper published by the Russian researchers with the vaccine data looks impressive but the actual proof of protection from the virus can only come from a phase 3 trial. Scientists say the timeline for phase 3 would depend on how soon the company can submit the proposal and conduct phase 2/3. India is already assessing two homegrown vaccine candidates — one from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the other from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila — currently in phase 2 trials and the Oxford-made candidate in phase 2 and 3 trials. The trials on the homegrown vaccines started in July and scientists and regulators are currently awaiting the outcomes of those safety and efficacy studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Journalist booked for sedition||A journalist and three others arrested while on their way to Hathras to meet the family of the brutalised and murdered Dalit teen were on Wednesday booked for sedition by Uttar Pradesh police. Sidhique Kappan, a Delhi-based journalist, Popular Front of India (PFI) leaders Atiq-ur-Rahman and Mohammad Alam, and student Masood Ahmad have been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody by a Mathura court. Pratibha Singh, a lawyer representing Kappan in the Mathura court, told The Telegraph over the phone: “All four have now been booked for sedition, besides rioting and using information technology to create unrest. They have been sent to jail for 14 days.” Wills Mathew, an advocate who moved a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court on Tuesday on behalf of a Kerala-based journalists’ union against Kappan’s arrest, told this newspaper that all four had been booked for sedition under IPC Section 124A. The sedition charge entails a maximum punishment of life in jail and a minimum of three years’ imprisonment. Kappan and the others had initially been held under CrPC Section 151, which provides for preventive detention. The section says “a police officer knowing of a design to commit any cognisable offence may arrest, without orders from a magistrate and without a warrant, the person so designing, if it appears to such officer that the commission of the offence cannot be otherwise prevented”. However, on Wednesday morning a sub-inspector, Prabal Pratap Singh, filed a new complaint under the sedition law against all four with Manth police station in Mathura. Bhim Singh Jawala, the officer in charge of the police station, was made the inquiry officer. Sources said the complainant had stated that an “objectionable” pamphlet had been seized from the arrested persons. Officer Singh was quoted as saying that the pamphlet was on the Hathras victim and had the title “Main Bharat ki beti nahin hun (I am not the daughter of India)”. At Kappan’s home in Kerala’s Malappuram district, his wife Raihanath said he was a “soft-spoken” and “mild-mannered” man with no links to any political outfit. Uttar Pradesh police maintain that Kappan is associated with the PFI, a controversial Muslim Right-wing outfit on whom the state government had earlier sought a ban. The PFI, however, has said Kappan is not a member. The Yogi Adityanath government has of late taken a liking to the sedition charge. Earlier this year, it had booked many anti-CAA protesters for sedition. Although the charge failed to hold in court in most cases, the BJP government did score political points by portraying those raising their voice as enemies of the State. PFI general secretary Anis Ahmed said in a statement on Wednesday: “The new rounds of allegations against the Popular Front are nothing but an attempt by the Uttar Pradesh government to divert attention from its failure to handle the Hathras rape case. UP under Yogi has become a jungle raj where law and order has completely collapsed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Drug charges on Rhea collapse in court ||Actress Rhea Chakraborty on Wednesday walked free after spending nearly a month in Mumbai’s Byculla jail, with Bombay High Court rejecting the contention of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that she had financed her late boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s drug addiction. The court said Rhea “is not part of the chain of drug dealers”. A section of TV channels had picked on Rhea and run the most vicious slander campaign against any private individual in the propaganda history of the country in what was seen as an establishment-blessed diversionary tactic amid multiples crises in the country and ahead of the Bihar elections. After the bail order, actor-director Farhan Akhtar tweeted: “Any shrill anchors apologising for the hell they put Rhea Chakraborty and her family through? Didn’t think so. But watch them shift the goalpost now.” By nightfall, at least one channel had zeroed in on the “Hathras conspiracy”. The NCB is a central agency that reports to the Union home ministry. While granting Rhea bail with strict conditions, the court also dismissed the NCB’s argument that errant celebrities should be treated harshly to set an example before the young. “Everybody is equal before law. No celebrity or role model enjoys any special privilege before the court of law. Similarly, such a person also does not incur any special liability when he faces law in the courts,” Justice Sarang Kotwal said. The judge said: “Each case will have to be decided on its own merits irrespective of the status of the accused.” The court rejected the bail plea of Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty, saying he “appears to be a part of the (drugs) chain” rather than being a consumer or an end-purchaser. It, however, said Rhea “is not part of the chain of drug dealers” and “has not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits”. The court imposed a bond of Rs 1 lakh on Rhea and asked her to mark her presence at the nearest police station daily for 10 days and before the NCB on the first day of every month for six months. She must hand over her passport and cannot travel abroad without the court’s permission. To leave Mumbai she would need the NCB’s permission and must provide the agency with her travel itinerary. Rhea’s counsel Satish Maneshinde said: “The arrest and custody of Rhea was totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law. The hounding and witch-hunt by three central agencies — the CBI, ED and the NCB — should come to an end.” The CBI is probing whether Sushant, found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14, committed suicide or was murdered; the NCB is investigating illegal supply of drugs to him by his associates; and the Enforcement Directorate is looking into allegations that Rhea siphoned money off Sushant’s bank accounts. The NCB had arrested Rhea on September 8, accusing her of being “an active member of a drug syndicate”, financing Sushant’s drug habit and “harbouring” him, a drug offender. The following are the reasons bail was granted and the response from legal experts: ⚫ The NCB failed to prove the seizure of any drugs from Rhea’s possession or from Sushant’s, former additional solicitor-general and senior criminal lawyer Siddharth Luthra told The Telegraph later. ⚫ Even if Rhea had, as alleged, spent money to procure drugs for Sushant, this did not mean that “she had financed illicit traffic”, the court said. ⚫ She was not “part of the chain of drug dealers” and “has not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits”, the court said. ⚫ Nor does the charge of “harbouring” drug offenders apply to Rhea since Sushant did not fear arrest, the court said. ⚫ The court was “satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant (Rhea) is not guilty of” any offence “involving commercial quantity” of drugs. “The material at the highest shows that she has committed an offence involving contraband, but the crucial element of incurring rigours of Section 37 (for grant of bail) in respect of commercial quantity is missing,” the court said. ⚫ “Since she has no criminal antecedents, there are reasonable grounds for believing that she is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,” the court said. Later, eminent criminal lawyer and former additional solicitor-general K.V. Viswanathan told this newspaper: “The findings leave one to wonder where was the justification for arrest at all.” Luthra said Section 27A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act puts a “very heavy onus on the accused because it is for the accused to prove his or her innocence”, and that Rhea had succeeded in doing so before the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||CM buys peace in AIADMK||The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday named incumbent Edappadi K. Palaniswami as its chief minister candidate for the May 2021 Assembly elections in a BJP-backed dual-leadership, power-sharing deal that ended a months-long cold war with deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam. Amid speculation that Panneerselvam, a three-time chief minister hailing from the powerful OBC Thevar community, could rock the boat and reclaim the party’s leadership, a AIADMK meeting in Chennai on Wednesday averted a split by recognising Palaniswami’s “very hard work”. But this was not before Palaniswami, in a climb-down, agreed to constitute an 11-member steering committee of AIADMK seniors who would guide party affairs in the run-up to the polls. As part of the agreement, Panneerselvam will remain the party coordinator and treasurer, in effect the de facto AIADMK boss. Palaniswami will continue to be the AIADMK co-coordinator. The BJP, with which the AIADMK has an alliance at the Centre, had played a proactive role in 2017 in envisioning the dual-leadership formula after Panneerselvam fell out with Sasikala, a close confidante of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, over power sharing in the aftermath of Jayalalithaa’s death. Palaniswami took charge as chief minister on February 16, 2017, while Panneerselvam assumed a dominant role in the party along with being deputy chief minister. The same arrangement of Palaniswami heading the government and Panneerselvam helming the party will continue with minor modifications. However, Wednesday’s deal puts the seal on Palaniswami, an affable leader who has gained more popularity, to lead the government if the AIADMK returns to power. Sasikala, serving time in a Bangalore prison in a disproportionate assets case, had plunged the party into turmoil in mid-February 2017. Her nephew and MLA, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, later floated a new outfit called the AMMK in a bid to “recapture” the AIADMK and counter efforts to build a new unit sans Sasikala. Palaniswami, after greeting Panneerselvam at Wednesday’s meeting, made the first move by announcing the 11-member steering committee. It includes six Palaniswami supporters — ministers Dindigul Sreenivasan, P. Thangamani, S.P. Velumani, D. Jayakumar, C.Ve. Shanmugam and R. Kamaraj — and five Panneerselvam backers — J.C.T. Prabhakaran, former MPs Manoj Pandian and Gopalakrishna, organising secretary P. Mohan and MLA Pandian. In the packed hall, Panneerselvam then declared that keeping the interests of the party cadres and the people in focus, the AIADMK had unanimously decided that Palaniswami would be the chief ministerial candidate. “I am happy to have made this announcement and the Opposition’s dreams will not come true,” Panneerselvam told reporters later. Even as celebrations broke out in different parts of the state with the two leaders burying the hatchet, a source said the BJP high command had advised the two factions to close ranks and settle the issues amicably. Palaniswami’s insistence within the party that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had “appreciated my performance”, including his handling of the Covid-19 crisis and attracting sizable foreign direct investment amid the economic gloom, is said to have found resonance. Simultaneously, Panneerselvam’s concerns over being sidelined have been addressed as of now. Both leaders, along with AIADMK functionaries, later paid homage at the memorials of MGR and Jayalalithaa on the Marina sands. Camping at his home turf of Theni in the past few days, Panneerselvam had hinted at “consolidating” the AIADMK’s Thevar support base, sparking speculation of another split in the party. He had also inspected land for installing a statue of the late Mookiah Thevar, a protege of U. Muthuramalinga Thevar, once a key national-level leader of the Forward Bloc who had been close to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The Thevars, who have a martial background, were once the backbone of the Bloc in Tamil Nadu, but after the demise of Muthuramalinga Thevar and later Mookiah Thevar, factionalism weakened the party. Later, the DMK and the AIADMK took away a major chunk of the Thevar-Maravar vote-bank of the Bloc. That consolidation had been near-total under the leadership of M.G. Ramachandran, the AIADMK founder. Panneerselvam’s strong signal to revive that spirit had been taken as a hint of engineering a split in the party; but ground realities constrained him, more so because his son O.P. Raveendranath is the only AIADMK MP in the Lok Sabha. Modi had campaigned for Raveendranath in Theni. Wednesday’s peace deal evoked a sardonic response from the main Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu. “It is now easier for us to take on EPS (Palaniswami) in the polls because he has been anti-Tamil, giving up the state’s rights over issues like GST dues,” DMK MP T.K.S. Elangovan told The Telegraph, adding that the truce might not hold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Opposition indispensable, not Shaheen||The Supreme Court on Wednesday disapproved of the Shaheen Bagh protests saying “demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone” and that citizens’ fundamental rights are coexistent with duties, while also stressing governments’ need to tolerate opposition in a democracy. “In a democracy, the opposition is not only tolerated as constitutional but must be maintained because it is indispensable,” the apex court said quoting American writer Walter Lippmann. Hundreds of ordinary women, led by a band of grandmothers and some accompanying their young children, had blocked a road at Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi in a peaceful sit-in against the new citizenship matrix. They had resisted threats and abuse from ruling party politicians and firing by a youth to continue for over 100 days from mid-December till the lockdown, when most of the demonstrators left and the rest were thrown out by police. “The present case was not even one of protests taking place in an undesignated area, but was a blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters,” the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari said. “We cannot accept the plea of the applicants that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest.” The judgment came on a batch of petitions that an advocate, Amit Sahni, and others had filed during the Shaheen Bagh protest seeking the removal of the protesters. “While appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest against a legislation (keeping in mind the words of Pulitzer Prize winner, Walter Lippmann, who said ‘In a democracy, the opposition is not only tolerated as constitutional, but must be maintained because it is indispensable’), we have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely,” the judgment, written by Justice Kaul, said. “Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.” Dissent against colonial rule is different from dissent in a democracy, where rights come together with duties, the court said. “The erstwhile mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy. Our constitutional scheme comes with the right to protest and express dissent, but with an obligation towards certain duties,” the apex court said. It said Article 19 gave citizens the right to speak freely and assemble peacefully “and protest against the actions or inactions of the State”. “The same must be respected and encouraged by the State, for the strength of a democracy such as ours lies in the same. (However) these rights are subject to reasonable restrictions, which… pertain to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India and public order, and to the regulation by the concerned police authorities in this regard,” the court said. It cited its 2018 judgment in Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan vs Union of India that said each fundamental right must be balanced with every other contrasting right. The top court frowned on Delhi High Court’s failure to pass suitable orders when the petitioners had initially approached it, seeking the protesters’ removal. The high court had left the matter to the police’s discretion. “The high court should have monitored the matter rather than disposing of the writ petition and creating a fluid situation,” the apex court said. It referred to the Covid-19 pandemic as the “hand of God” that had caused the protest to end. “The hand of God subsequently intervened and overtook the situation as not only our country, but also the world grappled with the coronavirus pandemic,” it said. “Thus, really speaking, the reliefs in the present proceedings have worked themselves out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Not meant to be ‘indefinite’||Participants in the largest continuous women-led stir at Shaheen Bagh against the new citizenship regime said the Supreme Court’s verdict on the protest was expected, but left key issues unresolved. In response to two pleas against the agitation that started in December and went on for more than 100 days, the Supreme Court in February had sent senior lawyers Sanjay Hegde and Sadhana Ramachandran as interlocutors to talk to the leaderless gathering about allowing traffic to pass through GD Birla Marg, which had been barricaded by both protesters and police. On Wednesday, the court ruled that public places cannot be occupied indefinitely and that protests cannot obstruct citizens. Shaheen Kausar of the Social Democratic Party of India, who was one of the organisers of the protest, had unsuccessfully tried to convince the crowd to remove obstacles placed on one side of the road and, after the announcement of the lockdown, call off the permanent sit-in. “I respect the court, and both the police and protesters must be praised for their efforts to prevent a second Jaffrabad (the place in northeast Delhi where communal riots broke out in February after mobs attacked women blocking the road to protest against the new law). Today, we can see that there are no answers to the biggest current questions on education, employment and peace. Protest was and is the last resort, and while sit-ins on roads are not new, it seems that only one community is the target of arrests and defamation,” she told The Telegraph. Ritu Kaushik, secretary of the Delhi unit of All India Mahila Sanskritik Sanghatan — the women’s wing of SUCI (Communist) — said  the verdict doesn’t surprise her. Kaushik often handled the mic on the Shaheen Bagh stage and had stuck it out until police cleared the area in March. “Neither are protests, even sit-ins, on roads a new thing, nor is the court’s response.” “Even during the Emergency, the point of view of the court gradually changed in the face of public protests. Today also, we continue to struggle in defence of the Constitution…. and will continue to do so by all means possible to resist the CAA and related laws,” she added. Mohammed Asif, who used to run the Fatima Sheikh-Savitri Phule Library under a bus stop near the protest site, said: “It was never indefinite. The protest was merely to be staged until the CAA was repealed. The question of moving to some other place like Jantar Mantar was debated when the interlocutors had visited. There are restrictions on the number of people and the timing of protests in Jantar Mantar.  There is no other place or park to protest in Shaheen Bagh or perhaps any other Muslim majority area in Delhi. The question people asked interlocutors was whether the press will cover us and the government even attempt to engage with us if our stir caused absolutely no inconvenience to anyone.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Yogi govt response weird, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday expressed astonishment at the Yogi Adityanath government’s decision to invoke charges ranging from sedition to riot incitement against protesters against the Hathras atrocity, saying such a response to a rape-and-murder case had no parallel in India’s history. “The response of the Yogi government is unprecedented and totally weird. In other words, Orwellian and Kafkaesque,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said. “The FIRs against third parties (21) far outnumber the FIRs filed against the accused, with the charges ranging from hatching conspiracy to destabilise and derail the government (to plots to) trigger communal riots, create enmity among social groups and even sedition. Never saw such a reaction to a rape incident even from any other BJP government.” Singhvi added: “As if the rape and the burning of the body without the family’s consent were not bad enough, the government ordered a clampdown on the victim’s family and barred the media and those trying to meet them to express condolences. Can you imagine expressing condolences for the victim of a heinous crime attracting sedition charges? “The government also said a conspiracy to defame it had been hatched because UP was a model of good governance, because he (Adityanath) had cracked down on anti-CAA protesters. This would have been comical if it were not tragic. “It’s absurd that the chief minister is blaming the entire world to defend his failures. Instead of looking within, he brands everybody a conspirator.”Singhvi recalled how several BJP politicians had denied rape and alleged a plot to start caste wars. “What will the world think of us if they hear that a BJP (politician) said, ‘Why are these kinds of girls always found in sugarcane and millet fields, and not paddy or wheat fields?’,” he said. Asked about the government’s inaction against those who had supported the accused and warned Opposition politicians against visiting Hathras, Singhvi said: “If you are with them, nothing will happen to you; there are thousands of examples to show this over the last six years.” Congress spokespersons highlighted the inconsistencies and “lies” in the state government’s affidavit to the Supreme Court, where it has claimed the police cremated the victim with all the rituals and in the presence of her family. At a news conference in Lucknow, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said: “This is contempt of court; the government is lying on oath. The entire country has seen how the body was burnt using kerosene or diesel without the consent of the parents. The government said in the affidavit that the body was burnt following all the rituals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Hathras malign attempt||An attempt has begun to tarnish the Hathras victim’s reputation, with senior police and administration officials meeting small groups of reporters since Tuesday evening to suggest the girl was in a relationship with one of the accused and her murder was a “love affair gone wrong”. Speaking off the record, these officials are claiming that call details of the gang-rape-and-murder victim’s brother — whose phone they say the girl regularly used — show 104 conversations with accused Sandeep Singh between October 2019 and March 2020. “Sandeep Singh had 104 phone conversations in six months with the girl, who was using her brother’s mobile phone. Sandeep made 42 calls and received 62 calls from her brother’s number,” an official was quoted as telling one group of reporters on Wednesday. “Why would two people living in the same village talk to each other on the phone for long durations?” the officer added, after showing the reporters the soft copy of the call details. The claim is consistent with the administration’s efforts throughout to question the rape charges and protect the four Rajput accused. None of the officials cited any reason for claiming that most of these 104 conversations involved the victim and not her brother. Her brother has accepted that the girl often used his phone but has declined to respond to the claim that most of the 104 calls involved her. The family has accused all the four suspects of harassing the Dalit victim, an allegation the girl had corroborated from her hospital bed. At the meetings with the reporters, mostly from news outlets seen as government-friendly, the officials have been urging them to visit the village again and question the girl’s family about the alleged affair. According to the girl’s father, the special investigation team (SIT) too has been repeatedly asking the family about their social relations with the accused — whether they interacted regularly — despite repeated clarification that Rajputs and Dalits do not mix socially. “We know we will be unable to convince the anti-women RSS followers that phone conversations don’t necessarily signify an affair,” state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu told reporters. “People talk to each other on the phone even if they live in the neighbourhood. Also, people know each other in the villages and keep meeting even if they are enemies.” The 19-year-old was allegedly gang-raped and had her tongue cut off and spine broken on September 14 in a millet field, where she had gone to cut grass for cattle. Her death in a Delhi hospital on September 29 has sparked nationwide protests. What the officials are insinuating now had been openly alleged on Sunday by Ranjit Bahadur Srivastava, a senior BJP politician and chairperson of the Nawabganj Nagar Palika Parishad. “Why do these girls go to collect grass in sugarcane, arhar and millet fields or in jungles? Why don’t they go to paddy or wheat fields?” a man resembling Srivastava is heard purportedly saying in a video, whose authenticity the politician has confirmed. Sugarcane, arhar, millet and maize plants are taller than wheat or paddy plants. “They (the girls) are made to die in sugarcane, arhar or maize fields. Whatever happened to this girl (Hathras victim) was purely because of a love affair gone awry,” Srivastava said. Rajput panchayats have been claiming not just an affair but that the accused are innocent and have been framed. One such panchayat was attended by a former MLA from the BJP, Rajveer Singh Pahalwan, who openly supported the accused. For eight days after the crime, the police had refused to add gang-rape charges to the original attempt-to-murder charge. Even now, official after official has been questioning the possibility of rape while the government has been sitting on the forensic report, submitted on Saturday. “Police officers claim there was no gang rape. This is just the beginning. The government’s next step will be to prove that the Rajput youths didn’t kill my daughter,” the victim’s father said on Wednesday. “They will then try to prove that it was an honour killing (by the girl’s family). And when the media forget us, their final step will be to allow the Rajputs to lynch us.” He went on: “The SIT met us a dozen times over the past six days and focused more on our relations with the accused than the gang rape and murder of my daughter. They asked me and my wife more questions about our role in the incident than about the case.” He said the mother was repeatedly asked why she had “run away” after stumbling on the crime scene although she had clarified she never ran away and that it was her screams that prompted the attackers to flee. “They don’t believe my daughter’s statement from her hospital bed that Ravi Singh, one of the four accused, had tried to sexually assault her earlier too. But we remained silent at the time because we work in the fields of Rajputs,” the father said. Half-a-dozen families from the Valmiki caste — to which the girl’s family belongs — live in the village of over 120 households. Apart from four or five OBC families, the rest are upper caste, mostly Rajputs. On Wednesday, the girl’s father again questioned chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s Hindu credentials over his police’s act of hijacking the girl’s body and allegedly burning it after locking the family inside their home. “Adityanath claims he is a Hindu sadhu. Doesn’t he know that an unmarried person in our society is buried and not cremated? Did he know before ordering his police to cremate my daughter at 2.30am that in sanatan dharma the last rites are prohibited at night?” he said. The state government has told the Supreme Court that the last rites were conducted in the presence of the family, and that the cremation was speeded up because there was a possibility of violence. The state government has extended the SIT’s tenure by 10 days despite Adityanath on Saturday recommending a probe by the CBI. The SIT had recommended a lie-detection test on the victim’s family, among others. The family wants a judicial probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Former CBI chief  found hanging||Former Nagaland governor and one-time CBI chief Ashwani Kumar was found hanging in the attic of his Shimla home on Wednesday, Himachal Pradesh police said. He was 69. The police said Kumar had left behind a suicide note saying he was “embarking on a new journey”, and suggested that Covid-related confinement at home may have led him to take his own life. Kumar was CBI chief from August 2008 to November 2010, a period during which the agency had arrested Amit Shah, now Union home minister, in connection with the Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter case. At the time of his arrest in July 2010, Shah was a minister in a Gujarat government led by then chief minister Narendra Modi. In March 2013, the then Manmohan Singh government had appointed Kumar as Nagaland governor, a stint during which he also officiated as Manipur governor from July 2013 to December 2013. Kumar had to step down weeks after the Modi government came to power in May 2014. The 1973-batch IPS officer from the Himachal Pradesh cadre was among the handful of UPA-appointed governors whom the new government nudged to resign. Speaking of his death, retired IPS officer A.P. Singh, who had succeeded Kumar as CBI director, told The Telegraph: “It’s shocking.” “We recovered a suicide note, in which he has written he is embarking on a new journey,” Himachal director-general of police Sanjay Kundu said. “His family members were present when he went inside the room, locked it and committed suicide by hanging himself with a nylon rope. The family does not suspect any foul play.” A preliminary probe has suggested that the sudden change in Kumar’s active life over the last six months because of confinement at home was a probable reason for the suicide, officials said. One of his neighbours told PTI that Kumar had gone for his evening walk as usual. After returning home, he went to the attic. The body was found by a family member who had gone to the attic to call Kumar for dinner, the neighbour said. Kumar, who was vice-chancellor of a private university in Shimla at the time of his death, is survived by his wife and son. Under Kumar, the CBI had also handled the Aarushi Talwar murder case. During a stint with the Special Protection Group, Kumar had been in charge of the security of then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi. He also served as Himachal DGP. Former colleagues remembered Kumar as a soft-spoken gentleman who always wore a graceful smile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Thou shalt not… China media letter||The Chinese embassy here issued an advisory to the media on Wednesday on the dos and don’ts to be observed on the “National Day of Taiwan” on Saturday, prompting Taiwan’s foreign minister to accuse Beijing of trying censorship in “earth’s” largest democracy. Taiwan also displayed supreme confidence that its friends in India would give China a fitting reply. The Chinese embassy had, anticipating a bid by some in the media to push the envelope on India’s stated adherence to the “One China Policy”, issued a letter in the “hope” that the media would stick to the Indian government’s position on Taiwan The letter assumed the tone of a directive when it said: “In particular, Taiwan shall not referred to as a ‘country (nation)’ or ‘Republic of China’ or the leader of China’s Taiwan region as ‘President’ so as not to send the wrong signals to the general public.” Reacting to social media posts about the letter, Taiwan’s foreign ministry tweeted: “#India is the largest democracy on Earth with a vibrant press & freedom-loving people. But it looks like communist #China is hoping to march into the subcontinent by imposing censorship. #Taiwan’s Indian friends will have one reply: GET LOST! JW” According to the Twitter handle of the Taiwanese foreign ministry, tweets initialled “JW” are from the minister, Jaushieh Joseph Wu. The letter was sent out after the WION television channel issued a full page “advertorial” in a national newspaper on “The Double Tenth Day: Celebrating ROC Taiwan’s 109th National Day”. WION is part of the Zee Media Corporation, owned by the Essel Group. The group’s chairman is an Independent member of the Rajya Sabha, elected with BJP support. The Chinese embassy also underscored that “there is only one China in the world and the Government of the People’s Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing the whole of China”. It described Taiwan as an inalienable part of China’s territory. “These facts are recognised by UN resolution and constitute the universal consensus of the international community. All countries that have diplomatic relations with China should firmly honour their commitment to the One-China Policy....” the letter said. In May, amid the pandemic, BJP parliamentarians Meenakshi Lekhi and Rahul Kaswan had attended online the swearing-in of Tsai Ing-Wen for a second term as Taiwan “President”. The move was deemed to have had official nod, which injected a fresh irritant into a bilateral relationship already strained by China’s early summer moves along the Line of Actual Control. China had protested India’s participation in the swearing-in ceremony. India, like much of the rest of the world, lacks a diplomatic mission in Taiwan. But the government has since 1995 had a diplomat heading the India-Taipei Association, with consular and passport services, to promote interactions between India and Taiwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||PoK missile sites, with China help: Report||Chinese troops are conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile defence system in the region, sources in the security establishment said, quoting from an intelligence report. Increased Chinese air activities have also been observed in PoK coinciding with the military standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. “The latest intelligence report suggests that China is helping Pakistan set up sites for surface-to-air missiles in PoK, and that the two armies are holding joint patrols,” an Intelligence Bureau official attached to the Union home ministry said. “We have been witnessing closer military and economic cooperation between the two countries amid the border standoff between India and China since May.” The Indian Air Force chief, Air Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, had on Monday told a news conference that there was nothing to suggest a “collusive threat” but highlighted how the Chinese and Pakistani armies were carrying out joint exercises. “We are aware they are cooperating closely. There is a significant threat but so far there is no such indication that they are colluding for a two-front war,” Bhadauria had said. On India’s capability to withstand a two-front war, Bhadauria had said that amid an “emerging threat scenario in our neighbourhood and beyond”, the country was prepared for any conflict it might face. Among the military infrastructure projects going on at several PoK locations with China’s help, “construction for the installation of a surface-to-air missile defence system is being carried out at Pauli Pir near Lasadanna Dhok of PoK”, a security official said. He said the intelligence report had also spoken of joint reconnaissance exercises between Chinese and Pakistani troops in forward PoK locations such as Deolian and Jura. “We have noticed increased Chinese air activities in PoK, with Chinese refuelling aircraft having landed at Skardu in PoK. The Skardu airbase is about 100km from the Leh airbase on the Indian side,” the security official said. “In the past, Pakistan had conducted joint air exercises with China at the Skardu airbase.” A defence ministry official said that Chinese presence in PoK was not new. “What we are witnessing now is that their military cooperation has deepened in recent months amid the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Reports suggest that Pakistan has given China more foothold in the region,” he said. A Chinese state-run company had in May this year signed a contract to build the Diamer-Bhasha Dam in Gilgit-Baltistan, PoK, despite Indian objections. Also in the face of Indian opposition, Pakistan and China are building the $60-billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor that passes through PoK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Puzzling severity in reinfection in four patients||Reinfections of the new coronavirus in four healthcare workers in Mumbai with strikingly greater clinical severity during their second episodes have surprised sections of the medical community as they defy expectations of milder second-time coronavirus infections. Medical researchers in Mumbai and New Delhi used genome sequence studies on virus samples from each of the four healthcare workers to establish they were true reinfections and not just leftover viruses from their previous infections. The reinfections, the researchers say, carry a take-home-message for the public, relevant now to over 5.4 million people across the country who have recovered from Covid-19 — continue to take precautions. All four healthcare workers, who are engaged in treating coronavirus disease patients in Mumbai hospitals, had either no symptoms or mild symptoms during their first episodes in May and June. However, during their second episodes in July, they developed upper respiratory symptoms, muscle pains, or fever and all were hospitalised for observation and treatment. None of the four developed lung inflammation or disease that doctors have attributed to their relatively young ages. Although, Covid-19 reinfections are rare — only around 10 confirmed through genome studies worldwide among over 27 million people who have recovered from the infection — the Mumbai reinfections are considered significant because they establish the potential for severe reinfections. “Coronavirus reinfections are typically milder — that’s what we’d expect to see,” said Anurag Agrawal, a doctor-turned-researcher and director of the New Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Parents worldwide are familiar with this phenomenon of milder subsequent coronavirus infections. Young children sent into daycare or playschools often show frequent bouts of respiratory infections that wane in both intensity and number over three to five years. Agrawal and his colleagues have pointed out in a research report that while reinfections appear to be rare, it is unclear how long post-Covid-19 immunity will last. “If those who recover from mild Covid-19 have short-term immunity, reinfections may become more common in the future,” they said in their paper not peer-reviewed yet but posted on a preprint archive server. Doctors have so far confirmed Covid-19 reinfections through genome studies in Hong Kong and Nevada (US). Researchers at the IGIB had last month also established reinfections in two healthcare workers in a government hospital in Noida. The mechanisms that underlie reinfections are still unclear. Some scientists have speculated aberrant immune responses in some individuals might make them vulnerable to reinfections. “The reinfections underline the importance of continued precautions such as masks even by people who have recovered from the infection,” Agrawal said. “We don’t know enough about this virus yet.” The research team included doctors at the Kasturba Hospital and the PD Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai and researchers at the IGIB and the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Two Bengal varsities on ‘fake’ list||The University Grants Commission on Wednesday announced a list of 24 “self-styled, unrecognised institutions” in the country, terming them as “fake” with the maximum of them operating from Uttar Pradesh followed by Delhi. “Students and public are informed that currently 24 self-styled, unrecognised institutions are functioning in contravention of the UGC Act, which have been declared as fake universities and these are not empowered to confer any degree,” UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said. The majority of eight of these universities are from Uttar Pradesh. Delhi has seven alleged fake universities. Bengal and Odisha have two such universities each. In Bengal, the alleged fake universities are Indian Institute of Alternative Medicine and Institute of Alternative Medicine and Research in Calcutta. Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Puducherry have one fake university each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Nine injured in Odisha petrol pump blaze||At least nine persons were injured, two of them critically, as a major fire broke out at a petrol pump near the Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. Sources said the fire suddenly broke out inside one of the three underground liquid chambers when LPG was being transferred from a truck around 1pm. The gas chamber exploded, blowing away its cover and the roof of the petrol pump. Mutilated body parts like ears and fingers were strewn around the petrol pump in the wake of the fire that followed the blast. The sound of the blast was heard around 3km from the spot and many buildings in the nearby areas developed cracks. Even the glass panes inside the Raj Bhavan suffered damage. The Raj Bhavan boundary wall is only 50 metres from the petrol pump and the main building housing the governor and his staff is around 200m away. However, more than 100 deer in the deer parks inside the Raj Bhavan are safe. The two critically injured persons have been shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack where they are said to be battling for their lives. Binod Prasad Das, an eyewitness, said, “I was filling petrol at the pump when there was a sudden blast. It felt like an earthquake and there was a tremor. The roof of the building was blown away. I ran for my life, leaving my Scooty at the spot. Nearly 10 to 15 customers were present at the petrol pump when the blast occurred. Everyone ran away.” Another eyewitness said, “I don’t know how I survived. I just ran. The noise was deafening.” More than seven fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the blaze and the firemen took around three hours to bring the situation under control. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced free medical treatment for the injured and Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan ordered a probe into the incident. Pradhan asked the ministry secretary to talk to Odisha Indian Oil and state government officials and submit a report as soon as possible. Police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangri, who rushed to the spot, said, “We will lodge a criminal case. The forensic team is on the spot. The situation has been brought under control. So far no casualties have been reported. We have to contact the hospitals to know about the condition of the injured people. All precautionary measures have been initiated so that there is no spread of fire to the underground petrol reserve at the pump.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Gangsters flex muscles in poll-bound Bihar||It is election season in Bihar and musclemen, gangsters and dons cannot be far behind. This is a state where crime and politics have gone hand-in-hand for the last five decades. The musclemen, known as bahubalis are out again to hog the limelight, contest the polls or prop up their wives or relatives to circumvent the Election Commission’s new rules that make it mandatory for candidates with criminal backgrounds to publicise their case details thrice in newspapers before voting, and asks the political parties to justify why such a nominee was given the ticket instead of any other person. Almost every political party is fielding musclemen or their kin to gain an upper hand in the three-phase polls that would be held on October 28, November 3 and 7. At present the focus is on the first phase in which 71 constituencies are scheduled to go to polls and the deadline for filing nomination ends on Friday. “The gangsters and people with criminal backgrounds find one way or other to bypass all the rules and regulations of the Election Commission, which has no rule in place to check the family members of dreaded dons or convicted criminals from contesting elections. Many people with criminal antecedents are also in the poll fray in the state,” Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch (BEW) Bihar convener Rajiv Kumar told The Telegraph. He said that none of the political parties whether ruling or Opposition “are practising morality and ethics they have been preaching the year round. Their only interest and focus is on how to win seats. They all are giving tickets to either tainted people or their family members”. Jailed don Anant Singh, once considered close to chief minister Nitish Kumar, filed his nomination papers from Mokama constituency in Patna district on Wednesday for the Rashtriya Janata Dal. He has been representing the Assembly seat since 2005 — thrice on a Janata Dal United ticket and as an Independent in the 2015 polls. Facing several charges or murder, kidnapping, extortion and possession of illegal weapons, Anant was ironically arrested after RJD chief Lalu Prasad put pressure on the Nitish government to crack the whip in the kidnapping– cum–murder case of one Putus Yadav in 2015. At that time Nitish’s JDU and RJD were allies. Also known as “chhote sarkar”, Anant had weighed Nitish with silver coins on a scale. He had won the 2015 elections from jail. A man of few words, he came in a prisoner’s van to file the nomination and declared: “RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will be chief minister. Nitish will go to jail.” Anant’s wife Neelam Singh also filed nomination from the Mokama constituency as an Independent candidate on Wednesday, so that if her husband’s candidature is cancelled due to any reason, she would be in the poll fray. The RJD has also given tickets to Vibha Devi and Kiran Devi, wives of musclemen Rajballabh Prasad Yadav and Arun Yadav, from Nawada and Sandesh constituencies, respectively. Rajballabh, a former Nawada MLA, is currently in jail after being convicted for the rape of a minor girl. He has also been accused of illegal mining, extortion and assault, is considered “Mr Moneybags” of the party and is said to call shots from prison. Arun is an MLA from Sandesh constituency in Bhojpur district, and is on the run after being accused of the rape of a minor girl. He is also considered a strongman in his area. The RJD has banked on another muscleman Surendra Yadav, an accused in several criminal cases, in Belaganj constituency in Gaya district. Nicknamed “Magadh Samrat” (king of Magadh), he is known to hold sway in Maoist-affected areas, where even the police tread with fear. The JDU is also not far behind in fielding musclemen and dons. It has given a ticket to Manorama Devi, currently an MLC, to contest from Atri constituency in Gaya district. Manorama is the wife of Bindi Yadav, an accused in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, assault and extortion. He is considered a terror, unbridled by the law, in his area. She has also been to jail for recovery of liquor from her house after Nitish imposed prohibition in the state. It brings into question the government’s sincerity in imposing the liquor ban. Many musclemen are filing nomination papers as Independent candidates after being denied a ticket by their respective parties. RJD leader Sunil Yadav is one of them. He is engaged in sand business, but has gained notoriety as a person who nobody dares to cross in Paliganj constituency in Patna district. Sunil Pandey is another person who has several cases of murder, kidnapping and extortion against him. The four-time MLA was the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) vice-president till recently, but resigned after the party announced that it won’t field candidates against the BJP. He will now contest as an Independent from Tarari constituency in Bhojpur district. Sunil was alleged to have been involved in the killing of Ranvir Sena chief Barmeshwar Mukhiya in 2012 — a case that is being probed by the CBI. He was also arrested for allegedly hatching a plan to eliminate dreaded Uttar Pradesh don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari. Notorious gangster and MLC Ritlal Yadav, recently released from jail, is all set to contest from Danapur constituency on the outskirts of Patna. An accused in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and land grabbing, he is said to have made a fortune in managing tenders, especially those related to the railways in Bihar. Ritlal’s sway in his constituency could be understood by the fact that RJD chief Lalu Prasad had visited his house to seek support for his daughter Misa Bharti in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Many more dons — jailed or free — are set to enter the electoral fray either themselves or through their family members in the next two phases. The political parties are yet to announce their list of candidates, but the chief among them would be the wives of jailed gangsters–cum–politicians like Muhammad Shahabuddin, Anand Mohan, Rama Singh, Ranvir Yadav, Awadhesh Mandal and Amarendra Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Woman drugged, robbed in bus ||A middle-aged woman travelling in a government bus from Jalpaiguri to Malda was drugged and looted of her cash and gold ornaments allegedly by one of her co-passengers on Wednesday, but the driver and conductor went beyond their call of duty to help her. The duo took the unconscious woman, Archana Mondal, 51, to a health centre, ensured her treatment, and informed the police and her family. The driver and conductor, along with almost 40 passengers, waited at the health centre for three hours and left only after Mondal’s family members arrived. Sources said Mondal had boarded an early morning NBSTC (North Bengal State Transport Corporation) bus from Raninagar, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri, headed for Farakka. She was returning home in Manikchak of Malda. On the way, when the bus got stuck in traffic at Kishanganj in Bihar around 10am, conductor Snehasish Rudra and some passengers noticed she was unconscious. Driver Bijoy Soren drove the bus to the nearest health centre in Chakulia (North Dinajpur). There, doctors confirmed that she had been drugged. Rudra and Soren informed the local police. When Mondal became conscious, she said that her ornaments and cash had been stolen and provide details of her family. The conductor immediately called up her family. The woman, he said, told the police that her co-passenger had offered her some food and she had eaten it. That passenger, it appears, had left the bus before Kishanganj. No one has been arrested so far. “It appears this person took away her ornaments and cash. We have time and again urged passengers not to accept food or water from strangers. We keep an eye on passengers but they should also be alert,” the conductor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Hill TMC youth chief resigns||The president of Trinamul Youth Congress (Hills) resigned along with a few other functionaries on Wednesday, baring the seriousness of the factionalism in Trinamul’s hill leadership. Vishnu Golay, who was the the Trinamul Youth Congress president of Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills, blamed the leaders in charge of the party since 2017 for the problems. “The president (L.B. Rai, TMC (hills) and Shanta didi (Shanta Chhetri, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member) never allowed youths to work independently,” alleged Golay. He said that apart from him the working president of the youth front (hills) Anup Thatal and secretary Lalit Baraily were also resigning. “I had placed my grievances before L.B. Rai a couple of months back but he had not tried to address any of our grievances,” alleged Golay. The TMC, which is in power in Mirik municipality — Rai chairs the civic body — is in alliance with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay camp). Golay said that many other leaders who had started working for Trinamul in the hills around 2011 were peeved with the way the party was functioning now. A senior TMC leader took a serious view of the development: “The present leadership is trying to poach supporters from our alliance. We should stay united at this moment.” Rai and Chhetri could not be contacted for their comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||TMC, BJP race to support Galwan martyr’s kin||Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul and challenger BJP, which is at the Centre, seem to be in a race to prove their sincerity towards the bereaved family of Bipul Roy, a havildar of the Indian Army who lost his life during the clash at Galwan Valley earlier on June 15 this year. On October 9, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will reach Alipurduar’s Bindipara village to hand over the Centre’s financial aid to Roy’s family, which is likely to be Rs 11 lakh, sources said.    Roy’s wife Rumpa added: “I have been intimated by the Indian Army that on Friday, the governor will be in our village to meet us.” This comes four months after chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee had announced in Calcutta on June 19 that the state would hand over Rs 5 lakh to the family as compensation and that Rumpa, Roy’s wife, would get a government job. On June 20, a team comprising the local MLA of Alipurduar and the district magistrate reached Roy’s home with handed over two cheques of Rs 2.5 lakh each to Rumpa and to Niren, Bipul’s father. Also, the district magistrate had handed over an offer letter for a government job to the bereaved wife. Last week, when Mamata was in north Bengal on a four-day visit, she announced that Rumpa has been given a clerical job at Dooars Kanya, the district magistrate’s office in Alipurduar. “On Tuesday (October 6), I joined as a clerk in Uttar Kanya. I thank the chief minister and the state government for standing by our family during the hour of crisis,” Rumpa said over the phone. The initiatives by both parties are being seen as attempts to woo the influential Rajbanshi population of north Bengal before the crucial 2021 Assembly elections. In this region, votes of the Rajbanshi population are the deciding factor in at least 20 Assembly constituencies. “It is good that such competition is eventually helping the bereaved family of the soldier. But such moves and elaborate announcements also indicate that both these parties are eyeing the Rajbanshi population,” said a political observer. It has been learnt from sources that governor Dhankhar will reach Alipurduar in the morning and will leave for Bindipara. He will spend an hour there and will then depart for Bagdogra via Alipurduar. For the past couple of days and also on Wednesday, choppers were seen making trial runs. District BJP leaders who are waiting for the governor’s visit and are not ready to comment now. “Whatever is happening now is just show-off,” the Trinamul leader pointed out. On June 19, when Roy’s mortal remains reached his village, Trinamul and BJP leaders, including state ministers, MLAs, MPs and some other elected representatives paid had homage to the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Guard poses as doctor at Malda hospital||A guard at a rural hospital of Malda district has been accused of posing as a doctor, treating patients and also taking consultation fees. The guard, so far known only as Sohail, used the quarters of the Gazole hospital superintendent Anjan Roy, who is away on leave since October 4 and will join on Thursday, to bolster his impersonation. Sohail is absconding. The caretaker of the quarters has been detained for questioning by hospital authorities. The issue came to light after a woman patient on Wednesday suspected the guard and informed other doctors at the hospital. The woman said she went to the hospital to consult a doctor for tumour in her uterus. But before she could enter the outpatient department, a person, whom she suspects to be a broker, approached her and suggested she consult the superintendent. “The superintendent is available at his quarters where he occasionally sees patients, this person told me,” said the woman. Accordingly, she went to the superintendent’s quarters. There, in absence of Roy, Sohail sat posing as a doctor. The caretaker at the gate ushered the woman inside. Sohail examined her physically and wrote her a prescription on Roy’s official letterhead, and then advised her to buy the medicines from a private chemist shop, the woman said. This triggered her suspicions, she said. “If I can get medicines free from the hospital, why should I have to buy them?” she said, adding she went to the hospital again. There, she asked for free medicines and showed the prescription. “The on-duty doctors were taken aback to see that the prescription was issued by the superintendent, who they said, was on leave. Immediately a hullabaloo was created, and the guard at the quarters scampered off. The caretaker is detained but he is refusing the charges that he knew anything about this impersonation,” said a source at the hospital. Shyam Sundar Haldar, a senior doctor at the hospital, said: “The guard is at large. The matter has been reported to the police and district health authorities” District health officials said they have started probing the case. “We are collecting information about the incident. If the allegation is found to be true, stern action would be taken against all persons concerned,” said Bhushan Chakraborty, the chief medical officer of health of Malda. Superintendent Roy was not available for comment. Calls made to his cellphone by this paper went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Mud road worse than birth pangs||Villagers in West Burdwan’s Kanksa had to walk 1.5km on a squishy mud road with a bleeding woman and her newborn son on a stretcher to reach an ambulance parked on NH2 on Tuesday. The ambulance driver could not enter College Para area of Rajbandh village, barely 15km from mall-studded Durgapur town, because the mud road, worsened by rain the past two days, was not motorable. A video clip of men carrying the woman and her newborn on the stretcher surfaced on the Internet, prompting the local Trinamul-run rural body to announce speedy repair of the road on Wednesday. Rajani Sarkar, 26, who was in an advanced state of pregnancy, started getting labour pains early Tuesday. Her husband Dilip, an iron shutter door mechanic, called an ambulance to take Rajani to the Durgapur subdivisional hospital. But the ambulance driver approaching the village from NH2 was forced to park his vehicle on the highway some 1.5km from the village. “I feared the tyres may get stuck in the soft mud road,” said the driver. Rajani gave birth at home with the help of some village women but bled profusely. As her bleeding did not stop, an alarmed Dilip called up the driver, this time for a stretcher. Some village youths came to rescue and four of them took Rajani and her newborn to the ambulance on NH2. Finally, the mother and infant went to the Kanksa block primary health centre. Doctors on Wednesday said both were stable. However, the incident sparked resentment among the villagers, mostly belonging to the Matua Maha Sangh. The Matuas — a Namasudra community, a majority of whom migrated from East Pakistan — have submitted a deputation to the Amlajora gram panchayat demanding immediate repair of the road. “If anyone falls ill, there is no option to take him to hospital in an ambulance, the road is so bad,” said Swapan Gosai, a village elder. “We can hardly use two-wheelers. If the mother or the baby had died, who would have been responsible?” Chayanika Pal, chief of Amlajora gram panchayat, said a part of the village and the land needed to construct a metal road belonged to the railways and the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). “We requested the BDO to take up the matter with the DVC and railway officials. We will construct a proper road from the highway to the village,” said Pal. The incident comes soon after chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched the road repair scheme, Pathashree Abhijan, during her last week’s administrative review meeting in north Bengal. Under it, more than 7,000 stretches of roads comprising 12,000km across Bengal will be repaired in a time-bound manner. But Rajbandh — with 130 families, including 285 voters — seem cynical. “No neta visits us unless there is an election. We are fed up,” said Gosai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Dilip: UP girl not raped & murder was to hide truth||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday said the Dalit girl in Hathras of Uttar Pradesh had not been raped and she “was murdered to hide the truth”, the comment once again establishing his foot-in-mouth disease that often embarrassed the party. “There was no rape. The girl’s mother is saying something, while the neighbours are saying something else. Lastly, the girl was murdered to hide the truth,” Ghosh said while addressing BJP supporters at a meeting in Calcutta. Referring to a Trinamul Congress delegation that had been prevented from visiting the victim’s family in Hathras, Ghosh said: “Mamata Banerjee’s brothers went there to create a drama.” Multiple BJP leaders this correspondent spoke to said Ghosh should have at least considered the dignity of the victim and her family before making such comments. “What does he mean by saying the girl was murdered to hide the truth? I don’t understand why he spoke about the girl’s mother,” said a female BJP leader. Ghosh was, however, defiant. He said his comments were on the basis of a forensic report. “We as laymen cannot prove whether it was a rape or not... I was talking on the basis of the report,” he told a news conference. It was reported on Monday that the Forensic Science Laboratory in Agra had found no sign of rape after examining the samples from the victim. However, experts contested the results which were based on the samples collected 11 days after the incident. During the news conference, Ghosh shouted at a journalist, who raised questions about the acceptability of the forensic report. “You don’t have to think much about it... . Keep quiet,” Ghosh told the reporter. “The press was stopped from entering the village (in Hathras) because, you guys would have otherwise spread lies about the incident,” the Midnapore MP added. The UP government had claimed journalists had been asked not to enter Hathras because the Special Investigating Team was at work. The Bengal BJP chief seemed to have committed another faux-pas as one of his tweets on Tuesday showed a picture of farmers purportedly thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the new farm laws. The tweet read that the picture had been taken at Puntor village in the Kumarganj Assembly constituency of South Dinajpur. It was later reported that the picture could be traced back to July 12, 2020, and taken in the Kaimur district of Bihar. “This is a true picture. If you have doubts you must go to South Dinajpur and see for yourself,” Ghosh told journalists who asked him about the tweet’s authenticity. In the last seven days, Ghosh scored at least four own goals on various issues. On Saturday, he tweeted a doctored video claiming that BJP workers had been shot at by Trinamul goons at Budge Budge in South 24 Parganas. Later, the media-in charge of the state BJP issued a public apology and the post was taken down. On Tuesday, Ghosh compared law and order in Bengal to the “Mafia-raj” in Bihar and UP. He said in a video message on Wednesday that his comments were being manipulated by a section of the media. “I was referring to the lawlessness that used to be there in Bihar and UP…This news is being spread to harm my image,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||October sees Covid climb in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 3,455 new Covid-19 cases till 9am — the highest spike yet in the 24-hour period — and 58 deaths, as well as 3,024 recoveries. In all, Bengal has gone past 2.8 lakh cases, which include over 2.46 lakh recoveries and 5,376 deaths. In the first week of October, the state saw a rise of 23,455 new Covid-19 cases, compared to 20,968 recoveries. There have been 418 deaths in the week. Of the 58 deaths reported on Wednesday, 18 were from Calcutta and 12 from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed over 56 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths since the first was recorded in Bengal on March 23. Amid a continued surge in active cases, which stands at 28,361 on Wednesday, Bengal saw a dip in the recovery rate  for the first time in months, to 87.97 on Wednesday from 87.98 the day before. However, it is still ahead of the national rate of 85.05 per cent. A minister said: “We are tightening our vigil for better management of the pandemic, by way of handling serious and critical patients more efficiently, besides keeping regular tabs on the vulnerable sections.” “There could well be a surge after Puja. We certainly cannot afford a spike before that,” the minister added. “The co-morbidity surveys and putting together that database is a crucial step in the right direction. Besides, as the chief minister instructed yesterday (Tuesday), tracking infected persons with higher viral load is a smart decision,” he added. The state reported 42,651 tests on Wednesday, taking the total past 35 lakh. “We began testing in early February. Seven months later, a month ago, we were at 22 lakh tests. Today, we are past 35.23 lakh tests. We have been covering a lakh tests almost every two days, for a long time now,” said the minister. Bengal is now at 39,146 tests per million people. A month ago, the state was at 24,455. The positive confirmation rate is 7.96 per cent now, which is better than 8.35 per cent, within the span of a month. Of the total deaths, 4,565 (84.9 per cent) were reported as co-morbid by the state government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, while the national rate is 1.54 per cent. “Substantially lowering the mortality rate is one target we have not been able to achieve in a couple of months,” admitted the minister. The state reported 37.61 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals and over 3.03 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Nabanna to be shut for sanitisation in blow to BJP march today||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to shut Nabanna for sanitisation for two days from Thursday when the youth wing of the BJP is slated to hold a march to the state secretariat. A government order issued on Wednesday evening said both Nabanna and Writer’s Buildings would remain closed on October 8 and 9. Bangalore South MP and national chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) Tejasvi Surya is scheduled to lead the march which will begin around 11am on Thursday “against the misrule of the Mamata Banerjee government”. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the rally would happen even though Nabanna would remain shut. “Mamata Banerjee is afraid of the BJP and hence, she is running away,” In another order issued late at night, the government informed the BJYM leadership that the march had been planned in clear violation of government of India rules imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In its order, the state sought cooperation of the organisers and asked them to follow the “allowable” parameters of a democratic protest. A section of the state BJP leadership raised doubts about the utility of the march as no one would be present at Nabanna in case the party intended to hand over a memorandum to the government. A BJP leader said: “Usually, marches to Nabanna are stopped by police midway and party leaders go to Nabanna to hand over a memorandum or its list of demands. If the state secretariat remains closed, what is the point of the rally?” A state BJP general secretary said if the march was not allowed to reach Nabanna, a public meeting would be held wherever it would be stopped. Chief of the BJYM’s Bengal unit Saumitra Khan had said 2 lakh supporters would take part in the protest against unemployment and alleged breakdown of law and order in the state. Though Khan remains upbeat about his plan, insiders in the party do not share his optimism. The party has planned a four-pronged siege of Nabanna with Ghosh scheduled to lead the rally from the BJP state headquarters in central Calcutta. Surya and Khan will be marching to the state secretariat from Howrah Maidan, while BJP vice-president Mukul Roy and party’s Bengal co-minder Arvind Menon will give leadership to the group heading to Nabanna from Hastings. The fourth team of marchers will be led by senior leaders, including Sayantan Basu, from Santragachi in Howrah. Khan said Mamata had been feeling unnerved over Thursday’s mammoth gathering and accused her of using government machinery to stop BJP supporters from reaching Calcutta. “The streets of Calcutta are not Mamata Banerjee’s private property. It cannot happen that only she can march on the streets and we cannot,” Khan said. Sources said the party tried in vain on Wednesday to get permission from the police to take out the rally. Though the BJP has accused Lalbazar of partisan behaviour, a police officer said as was the practice, the BJP’s application for the march had been received. Even before BJP hit the streets in Calcutta, political temperatures soared in Birbhum’s Parui on Wednesday. BJP leaders in Parui said Trinamul goons had attacked party workers with crude bombs when they had gathered before going to submit a memorandum to the police station. Though no one was seriously hurt in the bomb attack, the police have detained five persons. Trinamul has, however, ruled out the involvement in the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Gorkhaland & ST demands raised: Hill party||The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha claimed that the party had raised the issue of Gorkhaland and granting of tribal status to 11 hill communities at a meeting convened by the Centre in New Delhi on Wednesday where no representative of the Bengal government and other hill parties was present. The meeting was chaired by Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy. A written statement circulated in social media by Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gurung camp, but attributed to Lopsang Yolmo Lama, the working president, said the delegates had raised the demand for the separate state of Gorkhaland and grant of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. The Union home ministry had convened the meeting initially with “the issues related to Gorkhaland” as the agenda, which was later changed to “issues of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. The Gurung camp alleged at the meeting that the Bengal government did not honour the GTA agreement and purportedly listed out “irregularities, interferences and obstacles committed by the state government thereby rendering the GTA defunct”. “Moreover, all the elected members of the GTA had resigned en masse in 2017 rejecting the said body,” the party said. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha, said:  “Why is Bimal Gurung going to a GTA meeting? Why is he in a GTA meeting after crying hoarse on the Gorkhaland.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government calls for stricter watch on Covid patients at home||The Bengal government has asked authorities of the districts as well as Calcutta Municipal Corporation to monitor asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or patients exhibiting mild symptoms in home isolation. The development follows the revelation ahead of Durga Puja that patients violating home-isolation norms led to a sudden spurt in Covid deaths and infections across Bengal. A senior government official said most Covid-19 patients at home with no or mild symptoms did not obey safety norms. “They (Covid patients staying at home) are coming in contact with several people  or not informing the health department if case their health deteriorates. This has led to sudden surge of deaths and spread of positive cases of late,” said a senior government official. This was happening, sources said, because many patients did not engage caregivers during home isolation. Usually, caregivers are professionals with basic training in handling a patient with an infectious disease. “The health department tracks asymptomatic and mildly positive patients through caregivers, whose number must be given to the health department if a patient decides to stay at home. As many patients do not engage caregivers, it is difficult to monitor patients at homes,” said a senior official. The state government has decided to bring all mildly positive or asymptomatic patients to safe homes if they don’t engage a caregiver or have no space at home for isolation. “If there is no adequate space for home isolation or no appropriate caregiver is present, patients with mild disease (mild form of Covid-19) should be managed at Safe Homes,” reads an order issued by the health department. An official said that while allowing mild and asymptomatic patients to stay at home, the state health department had made a caregiver staying with the patient mandatory. In most cases this order was taken lightly, he said. Senior officials said tightening home isolation norms would bring down the toll too. “Covid patients (at home) come late to hospitals. Most of them deteriorate without realising it while at home... Presence of caregivers could help us manage the situation better,” said an official. “The absence of caregivers (in most cases) made the situation critical,” the official said. A health official added: “We are working on a strategy to ensure that the situation (pandemic) does not spiral out of control after the festive season.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to adivasis: Be with my govt||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday told adivasis to ask her for anything they needed but urged them not to misunderstand her or the state government. The Bengal chief minister’s plea is deemed significant because of the BJP’s spectacular performance in the tribal-dominated Lok Sabha seats in Bengal last year. “You people take the side of various organisations during elections. You may do that, as it is your freedom. But there is no work that you proposed has been left undone by me…. My only request to you is, please be with us. Be with our government, that of ma-mati-manush,” Mamata said at an administrative review meeting of the adivasi-dominated Jhargram district in the Jungle Mahal. She asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to look into a slew of demands for roads and schools placed by the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal — a tribal outfit — at the meeting. With months left before the perform-or-perish Bengal Assembly polls, the chief minister also urged other communities to turn away from the BJP while specifically mentioning Dalits in the wake of the Hathras incident. “I would also like to request the people of Mahato and other (Dalit and tribal) communities, including Lodha, Sabar, Toto… to understand that I see all of you as human beings. Today, Dalits are tortured the most (in BJP-ruled states), along with adivasis and other common people,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. Sources said the shock defeat of Trinamul in Jhargram, one of the five Lok Sabha seats won by the BJP in the Jungle Mahal, was the result of the split in tribal votes. “There is a significant presence of the Mahato community (in all four Jungle Mahal districts), which felt deprived when Birbaha Soren was made the candidate for Jhargram…. The chief minister today (Wednesday) tried addressing all the communities here,” said a Trinamul leader in Jhargram. At the meeting, Mamata kept urging various sections of the society to state their demands. “Please tell us your demands. But please don’t misunderstand,” she said. “I will fulfil your demands according to the availability of funds, or I will do it when the funds will be available,” Mamata added, accusing the Centre of taking away money in the form of GST and other taxes from Bengal and yet refusing to compensate the state. The chief minister instructed police to ensure that the hard-earned peace remained in the Jungle Mahal, which was once the hotbed of Left extremism. Asking director-general of state police Virendra to put various security agencies on alert for intelligence-gathering, she said there should be no compromise on such matters. “Some people belonging to a certain political party had visited the Jungle Mahal, along with Maoist veterans, looking to foment trouble…. It is your (the police administration’s) responsibility to ensure nobody is able to cause trouble again,” she said. “Always looking to generate problems in Bengal by abusing their bottomless money power… the police administration has to be more active,” she said to Virendra. The chief minister also stressed the need for keeping tabs on outsiders and cash flow in the run-up to the elections. “I am giving you the information. They are from a certain political party…. I will not tolerate disruption of peace once it has been so painstakingly restored,” she said. At the event, Mamata named Jhargram University after Santhali author Sadhu Ramchand Murmu. Mamata asked Jhargram district magistrate Ayesha Rani to meet the Lodha and Sabar communities and visit their villages regularly and ordered the opening of a branch office of the Kurmi Development Board, headquartered in Purulia. She agreed to set up a museum for handicraft made by tribal people in Jhargram, in accordance with a proposal from Trinamul leader Birbaha Soren, who had unsuccessfully contested the general election in the constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
08-10-2020||North East||Ex-DIG held in paper leak||Former deputy-inspector general of police P.K. Dutta, a suspect in the police recruitment examination paper leak case, was detained on the Indo-Nepal border in Bengal on Tuesday night. Sources said Dutta was apprehended by Bengal police from Kakarbhitta area along the Indo-Nepal border and was kept in Siliguri. The lookout circular was issued for Dutta on September 28. Assam police headquarters on Wednesday evening released a statement saying Dutta was arrested on Wednesday morning by the state CID in connection with the case registered under Sections 409 and 120B of the IPC and Section 66B of the IT Act. “After getting his medical examination conducted in MMC Hospital, he was produced today before Hon’ble CJM Court along with prayer to allow 7 days Police Remand. The court granted 6 days police remand and accordingly P. K. Dutta is in custody of CID,” the statement said. It said the number of arrests in connection with the CID police station case no. 21/2020 stands at 14. Altogether 35 people have been arrested in the paper leak case, sources said, adding the Union home ministry too had a role to play in Dutta’s arrest. Dutta was taken to Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital for medical check-up where he tested negative for Covid-19. He was then produced in the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Guwahati which remanded Dutta in the custody of the CID for six days. The CID and Guwahati police’s crime branch are probing the case. Another key player in the case, expelled BJP youth leader Diban Deka, was arrested from Barpeta district. A court here extended Deka’s CID custody by six more days on Tuesday. Deka was on the run from September 20, the day the paper leak led to the cancellation of the sub-inspector recruitment exam, and Dutta from around September 22. A police team had raided Dutta’s residence at Hengerabari here and four hotels and properties in Guwahati and Dibrugarh linked to him. The raids and interrogation of the arrested had revealed that he might have fled to Nepal where his son-in-law lived. Dutta and his son fled to Nepal after the former officer’s name started doing the rounds in the case. A mock test was held on the eve of the examination in a hotel and a lodge here, reports suggest, indicating the presence of a well-oiled recruitment racket. The chairman of the now-reconstituted state level police recruitment board, which conducted the exam, had resigned owning moral responsibility for the paper leak. A Congress leader has also come under the scanner in connection with the case but the Opposition party has stepped up its attack on the BJP-led government by staging protests near the offices of superintendents of police in all 33 districts on Monday. Nalbari superintendent of police Amanjeet Kaur told The Telegraph they have arrested 11 people so far and are questioning several others in connection with the case. “We have also conducted raids in several places in search of the accused in Barpeta district, including Rokibul Islam, an advocate. Islam is on the run. We also brought Ataf Ali for questioning from Barpeta on Sunday but have let him go,” Kaur told this newspaper on Tuesday. Kaur did not refer to their political affiliation but the Congress admitted that Islam and Ali were its members. The party expelled Ali and directed its Barpeta unit to inquire into Islam’s case. Islam was the Barpeta district Congress president but became inactive after he was denied a party ticket for the zilla parishad polls. Ali headed the Barpeta district Congress’s RTI cell. “Our PCC chief has made it clear that law will take its own course. Those behind the scam should be brought to book, irrespective of party affiliation. Ali has been expelled, and our Barpeta district unit is inquiring into Islam’s case. We successfully staged our SP office gherao protest in all districts despite heavy deployment of security forces. Several people sustained minor injuries,” PCC spokesperson Rhituporna Konwar said. PCC chief Ripun Bora led the protest in Lakhimpur district. “The BJP-led government should live up to its zero-corruption slogan. It is not enough to use a catchy slogan. It is not only the SI exams. There have been anomalies in exams of other departments too. The chief minister is directly involved in the scam. He should resign and a probe conducted by a high court judge,” another PCC spokesperson Imdad Hussain said. Monday’s protest follows the dharnas carried out by the NSUI and the Youth Congress. The Congress has been highlighting the recruitment scam in a bid to embarrass the chief minister and the BJP and also connect with the disgruntled youth, especially the unemployed, before the 2021 Assembly polls. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday said here that his government’s uncompromising tirade against corruption will continue. He also made it clear that politicians, government officers or whosoever is found indulging in corruption will not be spared. He also accused the Congress of being the “saudagar of durniti” (merchant of corruption) during its 15-year rule before it was ousted in 2016. “We will spare no one. We launched an investigation as soon as we got to know about the paper leak. There was no public complaint,” Sonowal said. Coming down heavily on the Congress “misrule” in the state, Sonowal said it had “opened shops of brazen corrupt practices” by facilitating recruitment scams in every department. His government had to spend a lot of time in “cleaning the filth” left behind by the previous government and the Congress had lost moral right to “criticise” others on corruption, he said. All Assam Students Union general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi has demanded that the probe should move beyond Deka and Dutta and find out how the question paper got leaked and who leaked it. “This scam is bigger than the APSC cash-for-jobs scam. More people are involved. We want to know whether the names of politicians whose names are doing the rounds will be brought under the ambit of the probe? Whether former SLPRB chairman (Pradeep Kumar) will be brought under the ambit of the ongoing investigation?” he asked. The APSC scam took place during the erstwhile Congress regime. The Assam cabinet on Wednesday decided to do away with private agencies in the government recruitment process. “Departments themselves will hold the exams or conduct recruitment through state or central universities,” the government said on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
08-10-2020||Opinion||Common ground: Talking China at Quad meet||At the second meeting among members of Quad nations — India, the United States of America, Japan and Australia — it was evident that the proverbial elephant in the room was the dragon, in a manner of speaking. China’s belligerence and aggressive posturing not only on the border with India but also in the Indo-Pacific stretch had lent a degree of urgency to the deliberations in Tokyo. Expectedly, the US, given its trade wars with Beijing under the Donald Trump administration, chose not to mince words, calling for the protection of people and partnerships from an expansionist template being pursued by its adversary. The Indian foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, called for respecting territorial sovereignty as well as peaceful resolution of disputes. The simmering tensions in Ladakh undoubtedly set the tenor of Mr Jaishankar’s reasoning. The Japanese foreign minister appreciated global efforts to realize the goal of a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” while his Australian counterpart — this is significant — mentioned the threat from malicious cyberspace activity. New Delhi would undoubtedly like to project the meeting as a signal of the closure of ranks among Quad members. This may be so but it cannot be denied that at the moment the glue that is making the partners stick is the lengthening shadow of Beijing. Given that strategic imperatives are bound to shift, it makes sense on the part of Quad nations to find other, equally substantial, avenues to cement this fledgling association. Among all the members, India perhaps has to do most of the soul-searching. This is because Quad symbolizes an opportunity as well as a challenge. While New Delhi has reasons to view Quad as a platform to consolidate its presence on other international fora, it must also be careful so as not to step into the trap of restrictive cooperation. India must retain the foresight to choose its partnerships in accordance with its own strategic needs and refrain from bartering its autonomy for the assurance of security. It will be a fine balancing act that will test New Delhi’s will and wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Solo show: Chirag Paswan severs ties with JD(U)||Sir — The political scenario in Bihar has taken an interesting turn with the Lok Janshakti Party under the leadership of Chirag Paswan announcing that it will contest the upcoming assembly polls in Bihar alone, breaking away from its alliance with the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) by citing ideological differences (“LJP cities ideological differences with Nitish”, Oct 5). However, the LJP has claimed that it will continue to support the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre and pledged to support the latter both before and after the elections. It is clear that this move was directed at the incumbent chief minister and his party. This has now led to a sense of uncertainty about the way the upcoming polls might turn out. In recent months, the LJP has rightly criticized the state government for its inadequate handling of the Covid-19-induced crisis faced by Bihari migrant workers who were stuck in far-off places after the lockdown was imposed and had no means of returning home. As the migrant workers return to the state, there is now an urgent need to formulate policy measures that will create greater opportunities for employment within Bihar. The BJP, which is in power in the state along with the JD(U), should devise a poll manifesto that will prioritize the economic needs of the people. Subhash Chandra Agrawal,Delhi Sir — It seems that the BJP is indulging in yet another kind of underhand politics. This time they have uprooted an ally of the Nitish Kumar-government in Bihar even though they share power with the JD(U) in the state. The upcoming assembly elections might see a massive change in Bihar politics. The National Democratic Alliance has come to a near-equal seat-sharing formula between the BJP and the JD(U). The JD(U) chief has perhaps realized that he has no other choice but to acquiesce to the wishes of the BJP. Bihar has long been a critical state in the Hindi heartland and has a fairly large number of seats in the Lok Sabha. The BJP, has been trying to capture sole power in the state and ousting JD(U) would pave the way towards that goal. There is no doubt that BJP will milk these cracks to the fullest. Abhijit Chakraborty,Howrah Sir — The decision of the LJP to contest the polls separately from the JD(U) does not come as a surprise. The LJP has been sniping at the Nitish Kumar-government for a while on a variety of issues. Had the LJP exited from the NDA altogether, like the Shiromani Akali Dal, then it would have been a matter of concern. The Paswans have played a critical card and Kumar, seeking a fourth consecutive term, will be facing anti-incumbency sentiments to a great extent. This new political equation would surely perplex voters. Without a doubt, it is going to be an intense election. Hopefully the parties will keep the interests of the people in mind and not seek votes along divisive lines. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Unlike other terms, this year, the assembly elections in Bihar will be fought without the presence of its bahubalis. The Rashtriya Janata Dal founder, Lalu Prasad, the erstwhile LJP chief, Ram Vilas Paswan, as well as the veteran politician, Sharad Yadav, have been absent from the centre stage. However, the real battle is not between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, but between the BJP and the JD(U). The BJP had an ace up its sleeve — Chirag Paswan — which it played quite craftily. The final aim of the saffron party is to capture the post of the chief minister in Bihar which cannot be achieved as long as it is forced to play second fiddle to the JD(U). Now, with an almost equal seat-share and the LJP declaring that it would field candidates only against the JD(U), the atmosphere in Bihar is heating up. In the 2015 elections, the LJP contested in 42 seats but won only two. However, most tend to forget that the LJP candidates were runner-ups in 36 seats. The party undoubtedly has a significant presence and might just end up determining the fate of Bihar in the near future. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Sir — All eyes are on Bihar as the state gears up for the assembly polls amidst dramatic happenings within the NDA. Whether the LJP will benefit from its decision to sever ties with the JD(U) or not remains to be seen. But the restructuring of power in Bihar will certainly have long-term implications for all parties involved. Krishna Chatterjee,Calcutta Live free Sir — It was great that a gated community has been set up in France for people with Alzheimer’s disease. It has a grocery shop, a hair salon and so on and is attempting to provide a sense of autonomy to its inhabitants. While the program is partly subsidized now, it is still expensive at nearly 24,000 euros a year. As the world population grows older — one in six will be over 65 years of age by 2050 — governments must take steps to make life comfortable for the elderly — Alzheimer’s is not the only affliction to affect them. Otherwise many would be forced to spend their last days in pain or without dignity. Sanav Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Pure farce: The GST compensation debacle||The slanging match between the Centre and  some Opposition-ruled states over the contentious payment of compensation for the shortfall in goods and services tax collections has now descended into a theatre of the absurd. A day after Bengal, Kerala and a couple of other states were able to mount stiff resistance to the Centre’s overweening stand that states must borrow to bridge the shortfall, the Narendra Modi government has come up with the bizarre argument that there is no need for a vote at the next meeting of the GST Council on October 12. The argument is based on the premise that borrowing by states does not come within the Council’s bailiwick. The Centre had offered the states two stark choices: borrow a sum of Rs 970 billion from a special window created by the Reserve Bank of India, or a larger amount of Rs 2.35 trillion at market rates to offset the anticipated shortfall in GST collections in a Covid-wracked year. Mr Modi’s government has armed itself with the attorney general’s opinion that it was not obliged to pay an arbitrarily determined sum of Rs 1.38 trillion attributed to the pandemic’s impact on the economy that, it claimed, was not covered by the compensation mechanism. In the last meeting, the Centre buckled under pressure and agreed to extend the compensation cess beyond its original five-year tenure until states were able to recover their entire dues, including the Covid-related shortfall. It also offered to raise the cap on states’ borrowing to Rs 1.10 trillion under the first option in a bid to win over the fence-sitters. The truculent states are, however, insisting that the Centre should borrow the money instead and pass it on to them. The argument that no voting is required on the issue makes no sense. If it was not a GST Council issue, why was it brought up for discussion at all? The special borrowing mechanism is linked to a specific purpose: to compensate for the shortfall in the GST collections. It is ridiculous to ignore that causal link. The GST legislation is pretty clear: all disputes must be resolved through a vote — and a resolution must pass with a majority of three-quarters. The Centre has a significant one-third voting share in the Council. The attempt to side-step a vote suggests that it is finding it hard to cobble the requisite numbers. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, is upset that she has not been able to have her way. She said that the government had decided to give the states more time to reconsider their stand and the hope was that she would make an overture to win them over. Ms Sitharaman does not have the persuasive powers of her predecessor. The latest attempt to scuttle a vote indicates that she is making no real effort to hammer out a consensus. Mr Modi’s government believes in browbeating the Opposition. The spirit of cooperative federalism, which imbued the GST regime in its conceptual form, has been enervated by the Centre’s arrogance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Caste and Sri Lankan politics||The August 5 parliamentary election result signals the dawn of a new political era in Sri Lanka. The two main political parties, the United National Party and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, that governed the country since Independence were almost decimated in this election. In addition to the reconsolidation of the politics of the Rajapaksas, this election provided a glimpse of the nature of Sri Lanka’s emerging electoral culture. There is clear popular appeal for an authoritarian style of democracy that promises efficient and strong government to deliver on development and security. In order to support the political vision of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Sinhalese voters elected many new faces with professional, educational and military expertise to Parliament. However, this article is not about ‘what is changing’; it is about ‘what seems to be continuing’. The caste identities of the Sinhalese MPs tell us something interesting. In spite of the focus on modern virtues — efficiency, meritocracy, professionalism and so on — during the electoral campaign, it is intriguing to note that the caste composition of the Sinhalese members of parliament has not changed when compared to previous Parliaments. A study conducted by the Social Scientists’ Association, a pioneering social science research institute in Sri Lanka, reveals that there is no recognizable difference in the caste composition of pre-Independence legislatures and that of the current Parliament. The Sinhalese caste system is best described as an upside down triangle where ‘the higher in the hierarchy, the greater the numbers’ and ‘the lower in the hierarchy, the lesser the numbers’. Therefore, the introduction of democracy — a system in which numbers matter — did not directly contribute to the emancipatory aspirations of lower caste groups in Sri Lanka. Despite the increase of parliamentary seats by more than two-folds and the transformation of the electoral system from a simple majority system to one based on proportional representation with preferential voting that favours numerically smaller groups, the Goigama caste that is considered to be ‘superior’ and dominates in numerical terms has continued to receive greater representation in the national legislature. The 2020 election result bears witness to the persistent salience of caste in Sri Lankan electoral politics as well as its ability to survive under different political ideologies — conservative, liberal, nationalist or even technocratic. No Sri Lankan political party appeals to a single caste group exclusively. Instead it forms its second and third tier leadership in line with the caste dynamics at the local level. As catch-all parties, they mobilize their electorates and form electoral alliances with minor parties to maximize their votes. These parties come forward to represent the numerous identities and material needs of their potential voters. At the national level, these main parties promise patronage while their local mobilizers are entrusted with the responsibility of channelling the benefits of such patronage to various groups organized around caste. Although caste identity alone will not secure an electoral victory in a highly competitive election, no candidate can secure a victory without being sensitive to caste dynamics. The continuing salience of caste has pushed political parties to strike a balance in which they appear caste-neutral at the national level while leaving their local politicians to look after caste-based representation. Patronage and network politics, which have been in practice since the expansion of the franchise in 1931, connect national politicians with caste groups. It should be noted that this kind of politicization of caste has not resulted in the interests of the relevant caste group being represented per se, but has served as a bargaining tool in securing the relevant group’s access to goods and services. The results of the 2020 elections confirm that Sri Lankan democracy is neither casteless nor caste-blind, but is demonstrably casteist. More than seven decades after Independence, the numerically and hierarchically superior Goigama continues to constitute a majority in the legislature. Even the new ‘technocratic’ political ethos, then, seems to be partially underpinned by an old logic it supposedly has little to do with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Bitter, angry division||The Covid-19 pandemic and the massive global economic disruption have left people wondering about the timing and the speed of economic recovery. One type of recovery frequently talked about is described by the letter, ‘K’. This description is new and relates to the possibility that once the dust settles on the pandemic, and economic activity begins to recover, the small set of ultra-rich people will get richer, while the remaining population will continue to slide in terms of income and well-being. This divergence is captured by the two angular arms of the letter, ‘K’. This simply implies that inequalities in income and wealth will increase, with many people plummeting down to poverty and joblessness. Inequality, per se, has been an accepted feature of a market-driven economy. Indeed, some amount of inequality is deemed desirable as it provides incentive for people to work harder to grow richer. It is also desirable to the extent that richer people are supposed to have more capacity to invest, thereby creating new jobs and incomes. In the contemporary world, however, inequalities in wealth and income have grown to a scale where there are the haves, the have-nots, and the much-more-haves, sometimes referred to as the super-rich. A handful of super-rich people control enormous amounts of wealth, investments and political decisions made by governments. This power is germane to capitalism. However, it creates an economic problem. When a large part of the population has limited purchasing power and a few have more than enough, then investment scales become limited even when the large companies access global markets. An example will suffice. Google’s earnings depend on the fact that people have access to the internet and possess at least one internet-enabling device. Many people already have that, but certainly not everyone. Suppose Google, along with two or three other giant firms, provides internet-enabled services to three billion people. The remaining are on the other side of the tech-divide. The scale is usually enough for these few firms to earn enormous profits. It is irrelevant for them to know much about how the other half of the world lives. Their main source of continuing profits are astonishingly rapid innovations that change the services they offer through new devices and new applications. Before the pandemic hit, the world was already an unequal place. For instance, in the United States of America, the top 10 per cent of the population held 77 per cent of total national wealth, while the bottom 50 per cent held 1.6 per cent. The workers’ share in national income declined from 64.5 per cent in 1974 to 56.8 per cent recently. According to Oxfam, in India, the top 1 per cent held 42.5 per cent of the national wealth in 2020, while the bottom 50 per cent of Indians owned only 2.8 per cent. In 2017, 73 per cent of the new wealth generated in the country that year went to the top 1 per cent. In 2000, India had only nine billionaires. By 2018, India had 119 billionaires. A female domestic worker in India will take 22,277 years to earn what the chief executive officer of a top technology firm earns in one year. For a minimum-wage Indian worker, it will take 941 years to earn the annual salary of a CEO of a top garment manufacturing company. The pandemic has made things much worse everywhere. Millions of people have lost their jobs and sources of income. Millions of others have taken hefty pay cuts. And a million others are waiting on tenterhooks for a lay-off or business closure. On the other hand, giant firms like Apple, Microsoft, Walmart, YouTube, Netflix, Zoom, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, Amazon and Shopify have made billions during the pandemic because of a spurt in demand for their products or services. In the US, during the first six months of the pandemic, billionaires have added $845 billion to their wealth. On the other side, according to Forbes magazine, in the first three months, $6.5 trillion worth of household wealth was wiped out. During the pandemic, 45.5 million individuals filed for unemployment benefits in the US. In India the data are not so easily available. However, it is quite clear that big-tech has benefited hugely from the large market in India. It is also quite clear that Indian corporate giants have grown substantially during the pandemic. The larger and longer implications of these trends, dramatically sharpened during the pandemic, are uncomfortable to say the least. India has a long and ugly history of gender, caste and communal inequalities, along with economic inequalities. There is enough research around the world to suggest that with the growth of economic inequalities in any society, the quality-of-life indicators decline: life expectancy, mathematical and literacy skills, infant mortality, crime and incarcerations, suicides and depression, crime against women, and substance abuse such as drugs and alcohol. The social fabric gets stretched and strained till something snaps. A number of things happen as these trends of concentrating profits in the hands of fewer and fewer people get stronger. Governments, irrespective of their ideology or the extent of their popular support, become captives of large corporations, both national and multinational. In India, over the past nine months, the National Democratic Alliance government has moved away from its populist stand. Recent legislative enactments affecting farmers and workers reflect a clear swing in favour of large companies in the name of promoting rapid growth. To distract attention from this crisis of governance, governments turn to nationalism and tribalism. The world falls into an ‘us-versus-them’ divide, the enemy clearly defined and visibly present. The ‘us’, who are privy to the bonanza of growth and innovations, include not only the very rich; there is a place for the very intelligent too. Until the last four or five decades, capitalism had grown in a way where repetitive work was the norm. One learned a skill and practised it for life, honing it along the way. One became a banker, stuck to the job, and ended a more efficient and experienced banker. Stability and ordered discipline were the needs of the economic system. Now, suddenly, everything has to change in the world as fast as possible, and change must be continuous. The core skill has shifted from run-the-world to change-the-world in a 180-degree turnaround. The new inequality of skills and the consequent inequalities of income and wealth render anyone who is not clever enough to continuously change useless, unproductive and unemployable. They are also told that their children cannot become clever enough. The decks are stacked against them from birth. They are the new outcasts, the new wasted lives. They include the poor and deprived, they also include many new entrants in the army of redundancy. This becomes a bitter, emotional, angry divide. The challenge of governance is to keep this useless class under control by technology-enabled round-the-clock surveillance, arbitrary violence, and endless misinformation about the world. One would have expected that the Covid-19 challenge would be a common enemy of humankind and we would forge a joint effort to fight it. In the process we would have learnt to cooperate globally on a number of other pressing problems. On the contrary, we have all become little, isolated bubbles. Welcome to the brave new world of distrust, deprivation and disease. Whether all is well or not obviously depends on where exactly one is positioned on the angular sides of the letter, ‘K’. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||BSL turnaround as Covid peaked||Bokaro Steel Plant employees overcame seemingly insurmountable odds in September to surpass the monthly production target while observing all safety protocols. Apart from battling Covid-19, the company -- a unit of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) -- was trying to cater to huge domestic and international orders which it had received with the revival of the steel market. The production target for September was 2,80,000 tonnes; the company, on the other hand, achieved a production of 2,82,030 tonnes (around 101 per cent). BSL has made a strong comeback with growth in production in September in comparison to the comparative period last year (CPLY). September saw a peak in Covid-19 cases in the district. Achieving the production target was difficult as every day, positive cases would surface in the plant. Braving the odds, around 11,000 employees and officials focused on enhancing production to meet the demand. Till now, 156 BSL employees and officials have been infected by the coronavirus. Of them, about 100 BSL employees, including senior officials, tested positive in September. Currently, there are 13 active cases in BSL. However, the number of cases is declining in October. The chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan, said the production, which was curtailed to almost half during the lockdown, has been revamped from September. BSL has exported more than 18,000 tonnes of steel to other countries, including China and Vietnam, in a single month. “We are overcoming challenges posed by Covid-19,” he added. With demand for flat products picking up in the market, the plant is all braced up to meet the increased demands by starting operation of its four blast furnaces. BSL has five blast furnaces, but during lockdown, three of them were shut down to decrease the production. In September, two blast furnaces were revamped while one is in capital repair. Dhan said: “Almost all production units of the plant recorded growth in September compared to last year. There was a growth of 12 per cent in production of hot metal, 7 per cent growth in production of crude steel, almost 40 per cent jump in production of HR coils and an impressive 27 per cent increase in saleable steel production as compared to CPLY. BSL has achieved 101 per cent of the production target in September.” Besides, Blast Furnace-1 has made a new daily production record, producing 4,062 tonnes of hot metal in September. BSL also recorded the highest monthly granulated slag production in September. Slag is sold by BSL to cement industries. Along with a remarkable improvement in production, BSL also despatched around 2,97,000 tonnes of its products to customers in September, which includes more than 18,000 tonnes of export orders. “Ninety per cent of the steel has been dispatched to China while 10 per cent to Vietnam in September,” said Dhan. During the lockdown, China has been a prime overseas customer of BSL and had placed orders for about 1,50,000 hot roll coils and slab since June. A majority of those orders were dispatched. Apart from China, BSL also received orders from Nepal and Vietnam. The director in charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, also joined his office in September. Before it, the BSL plant had run without a full-fledged CEO for about 10 months. Prakash after joining is all set to create new benchmarks by focusing on the quality of products and services, apart from greater efficiency in all operational parameters. He has asked officials and employees to ensure 100 per cent dedication in their work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Centre misled Hemant govt over coal transportation: Congress MLA||The Congress’s Barkagaon MLA, Amba Prasad, on Thursday targeted the Centre after coal transportation in Pankri Barwadih mines resumed. She claimed that wrong information about fire in the stocks of coal and pressure tactics had led to the resumption of transportation amid tight security. Prasad said the Centre had misled the state government. An agitation that began on September 2 stalled coal production and transportation in the mines of NTPC. As the coal was not being transported, large amounts of the stocked fuel at eight different points caught fire, prompting NTPC officials to approach the state government. Local authorities led by deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand and superintendent of police Karthik S. ensured that transportation of coal resumed amid tight security. They assured the villagers that there would be no fresh mining work and transportation would be allowed only till the stocks are cleared. The agitating villagers, who were unhappy with this decision, could do little because of the security. Prasad maintained that whatever had happened was not right. She said the agitators had been taken captive by policemen despite their demands for compensation and basic facilities like road, health and education being legitimate. She claimed that the Centre had misled the state government and transportation was resumed under pressure. Prasad said this was not acceptable and if the agitators are betrayed, the movement will be intensified in the coming days. Prasad said the state government had constituted a high-level committee led by the commissioner of North Chotanagpur. The committee has sent its recommendations after consulting both parties. She requested chief minister Hemant Soren to accept its recommendations at the earliest to resolve the issue. She also demanded that the local people participate in transportation work. The interruption in mining and transportation activities led to losses for NTPC and central and state governments. The railways too was affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||HC censures police over shoddy probe into Giridih girl’s death||The Jharkhand High Court came down heavily on the state police for its inaction in investigating the death of minor girl in Giridih in March and drew a parallel with Hathras in Uttar Pradesh that has sparked a national outrage over unspeakable brutalities committed against a Dalit girl who died after being allegedly gang raped last month. Shocked at the death of a 15-year-old girl in Giridih over an alleged rape attempt, Justice Ananda Sen, while hearing a writ petition filed by the victim’s father, commented: “Hathras is not only in the Uttar Pradesh, but also is in the state of Jharkhand.” The court, while hearing the case through video-conferencing, directed Jharkhand director general of police (DGP) M.V. Rao to immediately constitute a special investigating team (SIT) to probe the incident. He asked the DGP to monitor the case personally and take erring officials to task, if needed. The victim’s father, Shankar Paswan of Giridih, through his writ petition to the high court, has stated that he had filed an FIR against one Pintu Paswan, a resident of Dhanwar, for trying to rape his daughter and then murdering her by setting her on fire in a room where she had been kept confined. After the incident, Pintu fled but left behind his cap and shoes, which helped identify him. Paswan accused the police of stalling investigations. He told the court that even though an FIR was lodged at Dhanwar police station on March 31, no one had been arrested yet. During the hearing, Justice Sen expressed his unhappiness over the delay in investigations, stating that the courts could not turn a blind eye over such an issue. “The progress of investigations is highly unsatisfactory and lacks seriousness by the investigating officer concerned. Even the supervising officer does not seem to be serious. But this court cannot ignore shoddy investigations,” he commented while issuing directives to the DGP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||District sports officers named to spot grassroots talent||Chief minister Hemant Soren handed over appointment letters to 24 newly recruited district sports officers (DSOs) on Thursday, the first time such a group was being hired in the state, and asked them to dedicate themselves for the promotion of sports at the grassroots level. Speaking at the function at Project Building, Hemant said, “Jharkhand is renowned in the world for its mineral richness. But it’s time to also unlock its sporting potential before the global audience by churning out national international level players from the immense pool of talent that exists in our state.” He added that soon after coming to power, his government had begun working on a new sports policy to provide jobs and cash awards to all deserving players and coaches. “I have already given my nod to the new sports policy and it is currently awaiting a cabinet nod,” he said, announcing that before Durga Puja, the sports department will also launch a dedicated portal to address the needs of the state’s sports fraternity. “The purpose of the portal is to have a holistic database of our sporting talent, coaches and technical officials and also provide them a direct interface to engage with the government for their needs. We hope to launch the portal before Durga Puja,” he said. The post of district sports officer is key to implementing government schemes at the grassroots to nurture talent. Sports secretary Pooja Singhal said that because of the unavailability of DSOs, the post was held on dual charge by non-sports officials. “As a result, we faced lots of problems in timely implementation of infrastructural schemes related to sports, conduct of games, processing of scholarships, among others. All that is expected to be resolved now,” she said. Singhal said DSOs were selected by Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC). “Today, we have also given them their place of posting which was finalised through an on-the-spot lottery in the presence of the chief minister,” she said. The entire sports fraternity of the state hailed the appointments. Jharkhand Diploma Coaches Association (JDCA) hoped that the new officers would ensure a fresh wave of sporting culture in the state. A joint secretary of the outfit, Yogesh Yadav said, “Today is a historic day for Jharkhand sports. For the first time DSOs have been appointed.” Shivendra Dubey, an official of Jharkhand Olympic Association (JOA), welcomed the appointments. “We now hope that once the pandemic is over, every district will be abuzz with sporting activities round the clock,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Big-draw Puja of steel city asks patrons not to visit pandal||The organising committee of a crowd-puller Durga Puja in Kasidih on Thursday appealed to people to not visit the pandal in view of the pandemic. Abhay Singh, patron of Thakur Pyara Singh Dhurandhar Singh Club, said the Puja at Kasidih would be celebrated in a simple manner. “We will keep things to the minimum and strictly adhere to the guidelines of the state government. We have also fixed our own guidelines keeping in mind the precautions to be taken up in Covid times,” he added. According to him, barring organising committee members, outsiders will not be allowed to enter the puja ground. “We are erecting a simple pandal to perform the ritual. I appeal to the people to not visit Kasidih during Puja. We cannot afford to risk the lives of our club members and local residents. I feel sorry to have to say this but I AM doing so in view of the spread of Covid-19 in Jamshedpur,” Singh, a senior BJP leader, said. The puja at Kasidih attracts huge crowds. The idol, pandal, decorations and an accompanying fair, make it among the big-draw pujas of the steel city. Four roads and a number of alleys leading to the Puja pandal remain chock-a-block during all the four days of the festival. Pandal hoppers from not only Jamshedpur, but also from surrounding areas, including Patamda and Potka, visit the Kasidih pandal. Revellers remain at the puja ground till the wee hours. The Thakur Pyara Singh Dhurandhar Singh Club has issued a number of guidelines for the pujas. Only 25 members of the puja committee will be allowed inside the pandal, sanitisers will be available, members will wear masks and maintain social distancing, the height of the idol will be 4 ft , lighting will be done inside the pandal only, no cultural programmes will be organised and the ground will be sealed for outsiders. Singh requested the district administration to barricade all roads leading to the puja for preventing entry of vehicles. A team comprising puja committee members would meet the district traffic wing shortly to finalise all details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tech goodies to open up online world for Dhanbad's special children||As many as 155 special students of Jeevan Jyoti, a 31-years-old school of the Inner Wheel Club of Dhanbad received some technical gear today that will improve their online training. The State Bank of India also provided five computer sets to the school management during a function held in the school at Bekar Bandh, during which the SBI administrative unit team led by assistant general manager Shivanand Prasad interacted with the students online. Talking to The Telegraph Online Prasad, said assistance has been provided as the Dan Utsav Samaroh is being organized by SBI since October 2 under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Faculty members of the school led by principal Aparna Das who were present during the function apprised the SBI officers team of the activities, including education, vocational and physical and mental training carried out in school for mentally and visually challenged, and deaf and dumb students. The faculty members comprised of chief manager Ashok Kumar Tiwari and assistant manager Somnath Chatterjee. Das informed the SBI team that all activities, which were suspended for about a month ever since the imposition of lockdown on March 22, were restarted online using the five internet-enabled computer sets already available at the institute. Ranjeet Singh, a speech therapist and special educator of the school, while interacting with the SBI officers said, “Besides organizing online training using computers, we also visit the homes some severely-affected children, particularly those who are autistic, or affected with cerebral palsy.” “As cerebral palsy affected children suffer from movement related disorders, the specially designed exercise sessions are crucial for them. Physical sessions help them maintain balance and posture and they also learn crawling or climbing,” said Singh. They visit the children once in a fortnight during which they provide training to their parents as well, so that they can continue training at home itself. “Around 10 faculty members come to school every day to carry out online training using the computer systems from 11 to 11.40am and 12 noon to 12.40pm,” he said. Art and craft training takes place on Thursday and Saturday. “The five additional computers provided to us today will help us to provide online training during the lockdown. In a post-lockdown situation as well we can upload various software like JAWS, which is helpful for providing training to visually impaired children,” said Singh. For students who are financially weak and do not have more than one smartphone at home, as family members may carry them outside during class hours, the school sends the videos of the exercises via WhatsApp. "They can watch these videos and practice at home when they can access the smartphone again,” said Singh, adding that they are seeking sponsors for some financially weak students who can be provided tabs for training.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Minister warns hospitals against over-charging||Hospitals, whose negligence causes the death of a patient, will be booked under the provisions of the Clinical Establishment Act, state health minister Banna Gupta said on Thursday, requesting private healthcare facilities to be humane during the Covid-19 pandemic and not see it as an opportunity to mint money. “This is the time to stand united and fight Covid-19. It is my humble request to all private establishments to not see this pandemic as an opportunity to mint money,” said Gupta. “Any healthcare establishment found guilty of negligence, which causes someone’s death, will be booked under the provisions of the Clinical Establishment Act,” he added. Gupta, who overcame a Covid-19 infection last month, also said that the government was regularly evaluating fees charged by private healthcare facilities for testing and treating Covid-19. The government, he added, was committed to ensure that citizens of Jharkhand get access to best possible health facilities at an affordable price. “Initially, the price for a Covid-19 test in private labs was Rs 4,500. We have regularly evaluated and revised the charges, and today, the cost of a Covid-19 test in Jharkhand is only Rs1,500,” said Gupta, adding that the treatment cost for Covid-19 at private hospitals has also been capped at Rs18,000 per day. Throwing light on Jharkhand’s fight against the coronavirus so far, Gupta said Jharkhand had one of the lowest Covid mortality rates in the country, and a majority of the Covid victims in the state either had severe comorbid conditions or were senior citizens. He said that the state's Covid recovery rate was above 88 per cent. The government, he added, expected the recovery rate to further rise in the next couple of days. “Doctors are doing a commendable job in our fight against the virus. We might soon achieve a recovery rate of 95 per cent if the current trend continues,” Gupta added. The minister also said that the government would provide life insurance benefits to health workers who die in the line of duty while treating Covid-19 patients. “The government will stand in support of Corona warriors who are risking their own wellbeing while serving the people of Jharkhand,” Gupta said. As per latest figures with the health department, nearly 90,000 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 79,176 of them have recovered. There were 9,759 active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, as per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC coaches, foreign recruits reach Goa; to be in isolation for 2 weeks||Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle, his deputy Sandy Stewart and the club’s prized possessions Peter Hartley and Nerjijus Valskis arrived in Goa for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) on Thursday morning. The quartet assembled in London’s Heathrow airport before flying to Goa. Forward Valskis joined Owen, Stewart and Hartley after landing in from Lithuania. Indian players Mobashir Rahman, Sandip Mandi and Jitender Singh also joined their JFC counterparts. Jamshedpur-based Tata Football Academy graduate Mobashir travelled to Ranchi by road before taking a flight to Goa. Sandip, also an ex-TFA cadet, and Jitender, took flight from Calcutta. Sources in the JFC team management said other foreign recruits Stephen Eze (Nigeria), Alexandre Monteiro de Lim (Brazil), Spaniards Aitor Monroy and David Grande will be joining the squad in a day or two. Scotland-born Coyle, who guided Chennaiyin FC to the summit clash after joining mid-way last season, and the foreign recruits straightaway checked in at Taj Forte in Panaji. They also underwent Covid tests at the luxury hotel. They will remain in isolation for 14 days. Mobashir, Sandip and Jitender also went through the same exercise before holing themselves up at Hotel Vivanta in Candolim. They will be quarantined for 10 days. “Owen and his company looked very cheerful and confident after landing in Goa. The foreign players and their Indian counterparts will go through fitness drills at their respective hotel rooms from tomorrow,” a member of the JFC team management said. According to him, most of the Tata Steel-owned club players have arrived in Goa and are anxious to hit the turf for outdoor training sessions at Sangolda ground near Panjim. The greens at Sangolda is presently being decked up by LR Brothers, the Dehradun-based agency which also worked for preparing the grounds at JRD Tata Sports Complex and Flatlets greens in Jamshedpur. Jamshedpur FC, which finished fifth under Spanish head coach Antonio Iriondo in the last season, is looking to make amends under Owen Coyle who has a job at hand to help Jamshedpur qualify for the play-offs for the first time. JFC has not made it to the play-offs after making its debut in the cash-rich ISL three seasons back. The JFC management has reposed immense faith in reputation of Owen as a mentor. The head coach was allowed a free hand in selecting the foreign players. In fact, Owen’s presence in JFC made Hartley and Valskis join the squad. The latter, who won the ISL Golden Boot award last season, played for Chennaiyin FC under Owen last season. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari they players were expected to be in Goa by October 8. "Pre-seasons will commence once the self-isolation ends later this month," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Chhinnamastika and Bhadrakali temples reopen after seven months||Two ancient and popular temples of the state, the Chhinnamastika temple in Rajrappa and the 9th century Bhadrakali temple in Itkhori, Chatra, opened after seven months, with happy devotees welcoming the goddess whilst maintaining strict Covid guidelines. Deputy commisisioners Sandip Singh and Divyanshu Jha at Chhinnamastika and Bhadrakali respectively, were taking updates, as officials were asked not allow anyone flouting the rules. At the Chhinnamastika temple, deputy superintendent of police (headquarter) Prakash Soy was seen active with policemen keeping an eye on devotees. Soy gave instructions regarding Covid guidelines to those coming to the temple. A free online token for entry to the temple available on rajrappa.in/booking has been made mandatory by district administration. At the entrance, the temperature of each and every entrant was recorded. They were also asked to sanitise their hands before entering the sanctum sanctorum, where three people were allowed in at a time. Inside the temple, priests were wearing masks and hand gloves and they were following the guidelines of not applying tilak to devotees. Carrying prasad into the sanctum sanctorum was also prohibited. The temple committee was initially asked to change the location of the goat sacrifice, which is usually done at the temple campus, to a place near river. But the committee had objected and said this was a practice going on for decades and any change in this regard is against temple norms. The goat sacrifice took place at the temple campus today from 5am to 6am, and then from 12 noon to 2pm. At the Bhadrakali temple, devotees, who came from places like Hazaribagh, Chatra and the neighbouring districts of Bihar, including Gaya, were seen chanting Mata Bhadrakali ki jai, waiting patiently in queue claiming it was for their own safety. At the main gate, devotees entered after a temperature check and exited through a gate leading to the Mahotasava ground. Police ensured the parking of vehicles at a certain distance and devotees were asked to open footwear somewhere near the parking spot. Four magistrates were deployed for this purpose and priests kept telling devotees not to violate the guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Not more than 50 people can enter a place of worship at a time||The Jharkhand government has said a maximum of 50 people can enter a place of worship at a time and devotees must wear masks and maintain social distancing. The state government allowed religious institutions to reopen after more than six months on Thursday. Places of worship in areas other than containment zones can reopen and heads of these religious institutions must ensure adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, a notification issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Wednesday night said. "Not more than 50 people will gather at a time at any place of worship and a distance of six feet between each devotee must be maintained," the notification said. No fair or religious procession will be organised and only those devotees with masks will be allowed to enter the places of worship, it said. The priests or clerics will have to wear masks and devotees should not hug each other or touch the idols, sacred texts or bells, the notification said. People will have to bring mats from their homes and they cannot sit together to sing or speak. Priests cannot give prasad to devotees or sprinkle water on them, it said. Sanitisers will be kept at the entrance of the religious institutions and no person with coronavirus symptoms will be allowed to enter, the notification said. Cafeterias and shops near the places of worship will also have to follow the COVID-19 protocol, it said. Sanitisation of the floors of the religious institutions will have to be undertaken several times a day, the notification said. Strict action will be taken against those violating the COVID-19 protocol, it added. The Ramgarh district administration has made it mandatory for devotees to have online tokens to enter the renowned Chinnamastika Temple at Rajrappa and offer prayers to the presiding deity. The temple gates were opened for devotees at 5am after more than six months. Devotees can avail the tokens for free at https://rajrappa.in/booking to offer prayers to the goddess between 6 am and noon, while goat sacrifice will be allowed from 5am-6am and from noon to 2 pm, deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said. No one, even VIPs, would be allowed sans the online tokens, he said, adding adequate police personnel have been deployed at both the entry points to the temple via Chitarpur and Gola. All religious places of the state were shut down in March. But, the state government in August allowed reopening of Deoghar’s Baba Baidhyanath Dham and Dumka’s Basukinath temple following a PIL in Supreme Court. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said on Wednesday that even after reopening places of worship, the district administration would continue to monitor gatherings and crack down on violation of Covid norms. “Although we are approaching the unlocking stage, the pandemic is still far from over. This is the time when everyone should be more cautious, keeping in mind personal and public safety. Hence, everyone venturing out of their homes will be mandated to put on masks, while it is compulsory for all establishments to have provisions of sanitisers, systems for crowd control, and follow the other elements in government advisories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||31 girls rescued from bus in Jharkhand||As many as 31 girls, including at least nine minors, allegedly being trafficked to Tamil Nadu on the pretext of employment were rescued from a bus in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, Balumath police stopped the long-distance bus bearing a Tamil Nadu registration number along the Medininagar-Balumath main road around noon and rescued the girls. “Police had got a tip-off that a bus from another state was moving with girls and intercepted it at Balumath. The driver and cleaner could not speak Hindi and were speaking only in Tamil. Based on interrogation of the girls, we came to know that they were being taken to work in a thread manufacturing factory on the outskirts of Chennai on monthly wages of Rs 9,000. However, the girls could not show any document of the employer nor could the drivers show any proof. The police have detained the driver and the cleaner. However, Shanker Oraon who had convinced the girls to go to Chennai, managed to escape,” said Balumath circle officer Ravi Kumar. The officer monitored the rescue operation in coordination with local police.A police source said the traffickers had carefully hatched a plan to take the girls on a private bus to avoid detection at the railway station. “It seems they had brought the bus all the way from Tamil Nadu to take the girls to avoid detection at the railway station. Inter-state bus movement is still prohibited in Jharkhand due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said officer-in-charge of Balumath police station Rana Bhanu Pratap Singh. “We are trying to ascertain the age of the girls but prima facie nine appear to be minors. After age verification we will hand over the rescued minor girls to the child welfare committee of Latehar district. The girls are not only from Latehar district but also from other districts like Ranchi, Simdega and Lohardaga,” he added. The seized bus has been kept at the police station while the rescued girls have been lodged at the Kasturba Gandhi girls residential school in Balumath for investigation. On October 3, 14 tribal girls, including eight minors, were rescued by an RPF team at Ranchi railway station. All the girls were from the remote Manika block of Latehar district and were being taken by a suspected woman trafficker to Hyderabad on the pretext of getting them a job after training in stitching and embroidery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Woman immolates self, child||A woman allegedly immolated herself and her eight-month-old son outside her parents’ home in a village in Jharkhand’s Jamtara district around midnight on Tuesday. Preliminary investigations have found that the woman was depressed as her child was ill for the last four-five months and her husband was not sending sufficient money from Chennai, where he worked. The deceased woman has been identified as Vaishaki Murmu, 25. She was staying at her parents’ house in Suriyapani village under Nala police station of Jamtara since early this year after having come for the delivery of her first child. The area is around 230km northeast of state capital Ranchi. “Her husband Ranjeet used to work somewhere in Chennai. The woman had come for delivery of her child in early 2020 but got stuck at her parents’ house due to the lockdown. Her eight-month-old child Vishnu Murmu was constantly suffering from fever and other diseases. Though her husband used to send money every month from Chennai, the amount was not enough and this led to bouts of depression,” said officer-in-charge of Nala police station, Daya Shankar Rai. The woman came out of her room with her child around midnight on Tuesday and allegedly doused herself and her child with kerosene and set both on fire. “Her parents said Vaishaki came out of the room while others were sleeping and set herself and the child on fire. Alarmed by the smoke and the shrieks of the woman, the family members came out. After dousing them with water, they rushed both to Nala community health centre at night where the doctors declared the boy brought dead while Vaishaki died during treatment. Autopsy of both was conducted at Jamtara Sadar Hospital and the bodies were handed over to the relatives for the last rites. We have informed the husband about the incident,” said Rai. The in-laws of the woman stay elsewhere in Jamtara district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Sweet shops fined in Dhanbad||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday imposed fines on three sweet shops in Dhanbad for selling substandard products. The samples of condensed milk taken from Govinda Sweets and Shyam Sweets did not meet standards while a sweet prepared by Radhika Sweets was found to have a higher fat content than allowed. Govinda Sweets in Jharia was fined Rs 15,000 whereas Shyam Sweets and Radhika Sweets in Sushnilewa were fined Rs 10,000 each. Food safety officer Aditi Singh also visited the Baramuri area and took milk samples from various cowsheds. She said there had been complaints of water being mixed with the milk. The samples would be sent to Ranchi and action taken if the milk was found to be adulterated. The residents of Lodna in Dhanbad on Wednesday participated in a dharna and demonstrated near Raksh Kali temple to protest alleged police high-handedness while checking vehicles. The protest began in the morning when Sachin Kumar, a resident of the Bachchu Dhaura locality in the Lodna police outpost area, who works in a private firm in Dhanbad, was beaten up allegedly by a police team during the checking of vehicles near Raksha Kali Dham, about 2km from his home, leading to head injury. The incident took place while Kumar was on his way to his office in Dhanbad on his motorcycle. Local residents and family members first admitted him to a local hospital. He was later referred to another private hospital in Jharia for better care. Enraged over the incident, the local residents of Lodna, including the family members of the victim, staged a dharna and demonstration for more than two hours near Raksha Kali temple and also blocked a road. Dhanbad police on Wednesday arrested six persons in connection with the murder of a resident of Upper Kulhi in Jharia in late September. Naim Ansari, 33, Nand Kishore Yadav, 19, Vishal Kumar Singh, 22, Arun Kumar Yadav, 22, Roshan Kumar Sao, 19, and Rukhsana Khatoon, 20, were arrested over the muder of Parwej Ali on the basis of a complaint by his widow, Samida Khatoon. Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said some of the arrested persons are relatives of the dead. The motive for the murder was personal animosity, he said. Ali’s body had been found lying in a bushy area of Kenduadih on September 30. Security has been beefed up in Garhwa following a shootout in the town on October 1. Vijay Soni, who was injured in the incident, is being treated at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi. After security was tightened, no criminal incidents have occurred in Garhwa. Following the instructions of superintendent of police Srikant Suresh Rao Khotre, patrolling is being conducted at several places in the town. Seven Tiger Mobile Patrols, four PCR vans and two police patrol jeeps are keeping a lookout for criminal activities. Preparations to deploy plain-clothed policemen are also on. Surveillance cameras will also be installed at various locations. Police teams have begun patrolling areas on foot. Checks are being carried out at the five entry points of the town. A few motorcycles and shops were damaged at Janpur village in the Domchach police station area after rumours of cow slaughter by members of a particular community. Police personnel have been deployed in the village to prevent further flare-ups. Superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib said the situation was under control. He appealed to people to not give heed to rumours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 10,000||The number of active cases in Jharkhand dropped below the 10,000 mark on Wednesday after the state reported over 1000 recoveries against 829 fresh cases of infection surfacing in the past 24 hours, health department data revealed. After Wednesday’s test results, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate jumped to 88.26 per cent, which is higher than the national recovery rate of 85 per cent, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the number of active cases dropped significantly in the past week, the state has reported around 70 Covid casualties during the same period. As many as 10 more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the toll up to 767. The number of active cases dropped significantly in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts, on Wednesday. Ranchi reported 502 recoveries against 388 fresh cases of infection, which brought the number of active cases in the district down to 2,995. As many as 132 Covid patients recovered in East Singhbhum against 61 cases of infection, bringing the count of active cases down to 1,620. As per government data, as many as 9,759 people were still battling the virus across Jharkhand on Wednesday, and around 45 per cent of them were from Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As many as 79,176 people have defeated Covid-19 virus so far. The government has so far collected swab samples of 25 lakh people and tested around 24.96 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 23,331 people and 22,502 of them came negative. The virus has infected at least four members of the Hemant Soren cabinet so far. While health minister Banna Gupta and drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur have recovered from the infection, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto was critical and undergoing treatment at Medica on Wednesday. Jharkhand’s Covid-19 mortality rate was 0.85 per cent on Wednesday against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The doubling rate of infection was 67.13 days against the national rate of 56.45 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand in the past one week was 1.01 per cent against the national average of 1.22 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
