09-10-2020||Calcutta||Pre-Puja rise in corona cases||The number of coronavirus cases has been on a steady rise in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Teghoria, Kaikhali and several parts of Rajarhat over the past couple of weeks, officials of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said. According to an official, with the “unlock” phase kicking in and people heading out to their workplaces, and even with Puja shopping, things have gotten worse. Salt Lake and its adjoining areas were reporting a steady number of cases but in the past couple of weeks there have been more than 1,000 fresh cases reported from these neighbourhoods. On Wednesday, 728 fresh cases were reported from North 24-Parganas according to figures given by the state health department. More than 100 fresh cases have been reported from the 41 wards under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said that many Salt Lake residents own businesses that operate out of Burrabazar, Posta and MG Road. They are contracting the virus upon visiting the places. “Many residents who own businesses there are coming down with the disease. We are doing all we can to curb the spread and are actively campaigning to maintain social distancing and hygiene protocols,” said Chakraborty. Several residents however claimed that the ground reality was different, what with shoppers crowding block markets and several shopkeepers and hawkers dealing with customers without wearing masks or ensuring the social distancing protocol. “One visit to the block market on Sunday and it seemed that the pandemic never struck,” said Kamalika Saha, a homemaker, who stays in EE Block. “At this rate, one shudders to think what lies in store after the Pujas get over.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Shops woo wary customers||There was a time when Puja shopping was an experience, not a transaction. The boundless energy with which one visited store after store for that perfect top, the excitement one had while placing a sari on one’s shoulder and glancing at the mirror, the impatience of having bought five new clothes but being forced to wait till Sashthi to wear them…. Alas! Covid-19 has snatched away a much-loved precursor to Durga puja. “I’m not getting any motivation to shop this year,” says Trina Kar Dutta of CF Block. “It seems like a waste of money. Maybe I’ll buy something for my little daughter and her cousins but I don’t feel like gifting anything to adults in the family. I mean we’re not even sure if anyone would go out during the festival.” Nishita Prasad, a resident of Shrachi Greenwood, used to frequent City Centre 2 previously but this year she’s in no mood to shop. “I don’t want to spend much. I have a job but so many of my friends have lost theirs. Almost every friend I have has lost a family member to Covid. How can I celebrate?” she asks. But it is not all gloom and doom. Many stores have taken up the challenge of luring customers back, even if it means rewriting every rule in the book. Stores come home The Lifestyle outlet of Axis Mall has been sending out “canter vans” loaded with clothes to housing complexes for shoppers to browse. “Since shoppers are not venturing out, we are taking clothes to them,” says Ricky Paul of Navkrit Brand Solutions event management group that has been supervising the project. They started with Balaka Abasan a few weeks ago and have covered Club Town, Greenwood Park, Greenfield Ambition etc. “We are conducting these exhibitions everyday and response is reasonably good on weekends.” Fabindia has been doing the same. “We’re surveying complexes with over 300 flats and if response is encouraging, we are booking their community hall for the weekend, displaying our apparel and home interior items (which by the way have overtaken apparel sales during the pandemic),” says manager of the City Centre branch, Meghna Rathi. Their online sales are doing well too. Almost every store is circulating pictures of their products over WhatsApp and some are providing home delivery too. “If a customer shows interest in some pictures, we send over videos or do video calls to show the anchal, body, pleats of the sari. Even if the customer cannot touch the sari herself, we do our best to make her get the feel,” says Vinita Khemka of Vermilion sari store that has branches in both the City Centres. Tamosha Mukherjee, who runs the family clothing stores Srimaa and Sri Ramakrishna Asish in CK Market, is offering complimentary falls and pico stitching on saris and even going blouse-hunting to different shops on the customers’ behalf. “Sixty per cent customers are now opting for this system and we are sending the clothes to their homes, along with credit card machines. Other customers are fixing appointments and coming at, maybe, 10pm and shopping till 11.30 when the market is empty.” Corona-special collection Old favourites like silk have tough competition this year. “People want thick cotton outfits as they think that’ll protect them best against coronavirus,” says Sanchita Gupta of the Sanchita’s store in F Block, City Centre. “But they are rigorously washing clothes after every use and the colours are fading fast. So chiffon is the next alternative.” Almost every store keeper said comfortable daily wear is selling more than gorgeous outfits this year. At Sanchita’s, leggings are selling more than anything else! “I think this is because the leggings are losing shape after intense washing,” she says. Paul’s Creation in BG Block, too, is taking care not to stock items with sequins and the like as they are get ruined after repeated washing. “What is selling well is a new design of kurtis with pockets on both sides,” says Chaiti Paul. “Besides the phone, women need space to keep sanitisers on themselves now.” Mask sale overtakes sari “I have no high hopes from saris this year but masks I’m selling several every day. This is the only fresh investment I’ve made after the lockdown and it’s paying off,” says Pampa Das of Pratyasha boutique, opposite AE Market. Pampa has, in fact, created some special variations of masks for the Pujas. “The Rs 270 ‘marf’ is a mask-cum-scarf or dupatta in kalamkari and ajrak material and for Rs 250 I’m selling hair net-and-mask sets,” she shows. Sanchita would initially find the idea of matching masks with clothing ridiculous but she’s finally bowed down to requests. “Someone even asked if I could paint Durga’s face on a mask! I’m sure even the idols will be wearing masks this year,” she shakes her head. Ruchira Roy Ganguli of IA Market’s Srija Boutique had always associated masks with something doctors wore. “But when things got out of hand, I had to forward YouTube links teaching mask-making to my staff as it was the only thing that would sell,” she says. “Masks are more necessary than new clothes this year and that’s where I’m putting my money.” Itu Upadhaya of Face boutique in City Centre has started gifting khadi masks to her customers who are often returning to buy more. Tale of jobless tailors This time of the year in 2019, tailors like Azad Narul were neck-deep in work stitching blouses. This year they are miserable. “We used to get orders from households across Salt Lake, Kestopur and Ultadanga but till recently no one would even let us in. We were treated like pariah dogs,” Narul says. But with the festive and wedding seasons approaching, he has regained about 40 per cent of his business. “But we are having to compromise on our rates now,” he sigh. Ruchira of Srija Boutique had two tailors — one to stitch kurtis, lehengas, salwars and the other for designer blouses. “The latter is in hiding in his village since March so I cannot even invite customers to get blouses stitched for their new saris,” says the hapless resident of Purbachal. Her other tailor is working from home and comes once a week from Howrah for delivery. Taking measurements is another challenge at a time when social distancing is advocated. “We’re asking customers to give us samples of their shirts or trousers but if they cannot, we are wearing masks and gloves to take measurements and then sanitising the measuring tape,” says Dipankar Saha of the exclusive gents’ Jiko Tailor in CA Market. “But the Pujas have proved to be a festival big enough to make customers step out of their homes. Before that, there was no business.” Pampa’s tailoring unit used to mint money before the Pujas but this year she has shut it down completely. No entry to trial rooms Almost no store is allowing shoppers to try out clothes before buying. This is having a negative impact on sales but some brands are trying to overcome it. Paul’s Creation has kept trial outfits for men and women of all sizes —and is requesting customers to try them out for an idea of what would fit them. “Even then, most customers are scared to try them out,” says Chaiti. Fabindia has started a scheme whereby customers can select clothes to be sent over to their homes for trials. “Should they like the product, the sale is happening on the spot,” says Meghna. Stock clearance “Puja collection? I’m still stuck with Poila Baisakh collection that went unsold due to the lockdown,” says Pampa. “Akshay Tritiya is a time of huge sales at my store but we couldn’t open then. I’m trying to push these now.” Itu, a government-registered katha and batik artisan, would hold exhibitions around the country through the year and is also stuck with heaps of unsold stock. “Since exhibitions are out of question now I decided to open this new shop in September to push sales,” says the lady who has decorated her City Centre F Block store with Puja theme. Then there are those like Ruchira who are unable to source indigo, ajrak, bagru cotton smoothly since the pandemic started. “Suppliers are faltering,” she says. “The mills of Bangalore are shut due to lack of demand,” says Tamosha, who is also not getting all material. “These mills are expensive to run and, at a time produce, say 30,000m of cloth. They will incur losses if they have to produce only 15,000m and are hence not running the machines at all.” Window-shopping Though customers have started visiting malls, a spokesperson from Pantaloons City Centre 2 said most of them were window shoppers. “People come, look at a few items and leave. We are allowing them to use trial rooms but they are too scared. Even if they like something, they say they have nowhere to wear them to and walk away.” Till last year, Max Fashion in City Centre 2 had to hire extra security to manage the pre-Puja crowd but this year the store wears a lonely look. “Many people have lost their jobs and can’t spend as freely as they would earlier. The difference is startling,” said a staff of the outlet. Sanchita says regular customers who would buy 10 clothes for the Pujas previously are now buying no more than four. Pampa says no one is interested in spending on themselves at such a gloomy time. “They’ve cut down on gifting relatives too. If anything, they are buying saris that domestic helps will demand and saris that they would offer during the rituals,” she says. Cheaper items in demand Not just the number of clothes, the price range of clothes has seen sharp fall too. “We have saris ranging from Rs 1,000 to 25,000 but no one is nearing the upper end now,” says Vinita of Vermilion. Itu says customers who would foot bills of Rs 20,000 before the Pujas are barely exceeding Rs 5,000 now. “Previously Puja shopping meant a Rs 4,000-5000 tussar sari for oneself and saris worth Rs 2,500 for gifting others. Now Rs 2,500 is the upper limit for oneself and the gifting budget has fallen to Rs 500 or 1,000,” she says. Sanchita, who sources much of her materials from Assam, would grant 20 per cent discount to regular customers before the Pujas but this year she is allowing it for everyone and that too till Diwali. Mixed bag Far from reaping profits, Chaiti says it is a challenge for clothing outlets to stay afloat this year. “Expenses are more than sales what with the added cost of sanitising the space after every customer’s visit,” she says. Pampa recalls how she would look forward to meeting customers, chatting and joking with them alongside making a sale. “Sharing pictures on WhatsApp and receiving payment in exchange is a mechanical process devoid of any emotion. The year 2020 is a disaster!” she says. Ruchira of Srija Boutique shares her grief. “No one comes with the intent of Puja shopping these days. They simply peep into the store on the way to buy vegetables. But to be fair, it’s only the other day that the government confirmed that the festival would be held in the first place, so maybe shoppers will come about now.” Itu says the last two weekends the parking lot at City Centre had been full and that senior citizens as well as children had now started coming. Fabindia is trying to enforce a seven-at-a-time rule inside the store. “But additional customers are barging in, throwing caution to the wind,” says Meghna. “Sales have been much better than we expected, almost 50 to 60 per cent of last year. Shopaholics under lockdown for seven months are now at large and also people who go for vacations during the Pujas are now spending that money on clothes.” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Breed and eat fish at home, panchayat dept shows how||It doesn’t get any fresher than this. A new technology provides you the means to build an artificial pond in your house, garden or terrace where you could head to every morning and pick out any fish you want cooked for lunch. A demonstrative version of biofloc technology was inaugurated at Mrittika Bhavan on September 28. The building in DD Block houses the state comprehensive area development corporation (CADC), under the panchayats and rural development department and inaugurating the facility was minister Subrata Mukherjee. “This system can breed fish like Koi, Pabda, Singi, Magur and Golda Chingri that people love,” said Mukherjee. “It can come in handy at a time when prices of fish increase. While the system is fairly easy people rarely start something new by simply hearing about it. They want to see it in operation before adopting it and that’s why we have built this demo version. Anyone is free to come and learn about it from us and replicate it at home.” Unlike an open pond, the biofloc tank doesn’t need acres of land. The one at Mrittika Bhawan is a round-shaped open-top tank with an iron net body and polymer sheet wrapped around it. Its base is connected to an underground water pump that will replenish water that gets evaporated and there are slim aerator pipes sending oxygen into the water for the fish to breathe. Its capacity is 10,000l. “Biofloc is a relatively new technology developed in and for cold European countries where the rivers stay frozen for much of the year. There they use thousands of biofloc tanks to farm fish,” said Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the panchayats and rural development department and administrative secretary of the CADC. “The technology has also seen success in Bangladesh.” The water in the tank at Mrittika Bhavan is nourished with probiotics, bacteria and jaggery that will convert the droppings of the fish into their food. So one doesn’t even have to spend on food for the fish thereafter. Only the probiotic-solution needs to be added afresh every two months. Other than that it’s zero-maintenance,” he said. Those interested in replicating this system are welcome to go and learn at the centre. “Households can install a 1,000l tank at a cost of about Rs 10,000,” said Das. “The lockdown has proven how little of the city’s fish and agricultural demand is produced within it. If people can grow their own fish it would help them be self-sufficient to some extent,” Das said. The minister released fingerlings into the water and the department expects the first batch of fish to be ready for sale by Diwali. The fish will be available at Mrittika Bhavan as well in vehicles that tour the township selling fish, meat and agricultural products sourced from farms. The minister also inaugurated a kitchen garden section on the day, produce of which will be added to their cart. “Plants like spinach, broccoli, cabbage, lettuce, capsicum are being planted on ‘hanging seed beds’ which are three-tier bamboo shelves installed around the parking lot of the building. Covid testing got easier in New Town with the start of a drive-through kiosk on September 26. All one has to do is book a slot with The Apollo Clinic in DLF Galleria mall, take a car and park it in the designated area in front of the kiosk at the corner of New Town Mela Ground pavement. Personnel at the kiosk collect the nasal and throat swab through the rolled down window of the vehicle. “We discourage cash transaction unless one is absolutely incapable of online payment in advance. The report is typically mailed within 24 hours,” said a staff member at the kiosk. The facility is available daily, from 10am to 5pm, and charge for the RT-PCR test is Rs 2,250. Tests are also being done at the fair ground in kiosks run by three private clinics in three time slots — 8-10am, 11-12noon and 3-4pm. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Agomoni show goes online||Mahalaya came early this year but Palash Prangan, a township-based group, was punctual with their Agomoni programme. Though the virtual show was open  to the public in the evening, internally members had begun performing from dawn. “Our member Buddhadev Bhattacharjee began chanting slokas and Agomoni tunes from 5.30am and the rest of us too performed and shared our clips with one another throughout the day. The evening  slot was for guest artistes,” said an organiser. In the evening, Ranendranath Ghosh, a student of Dwijen Mukherjee, began with three songs from Mahisasuramardini — Ya Chandi, Jago Durga and Namah Chandi. “These are the three basic songs for the inauguration of any programme on the subject,” he said. The narration between songs was by elocutionist Mou Guha, who wove the tradition of Durga puja in Bengal with the defeat of Siraj-ud-Daulah in the battle of Battle of Plassey and with poets and musicians like Ramprasad Sen, Bharatchandra Ray and  Ramnidhi Gupta, better known as Nidhu babu. The next segment of the programme was Durga vandana, a 12- minute pre-recorded dance recital by members of DB Block-based dance school Kolkata Uchchhas. Mother-daughter duo Mehul and Moumita Chakraborty danced to Jago tumi jago, Shuvasree Roy danced to Dhak baja kasor baja and Srimoyee Kaushiki Basak Dey put up a powerful performance to Ayi giri nandini. Sonali Basak (in picture), who directed the show, danced to Durge durgati nashini, praying to the goddess to end the pandemic. Priya Srivastav, a former student of the institute, logged in from Gurgaon and performed Aaj bajey monomajhey from the film Durga Sahay. “Amid tremendous work pressure, it was blissful to get the opportunity to choreograph, dress up and dance with my group members after so long,” said Priya, an IT professional. “Since auditoriums are closed and social gatherings are prohibited, our venture is to rejuvenate people through some cultural programmes that they can watch sitting at home,” said secretary Subas Ray. There is almost no one who doesn’t suffer from some kind of acidity or gastric problem and so this awareness camp has been organised with them in mind,” said Asim Kumar Sikdar, convenor of BJ Block’s health committee at their programme on dyspepsia. Before the pandemic, BJ Block Residents Forum had held a talk on dyspepsia, in collaboration with AMRI Hospitals. Associate consultant, gastroenterology, Chayan Kumar Roy, conducted a discussion. “Symptoms of dispepsia are a vague sensation of fullness after eating very little, belching, heartburn… any problem of indigestion, hyperacidity or epigastric pain is termed as dyspepsia,” explained Roy. Those like Tapas Kumar Karmakar of BJ Block had come armed with their file of gastric problems. The doctor heard the patients out and suggested a healthy lifestyle and weight control as preventive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Rs 10 cr granted for road repair||Urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the purified drinking water project at Tank 5 near Baisakhi on Saturday. He announced the sanction of Rs 10 crore for road repairs before Puja. “Sujit (Bose, the local MLA) had asked me for Rs 4 crore but on studying the plans sent by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, I realised more money would be needed. So I have sanctioned Rs 10 crore,” he said. He also urged the corporation to take the online route for application of trade licences. “It is a certificate of enlistment. So why not make it online? We have already carried out these reforms in Calcutta,” he said. In his address, what came out repeatedly was anguish at the lack of support for Trinamul Congress from Salt Lake residents in the ballot box. “Why are people not blessing us during elections? Had there been no development, I would not have said this. But so much work is being done, yet people are voting elsewhere — keu Ram-er namey, keu Bam-er namey (some in the name of Ram, some in the name of the Left),” he said. The Bidhannagar Assembly segment had given a lead to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Bigger buffet spread for less||Putting behind a brief innings as a Covid-19 safehouse, The Sonnet returned to normalcy with resumption of a buffet spread at its all-day dining restaurant Aura. And the good news is the spread is more elaborate than pre-Covid times while the price has come down. “Last year, we were charging Rs 946 per head. Now it is Rs 746. We are calling it Weekend Family Funday. The spread will be laid out for Saturday dinner and Sunday lunch. This is a confidence-building gesture on our behalf as we recognise people have taken a financial hit in this pandemic,” said Avishek Dutta, food and beverage manager. Precautions too have been taken. The 94-cover restaurant now sits 60. “The gaps between tables have been increased. The plates and cutlery on the tables too stay wrapped.” The buffet starts with a live counter. If it serves piping hot momo on one day, the next day there could be pasta or Mongolian starters or sushi. A salad counter with over half a dozen varieties will cater to the health conscious. A laksa counter allows one to add ingredients of choice to the spicy noodle soup popular in maritime southeast Asian nations. Then there are Continental, Chinese and Indian main course dishes followed by the dessert spread. In the first weekend, response was robust. “People are wanting to come out after being locked down for so long,” said executive chef Vikram Jaiswal. The chef joined the hotel in February. “We had just revamped the buffet for Valentine’s Day but soon had to close down. It is now that we are being able to serve it,” he said. Through the week, the buffet will be served at the table at the same price. But on weekends, when the Family Funday offer is not on, i,e. Saturday lunch and Sunday dinner, it will cost Rs 846 per person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||When a cotton sari matters more than the costliest silk||When Sudarshan Barui, 23, received his first salary in September, he bought four new saris. One of them was for his mother and another for his grandmother. The remaining two were for women he had never met, women who could not afford new clothes in the festive season. The Dum Dum resident has donated the two saris to a campaign called “One New Cotton Saree” that aims to provide new saris to women from the families of unorganised workers in and around Patuli before the Pujas. Many of these women are from the slums. Many of them used to be domestic workers but have lost their jobs to the pandemic. Their male family members are mostly out-of-work day labourers, rickshaw-pullers and masons, all victims of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. With economic activity gradually resuming in the city and the rest of the country, many of them are going back to work. But many are still unemployed, staring at an uncertain future. The campaign was launched early last month by Humans of Patuli, an organisation that works for communal harmony and had campaigned extensively against the new citizenship matrix. The response to its sari initiative has been more than encouraging, the organisers said. “We have already collected close to 400 saris. We have two conditions — the sari has to be new and made of cotton,” said Syed Md Sabbir, a Humans of Patuli member and coordinator of the campaign. “We wanted a single kind of fabric. Otherwise, it would have been difficult to sort and distribute the saris.” The last date for contributions is October 11, by when Sabbir expects the number to cross 500. When the pandemic broke out and the lockdown was enforced, Humans of Patuli had supported these poor families with dry groceries and medicines. In the run-up to the Pujas, its members had decided to buy new clothes for the children. While discussing the matter, some of them suggested getting new clothes for the mothers as well. “It’s the women in the family who sacrifice the most during tough times,” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, group member and a designated volunteer for the campaign. “We decided to give new clothes to these women alongside the children. But we did not have enough money. So we decided to launch this campaign.” The campaign’s posters were first shared on social media in the second week of September, with the contact details of the four volunteers. “Working-class neighbourhoods have been the worst hit during this period because of the vulnerability posed by the lack of savings or negligible savings on one hand and the lack of employment opportunities on the other,” the poster said. “We intend to carry on with our work and ensure that our neighbours have the right to the same kind of dignity and opportunities of survival as the rest of us.” Even people from outside the city — from Bandel, Burdwan and Siliguri — have contributed. If the donor is from Calcutta, the group members themselves pick up the gift. If the donor is from the city’s fringes — such as Sodepur or Barrackpore — any friends that the members may have in that neighbourhood have been pitching in. Donors farther away are sending the saris by courier. Damayanti Lahiri, administrator of the Modern Academy of Continuing Education in Ballygunge, has collected around a dozen saris — from friends and colleagues — that have been donated to the campaign. She had come to know about the initiative from a WhatsApp forward. “If we have not understood the meaning of privilege even after watching the pictures of the migrant labourers walking across the country, we should be ashamed,” Lahiri said. To drop off a sari, calls can be made to 9051118426 (Sabbir), 9163736863 (Kasturi), 8910832639 (Sabyasachi)  and 7980949052 (Sudeshna).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||‘System update’ stalls relief||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on October 1 rolled out a penalty and interest waiver scheme for property tax defaulters but some people have alleged a CMC office turned them away for want of an updated system. At the Calcutta Municipal Corporation office in Jadavpur’s Santoshpur, a group of people from Kasba were asked to visit later because of the pending system update. The Santoshpur office serves residents of boroughs XI and XII, which covers places like Kasba, Jadavpur, Garia, Bansdroni, Regent Park, and Patuli. The civic employees, though, did not specify when the system would be updated. Santanu Das, a government employee and a Kasba resident, has taxes of four quarters pending. Three are from 2017 and one from 2004. “There was a long queue of people. It took me over an hour to reach the counter,” Das said. “The person at the counter asked me to come back later as the system had not been updated. But he did not mention any date when I should return. If I visit the office again and I am told the same thing, what do I do? The scheme is supposed to have started from October 1.” There were others like him who had to go back, he said. “I have to now wait for some other day when I can take an off from my daily work and visit the office to clear the bills,” another Kasba resident said. A CMC official said there were network issues at the Santoshpur office and that it had been fixed. “These people may have been turned away because there was a network issue. We have fixed it and all our offices are now ready to issue fresh bills and accept payments.” Another official said the system had been updated and there was no reason why people would not get fresh bills. The scheme can be availed by anyone with pending property tax against bills presented till March 31, 2020. Only the principal amount of the pending tax has to be paid if the dues are cleared within the first five months from the scheme’s launch. If the dues are cleared in the next three months, 60 per cent interest and 99 per cent penalty will be waived. The scheme will be on offer for eight months from October 1. People were able to pay online through the CMC’s website from Thursday, an official said. “There is a dedicated menu for the waiver scheme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Cheat cuffs on two call centre directors||Two directors of a call centre in Salt Lake were arrested on Thursday on charges of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy among others. They ran the call centre from a house in the BJ Block in Sector II. Employees used to call up people and promise them high returns for reactivating lapsed insurance policies against payment and for renting out their rooftops or plots to install mobile phone towers, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. People in towns and villages in Bengal as well as in the Northeastern states of Mizoram and Meghalaya had been targeted, the officer said. The two used to call people to enquire if they had vacant plots or rooftops that they would give on rent to install mobile phone towers of various service providers, another officer said. “They would persuade people to pay a ‘registration fee’ and a ‘no-objection fee’ in the name of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,” the officer said. The police had specific information about the call centre in BJ Block involved in cheating people. It had been set up at least six months ago, the officer said. The house which the call centre had been using is listed as a residential property in the urban development department records, a civic official said. A search is on for others involved in the racket, an officer said. The charges against the two carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. Last week, the police had arrested four men in connection with a fake call centre in Bangur Avenue’s D Block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||JEE Main counselling dates||The Bengal joint entrance examination board will hold online counselling for admission to BTech courses from October 14 for those who have cracked the JEE-Main exams, which were deferred because of the Covid pandemic and were held in September. Online counselling for admission to 141 seats in architecture in the engineering colleges will also start on October 14, said an official of the JEE board. The counselling for students selected through JEE-Main will be separate from the counselling being held for candidates who have cracked the exams conducted by the Bengal JEE board. The NITs and IIEST, Shibpur, are among the institutes that admit students entirely through JEE-Main. Ten per cent of the seats in Bengal’s private engineering colleges are set aside for those whose names figure on the JEE-Main merit list. The JEE board will hold counselling for those seats in private colleges. A notice issued by the JEE board says that the first round of registration and uploading of documents for the counselling will continue from October 14 to 19. The candidates can upload corrected documents from October 14 to 20 and the documents will be verified at virtual reporting centres from October 14 to 21. “Choice filling” and “locking” by candidates will take place from October 14 to 21. The first round of seat allotment results will be announced on October 23 and this will be followed by “seat acceptance” and payment of provisional admission fees by the candidates from October 23 to October 27 (6pm). The second and final round of seat allotment results will be announced on October 29. The three-round online counselling for admission to the BTech programme for those who had cracked the Bengal joint entrance examinations, which were held in February, started on August 12 and will continue till October 28. The decision to postpone the JEE-Main exams, usually held in April, because of the Covid-19 pandemic prompted the state board to stagger the counselling, JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Deshapriya Park scales down festivities||The puja at Deshapriya Park will be a muted affair this year amid the Covid pandemic, a far cry from its dazzling past. The organisers will build a small pandal around a concrete stage at the far end of the park, instead of an oversized structure that it used to erect before. The budget this year — Rs 10 lakh — is around one-eighth of that of last year. Five years back, when the puja had to be shut down following a mad rush to catch a glimpse of what was touted as the “world’s tallest idol”, the budget was over Rs 1 crore. The organisers of the Deshapriya Park puja, which is stepping into its 83rd year this year, failed to recall the last time the festivity was held in such a lacklustre way. “There is a funds crunch. We have some 200 members, who will pitch in with contributions. Apart from that we won’t be able to raise anything this year,” said Sudipta Kumar, the secretary of the puja. “No stall owners have approached us and the puja is just a fortnight away.” Over the past few years, Deshapriya Park was a must-go destination for pandal-hoppers and Lalbazar would have to draw up elaborate arrangements to channel the flow of visitors. View-cutters would have to be set up along the park compound on Rashbehari Avenue so vehicles did not slow down — and create snarls on the busy thoroughfare — to let passengers have a glimpse of the pandal and the idols. “We have decided that the idol would be a bit taller, maybe around 12 foot. There will be no elaborate arrangements for lighting,” said a member of the puja committee. “We will probably just illuminate the pathway from the park to the pandal.” Till last year, the organisers would spend around Rs 7 lakhs on lights. This year it would be just about a lakh. Almost all pujas, including the ones that would draw large crowds, are battling a funds crunch amid the pandemic. Puja committees have cut down the size of their idols and many have settled for a basic pandal. “We are planning to save some amount from our puja budget and donate it to those who have been working with us for years, including labourers and electricians,” Kumar said. The police have had a few rounds of talks with the organisers. “If the puja is organised on a smaller scale, it would be easier for us to control the crowd,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||ICSE YouTube sessions for Class X, XII students||The ICSE council will conduct virtual classes on YouTube in October for students of Class X and XII. The specialised classes by subject teachers will be distinct from the online classes being conducted by schools for their students. These classes will be for council students across the country. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has said that live lessons will be made available on the council’s website for viewing later. The council started live-streaming lessons in September on the council’s YouTube channel and decided to continue it in October. School heads have been asked to inform students and teachers. “In view of the positive response received from students, parents, and teachers, the council has decided to continue with these Live Lessons in the month of October,” Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, said in a circular to the heads of all council schools. “The links for the respective ICSE and ISC sessions have been provided in the schedule. You are requested to share these links with your students and teachers.” The first class started on Thursday and will continue till October 20. The council has said the timing for ICSE and ISC sessions in October will be 11am to noon. “During live sessions, students can put up questions for subject teachers. These questions will be addressed immediately after the session is over, in a time slot allotted for the interactive question-answer session,” Arathoon said in the circular. “Answers to questions not addressed during the live session will be made available on the notice board of the council’s website.” The schedule contains subjects such as biology, mathematics, and English literature for ISC and English literature and mathematics for ICSE students. The council has said each live session at the ICSE and ISC levels includes assignments given at the session’s end. “If students upload the assignments, schoolteachers can grade them. We had received positive feedback from students regarding the initiative,” Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said. “In fact, the live sessions are made available for viewing later for the benefit of students who could not attend the session because of power cuts or Net connectivity problems,” Biswas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake’s bumpy ride to Puja||Durga Puja is less than two weeks away and the roads of Salt Lake are riddled with potholes. Pandal-hoppers may have to brave cratered roads as the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is still to start repairs. Multiple stretches of arterial roads that lead to crowd-puller pujas, including the AJ Block and FJ Block Durga Puja, are in “terrible shape”, according to residents. Two stretches of Broadway that connects Salt Lake to the Bypass have craters that look like sinkholes. A couple of water supply main pipelines underneath the road near the Amul roundabout on Broadway and at the FE roundabout that leads to FD park have cracked because of which the asphalt top has been eroding gradually. A traffic policeman posted near the Amul roundabout said several two-wheeler riders had skidded while trying to negotiate the stretch. A section of Second Avenue near the Administrative Building of Salt Lake in DJ Block that leads to the AJ Block puja pandal is filled with potholes. More than 10 craters appear after a relatively smooth stretch of the road taking motorists and two-wheeler riders by surprise. Parts of Second Avenue near Tank No. 9 need urgent repairs as the asphalt top has gone, leaving behind huge craters. “I have had a dozen punctures in the past week. There is no way one can drive on this road without damaging the vehicle’s undercarriage… and damage to tyres is given,” Biswanath Sarkar who drives a Toyota Corolla said. In AG Block, the road along the canal — from the AL Block till the Baisakhi overbridge — that had been dug up to lay a new water pipeline at least a year ago is still to be repaired. The surface is uneven on either side and the asphalt top is not wide enough even for two-wheelers. Tapas Chatterjee, the mayoral council member in charge of roads, promised patchwork repairs before Durga Puja. “Work had stalled because of manpower shortage…. during the pandemic. We will carry out patchwork repairs soon.” A civic engineer said the urban development department had promised to release Rs 4 crore for road repairs in Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Harder to stop child marriages||The prevention of child marriages has taken a hit during the pandemic. Teachers in the districts now don’t get to know if a girl has been married off as schools are closed. Earlier, they used to alert the authorities in case a girl stopped attending school, those working with children in the districts said. Whenever someone drops out, teachers check on the family to find out why the girl has stopped attending school, Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said. “Now, at times they are unable to know... it is a challenge. But despite such challenges, we have been able to stop child marriages in 90 per cent of the cases reported to us.” Also, the absence of school has resulted in a decrease in peer-group interaction that used to help track child marriages and elopements. During interaction with one another, students used to talk of their problems, those working with children said. “The family might have one phone and the girl might have to wait to use it to call her friend,” a member of an NGO working with children said. Also, when a marriage has been fixed, parents will want to snap all access to communication, the member said. And because of the digital divide there is hardly any online class and this has led to a communication gap with teachers. “The information flow has been hampered in the absence of schools,” Sisir Thanikal, the community engagement head of an NGO, International Justice Mission, Calcutta, said. Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC), a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, which works in North and South 24-Parganas and Nadia, have formed adolescent groups to track the movement of girls. “The girls call up their peers every day to keep track. But the same phone that is used to track them can be used by others to trap them,” Nabanita Shome, the programme manager for anti-human trafficking at KMWSC, said. Director Sister Monica Suchiang said the pandemic had increased the challenges. “Underage marriages are being held because of the economic condition of families and parents are concerned about the safety of their daughters. Challenges are much more now… but that cannot be an excuse for us to sit back.” The state commission for protection of child rights conducted a webinar recently with district social welfare officials on steps to prevent child marriages. Sudeshna Roy of the commission had moderated the session. “We have been worried about girls being at home ever since the lockdown started. We decided to take some steps… we started a help desk to receive calls on child marriages... an awareness campaign has helped in reporting such cases,” Roy said. Such marriages have been reported from West and East Midnapore, East Burdwan, Murshidabad, South 24-Parganas, and Jalpaiguri, she said. At the webinar, the district social welfare official of South 24-Parganas had raised the matter of communication challenges as officials have to cross rivers in some places “There are riverine blocks and communication is a challenge. In some places like Sagar, Basanti, and Gosaba we have to cross rivers to reach some homes… intervention has been a problem during the pandemic,” the district social welfare official had said. If communication gets delayed, intervention takes a hit. By the time, information arrives and arrangements are made to reach the home, the marriage has been solemnised. Another problem is the “restoration” of a girl back in the family because parents are often unwilling to take them back. “They will have one mouth less to feed during such trying times,” Chatterjee Chakraborti said. Parents have to be counselled to take back their daughters. “Visiting homes and counselling parents have been a challenge during the pandemic and also to keep girls at homes after they have been brought back,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Emeritus professor at JU passes away ||Ananda Deb Mukhopadhyay, an emeritus professor at Jadavpur University and former vice-chancellor of Vidyasagar University who was hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, died on Thursday morning. He was 82. Teachers at JU said he was put on ventilation early this week. Mukhopadhyay did his MSc in geology from JU in 1961 and later did his PhD at the university. He taught at JU from 1966 to 1998 and served as VC of Vidyasagar University from 1999 to 2003. He was later appointed Emeritus Professor at JU. Mukhopadhyay also served as chairperson of Digha Development Authority. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said in a condolence message: “Ananda Deb Mukhopadhyay performed his duty as the vice-chancellor of Vidyasagar University with extreme proficiency. He was actively associated with the National Council of Education till his last breath. His death has created a void in the academic sphere of Bengal.” Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the JU Teachers’ Association, said Mukhopadhyay had established the School of Oceanographic Studies, one of the first interdisciplinary schools at the university. Mukhopadhyay is survived by a son and a daughter. His wife died a few years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||UBI sounds like begging: Laureate||Universal basic income is not a charity but a legitimate demand to put money in the hands of people who don’t have it and spur demand, instrumental in reviving the economy from the Covid-induced slump, a veteran economist said on Thursday. “Human beings deserve to live. If the right to life is fundamental, whatever is required to sustain human lives should be constitutionally provided by the State,” said Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, who has taught at IIM Calcutta for three decades and is a visiting faculty at IIM Bodhgaya. He was speaking at a webinar on “The COVID 19 Pandemic — Lives, Livelihood and Challenges”, organised by the postgraduate department of economics at St Xavier’s College (Autonomous), Calcutta, in collaboration with Yunus Centre Bangladesh. Muhammad Yunus, Bangladeshi social entrepreneur who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006 along with Grameen Bank, addressed the webinar before Chattopadhyay. Yunus had a different take on universal basic income (UBI). When a student asked him “if the pandemic had spurred the requirement for UBI”, he said: “UBI, to me, sounds like begging. For survival, you don’t want … to depend on charity. It is a weakness of the system that people have to live on donations and alms.” Chattopadhyay, whose areas of interest include empowerment of women, public policy and management, development and the State’s role in social sectors, contradicted the Nobel laureate. “The UBI can help in creating demand. You give money to the poor; they will use it to buy consumables. If people don’t have money, supply is like creating inventory. There is no supply solution to a big economic crisis. Take any in the past 100 years; you cannot have a solution without demand creation,” said Chattopadhyay, also associated with the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab — co-founded by economists Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Esther Duflo. The webinar dealt with the impact of Covid-19 on livelihood. In his keynote address, Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said the pandemic’s impact on Indian economy had been aggravated by the “wide inequality, huge informal labour market and lack of policy and information”. In India, as many as 41 lakh youths lost their jobs because of the pandemic, the majority of them in the construction and farm sectors, according to a report by the International Labour Organisation and the Asian Development Bank. Among the haunting images of the lockdown are those of hundreds of thousands of out-of-work migrant workers walking back home. The Prime Minister’s “Rs 20 lakh crore” stimulus has so far proved inadequate in facilitating recovery of an economy pummelled by the pandemic. Giving cash handouts directly to citizens to address the economic pain is being advocated by many economists and public policy experts, including former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan. Yunus compared the global economic order as an engine that was “headed for death”, thanks to rising global warming, inequitable distribution of wealth and Artificial Intelligence. “The Covid-19 pandemic has stopped the train which people were riding. It has also offered us a chance to think…. There is a rush to get back to the pre-Covid world. But is it worth going back to?” Calling Yunus “a great thinker and a great dreamer”, Chattopadhyay described himself as “minnows who have to look into the immediate future”. “We have to discuss economics as given… where one per cent population controls almost 50 per cent of the country’s wealth,” he said. Revival of the MSME and the “so-called unorganised” sector, must for any economic revival, would require increasing demand generation, he added. That is where UBI can be instrumental because it will make people “ready users for products from the unorganised sector”, said Chattopadhyay. “It is not giving alms to a beggar. It is an acknowledgement of the State’s responsibility towards citizens.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Keep satellite units open: Govt||The state government has requested private hospitals not to shut their satellite facilities for Covid patients ahead of the festive season, which many fear may see a spike in positive cases, even if the units have only a few patients now. Several private hospitals had tied up with hotels to set up satellite units for Covid patients who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. But most have only a few takers. Some hospitals have already closed their units on grounds of non-viability and a few others could follow suit. “The vacancies in the hospitals’ SHF (satellite health facilities) are declining since last week. Some hospitals are thinking of closing down SHF. Don’t do this without increasing the number of beds for Covid in main hospitals,” a senior health department official posted a few days ago in a closed WhatsApp group, which includes representatives of many private hospitals. An official of the state health department said it was not the right time to reduce infrastructure for Covid-19 treatment. Many homes may face a problem keeping a Covid patient isolated if relatives visit them during or immediately after Puja, he said. Besides, a number of public health specialists have warned that crowding during Puja might lead to a spurt in Covid cases. The state government had on June 15 said private hospitals could set up the satellite facilities for Covid-19 patients with no or mild symptoms, to free up beds reserved at the hospitals. “We had taken two floors of a four-star hotel in Salt Lake with 24 rooms. There were nurses deployed and doctors would visit the patients twice a day. The occupancy had started falling from August and so we had to close down the satellite facility,” said Debasish Dhar, group vice-president, ILS Hospitals. Other hospitals, too, said patient occupancies were going down at satellite units. Initially, private hospitals were flooded with asymp-tomatic Covid patients or ones with mild symptoms. There was fear among people, which often led to neighbours putting pressure on Covid patients to get admitted to hospital or shift to a satellite facility. Also, many people opted for satellite facilities after insurance companies started reimbursing the cost incurred for staying there. The rate for one day’s stay at a satellite facility varied between Rs 3,000 and Rs 9,000, and that included doctor’s consultation fee and the cost of food and medicines. But for the last couple of months, patients with mild symptoms or without any symptoms are staying at home and consulting doctors over phone or video calls. A private hospital off EM Bypass runs a satellite facility with 52 beds at a hotel nearby. On Thursday, there were only 13 patients at the unit, an official at the hospital said. Some of the hotels are reluctant to continue with the tie-ups with the hospitals because they are expecting guests during the Puja. “The hotel where we have a satellite unit has told us they want to discontinue the arrangement because they want to resume normal operations. A satellite facility on the premises might affect their business,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. He said there were talks with a few other hotels to set up the facility. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has a 52-bed satellite unit at a hotel but most of the rooms are vacant. “We are running it at a loss but we are going to continue with it,” said Alok Roy, chairman, the Medica Superspecialty group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||New Town plant starts supply in Salt Lake ||After a long wait, Salt Lake started getting its share of filtered water from the New Town water treatment plant from Monday. This additional water is supplementing the seven million gallons drawn daily from the Tallah water treatment plant all these years. Civic officials say there will be no need to draw underground water henceforth to offset the dearth in supply of treated water. “The problem of high iron content in Salt Lake’s water supply should be a thing of the past henceforth,” a civic official said. The corporation is currently getting four million gallons per day (MGD) from New Town, of which 3MGD is being distributed across Salt Lake. The remaining 1 MGD is being distributed in Wards 22, 25 and 26 in Baguiati and Kestopur. An interconnection will be made from the two overhead reservoirs in Ward 26 of Kestopur so that Ward 23 and 24 can also benefit from the new supply. Eventually they will get supply directly from the reservoir currently under construction behind Tank 5 in Baisakhi, for which pipelines have been laid under the Kestopur Canal. As mentioned in a cover story in The Telegraph Salt Lake titled ‘Where our extra water will be stored’ on March 15, 2019, encroachment at the Tank 5 reservoir in AF Block had held up this project. Work on the reservoir could only be started three months ago after the encroachers were shifted at the intervention of local MLA Sujit Bose and some trees were cleared by the forest department. Construction is still under way. The encroachers have been shifted to an adjoining site, where a water tap has been promised to them. Salt Lake’s requirement peaks in summer when 11 MGD water is needed. The current requirement of 9MGD is already being met with the new supply supplementing the water from Tallah. When the second phase of work at the New Town plant gets over by this winter, another 4 MGD has been promised to the corporation. “Now they are producing 20MGD. In the second phase, production will rise by another 20MGD. Once their fifth and final phase of work gets completed, they will reach their capacity of 100 MGD. We will get a total of 20MGD water from them at that point,” said Swapan Maitra, executive engineer, PWD and PHE, of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Though 4MGD is available, in the first week, the corporation is drawing 2MGD from New Town. “We are making sure there is no overflow at the tanks, leading to wastage. Gradually more water will be drawn,” Maitra added. A test done on the current supply has shown satisfying results. “There is no iron, no arsenic and little turbidity. If the water pipelines are clean, it is as good as potable water,” he said. The Corporation was drawing 2 to 2.5MGD from the underground water table through 30 submersible pumps at its 15 water tanks. “We will stop using them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||British Council inks deal with library||With a month left for the completion of its first anniversary, New Town Library at Nazrul Tirtha is giving another reason for local residents to sign up. The library, founded on November 12 last year, has entered a partnership with the British Council to launch a resource centre which will give its members access to several facilities from the United Kingdom’s international cultural and educational services wing. A memorandum of alliance was signed to formalise the arrangement on October 1. Said Debashis Sen, chairman of Hidco, the administrative body in charge of New Town: “We have built this as a smart library with RFID tags. We want this to be a space not just for storage of books, but a community space where people can connect with each other. That is why we have built a seminar room cum audio-visual screening space where language classes are held. We have digital resources to browse e-books. But not everything can be achieved on one’s own. That is why we have tied up with the British Council library.” Added British Council director, east and northeast, Debanjan Chakrabarti: “Libraries are no longer silent spaces. They are safe spaces to have open discussions. What we offer most importantly is access to our digital library collection. There are over 1.3 lakh books, journals, magazines and newspapers in our online catalogue which would open a whole new window to a world of knowledge. One can access music and movies as well. There is also a separate database for children.” The New Town Library has taken 10 institutional memberships which can be used by members to log in to the British Council digital library, using the 10 desktop computers housed in the library, including two in the children’s section. A discount in membership fee is also being offered to New Town Library members who might want to become individual members and access the digital resources of British Council from home. Instead of Rs 1,800, they pay Rs 1,400 a year. The British Council also promises to bring its range of services to New Town. “We hold Study in UK counselling sessions from time to time which we plan to hold here as well. We also organise workshops and lectures with thought leaders. During literature festivals, the authors who visit us in future would be able to come and interact with members here,” Chakrabarti said. New Town Library members would also be invited to film screenings and workshops at the Council’s Camac Street address from time to time. In a post-Covid world, Chakrabarti pointed out, people would be less interested in commuting long distances. “Libraries would need to become a lot more accessible.” A corner has been set up in the library, named after the British Council, where books on loan from the British Council library are being displayed. The first lot of 430 books has arrived and is a mix of fiction and non-fiction, including several for children. New Town Library houses about 11,000 books with around 300 members on its rolls. Sen informed that talks were on with consultants to start career development courses. “We have held French and German language classes here. A Spanish course will also be offered soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Business||India Inc welcomes RBI's monetary policy stance||India Inc has welcomed RBI's resolve to continue with an accommodative monetary policy stance and focus on reviving growth. RBI's six-member Monetary Policy Committee on Friday voted unanimously to retain the repo rate at 4 per cent while keeping its policy stance accommodative. The central bank sees the economy contracting 9.5 per cent in the current fiscal. CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said additional measures announced by RBI to support growth in the form of liquidity support, reviving exports, credit support, and improving ease of doing business are expected to give the much-needed impetus to drive the 'three-speed' recovery which the central bank expects. Ficci President Sangita Reddy said while the policy repo rate was not cut by RBI, several other measures were announced that should help bring down interest rates in the market. Assocham Secretary General Deepak Sood said RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das' dared to be optimist approach shows his steely resolve to face the unprecedented situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. What is notable in this edition of RBI's monetary policy announcement is its emphatic commitment to 'public good' and its intent to remain accommodative for such public good. These are welcome words in support of an economy that is looking to rebound from a pandemic, said Ashutosh Bishnoi, MD & CEO at Mahindra Manulife Mutual Fund. Reliance Home Finance CEO Ravindra Sudhalkar said RBI's stance to rationalize risk weightage on home loans is a welcome move. With all new housing loan risk now linked only to loan to the value, the rates will continue to be in check and hence encourage new buyers, he added. Sunteck Realty CMD Kamal Khetan said the announcement of rationalizing risk weightage on home loans is a targeted intervention and comes at a time when the property sector is making significant recovery across all segments. "With rates remaining unchanged, higher inflation is certainly a matter of concern. We are expecting better revival of business in smaller towns basis RBI's expectation of further strengthening of rural economy," Spykar Lifestyle CEO Sanjay Vakharia said. Stating that RBI stands ready to take further measures on liquidity, Governor Shaktikanta Das announced Rs 1 lakh crore of targeted long-term funds with tenors of as much as 3 years from the central bank to banks for investing only in corporate bonds, aimed at easing cash crunch at firms. Das said the economic growth, which slumped to a negative 23.9 per cent in April-June , will turn positive only in the final March quarter. For exporters hit by the pandemic, RBI discontinued the system-based automatic caution-listing to allow them to realise export proceeds. The central bank has slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March to support growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged at 4 per cent ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) left key interest rates unchanged on Friday but signalled more easing ahead to support an economy that it sees contracting 9.5 per cent in the current fiscal. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee, with three newly inducted external members, voted unanimously to retain the benchmark repurchase or repo rate at 4 per cent while keeping its policy stance accommodative, implying it could ease again. The central bank had slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March to support growth. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said the economic growth, which slumped to a negative 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, will turn positive only in the final January-March quarter. "By all indications, the deep contractions of Q1 2020-21 (April-June) are behind us; silver linings are visible in the flattening of the active case load curve across the country," he said. Barring the risk of a second wave of infections, the economy appeared poised to begin a recovery, he said, noting food grain production was set for record highs and factories and cities were coming back to life. With macro indicators pointing to a recovery, "GDP growth may break out of contraction and turn positive by Q4 (January-March)," he said. "For the year 2020-21 as a whole, therefore, real GDP is expected to decline by 9.5 per cent, with risks tilted to the downside," he said, adding that if the current momentum of upturn gains ground, a faster and stronger rebound is eminently feasible. "Against all odds, we shall strive and revive," he said. Das also unveiled a number of unconventional measures to boost liquidity and support economic activity while ensuring the government's record borrowing programme goes through smoothly. In a video live stream, he said RBI will "continue with the accommodative stance of monetary policy as long as necessary at least during the current financial year and into the next year to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of COVID-19, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward". RBI saw inflation easing close to the targeted band of 4 per cent, plus or minus 2 per cent, in the fourth-quarter ending March. Stating that RBI stands ready to take further measures on liquidity, Das announced Rs 1 lakh crore of targeted long-term funds with tenors of as much as 3 years from the central bank to banks for investing only in corporate bonds, aimed at easing cash crunch at firms. RBI will buy bonds issued by state governments as a special case and also extended till March 31, 2022, its permission to banks to hold more government bonds without marking to market. For exporters hit by the pandemic, the RBI discontinued the system-based automatic caution-listing to allow them to realise export proceeds. In order to facilitate swift and seamless payments in real-time for domestic businesses and institutions, RBI decided to make available the RTGS (Real Time Gross Settlement) system round-the-clock on all days from December. In December last year, RBI had made available the National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) system on a 24x7x365 basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Government talks tough against Lufthansa||The Narendra Modi government on Thursday made it clear greater concessions to foreign airlines will not be given at the expense of Indian carriers even as it continues to negotiate with German carrier Lufthansa, which has cancelled flights between the two nations till October 20 over the air bubble disagreement. Without taking the name of Lufthansa, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters, “We are all for foreign carriers operating here. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers.” “Under the regulated (air bubble) arrangements, we are not insisting on total parity. Even near parity will do,” Puri added. On September 28, Lufthansa had to cancel its flights between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 as the DGCA withdrew permission, saying there are restrictions on Indians who want to travel to Germany and this puts “Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage, resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa”. The resolution professional (RP) of Jet Airways on Thursday denied reports suggesting that London-based Kalrock Capital has emerged as the winner of the bid for the airline that closed operations last April. In a clarification, the RP Ashish Chhawchharia says the creditors’ committee will vote on the bids till October 16. The airline has debt claims of over Rs 39,000  crore out of which a little over Rs 16,000  crore has been admitted by the RP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Mercedes Benz India flags tax hurdle in EV journey||Mercedes Benz India Ltd (MBIL) on Thursday ruled out the possibility of introducing a plug-in hybrid in its Indian portfolio any time soon because of the current tax regime. While the GST on electric vehicles (EVs) has been slashed to 5 per cent from 12 per cent, the GST on hybrids is still 28 per cent along with a cess of 15 per cent on the larger models. While launching its first electric vehicle in India — the EQC — on Thursday, MBIL managing director Martin Schwenk said: “Mercedes Benz globally has the mission of attaining 50 per cent of its global sales from plug-in hybrids and EVs as part of its  Ambition 2039 programme.” On when India would have a plug-in hybrid in its portfolio, Schwenk said: “There are a number of hybrids in the global portfolio but there is not such a strong case for plug-in hybrids for India. Here we are stressing on battery-operated electric vehicles partly because of the tax regime.” The EQC will retail in India for Rs 99.3 lakh for the first 50 units after which the company has hinted at a price rise. Automobile dealers’ body Fada on Thursday said passenger vehicle retail sales in September witnessed a year-on-year increase of 9.81 per cent to 1,95,665 units amid a shift in customer preference for personal mobility over public transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||IBM to split into two||International Business Machines Corp is splitting itself into two public companies, capping a years-long effort by the world’s first big computing firm to diversify away from its legacy businesses to focus on high-margin cloud computing. IBM will list its IT infrastructure services unit, which provides technical support for 4,600 clients in 115 countries and has a backlog of $60 billion, as a separate company with a new name by the end of 2021. The new company will have 90,000 employees and its leadership structure will be decided in a few months, chief financial officer James Kavanaugh told Reuters. IBM, which currently has more than 352,000 workers, said it expects to record nearly $5 billion in expenses related to the separation and operational changes. Investors cheered the surprise move by chief executive officer Arvind Krishna, the key architect behind IBM’s $34-billion acquisition of cloud company Red Hat last year, sending the company’s shares up 7 per cent. “We divested networking back in the ‘90s, we divested PCs back in the 2000s, we divested semiconductors about five years ago because all of them didn’t necessarily play into the integrated value proposition,” Krishna said on a call with analysts. In a blog, Krishna called the move a “significant shift” in the 109-year-old company’s business model. “IBM is essentially getting rid of a shrinking, low-margin operation given the cannibalising impact of automation and cloud, masking stronger growth for the rest of the operation,” Wedbush Securities analyst Moshe Katri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Economy: World Bank projects 9.6% contraction||The World Bank expects India’s economy to contract 9.6 per cent in the current fiscal and to rebound to a 5.4 per cent growth in 2021-22 assuming that Covid-related restrictions will be completely lifted by 2022. A weak global scenario and a tough domestic environment mean both Indian imports and exports will be affected this year. India needs to continue with critical reforms to reverse the sudden and steep impacts of Covid-19 on its economy, the World Bank said in its twice-a-year-regional update. Millions of people in South Asia are being pushed into extreme poverty as the region,  where a quarter of humanity lives, suffers its worst-ever recession, the World Bank said. The latest South Asia Economic Focus forecasts a sharper-than-expected economic slump across the region, with regional growth expected to contract 7.7 percent in 2020, after topping 6 per cent annually in the past five years. Regional growth is likely to rebound to 4.5 per cent in 2021. “Covid-19 will profoundly transform South Asia and leave lasting scars. But there is a silver lining toward resilient recovery— it could spur innovations that improve South Asia’s future participation in global value chains,” said Hans Timmer, World Bank chief economist for the South Asia Region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Clix Group bids for Lakshmi Vilas Bank||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), the troubled private sector lender, on Thursday said it has received an “indicative non-binding” offer from Aion-backed Clix Group for a merger. LVB was in the news last month when its shareholders voted out seven directors on its board, including CEO S. Sundar and promoters K.R. Pradeep and N. Saiprasad. Subsequently, the RBI appointed a three-member team to run the bank under Meeta Makhan as chairperson and Shakti Sinha and Satish Kumar Kalra as members. In a regulatory filing on Thursday, the bank’s chief financial officer K. Hariharan said, “Further to the process of evaluating a proposed amalgamation with Clix Capital Services, Clix Finance and Clix Housing Finance, we are glad to inform that the bank has received an indicative non-binding offer from Clix Group.” The filing did not provide any details on the offer. On September 15, LVB had agreed to an amalgamation with Clix Capital Group, a mid-sized non-banking lender,  in an all-share deal. Earlier, the bank had tried to merge with Indiabulls Housing Finance but the RBI had objected to the merger proposal. In June, the bank and Clix Group had entered into a non-binding agreement for amalgamation and later the parties extended the validity of the agreement to September 15 citing the nationwide lockdown. Against a minimum required tier-I capital ratio of 8.8 per cent, the ratio for LVB stood at 1.88 per cent at the end of the June quarter. At the end of March, it was even lower at 0.88 per cent. Last week, the bank, which is under the RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA), had announced that its board had approved fundraising plans for Rs 1,500 crore and also to increase foreign shareholding up to 74 per cent from the current 12.35 per cent. The bank had suffered a net loss of Rs 112.28 crore in the June quarter against a loss of Rs 237.25 crore. Its asset quality deteriorated with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rising to 25.40 per cent of the gross advances as from 17.30 per cent in the earlier quarter. If the merger happens, the networth of the bank is expected to more than double to Rs 3,100 crore from the current Rs 1,200 crore. Ahead of the announcement, shares of the lender rallied 7.23 per cent to close at Rs 17.80 on the BSE, giving it a market valuation of Rs 599.35 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
09-10-2020||Business||Legal notice in Murugappa family battle||Valli Arunachalam, the daughter of former executive chairman M.V. Murugappan, has sent a legal notice to Ambadi Investments Ltd (AIL), Murugappa family members and others. This comes after the shareholders of AIL had last month voted against inducting her as a director in the Murugappa group’s holding company. “I can, hereby, confirm that following careful and thorough deliberation and in consultation with our independent advisers, we have decided to seek legal remedies with respect to our ongoing efforts to settle my father’s will. Accordingly, we issued legal notices to the Murugappa family members, Ambadi Investments management, the company and other people in relation thereto,” she said in a statement. The US-settled nuclear scientist has been fighting for a board seat and had earlier alleged that she was denied a berth because she was a woman. “It was a big step for us and a very unfortunate one, as we have worked tirelessly over the course of the last three years to bring about an amicable settlement of my father’s interests in AIL. With the family voting unanimously to reject my appointment to the AIL board, we have seemingly reached the end of the road for an amicable settlement,” she added in the statement. M.V. Murugappan passed away in September 2017, leaving a probate will bequeathing his 8.15 per cent stake in group holding firm Ambadi Investments to his wife and two daughters. At the AGM of AIL last month, around 91.36 per cent of its shareholders voted against a resolution that proposed a board position to Arunachalam. Pointing out that she had taken a “leave-no-stone-unturned’ approach to bring an amicable settlement, Arunachalam went on to say that these efforts included a proposal for the engagement of an independent mediator. “Given how the Murugappa family has treated our family branch over the past three years, we have no confidence that our substantial stake in the family business will be safeguarded by them. Perhaps most confounding to us is that the Murugappa family has attempted to project their stand as principled and righteous,” she noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
09-10-2020||Business|| GST cess shortfall reduced to Rs 1.83 lakh crore for this fiscal ||The Centre is reducing the compensation cess shortfall for this fiscal year to Rs 1.83 lakh crore from Rs 2.35 lakh crore earlier. The cut arises because the government intends to roll over the amount for February and March next year to 2021-22. Therefore, the borrowing option 2 before the states at their October 12 meeting will be the reduced sum of Rs 1.83 lakh crore. The Centre had earlier raised the borrowing option 1 to Rs 1.10 lakh crore from Rs 97 lakh crore. The Centre has already indicated that there will be no vote at the GST Council next week since the borrowing by states does not come within the ambit of the Council’s jurisdiction. The initial sum of Rs 97,000 crore under the first borrowing option was based on the assumption of 10 per cent growth in GST receipts in 2019-20. The Centre was forced to raise the sum to Rs 1.10 lakh crore as some of the states had argued the growth in receipts was 6 per cent to 7 per cent in 2018-19 and 2019-20. The growth this fiscal would be lower still, meaning the shortfall would be higher at Rs 1.10 lakh crore. Analysts said the changes in the borrowing numbers indicate the Centre plans to come up with some strategy to push through its plans. After the last GST Council meeting on Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that some of the BJP-ruled states such as Assam, Goa, Karnataka and Bihar have pushed for a quick decision as they wanted to borrow at the earliest to meet their revenue shortfall. With the 10 Opposition-ruled states against both the borrowing options, the GST Council meeting next week is expected to see some fireworks. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac has said the states will have no choice but to move the Supreme Court if the Centre tries to push the first borrowing option. Since the Centre has refused to set up a dispute resolution mechanism, a petition before the apex court is the only way out. Article 279A (11) of the Constitution states the GST Council can create a mechanism to resolve disputes between the central government and states or among two or more states. Chhattisgarh minister T.S. Singh Deo in a tweet has said “the rightful GST compensation of states is being denied by the central govt and it is forcing undemocratic borrowing to deal with the shortfall. The utter mismanagement from the Centre has led to this fiasco and Centre should take responsibility”. “We will seek a decision by consensus regarding the borrowing option for the GST compensation in the upcoming meeting on October 12. If consensus cannot be reached then a division may be sought to resolve it through democratic ways,” the Congress leader tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
09-10-2020||India||India-Israel effort behind 'one-minute' Covid test ||A game-changer rapid Covid-19 testing technology being jointly developed by India and Israel should be ready for rollout in "a matter of days" and it will be able to give test results in less than a minute by simply requiring an individual to blow into a tube, the Israeli envoy to India has said. Ambassador Ron Malka also said Israel would want India to become the manufacturing hub for this rapid testing kit and the two countries will also collaborate on vaccine development for this dreaded disease with India taking a key role in production given its "very strong relative advantage in manufacturing". He said the work on the rapid Covid-19 testing project is in a very advanced stage. "I think it is a matter of days. What I hear from those involved in the process, it should not take more than 2-3 weeks to finalise that one reliable and accurate technology or a combination of more than one from amongst the four different technologies being analysed," Malka told PTI in an interview. Indian and Israeli researchers have conducted trials after collecting a large number of samples in India for four different kinds of technologies, including a breath analyser and a voice test, that have the potential to detect Covid-19 rapidly. There is also isothermal testing that enables identification of the novel coronavirus in a saliva sample and a test using poly-amino acids that seeks to isolate proteins related to Covid-19. Malka said he has been told by the scientists that tens of technologies were tested to short-list these four technologies, which have now gone through different stages as per different demands to reach the last stage. "I am optimistic as all threshold conditions have already been passed," he said. The envoy said this new rapid test is going to be a game-changer and is "a shining example of how fruitful collaboration in science and technology between Israel and India can be." "It will be good news for the entire world. Until we manage to immunise the entire population, this joint operation, which we had named 'open skies', would literally open the skies in terms of international travel and other economic activities as this can be used at airports and other places by requiring a person just to blow into a tube and the result would be available in 30-40-50 seconds," he said. In addition, this will be very cheap cost-wise as it gives the result locally without the logistical baggage of sending the sample to laboratories, Malka said. Asked about collaboration on vaccine development, Malka said the two countries were always sharing research and technologies. Noting that India has a "very strong relative advantage in manufacturing", Malka said once the vaccine is ready, Israel is hopeful to get the advantage of that. "We are helping and supporting each other," he added. "We understand that once there is a reliable vaccine that is safe and effective, it will be mostly produced in India," Malka said. Israel understands that when India will manufacture a vaccine, it will also take into consideration the needs of Israel, he added. The Israeli Ambassador also thanked authorities in India for the help and assistance they provided after the virus outbreak to evacuate thousands of Israelis stranded all over India. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also spoke to each other recently on the collaboration in combating the pandemic, he noted. During their telephonic conversation earlier this month the two leaders had assessed the progress in bilateral cooperation in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the fields of research, field trials of diagnostic tools and vaccine development. They agreed on the importance of close cooperation in these important areas not only for the benefit of the people of the two countries but also for the greater good of humanity. Malka said healthcare has become an immediate priority area of collaboration between India and Israel due to the pandemic. Asserting that healthcare will be one of the main pillars of collaboration between Israel and India going forward, Malka said he has also been working closely with Ayushman Bharat CEO Indu Bhushan to explore ways to collaborate on the mission. Malka said Israel has always focussed on multi-use technologies and in the case of healthcare also it has been using some technologies used in security areas. He said India was the obvious choice for collaboration when Israel's defence research organisation decided to focus on rapid Covid-19 testing technology. The rapid testing is being jointly developed in cooperation with the Defense Research and Development Directorate of the Israeli Ministry of Defence, India's Defence Research and Development Organisation, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Principal Scientific Advisor, India -- coordinated by the ministries of foreign affairs of Israel and India. The samples were collected when a multi-pronged mission from Israel visited India to cooperate on Covid-19 research and development around July-end and early August. "The joint research (on rapid testing) is a very successful operation. It was something remarkable to analyse 25,000 samples in nine days. It shows the great potential of the collaboration, expanding the mutual commitment, chemistry and trust between the two countries. Otherwise, we could not have succeeded in such a challenging operation," Malka said. If good results are obtained on rapid testing, the manufacturing hub for such Covid test kits would be India, he said. He said that the special plane on which the Israeli research team had visited India had also brought advanced medical equipment developed especially for fighting Covid-19 in Israel. Malka said he personally collected the useful equipment from leading hospitals in Israel and brought them with him on board the special plane. "We also brought respirators at that time, though there was an export ban on them," the Israeli envoy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Temple priest burnt to death over land dispute||A temple priest died after being set on fire by five people over a land dispute in Rajasthan's Karauli district, police said on Friday. The five accused allegedly poured petrol on Babu Lal Vaishnav and set him on fire in Bukna village on Wednesday. He was referred to the SMS hospital in Jaipur in a critical condition. Vaishnav succumbed to injuries on Thursday night. The priest had about thirteen bighas (around 5.2 acres) of land which belonged to the Radha Krishna temple trust in a village in the district. But the land was given to the head priest to till as a source of income. Lands like these, which belong to temple trusts,  are generally given to caretaker priests for their use in return for the fact that they perform the pujas and carry out rituals in village temples. Such lands are called "Mandir Mafi " and are a source of income for priests who are caretakers of village temples in Rajasthan. The priest, wanting to build a house for himself, had the land levelled by an earth-mover to which a group of people from the dominant Meena community objected to and claimed the land as their own, reported ndtv.com. The dispute was taken to the village elders who ruled in favour of the priest. The priest then went ahead and placed bales of his newly harvested millet as a sign of ownership but the accused allegedly started building their own hut on the land that the priest had levelled, said ndtv.com. This led to an altercation. The priest, whose statement before the police has been recorded, said six people poured petrol on his bales of bajra (millet) which were lying at the disputed site and set it on fire on Wednesday. He claimed they also poured petrol on him and tried to set him on fire. Suffering burn injuries, the victim was rushed to Jaipur's SMS Hospital where he died on Thursday evening. Senior police officer Harji Lal Yadav told NDTV, "The post-mortem is being done right now of the body. We have registered a case of murder and we have also taken the prime accused, Kailsah Meena, and an accomplice into custody." Vaishnav's family members have demanded action against the SHO, investigation by a deputy rank official, compensation and government job to a family member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Author on a 20-hour protest after jeweller refuses to speak in Marathi||Marathi writer Shobha Deshpande staged nearly a 20-hour protest in Mumbai after a city-based jeweller allegedly refused to speak in Marathi and asked her to leave his shop where she had gone to make a purchase. The jeweller on Friday apologised to the veteran writer, who had staged the protest overnight on the footpath outside his shop since Thursday. Deshpande was later taken to a hospital for a medical check-up by the police. The Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) backed the protest by Deshpande and warned the jeweller, Shankarlal Jain, that he will not be able to open his shop till he learns Marathi. MNS workers also allegedly slapped Jain. Speaking to a Marathi news channel, Deshpande said she had gone to the jewellery shop in Colaba, south Mumbai, to buy earrings. During their conversation, the author insisted that Jain speak to her in Marathi. His shop is in the capital of Maharashtra whose language is Marathi and he must know how to speak Marathi. He said he cannot speak Marathi. I was speaking in Marathi and he did not. "Since I did not speak in Hindi, he refused to sell me the earrings. He arrogantly asked me to leave the place, Deshpande alleged. The writer said she demanded that the jeweller show the licence required to run the shop, but he refused. When I called the police, they too took the jewellers side. Then I staged the protest, Deshpande alleged. Jain on Friday morning apologised to the writer, who staged dharna for nearly 20 hours before being taken to the hospital. Meanwhile, the MNS workers, who had arrived at the spot to express solidarity with Deshpande, were seen slapping the jeweller as he apologised to the writer. "We were here to support the writer. We taught the jeweller a lesson for being arrogant. We have made him apologise. He will not be able to open his shop until he learns Marathi, MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande told the channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh leads in recognising forest rights ||Chhattisgarh has emerged as a leading state in terms of recognition of individual and community forest rights, across the nation under the leadership of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. According to sources in his government, more than 4.41 lakh people and over 46,000 community forest rights have been distributed to the Scheduled Tribes community and other traditional forest dwellers. Around 51.06 lakh acres of individual and community forest rights have been distributed to local communities in the state. "One hectare of forest land has been recognized for forest rights holders on an average, which is comparatively better than the rest of the nation," said a senior government official. On the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on October 2, around 1,300 community forest resource conservation rights pertaining to over 5 lakh hectares, was distributed to gram sabhas virtually by the Chief Minister through video conferencing. "The area of more than 4.41 lakh individual forest rights papers distributed accounts for more than 9,41,800 acres. Similarly, the area of more than 46, 000 community forest rights papers, accounts for more than 41,64,700 acres. For the first time in Chhattisgarh, the state government has provided consent and recognition to gram sabhas, regarding the management of 26,000 hectares of forest land, under 23 cases of community forest resource rights after January 2019," he said. The recognized beneficiaries are not only handed over forest rights letters, but are also being provided with various facilities like irrigation, manure-seeds, agricultural inputs by the convergence and integration of government-run schemes on their recognized forest lands. So far, there are 1,49,762 beneficiaries of land levelling and fencing. The area of their land accounts for more than 58,000 hectares. "Levelling and fencing work was conducted on the beneficiaries lands who availed the forest rights. Manure-seeds and agricultural inputs have also been provided to them," official said. The provisions of the Forest Rights Act are meant to provide the Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dweller families, a life which they deserve consisting of their rights, self-reliance and respect. Community forest rights include the right of disposal, ownership of minor forest produce, right to use fish and water bodies products, grazing, especially the habitat of vulnerable tribal groups and pre-agricultural communities. Under this, till September, 14,970 community forest rights papers have been provided for 9,74,635 hectares of forest land. Under the Forest Rights Act- 2006, 1,158 hectares of forest land has been provided to various departments for conducting 2,309 projects regarding 13 purposes from centres, roads and community centres, which will include the provision of public facilities such as schools, dispensaries, anganwadis, fair price shops, electrical and telecom lines, tanks and small reservoirs, drinking water supply and water pipelines, water or rainwater harvesting structures, minor irrigation canals, unconventional Energy sources, skill up-gradation or professional training. "With an aim to make the forest dwellers self-reliant by providing resources of extra income along with a life of respect, individual and community forest right holders of 1,110 hectares of land, will be provided with 1,150 hectares of irrigated land to plant fruits, small forest produce and medicinal plantations,vegetable production, etc, implementation is under the scheme of MNREGA," the official concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Odisha petrol pump fire mishap victim dies||One of the victims of the fire at the petrol pump near Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday succumbed to his injuries while another is still battling for his life at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. Another person is missing. The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) has announced compensation for the families of the deceased. Though police had deployed a dog squad to ferret out anyone buried under the debris at the mishap site it failed to find anyone. However, mutilated body parts strewn near the filling station were collected by the forensic department for examination. Police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi, who inspected the site on Thursday again, said a scientific investigation has been initiated into the fire tragedy. “One person is still missing. We deployed a dog squad near the crater formed by the impact of the blast that led to the fire. But because of the heavy smell of petrol and gas dogs could not find anything. We will check the site physically.” Sarangi said: “Four people were working at the refilling station for repair work when the blast took place. Though we have found mutilated body parts, we cannot jump to any conclusion unless we do a DNA test. We are investigating the matter. We have lodged a criminal case but we are yet to fix responsibility for the mishap.” The family of the missing person, Simanchal Parida, approached the police and sought their help in tracing him. “Simanchal was working in the gas chamber when the accident took place. IOCL officials were informed that his money purse had been identified. But we are yet to trace him,” said an official adding that restrictions imposed on the movement of people near the area had been lifted on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, IOCL announced a compensation of Rs. 8 lakh for the immediate family members of the deceased, Rs 4 lakh for the family member of the injured. The next of kin of partially injured persons will receive Rs 1 lakh. Odisha chief  secretary A.K. Tripathy asked the district collectors to consider the possibility of opening up places of worship for the public and submit and report to the government in the next 10-days. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Chilika’s authority adopts Fishing Cat as its new ambassador||Chilika, the largest brackish water lagoon in Asia and India’s oldest Ramsar site, on Thursday adopted Fishing Cat as its ambassador. The decision was taken on the concluding day of the wildlife week celebration that began on October 2. A Ramsar site is a designated wetland of international importance. Chief executive officer of Chilika Development Authority (CDA) Sushant Nanda told The Telegraph: “Fishing Cat is a Schedule-I species and deserves the best possible conservation measures in India like the tiger and the elephant. Unfortunately, marshland and mangrove ecosystems, which are the known habitat of Fishing Cat, are in a declining state. CDA will be according the highest priority to conserving their habitat and population.” The globally endangered felid was found to be present all around Chilika but the marshlands fringing its north and northeastern sections was where most evidence of its occurrence was found, according to a recent study. The study was  conducted by the Fishing Cat Project (TFCP) and the Indian wing of Fishing Cat Conservation Alliance (FCCA), a global organisation comprising experts working on the elusive but rare feline in all range countries in collaboration with the CDA which has been monitoring the well-being of the Ramsar site. Nanda said: “The future plans of this collaborative venture between CDA and TFCP include regularising protocols to estimate Fishing Cat populations in Chilika and to create a Fishing Cat conservation network by involving local stakeholders, college students, researchers, non-government and government organisations.” “Estimation of Fishing Cat population will be done through camera trap in near future collaboratively by CDA, Fishing Cat Project (TFCP) and the Indian wing of Fishing Cat Conservation Alliance (FCCA). The results are expected in the first part of 2021 and will be the first of its kind in estimating the apex predator of the coastal ecosystem,” an official said. Tiasa Adhya, co-founder of The Fishing Cat Project said: “Projecting Fishing Cat as the face of marshlands will raise the profile of Fishing Cat and marshland ecosystems globally and nationally which are otherwise neglected ecosystems. Locally, it will nurture their value among multiple stakeholders in Chilika.” These marshes receive the maximum freshwater flow from the tributaries of Mahanadi and seasonal rivulets. Analysis of long-term data collected by the CDA shows that this area also has high fish abundance. This is significant given that fish is the lifeline of Chilika sustaining two lakh fishermen families and globally threatened piscivorous mammals like Fishing Cat, Smooth-coated Otter and Eurasian Otter. “Management interventions are required to prolong the life of this marshland so that it can continue to provide for the globally endangered Fishing Cat, the hundreds of precious birdlife that arrive every winter here and to the indigenous fishing community,” said Partha Dey, co-founder, TFCP . “We will also to set up a rescue and rehabilitation centre for birds, Irrawaddy dolphins, fishing cat and otters with the help of WTI (Wildlife Trust of India) inside the Chilika lagoon. This centre will cater to a long-standing need for rescue and rehabilitation of the migratory birds and other flagship species of the lagoon,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Gallantry medals for Balakot air strike IAF officers||Three IAF officers who took part in the Balakot air strikes last year received gallantry medals on the 88th Air Force Day on Thursday. The officers who received the Yudh Seva Medal are Squadron Leader Minty Agarwal, Group Captain Hansel Sequera and Group Captain Hemant Kumar Vadsra. The Yudh Seva Medal recognises distinguished service of a high order during war, conflict or hostilities. Six air force personnel had died in the February 27 crash in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam and a civilian on the ground was charred to death. The friendly fire took place when Pakistani planes had raided Indian territory a day after New Delhi had launched an air strike on Balakot in retaliation to the February 14 Pulwama strike. In January this year, the Centre had also awarded gallantry medals to the two Indian Air Force’s pilot and four other IAF personnel “Mention-in-Despatches” posthumously, prompting questions from some defence ministry officials. The officials had said it was very unusual and surprising that the two pilots — Squadron Leaders Siddharth Vashisht and Ninad Mandavgan — of the ill-fated Mi17 chopper had been awarded the Vayu Sena Medal as they and other four IAF personnel had fallen to their own comrades’ fire. The helicopter tragedy had taken place on the same day the plane of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman was shot down and was captured by Pakistan, which later released him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan: master political pulse reader||Ram Vilas Paswan, Union minister and a prominent Dalit leader, passed away at a Delhi hospital on Thursday evening, days after he underwent heart surgery. He was 74. His son Chirag, who has taken over the reins of the Lok Janshakti Party floated by his father, tweeted about his death. “Miss you Papa,” he tweeted. “Papa, you are no more in this world but I’m sure you’re with me, wherever you are.” Ram Vilas’s death comes in the backdrop of the upcoming Bihar elections in which the LJP has under his son decided to contest alone, aiming to oust Janata Dal United chief Nitish Kumar from the chief minister’s chair. Ram Vilas was the eldest of the Bihar triumvirate — which included Lalu Prasad and Nitish — that has lorded over the politics of the state over the last three decades. All three, part of the socialist family, had emerged out of the anti-Congress movement led by Jayaprakash Narayan or JP in the seventies. The three had started out together but driven by ambitions of power politics, split and floated their separate parties. Ram Vilas was initiated into politics at a very early age. He was elected to the Bihar Assembly at the age of just 23 in 1969, even before the anti-Congress JP movement took shape. In a coincidence, Ram Vilas passed away on the death anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan. In 1977, Ram Vilas was elected to the sixth Lok Sabha and in 1989 he was a cabinet minister in the V.P. Singh government. There was no stopping Ram Vilas after his arrival in Delhi, hailing from a humble background in north Bihar’s Khagaria district. His political identity, however, was tied up with the reserved Hajipur Lok Sabha constituency, from where he set a world-record victory margin in 1977 after his post-Emergency release from jail. He represented Hajipur over many terms. At the time of his death, however, he was a Rajya Sabha MP. He floated his Lok Janshakti Party in 2000 after the erstwhile Janata Dal formed by V.P. Singh splintered. Ram Vilas, known to be a master political weathercock, managed to be in power in different parties’ governments led by different Prime Ministers, from V.P. Singh, Deve Gowda and I.K. Gujral to Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi. Unlike Lalu and Nitish, Ram Vilas remained focused on securing power in Delhi. He never appeared interested in donning the chief minister’s chair in Patna, though he derived his political strength from Bihar. Holding sway over his Paswan (a caste among Dalits) support base, known to be militant and having a decent presence across Bihar, Ram Vilas could tilt the balance towards whoever he backed. He used that ability to remain in power. Now his son Chirag is trying to step into the shoes of his father in the October-November Bihar elections. Chirag has declared the LJP would back the BJP but would go all out to defeat the saffron party’s partner in the polls, Nitish and his JDU. Chirag wants to oust Nitish and get a BJP-LJP combination to acquire power in Bihar. His father had tried a similarly double-edged political manoeuvring in the 2005 Bihar Assembly polls. The LJP had then fielded candidates against Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal while both were allies of the Congress-led UPA at the Centre. Ram Vilas had succeeded in his goal of ending Lalu’s 15-year rule in Bihar. Son Chirag is trying out the same experiment in Bihar 2020 to end Nitish’s 15-year rule. If he succeeds, Ram Vilas’s legacy will continue to thrive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Warn-and-wink game in Bihar||Those familiar with the serial adventures of Asterix of Gaul would perhaps best be able to visualise the emerging contours of battleground Bihar. Multiple armies converging upon each other in raucous streams with no cognition of ally and adversary, heft or hollowness, as if animated solely by the prospect of an anarchic enactment. What looked like a humdrum contest between two alliances until last week has overnight been transformed into a shambolic melee that has so blurred the battle-lines that it is tough to tell who’s fighting who. Bihar is headed towards an onomatopoeic crescendo ringing with comic-grade sonics — Piff! Paff! Bong! Aaaargh!! Raring mid-battlestrip is the exaggeration called Chirag Paswan, a political rookie handed reins of the LJP by his ailing father, the veteran Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away in a Delhi hospital on Thursday evening. The young Paswan is clearly punching impossibly above his weight or his party’s. The LJP’s Assembly numbers have been steadily tumbling; from an all-time high of 29, they plummeted to two in the 243-member house in 2015. On such a match-box presence, Chirag has unveiled ambitions of erecting a mansion — the LJP will contest 143 seats, in abject violation of reason and of accepted coalition norms. But to focus on Chirag’s implausible leap of political pretence — probably buoyed in some measure now by sympathy sentiment — is to lose sight of the launch pad that has shot him towards distances way beyond his horsepower. Chirag’s sudden voracity of appetite and his violations of NDA entente are a thing of the BJP’s encouragement. Here is an NDA scion swearing war and vengeance upon an NDA chief minister. He has stomped off seat negotiations and pitched LJP war camps in more constituencies than either the BJP or Nitish’s JDU. He has festooned Patna with banners of “BJP se bair nahin, Nitish ka khair nahin… No war with the BJP, but no love lost for Nitish”. Chirag has tweeted from his official handle an intention to expose wrongdoing behind Nitish’s signature “saat nishchay” welfare programme and punish the guilty after the elections. He has fired off a firman to followers not to cast a single vote for Nitish. His father was cabinet minister in the Narendra Modi government to the end. Just before Chirag turned ballistic on Nitish and arrogated an extravagant number of Assembly seats to his party, he was in conference with BJP chief J.P. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah. It is unlikely Chirag triggered his bellicose revolt against Nitish without sanction from BJP bosses. Many in Nitish’s JDU are convinced, over the protestations of the BJP, that the part Chirag is playing out is the work of interior designers; but they won’t voice their misgivings, at least yet, for fear of detrimental consequences. Backstage, though, some misgivings have been unequivocally voiced. Before Nitish appeared at an NDA media conference in Patna a few days ago, he sought repeated guarantees that a clear statement on his leadership would be made publicly by the BJP. After fair humming and hawing, the job of guarantor fell upon Nitish’s deputy and Bihar BJP leader Sushil Modi, who announced there were “no ifs and buts” that Nitish would continue as chief minister. Sushil Modi’s trust deficit in the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah scheme is one of the more poorly kept secrets of Bihar politics. The BJP high command’s point-man for the Bihar elections, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, sat on the same podium, duly masked and silent. Officially, the BJP maintains allegiance to vows it has publicly made on Nitish’s continued chief ministership. It has also “warned” party men not to embrace the LJP and harm the prospects of Nitish’s candidates. But that warning comes with a pronounced wink. Several BJP leaders and sympathisers have already “left” to join the LJP and accepted poll tickets. Rajinder Singh, a senior RSS apparatchik who contested the Dinara Assembly seat on a BJP ticket in 2015 and lost, is among them. So is the Nawada district BJP chief, Anil Kumar. So is Dr Ravinder Yadav of Jhajha. This filtration is a proactive work in progress, keep a keen eye: BJP cadres masquerading as LJP candidates are out to undercut Nitish’s nominees and reduce his post-poll tally. This is the first Assembly election Nitish is contesting in alliance with the BJP since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister. The protocols of partnership have already been altered beyond mere paperwork. Nitish has never conceded the BJP an equal share of seats in the past; this time the BJP has 121 seats to Nitish’s 122. But effectively, the BJP already weighs far heavier on the contest. Nitish must concede seven seats to Jitan Ram Majhi’s HAM, bringing his own party’s tally down to 115. The BJP, on the other hand, may well negotiate to disguise its generous gift of 11 seats to Mukesh Mallah’s VIP by convincing him that they contest on BJP tickets; that will ensure the BJP is contesting all of its 121 seats. Besides, and not to be discounted, Paswan’s LJP, a staunch ally openly canvassing for a BJP chief minister, will add to its post-poll tally. Do not discount either that other burgeoning alliance that now calls itself the Grand Democratic Secular Front. It comprises, among other smaller players, Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP, Mayawati’s BSP, imported from UP, and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. A large chunk of the seats the BJP has left for Nitish to contest are in Bihar’s Seemanchal region. It is a minority-preponderant belt and Nitish will have to compete tooth and nail with not only the RJD but also Owaisi’s candidates. But multi-cornered battles are not Seemanchal’s preserve, they are erupting across the state in kaleidoscopic variants, cutting, slashing, tearing in ways hard to tell. If Bihar’s battlefield looks like a madness taking shape, be sure there is a method behind it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Centre files ‘evasive’ affidavit on demonising Muslims||An exasperated Supreme Court on Thursday observed that the “freedom of speech may be the most abused freedom in recent times”. The comment came as the court rapped the Centre for filing an “evasive” affidavit through a “junior” on a plea that alleged that some media outlets were “demonising” Muslims over the spread of the pandemic. “Well, they (the Union government) are entitled to make any argument like you people (lawyers) also make… but this freedom of speech may be the most abused freedom in recent times,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, heading a bench that included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. He did not specify if he was referring to the media’s alleged portrayal of Muslims as deliberate spreaders of the coronavirus, or to the government’s affidavit that the court had found to contain “nonsensical averments”, or to a general trend. The observation came after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for petitioner Jamiat Ulema Hind that had sought restraints on the media from maligning an entire community, objected to the government’s August 6 affidavit. On the plea that the petition had not named specific media establishments, the government had argued it could not impose a blanket “gag order” since that would amount to “muzzling” the media. “We find it (the affidavit) extremely evasive and (it) mentions nothing about bad reporting. How can you say there is no incident (of biased reporting)?” the court asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. It asked Mehta to ensure that a secretary-rank official in the I&B ministry filed a fresh affidavit. The August 6 affidavit was filed by Sonika Khattar, an undersecretary. The proceedings appeared to reflect an ironic role reversal of sorts — the custodian of the Constitution highlighting abuse of the freedom of speech and the Centre, no stranger to accusations of infringing on citizens’ rights or crushing dissent, conveniently batting for media freedom. Another Supreme Court bench had made similar remarks last month while hearing another case relating to media coverage of Muslims. The court had at the time passed an interim injunction on a programme by the Sudarshan News television channel that suggested that “jihadis” were “infiltrating” central services. Justice Bobde castigated the Centre over a junior officer filing a shoddy reply to the petition. “The affidavit is filed by junior officer. It is extremely evasive, does not respond to the incidents cited by petitioner…. You can’t treat this court the way you are treating (it). Some of your junior officer, undersecretary, has filed the affidavit!” Justice Bobde told Mehta. “You have the secretary of the department file an affidavit without making such nonsensical averments like the petitioners haven’t showed any instance of bad media reporting,” he said. After Mehta said a fresh affidavit would be filed, the court posted the next hearing after two weeks. Earlier, the court had stressed that the Cable Television Networks Act allowed the government to regulate only cable operators and not the broadcasters. “Now we want to know, does the government have any powers to ban or question the TV broadcast signals?” it asked. “We also want all acts under which you have exercised similar powers in the past.” Jamiat had moved the petition in April, highlighting how some media outlets were citing the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi to accuse Muslims of spreading Covid-19, using phrases such as “Corona jihad”, “Corona terrorism” and “Corona bombs”. Several members of the Jamaat congregation had been found Covid-positive after they had travelled to other states. Many in the media used this “unfortunate incident” to “demonise the entire Muslim community”, the petition said. It referred to “fake reports and/or videos” targeting Muslims, such as “a fake video of Sufi followers indulging in mass sneezing or another fake video showing Muslim persons licking vessels allegedly to perpetrate the spread of corona in the country”. It underlined that the “communal” reporting had fuelled hate at a time the February riots in Delhi had left the nation “tense and sensitive”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Lockdown impact continues to affect migrants||The average income had plummeted 85 per cent by mid-August among returned migrant workers while 35 per cent of them had no work at all, a survey has found. It has discovered that two-thirds now want to return to their outstation workplaces, the continuing hardship forcing a change of heart after millions had vowed never to step out again following the miseries of the initial days of the lockdown. If the scenes of suffering hordes walking hundreds of miles home captured that early horror, the June 30-August 15 telephone survey of returned migrants across six states has emphasised the lockdown’s continuing impact. The report “Migrant workers: A study on their livelihood after reverse migration due to lockdown” by the Inferential Survey Statistics and Research Foundation, a body of retired Indian Statistical Service and Indian Economic Service officials, was released on Thursday. The survey covered 2,917 returned migrants from 505 gram panchayats in 34 districts in Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, its principal investigator B.B. Singh said. It found that their average monthly income had, after their return, fallen from Rs 13,683 to Rs 2,045 – a drop of 85 per cent. Some 67.64 per cent wanted to return to their workplaces, where — 75 per cent of them reckoned — there would be better job opportunities. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar had told the Lok Sabha on September 14 that 80 crore people were being provided 5kg wheat or rice and 1kg of pulses free every month in addition to their usual entitlements under the National Food Security Act. Gangwar said 20.65 crore women Jan Dhan account holders had been given a cash assistance of Rs 500 a month for three months, while three crore pensioners had received a one-time ex-gratia assistance of Rs 1,000. Besides, the government said it had allocated an additional Rs 40,000 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, which promises every rural household up to 100 days’ work a year. However, the survey found that while the job scheme was supposed to absorb a substantial number of the returned migrants, it provided employment to just 3.53 per cent of them. While many of the returned migrants did casual work for an average of 4.59 days a week, nearly half were paid less than the minimum wage. About 35 per cent had no work. The survey found that 50 per cent of the migrants were salaried workers before the lockdown while 42 per cent were casual workers and the rest were self-employed. Another finding was that some states had started giving free rations to the stranded migrants during the early days of the lockdown, but it was too little. Only 4 per cent received the free rice and less than 2.57 per cent received free wheat and dal. P.C. Mohanan, former acting chairperson of the National Statistical Commission who attended the report’s web release, told The Telegraph the survey had substantiated with data the general perception that the government had not taken the migrants’ concerns into account adequately while imposing the lockdown. “The survey has found that there was hardly any support for sustaining their income or rations at their place of work,” he said. Mohanan highlighted that the country currently has no system to absorb migrants under the public distribution system. “One piece of good news is that two-thirds of the returned migrants want to return to their work sites. Now most of the travel, including train travel, has become expensive. The central and state governments should ensure they can go back to their workplaces without any financial burden,” he said. Only expensive special trains are now running in the country. Ashok Gulati, former commissioner for agricultural cost and prices, said: “To me, the income loss is the most alarming aspect.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Dalit BJP leader behind smear ploy, says Hathras victim’s kin||The Hathras victim’s sister-in-law on Thursday accused local MP and Dalit BJP leader Rajveer Diler of conspiring at the state government’s behest to try and establish that the Dalit girl was subjected to “honour killing” by her own family. The girl’s father underlined that his younger son and an accused had the same name and claimed the administration was portraying calls between brother and sister, among others, as those between the victim and the suspect to concoct a “love affair”. The sister-in-law’s allegation came as a letter written purportedly by the four accused was circulated among the media and beamed by some TV channels. It claimed the Dalit girl’s family had killed her because she was in a relationship with one of the Rajput accused. “The MP met the four accused in Hathras district jail on October 2, got a letter written by them, and is now circulating it among the media and members of the Rajput caste,” the sister-in-law said. Diler denied the allegation. “I was passing by near the jail and received a call from someone who was there,” he told reporters on Thursday. “I sat in an officer’s cabin and met the staff member who had called me. I didn’t meet anybody lodged in the jail.” According to the letter, one of the accused — the alleged boyfriend — and the girl had met in a millet field on September 14 and were seen by her mother and a brother. The letter alleges the enraged family then murdered the girl in an “honour killing”. It denies rape. The sister-in-law said: “Yogi Adityanath’s government will never let it be known that Rajputs raped a Dalit sweeper’s daughter. So, the entire government machinery is working round the clock to save the accused.” She added: “We know that justice comes at a cost in India. But we are going to fight the Rajputs to the end because God is with us.” Officials have been showing reporters call details that suggest the “boyfriend” and one of the girl’s brothers exchanged 104 phone calls between October 2019 and March this year. Claiming that the girl regularly used the brother’s phone and was involved in most of the conversations, the officials have been suggesting a “love affair” to discredit the gang-rape allegation and tarnish the girl’s reputation in the light of the prevalent patriarchal attitudes. On Wednesday, the brother had admitted to a stray question that his sister often used his phone. However, the father put the record straight on Thursday. “One of the jailed accused and my younger son have the same first name. The mobile number the government people are talking about (as registered in the name of the accused ‘boyfriend’) belongs to my son and the phone was always with him,” he said. “There’s another mobile, also registered in the name of my younger son, which the rest of the family used. I and other family members used to speak to my son on that phone.” The father said neither his daughter nor anyone else from the family had ever been in touch with the accused. “My son or daughter never spoke to them on the phone. But the government is powerful and can prove anything,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||TRP racket finger at Republic TV||Mumbai police on Thursday claimed to have busted a Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket, adding that four persons have been arrested in this case. TRP is a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most and also indicates the viewers’ choice and popularity of a particular channel. TRP is calculated on the basis of TV channel viewership in a confidential set of households. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh told reporters that Republic TV channel, facing flak over its attack on Mumbai police and Maharashtra government in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was also involved in the “false TRP” racket. Singh said those involved in the racket would bribe people in these households and ask them to keep some channels switched on even when they weren’t watching or not at home. The Mumbai police crime branch, which unearthed the TRP racket, has arrested two persons, owners of two Marathi channels, for manipulating viewership ratings, Singh said. Another police official said two former employees of Hansa agency, involved in the process to determine the TRPs, have also been arrested. Singh said Republic TV channel was also involved in the TRP racket and those responsible will be arrested, be it a director, promoter or any other employee of the channel. In a statement, Republic TV rubbished Singh’s claims. Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of the channel, said the Mumbai police chief made false claims against Republic TV as the channel had questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation. Goswami said the channel would file a criminal defamation case against the Mumbai police commissioner. The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), the industry body, has not mentioned the channel even in a single complaint, he said, adding that Singh should issue an apology and get ready to face the channel in court. But the police chief said it was an agency called Hansa, contracted by BARC for monitoring the barometers that track TRPs, that  filed a complaint of the TRP racket, following which an offence was registered. There are 2,000 barometers installed in Mumbai to monitor TRPs, Singh said. BARC is set up to design, commission, supervise and own an accurate, reliable and timely TV audience measurement system and is guided by recommendations of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It helps provide data points to plan media spends more effectively. Singh said bank accounts of these channels are also being probed and people responsible for the TRP racket are being summoned by police for further investigation. “Based on these TRP ratings, advertisers pay to advertise on these channels and it is a game of thousands of crore,” Singh said. Manipulated TRP ratings result in miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers, he said. BARC releases weekly rating points for TV channels in India and its officials are also being questioned in connection with the case, he said. The two channel owners arrested were produced in court and Mumbai police have got their custody till Friday, he said. The arrests were made under sections 409 and 420 of IPC, he added. “We suspect that if this was happening in Mumbai then it could be happening in other parts of the country as well,” he added. “During the investigation it came to light that some former employees of the agency (Hansa) were involved in compromising the data and they were sharing it with some television companies,” he said. It was revealed that these persons had manipulated the sampling metering services by inducing the barometer users through periodical payments to watch particular TV channels, he said. Many people in whose homes these barometers have been installed, have accepted that they were getting monetary benefit for keeping their TV sets on even when they did not watch it, the IPS officer said. This was apparently done for “wrongful gains” of some TV channels and resulted in losses to advertisers and their agencies, he said. “We are also probing if the funds which came to these channels are from proceeds of the crime. Action will be taken accordingly,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Congress sniffs iron ore export scam ||The Congress on Thursday said the Narendra Modi-led government allowed illegal export of iron ore to help some private companies evade taxes and earn huge profits, describing it as a scam worth thousands of crores. Demanding a thorough investigation into the matter, the Congress asked the government to release a list of companies that made windfall profits in connivance with the officials of steel and mines ministries as, apart from financial misdeeds, the scam involved the loot of a precious national resource. Explaining the process of loot, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “Export of iron ore by India attracts a 30 per cent export duty and, prior to 2014, only government-owned Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation of India (MMTC) was allowed to export iron ore. Even MMTC was only allowed to export iron ore with 64 per cent concentration of iron (Fe). Any export that exceeded this cap required permission from the government. The export cap was placed on iron ore to ensure that there is sufficient supply of high quality iron ore back home to facilitate the growth of indigenous steel plants.” He said, the Modi government in 2014 removed the 64 per cent iron concentration cap and gave Kudremukh Iron Ore Company Limited (KIOCL) permission to export to countries such as China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. “Officials in the steel ministry decided that iron ore exports will continue to have a 30 per cent duty on them but there would be no duty if it is exported as pellets. Despite KIOCL being the only company that had permission to export iron ore, several private firms have indulged in the export of iron ore in the form of pellets, escaping duty on these exports and earning immeasurable profits,” he added. The Congress spokesperson said these private firms are estimated to have exported iron ore worth Rs 40,000 crore since 2014 in violation of law because they did not have the licence. Even private firms that had iron ore mines for personal consumption started exporting iron ore pellets. “By not paying the export duty, the private players have robbed the government of around Rs 12,000 crore in duty fee. Under the Foreign Trade Development and Regulation Act, 1992, these private players are liable to a penalty of Rs 200,000 crore for this gross illegality,” Khera said. Though this matter has been raised by steel companies all these years, the ministry of law and justice finally specified on September 10 this year that the permission to export iron ore pellets was only given to KIOCL and the export by other companies “is illegal not just under the Foreign Trade Development and Regulation Act (1992), but is also a serious offence under the Customs Act 1962”, he added. Describing this as a scam and loot, Khera asked: “Why was high quality iron ore with greater than 64 per cent iron concentration allowed to be exported contrary to earlier practices? Which private firms have exported iron ore without permission since 2014? A detailed list must be made public. Since 2014, has the government questioned any private entity regarding their illegal dealings vis-à-vis iron ore export? What action has been initiated, if any, against the officials of the steel ministry who allowed illegal export to take place? Was the change in policy of removing export duty for iron ore pellets done in consultation with all stakeholders?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Teesta Setalvad’s NGO files witness protection plea in Supreme Court||Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), an NGO, on Thursday filed an intervention application before the Supreme Court in the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder case, urging it to ensure proper protection to witnesses and transfer of the trial to Delhi. Run by prominent Gujarat-based activist Teesta Setalvad, the CJP has pleaded that as a human rights organisation with a long history of defending victims against the mighty state, in the courts and beyond, it felt compelled to move the Supreme Court “primarily since there are widespread news reports attributed to senior police officials and elected representatives who are trying to underplay the heinous and actually prejudging the issues. For example, there are reports of a senior police officer saying that there was no sexual assault”. “It is rather alarming that an officer at that level is making these public statements when investigation is still in progress and the final outcome would be post the trial. It is rather alarming that when this Hon’ble Court has repeatedly stated that cases of sexual violence have to be handled with utmost sensitivity, these brazen statements are being made in the public domain,” the application filed through advocate Aparna Bhat stated. “In these circumstances, having had the experience of working with victims who were threatened and intimidated by the mighty state in the past… the application is bona fide and made in the interests of justice,” it added. According to the CJP, its plea on several pertinent human rights aspects appeared to have been ignored in this case so far. “For example, should one not take into consideration the rights of the deceased? This matter becomes significant in the light of allegations of forced cremation of the victim’s body by police in the middle of the night, denying her family the right to take her body back to the village. Given that the family hails from the historically oppressed Dalit community, and several ‘upper-caste’ groups are allegedly attempting to spin the narrative, the safety of the family is also of paramount importance. Thus, witness protection is another aspect of the case that CJP wants to highlight,” the application said. The organisation also sought to bring to light the following facts for the top court’s considerations: It has also sought the following directions from the court:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Railway engine trial run greeted with claps and cheers||Residents of Haldibari in Cooch Behar, and Chilahati in Bangladesh’s Nilfamari district, witnessed a historic  Thursday as a railway engine from India chugged into the no-man’s land on the international border after a gap of 56 years. Till 1965, trains would run via Haldibari-Chilahati. Even prominent passenger trains from north Bengal would take this route to reach Calcutta. The India-Pakistan war stopped train movement on this route. In 2018, both the countries decided to resume the rail route — the fifth such route between Bengal and Bangladesh. On Thursday, hundreds of residents assembled on both sides of the border to witness the trial run. The engine that reached Haldibari station from New Jalpaiguri, moved towards the border amid loud cheers and claps. As it moved through a gap of the fences and reached the no-man’s land, waiting Bangladeshis, likewise, clapped and cheered. The engine halted at no-man’s land where senior officials of Indian Railways and Bangladesh Railway (Bangla Rail) greeted each other and discussed the progress of the project in presence of India’s Border Security Force and the neighbour’s BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh) personnel. “It is an important day for Haldibari residents. We have heard from our seniors about the rail route that is closed for over a half-a-century now. Now we hope to witness railway services along the route again. If trains bound for Calcutta are run on this route, it would save much time,” said Bulu Mohammad, a Haldibari resident. “An engine conducted a trial run from Haldibari station to the no-man’s land. It was successful. On the Indian side, the track laying work is complete. Some other ancillary works are yet to be done and we believe those would end by December this year,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). Abdur Rahim, an executive engineer of Bangladesh Railway who is looking after the project, said on their part, the track-laying work had reached its final phase. “We hope to conduct trial runs along the entire route in another couple of weeks. Work is on in full swing,” said Rahim. To resume train connectivity on the route, around 4.5km of rail tracks have been laid on the Indian side (till the international border) while on Bangladesh side, 7.5km of tracks have to be laid, said sources. The CPRO, when asked when the rail route would be opened, said it would be decided through bilateral talks. Sources hinted the route is likely to be operational by March next year. “Initially, it has been planned to run goods trains along the route. But from both countries, there is a steady demand of citizens for passenger trains,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court prods state for farmer damages||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Thursday modified its earlier order and directed the secretary of the state disaster management department to appear before court on October 12 and clarify why he did not carry out an order to file a report on distribution of compensation to farmers who faced loss because of Amphan that had ravaged the state on May 20. The bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee directed the secretary to inform why a large number of farmers were yet to receive compensation even after repeated representations. On July 17, the South 24-Parganas unit of the All India Krishak Sabha, the CPM farmers’ wing, filed a case alleging that even after repeated appeals the state government was not paying adequate compensation to affected farmers. Moving the petition, advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya had claimed before the court that the members of the Krishak Sabha in South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and a large part of Midnapore had suffered severe losses to agriculture and property under the impact of Amphan. Bhattacharyya claimed the state had promised to pay adequate compensation to affected farmers which did not happen. Two other cases on similar issues were pending for disposal before the court. The court directed the secretary disaster management to file a report on the petitioners’ contentions. But that order was not carried out. Three days ago the court directed the secretary to appear before it on October 9. On Thursday, another petition on the same issue was moved by Mohsin Haque and other farmers of Baduria in North 24-Parganas. On hearing the petition, Justice Banerjee decided to hear all petitions together on October 12 and directed the secretary to be present in court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Online exams test students in Malda||Students appearing in the final-year exams of undergraduate courses in and third and fourth semester exams of postgraduate courses under the Gourbanga University in Malda are facing testing times. Examinees alleged unprecedented ordeals in downloading question papers and uploading answer-scripts on time. Often, it is more convenient for many to travel several kilometres to their respective colleges to submit the answer sheets papers, they have said. PG examinations for students of third and fourth semesters started on October 1 while final-year exams for UG courses started from October 5. In total, around 32,000 students in colleges affiliated to the varsity are taking their final UG exams. Nearly 2,000 students are writing papers at the PG level. Panicky examinees are often found huddled at small cyber cafes to avail the Internet. While writing papers together on the floor of a cyber cafe, social distancing protocols — the main reason why colleges were closed amid the pandemic — goes for a toss, students have alleged. Many of them blamed varsity authorities, particularly the department of the controller of examinations, for the inconveniences in the online mode of exams, added students but refused to be identified. “If I am exposed before the varsity authorities, I can be victimised in one way or the other,” said a girl examinee of Malda College. She, along with a dozen of her friends, was writing papers at a small cyber café of the town which was a far cry from the college exam hall. The students said that they were told that question papers would be available nearly an hour before the scheduled time of the exam. “Our nerves were strained when question papers were not available online even 15 minutes ahead of exam time. Plus downloading them takes so long,” an examinee said. It has been learnt from the sources that the grievance cell of the varsity is receiving innumerable calls during the examinations and all are from the examinees, who are still reeling under uncertainty about proper submission of the answer-scripts. Heads of different colleges have conceded the harassment of students. Biswarup Sarkar, the controller of examinations at GBU, also admitted that students faced troubles during the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader Manish Shukla’s murder: One more held||The Criminal Investigation Department on Thursday made a major breakthrough in the probe into the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla as sleuths seized three motorcycles belonging to the alleged assailants and a carbine and three pistols used in the crime. The former councillor of Titagarh municipality had been gunned down at Purani Bazar near Titagarh police station on the night of October 4. The seizures were made hours after the CID arrested suspect Subodh Yadav alias Subodh Rai, a resident of the Khatal area of Barrackpore, on the basis of a lead provided by one of the three persons held earlier. Subodh, a Trinamul activist and allegedly close to Barrackpore municipality’s former chairman Uttam Das, was picked up from his home on Wednesday night. His arrest was registered in the early hours of Thursday at the end of a marathon interrogation. A police source said Subodh faced twin charges of being part of the conspiracy to kill Shukla and harbouring the assailants. He was produced in a Barrackpore court and remanded in police custody for 14 days. CID sources said based on Subodh’s revelation, a raid was carried on a glass factory near the Sodepur railway bridge and it culminated in the recovery of the carbine, along with three pistols, on Thursday afternoon. “All the weapons, including the carbine, are country-made,” said a CID official. “It is being examined who procured the weapons and from where,” he added. Another CID sleuth said Subodh, the fourth person to be arrested in the murder, was one of the key persons involved in the conspiracy and had provided shelter to the contract killers. “The entire plan to eliminate Manish Shukla was hatched at the residence of Subodh. He provided shelter to the contract sharpshooters who were at least four in number and came to Barrackpore from outside a few days before the murder,” he said. Though the sleuths are yet to arrest the four suspected killers engaged by prime accused Khurram Khan, they have come to know that the sharpshooters were staying at a multi-storied building on Dakshin Panchanantala Road in ward 4 of Barrackpore town. The flat has since been sealed by the police. “Subodh had arranged the flat to lodge the hired shooters. Names of a few more persons suspected to be involved in the murder have also surfaced. Their roles are being examined,” the sleuth said. Priyanka Tibrewal, an advocate, filed a PIL in Calcutta High Court on Thursday seeking transfer of the probe into to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Campus weather station to mark 71st anniversary of Siliguri College||A weather station was inaugurated in Siliguri College on Thursday to mark its 71st anniversary. Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb inaugurated the weather station, set up by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), as well as some other projects. Lauding the initiative, Deb said the facility would greatly help collect the weather data of Siliguri and its outskirts. Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of the college, said the station was supposed to start from March but its launch got delayed because of the Covid 19 pandemic. “Siliguri College and the IMD have come up with this new initiative and now we have a weather forecasting station on the campus itself. The IMD set up the station and the college will give manpower. Our faculty members of geography department will take care of the facility. Also, we have introduced a PG geography course in the college and this station will help students with practical knowledge,” said Kar. This apart, the college has also become the first in the city to have its own power transformer. “Power consumption of our college was very high and this is why WBSEDCL offered to install a transformer. The college has spent over Rs 14 lakh for its installation,” Kar added. The college has also received approval for 35 extra seats in all for 10 different subjects from its parent North Bengal University. A second campus of Surya Sen College in Siliguri will come up in Noapara, on the southern end of Siliguri under Fulbari-I panchayat of Jalpaiguri district. The tourism minister, who inaugurated some projects in Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly area — his constituency —  on Wednesday, made the announcement. “It has been decided to open a second campus of Surya Sen College in Noapara. Keeping in mind the increase in the number of students every year, we have also appealed to the chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) to approve a second campus of Munshi Prem Chand College in Sevoke Road of the city,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Dooars: Bonus cheer in closed tea garden||Workers of a closed tea garden in the Dooars received festive bonus from the operating management committee (OMC) that has been partially running the garden since its closure, a rare event in the tea belt. In all 1,375 workers are employed in the Jateswar division of Birpara tea estate of Alipurduar district. The garden owned by the Duncans Group was abandoned by the management last September. Jobless workers formed an OMC and decided to pluck and sell tealeaves to other tea estates and bought-leaf factories. The factory stayed shut. The OMC with all 1,375 workers as members decided each would get Rs 10 against a kilo of tea leaves. Each worker has to pluck at least 18 kilos of tea leaves in a day. “It was also decided that a worker plucking more will get Rs 5 for each extra kilo. So we could ensure that a worker earns at least Rs 180 a day or more,” said worker Suresh Rai. “Leaves are sold at Rs 30 to 35 a kilo. This means, around Rs 20 to 25 is saved against each kilo, even after paying the worker his or her wage. Since May this year, even after plantation maintenance and health costs, we could save around Rs 1.40 crore,” said Mahadeo Bagwar, a member of the OMC and panchayat member. The savings prompted OMC members to disburse Rs 1 crore among workers as bonus, the sum calculated on the number of days each worked. According to Bagwar, permanent workers would get Rs 94 per day as bonus for the days they worked since May this year. The bonus for employees who spray pesticides was fixed at Rs 98 per day and for supervisors Rs 102. “This means, if a worker has served for 100 days in five months, he gets around Rs 10,000 as bonus,” the OMC member said. A senior trade union leader in Birpara hailed this as a rare instance. “Usually, we hear about funds misappropriation by OMCs in closed gardens. It is really good that this OMC has set an example.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal records 3,526 new Covid cases||Bengal logged more than 3,500 new Covid-19 cases for the first time on Thursday as 3,526 patients were found during a 24-hour period till 9am. The total caseload has gone past 2.84 lakh, including over 2.49 lakh recoveries and 5,439 deaths. The state also reported 63 deaths and 2,970 recoveries on Thursday. In a worrisome sign, the recovery rate fell for the second consecutive day — from 87.98 on Tuesday — to 87.93 per cent. Prior to this, the recovery rate had not dipped in months. The state is still ahead of the national rate, which is 85.25, but it dropped by several spots in the list of states with the highest recovery rates. While Bengal was in the top five even a couple of weeks ago, it was at the 12th spot on Thursday. “October has not been kind. In just eight days so far, the record for the highest intra-day spike has been reset on six days,” said a minister. “When you have just two of the high-incidence districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) reporting around 1,500 new cases between them daily, keeping the statewide total in check becomes a real challenge,” he added. The state, which had fallen out of the top 10 in the list of states with the most active cases, climbed back into the eighth spot with the renewed surge in the total of active cases. It was 28,854 on Thursday, having fallen to 23,000-odd a month ago. “The active cases of both Calcutta and North 24-Parganas had fallen to around 4,000 a month ago. Now, both are over 6,200 again. The other high-incidence districts around the city are also showing signs of another spell of rise. With barely two weeks left for Durga Puja, this is worrisome,” said the minister. The state reported 42,441 tests on Thursday, taking the total past 35.65 lakh, at 39,618 tests per million people. With the spike in cases, the positive confirmation rate also rose slightly, to 7.97 per cent. Of the 63 deaths reported in 24 hours, 11 occurred in the city and 16 in North 24-Parganas. The state government reported 4,616 deaths (84.9 per cent) as co-morbid. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, while the national rate is 1.54 per cent. The state reported 38.04 per cent occupancy — there too, a rise of around 5 per cent in a month — on 12,715 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals and over 3.07 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Swiss tourist cottages revamped in Darjeeling||Visitors to the Darjeeling hills will soon have more reasons to cheer as the tourism department of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration has revamped the Swiss cottages at Mirik, the tiny hill station located around 50km from here. The property that was developed by the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council in the Swiss architectural style was also known as Orange Country Retreat. It was famous for its idyllic location and surroundings. However, the cottages had turned dilapidated because of poor maintenance and gradually, tourists stopped staying at the property. This made the GTA plan an extensive renovation and reopen the cottages for tourists. “We started the revamp of the luxurious property at the end of last year and could finish the project in a couple of months. Around Rs 2.5 crore has been spent on the renovation,” said Arijit Sen, executive director of the GTA’s tourism department. There are 12 cottages, each of which is a duplex. Added to it, there is a restaurant with large dining space. Sources in the tourism department have pointed out that the cottages are just 2km from the famous Sumendu Lake of Mirik and close to the helipad. Anybody staying at the cottages can enjoy the tranquillity and the aerial view of the lake and the Mirik town as a whole. An official in the engineering cell of GTA said the floors and toilets had to be rebuilt, water connections were given and the interiors and exteriors of each duplex decorated. “The initial estimate was around Rs 50 lakh but eventually, it was revised and increased to Rs 2.5 crore,” the official said. Asked when the property would be reopened, a source in the GTA said the board of administrators (BoA) at the hill body would take a call. “The tourism department has informed the BoA that the cottages are ready. People wishing to visit the hills during the ensuing festive season have already started making reservations. We hope the cottages will be opened for them before Durga Puja,” said the source. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network, said: “Tourists will start arriving in the hills in a couple of weeks. We hope the GTA will reopen the property soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s ‘show of strength’ muted||Police personnel numbering around 2,000 posted across four locations in Howrah and Calcutta took on the might of 8,000-odd BJP workers in an unprecedented show of restraint during the BJP youth wing’s Nabanna Abhiyan on Thursday even as bombs and stones were hurled and tyres set on fire. At all locations where BJP supporters tried to break the police cordon and scale barricades, not a single bullet was fired in the air despite provocation, said a senior police officer. Rubber bullets were replaced with teargas shells and water cannons — a strategy senior officers had decided on for the Abhiyan. Nabanna, the state administrative headquarters, was closed on Thursday for a sanitisation drive amid the Covid-19 pandemic. But top officers led by state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay were present at the control room monitoring the developments throughout the morning till late into the afternoon. Alapan later said: “The government would like to thank the police who showed restraint in handling the demonstrators...” He added that the state government on Wednesday had in a letter to the “concerned party” welcomed “all peaceful and democratic rallies having specific destinations where section 144 or any other law is not violated”, but got no response. In Calcutta, police had closed the second Hooghly bridge from 10.30am before setting up rows of barricades to prevent protesters from moving ahead. Later, the Howrah bridge had to be closed down after a team of BJP supporters led by Dilip Ghosh, the state party president, reached and tried to breach the barricade. “Around 1.10pm, when we were trying to resist some supporters from breaking a cordon at Howrah Maidan, a bomb landed very near where the force had taken position,” said a senior officer of Howrah police commissionerate. “A police kiosk was damaged. We were not prepared for all this.” In several places including Hastings and Burrabazar in Calcutta and Howrah Maidan police allowed supporters to break the first cordon before stopping them on the second. Lathis were used to disperse the mob at places where it turned violent after the use of water cannons and teargas shells. “All officers were instructed to display restraint. Our men chased unruly supporters with lathis only when needed,” said a senior police officer. Officers who had drawn up the blueprint said they had a two-fold strategy in place. Against every shower of bottles or stones, teargas shells were hurled. Water cannons were used only when supporters refused to pay heed to appeals and insisted on breaking barricades, police sources said. In the evening, the Bengal government said a total of 113 people were detained in Calcutta and Howrah. Senior officers admitted they had taken a lesson from a similar Abhiyan to Lal Bazar by the BJP on June 12, 2019, and taken precautions to ensure no excess. From the morning onwards, processions started converging across parts of Tikipara, Howrah Maidan, Hastings and Central Avenue. A little after noon, party supporters started walking towards Nabanna. Alapan said: “As per reports we received so far, 89 people were detained in Calcutta and 24 people were detained in Howrah in connection with the rallies. There were some instigations, a firearm was seized and several policemen were injured during the rallies.” On her way back from Jhargram, Mamata reached Nabanna around 2.20pm, but as it was closed for sanitisation, she left within five minutes. Later, she reached Bhavani Bhavan where she held a meeting with the chief secretary, home secretary, DGP and city police commissioner, among others, sources said. “She went through video footage of the BJP workers trying to create trouble, took the details from officials and gave instructions before leaving for her residence,” a senior official said. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Protester with gun at Howrah Maidan||A protester who went for the Nabanna Abhiyan on Thursday was found carrying a gun, the police said. According to police, the man, identified as Balwinder Singh, 46, stays with BJP’s Bhatpara leader Priyanshu Pandey and is believed to be very close to Barrackpore’s MP Arjun Singh. “Balwinder Singh, originally from Bhatinda, was spotted with a gun in hand at Howrah Maidan when BJP supporters were trying to break the police cordon and proceed towards Nabanna,” said a senior police officer. Police said it was a very unusual for a protester in political agitation to carry arms. The gun found on the man was a loaded 0.32 bore pistol with a range of 18.27m. BJP leader Dilip Ghosh said Singh was the security guard of Priyanshu Pandey and was carrying his own licensed gun. Howrah police found that the arms licence was issued in 2009 by then district magistrate of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. Though the licence had been renewed once and was valid through 2021, it was limited to Rajouri. “This is an extremely alarming trend. It is impossible to frisk all protesters in a political rally,” said an officer of Howrah commissionerate. Singh was detained by the Howrah police till late on Thursday evening. Police sources said he was being questioned on what prompted him to carry his gun to a public rally where the protesters were planning to march to the most sensitive and secure pocket of Nabanna that has the offices of the chief minister and other ministers and bureaucrats. Originally from Punjab, Singh stays in Bhatpara in the fringes of the city and is always seen accompanying Pandey, who is an MLA seat aspirant from the BJP for Bhatpara constituency, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Tejasvi Surya fails to add shine||The impact of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha march to state secretariat Nabanna on Thursday did not match its hype. Organised over a slew of youth-centric demands such as a transparent recruitment process, jobs and raising the upper age limit for various exams, the event had four main rallies originating from as many points, the BJP state headquarters led by state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, a party office at Hastings led by Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Howrah Maidan led by BJP youth wing national president Tejasvi Surya, and Santragachi led by state party general-secretary Sayantan Basu. “By the end of the afternoon, it was clear that the sound and fury from the Suryas to the Naddas (referring to Tejasvi Surya and BJP national president J.P. Nadda) and hashtags such as #NabannoCholo could not be matched by the intensity on the ground,” said a source at the state BJP headquarters. Though the Bengal BJP youth wing’s state unit chief Saumitra Khan claimed a turnout of over 46,000, and accused Trinamul of keeping tens of thousands from the districts from showing up, others in the party admitted worker mobilisation was an issue. “The original target was 2 lakh. It was scaled down officially to 50,000 a couple of days ago. In reality, it was not even 15,000,” said a state BJP leader. A major reason behind the BJP’s failure to make the desired impact was the policing, which was spot-on. Another was the shutdown of Nabanna on Thursday. BJP leaders seemed to play the victim card. Surya called it a “Black Day”. “The way our cadres and leaders were beaten up mercilessly by police is unprecedented…. Do we not even have the right to conduct a peaceful, democratic rally in favour of youths in this state?” said the South Bangalore MP. He later tweeted: “Police Stations have become TMC party offices in Mamata’s Bengal…” BJP national president Nadda in his tweets accused “Mamata Banerjee’s karyakartas and the Gov machinery” of unleashing “brute force upon BJP karyakartas”. Trinamul general-secretary Firhad Hakim countered: “The BJP is not a political party. It is a party of terror…. It is trying to import to Bengal its model from Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||North East||Nagaland govt issues SOP for Durga Puja||The Nagaland government has issued guidelines for the celebration of the forthcoming Durga puja, allowing pandals to be set up only at temples in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. The guidelines issued by the principal secretary, Home Department, R Ramakrishnan on Thursday said as Durga Puja pandals usually see a congregation of a large number of people, it is imperative that suitable regulations are put in place and appropriate measures are taken during the celebration to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Durga Puja pandals will be allowed to be set up only in temples and no pandal shall be allowed to be erected on and by the side of any road, it said, adding that no stalls shall be set up near pandals. The four-day Durga Puja will be held from October 23 to 26. The guidelines said that a maximum of 30 people including organisers and priests shall be allowed to gather at any time in puja pandals. The puja organisers should not allow any person to enter the puja premises without face cover or mask, Ramakrishnan said, adding that it shall be the responsibility of puja organisers to arrange for facilities for handwashing or sanitisation at the entrance of puja premises. All visitors to the puja pandals shall be subject to thermal scanning by puja organisers and no person with any symptom related to COVID-19 shall be allowed to enter the puja pandals, the guidelines said. Devotees can visit the temples from 5 am till 10 pm and the organisers should ensure sanitisation of the premises before opening and after closing and every six-hours during the day, it said. People above 65 years of age, children below 10 years of age and persons with comorbidities and pregnant women may be advised to avoid visiting the puja pandals, he said. The respective District Task Force headed by the Deputy Commissioner should also make necessary arrangements with the concerned puja committees to ensure that immersion of the idols is suitably staggered so as to avoid congestion and large gatherings at the immersion sites, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
09-10-2020||North East||Nagaland government calls meeting on peace talks||The Nagaland government on Wednesday convened a consultative meeting on the ongoing peace talks to resolve the Naga political problem on October 15 because it “feels” that the issue needs to be “addressed with utmost” urgency and seriousness by all sections in order to facilitate an early solution. The move comes within two days of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) releasing a letter written by its general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah to the Prime Minister on February 25 where he said that after 22 years of political dialogue between the government and the outfit, a “serious deadlock” has emerged on the issues of Naga “national flag” and “constitution”. The NSCN (I-M) on Wednesday said it has made its stand “very loud and clear” during the talks that there “is no way forward” without finalising these two issues. The peace process to end the longest armed resistance in Southeast Asia started with the ceasefire with the outfit in 1997. A Framework Agreement was signed between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) on August 3, 2015, based on which the final solution is being worked out. The state government said on Wednesday that it wanted all stakeholders to “come” forward and participate in the consultative meeting to be held at the State Banquet Hall, chief minister’s residential complex in Kohima from 10am. “All tribal hohos, mass-based organisations, civil societies, church organisations, political parties, NGOs, prominent persons, etc. are being invited to discuss the most important issue that our society is presently faced with. The state government is of the view that ceasefire and negotiations between the Naga political organisations and the government of India has been going on for more than two decades and the Naga people have been crying out for peace and political solution,” it said. On Wednesday, the outfit said, “What is there for the Naga people to gain out of Naga deal if we are to lose our political identity that is identified by flag and constitution? This is the question that is now playing into the conscience of the Naga people at large.” Significantly, talks on Naga “flag” and “constitution” are going on with the government of India with all seriousness, the statement said. The Centre, according to reports, had “fixed” September to wrap up talks and announce a final deal. However, like last year’s October deadline, this one too did not materialise because the NSCN (I-M) stuck to its stand of a separate flag and constitution. Muivah’s February letter assumes significance because he has spoken about resuming talks at the Prime Minister’s level, without any precondition and in a third country because of the prevailing circumstances. He also highlighted the “divisive” role of the Centre’s interlocutor for the peace talks and Nagaland governor, R.N. Ravi. “And if our stay in India is no more welcome, all necessary arrangement must be made for us to leave India and the political talks be resumed in a third country,” Muivah’s letter said. Muivah is the “ato kilonser” (prime minister) of the “Government of the People’s Republic of Nagalim (GPRN)”, a “parallel” government run by NSCN (I-M).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
09-10-2020||Opinion||Space issues: Legitimacy of protests||Dissent shares an umbilical cord with democracy. But there is also the need to allocate designated sites for protest in a democracy. This seems to be the gist of the observations made by the Supreme Court in its response to a bunch of petitions that had sought the discontinuation of the Shaheen Bagh protest because the participants and the police had ended up blocking an important thoroughfare inconveniencing commuters for months. Several opinions expressed by the apex court must be acknowledged in this instance. India’s highest court, once again, upheld the sanctity of public demonstration. This cannot be undermined at a time when New India has witnessed repeated instances of an elected regime attempting to stifle dissent either by force or — Shaheen Bagh and now Hathras are examples — through a sustained vilification campaign. The court’s emphasis on the right balance between public protest and public responsibilities is of considerable importance too. Protests that do not inconvenience public utilities — India has a culture of not-too-peaceful demonstrations even though Shaheen Bagh was a notable exception — may have the potential to mobilize greater support for the cause. Hearteningly, technology has not been held up as an alternative to public participation; the court said that while the digital medium functions as a force multiplier, it often ends up polarizing movements. It must also be admitted that the Supreme Court’s suggestion of the allocation of specific sites of protest is not without international precedent. ‘Free speech zones’ — a number of nations around the world have them — are designated sites of gathering and protest. The questions, however, concern such issues as practical implementation as well as the designs of the State. Would the Indian equivalent of a free speech zone be able to accommodate the sheer numbers that are often mobilized in support or in condemnation? What would prevent such designated areas to be transformed into sites of surveillance, the kind of monitoring that could lead to the persecution of dissenters, as has been the case with those who stood up to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act? Even though the court said that the mode of protest in colonial India cannot be compared with that of an independent democracy, could the confinement of protest to notified spaces be perceived as an infringement upon the Constitutional right to assemble peacefully? The relationship between rights and duties is far from simple. The resolution of such delicate dilemmas requires continuous engagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
09-10-2020||Opinion||Twisted plot: Conspiracy and the Hathras case||There it is — the ‘foreign hand’. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister has ordered an investigation into what he says is an international plot by groups and individuals overseas to create caste-based conflict in his state. This is the most imaginative defence to have been thought up to discredit the countrywide protests against administrative and police actions to suppress the realities of the alleged gang rape of a Dalit girl in Hathras by upper-caste men and her subsequent death. International conspiracy is an idea for a possible chorus that can be taken up by the Bharatiya Janata Party cadre and repeated ad nauseam in the hope that it can replace facts. Simultaneously, first information reports against protesters and an online site carrying information about protests are being lodged, on charges ranging from sedition and inciting conflict between groups to forgery and cheating as well as unlawful assembly, with arrests in some instances. Evidently, ‘anti-national’ elements, funded by foreigners, and the Opposition are going all out to hurt the image of the Yogi Adityanath government supposedly reputed for its excellent law and order. That is, the protests are contrived and motivated. Apart from alleged efforts of the authorities to undermine the accusation of rape and the veracity of the family’s accounts, blocking Opposition leaders and members of the media from reaching the girl’s village, too, continued for days. But this showed up the rather low-key responses of the chiefs of the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Samajwadi Party to the violence and the attempts to suppress what is being seen as a lethal upper-caste atrocity on a Dalit girl. Although Mayawati heads a Dalit-based party, all she could say was that the UP government should concentrate on ensuring justice for the Dalit family and could rectify its mistake, while rebuking the government for its silence after the family complained of threats by the district magistrate. The former firebrand leader of the party for social justice, Mulayam Singh Yadav, was silent; his son and present leader, Akhilesh Yadav, condemned the erasure of evidence by the cremation of the girl by the police and criticized the government for stopping his party workers from reaching the village. Since both leaders are on their own turf in the state, this is both disheartening and politically enigmatic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
09-10-2020||Opinion||New Discourse: Theory and praxis||In an interview before his death, Eduardo Galeano, one of Latin America’s foremost voices, had said, “Based on what I have experienced in my life, I have the impression that we make the history that makes us.” On one end is the humanist vision that considers history to be the result of the struggles for liberty and justice. And on the other is the anti-humanist school that regards individuals as a product of history and freedom to be a mere illusion. Liberal intellectuals belonging to the humanist school have, over time, encouraged the academic world to engage critically and articulate their opposition to any conformist control especially when authoritarianism and intellectual vacuity rage across the globe. The conflict has always been between a university becoming a seat of diversity and a seat of indoctrination. Freedom and restraint are the opposite poles of deciding the limits that a university could go to in expressing contentious views. Hannah Arendt’s views on the hegemony of the State with stiff control over thought and action can be applied to universities that retreat into silent acquiescence, discouraging diversity. Familiarity with the lectures and writings of public intellectuals like Noam Chomsky, Edward Said or Terry Eagleton is a rigorous training in the multiplicity of opinions from a left libertarian point of view. This has inspired teachers and students to stand up against forces that undermine the progressive functions of a university. As advocates of emancipatory reason, of a rationalist analysis of the world, these public intellectuals validate a commitment to human freedom, inspiring young academics to regard the classroom as an arena of political interest and bold intervention. Probing deep into history and culture, they have bequeathed on the university culture the intellectual requisite of free and frank dialogue with the spotlight on public responsibilities. This has consolidated a culture of distrust for any imposition of restraining powers on the university.For justice Generations of teachers and students have approved of the intensity and the social commitment inherent in the intellectual legacies of philosopher-teachers like Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Theodor Adorno and Walter Benjamin. Their endorsement of the exchange of ideas and their willingness to reflect on the opposing point of view had a profound impact on the meaning of human emancipation. They realized that the conscience was the most reliable instrument of inquiry. For these philosopher-teachers, the borders between political beliefs and existence, pedagogy and civic obligation, were blurry. An unwavering concern for social justice and the lending of a voice to the deprived became the raison d’être of their political philosophy. Boisterous and freewheeling teaching and research, exploration of the unconventional and the unexpected, and always holding orthodox assumptions to critical scrutiny became the guiding principles of a free mind. The acceptance of alternative discourse and engaging in debates on the basis of rationality imbued generations with an attitude that balanced tolerance with scepticism. With left politics having taken a beating and the far right in ascendance, the only hope now lies in redirecting cultural and political theory as well as the study of liberal arts towards active politics. Pedagogy, therefore, has to turn into a radical struggle, provoking the academic world. Arendt was correct to note, as she did in her reflections of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, that ‘the tide of history can shift radically and rapidly, once established hierarchies are disrupted by the broad-based delegitimization of prevailing power relations.’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
09-10-2020||Opinion||Democracy’s future||Whatever be the final outcome of the presidential elections in the United States of America, thinkers all over the world are seriously worried about the future of democracy, at least the kind of democracy that the world had dreamt of during the twentieth century. Similarly, there is anxiety whether human control over large social and political systems can be continued at all in view of the great advancement in artificial intelligence. Central to both these large questions is the question of how we grasp the mutual engagement of democracy and machine memory. Natural Memory, in order to be memory, first needs to predicate a notion of the past. One does not know if the limitless expanse and emptiness through which the process of the creation of the cosmos and the subsequent process of evolution of life have taken place can be invested with a time dimension. But having conceptualized Time and its segments, such as present and non-present time, Memory likes to make an engagement with the past its prerogative. Having come into existence, Memory asserts its identity by striving to infinitely extend the past backward to an ever-receding point of origin. This it does, as Memory is a generative process, much more than it is a process of merely collecting or recording of what is or was. The idea of an infinite past turns the ever-receding pastness into ‘Something’, a ‘That’ or an ‘It’ — an object of curiosity — although such a pastness is only a hypothesis. The indescribable ‘It’, without attributes and without any further past, is, then, imagined as power. In turn, it also begins to be seen as the source of all forms of power, spiritual or material, either in the order of god or in the order of government. For primitive human society, power emanated through the word of shamans, for it was the shaman alone who was believed to possess a superlative ability to remember all, something that the others did not have. In societies that accepted kingship as a valid form of power, the king was believed to have a kind of divine sanction to rule and to be the holder of the memory of the precise moment of the birth of this arrangement. The king’s subject people were not considered worthy of such a divinely sanctioned ability. The idea of democracy took birth in the desire to rebel against the idea of ‘That’, ‘It’, ‘the pastness beyond past’ — anything that was out of the reach of man’s rational abilities. Even though the specific historical particulars differ from nation to nation, the desire for accepting democracy as the form of government has a shared, universal narrative. It is a new social and political arrangement, which is bound to have an uneasy relationship with a mystified and deified past. Besides, the historical moment of arrival of democracy as an arrangement of power, which coincided with the birth of rationality as the foundation of science and modernity as an ecosystem of sensibility, places further stress on the uneasy relationship between Memory and Democracy. For many centuries in the past, Utopia was seen as the mythical future. In the era of democracy, the future ceases to be a mere myth and starts becoming the source of power, a function that Memory had performed in pre-democratic ages. It is difficult to say if the historical coincidence of the rise of rationality as the essence of knowledge and the rise of democracy as the essence of power-arrangement is reason enough to argue that the emergence of the technology-driven, non-natural memory is in any tangible way linked with democracy. Sigmund Freud’s analysis of dreams points to the working of suppressed Natural Memory as the mother of dreams. It is difficult to say if, in an analogous way, Artificial Memory, the AM or the memory chip, has an ability to spawn dreams of the future in the era of democracy. Artificial Memory is organized and systematic. Unlike Natural Memory, it does not predicate a past, and certainly not an interminable past. It does not mystify and deify that infinite past, which is essentially an idea. The AM is self-sure and does not require for its self-justification the idea of a creator — god — a long forgotten moment of its creation and a point of origin, albeit never to be fully known. The AM is itself its origin. It itself is god. Democracy, with its attendant mental ecology of modernity and its uneasy relation with the idea of the past, does not easily grasp how it can deal with Artificial Memory. While it requires the future as a myth, it does not know how it can generate that myth in the times of AM. That is going to be a long struggle and an entrenched debate that human societies will have to negotiate in the decades to come. Meanwhile, the AM, which by its very condition of being what it is, neither being able to generate myth nor being able to give birth to dreams, can only produce rumours, illusions, hypnotizing chimera or mesmerizing terror. Short of dreams — as distinct from rumours and illusions — for the future, the democratic order will continue to limp forward unless humans think seriously of the implications of the disjuncture between dreams and AM. At present, most governments in the world, including the government of India, are busy using AM to discipline, order and control citizens. In that process, they are facilitating the supremacy of the AM over democracy. It is, however, too late in history to think of knowledge and society without the presence — an overwhelming presence — of the AM. In the twenty-first century, democracy can redeem itself not by seeking to extern the grip of technology over psychology, not by calling to aid the ‘inner strength’ of democracy. That faded out a few decades ago not just in India but in most other countries. Democracy can, one hopes, redeem itself not by an obsolete mystification of History and Memory. It can be redeemed by grasping the absolute contradiction between Natural Memory and Artificial Memory. The party that is obsessively interested in making ‘past alone’ as the main plank of its politics is quite hopelessly out of tune with the historical shifts in the trajectory of Memory and its impact on the forms of government. Similarly, politics that is entirely technology-driven has a view of the future that can only hasten the decline of democracy. In the twenty-first century, pro-democratic politics will have to bring gods and robots face to face and confront one with the other in order to rebuild the future as a myth and invent an AM that is capable of having a sense of its past. They need to meet and transform themselves for the long life of democracy. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||State government sponsored Durga Puja in Seraikela||Preparations are afoot for the government-sponsored Durga Puja in Seraikela, in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, about 35 kms away from here. The grand puja, which is held as per the customs of the Seraikela royal family, will be organised in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines. Seraikela sub-divisional officer Ramkrishna Kumar held a meeting of the government Durga Puja Committee, instructing exactly how should the four-day-long festival should be observed keeping protocols in mind. Kumar, who also is the chairman of the committee, will offciate as the puja `karta', according to custom, and will participate in the rituals. The state government bears the complete exprenses of the puja, for which a separate budgetary allocation is made every year. Tapan Kumar Pattanayak, who is the conductor of the puja, said a four foot idol has been ordered in accordance with state government guidelines. "The puja will be held at a permanent structure at the Durga Temple, like every year.  No dhakis or loudspeakers will be present, and only seven people, including priests and the `karta' will be allowed at the venue," Pattanayak  told The Telegraph Online. He further informed that only five, instead of the usual nine young girls will be brought for Kumari Puja this year. Pattanayak also said that there will be no distribution of bhog  by the puja committee. The government puja committee functionary informed that last year's budget was Rs 1.09 lakh, but this year the budget will be confined to Rs 1 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three women and a man thrashed, paraded naked on suspicion of witchcraft in Garhwa||Three women and a man were allegedly stripped, paraded naked and thrashed by a mob of around 50 people who accused them of practising witchcraft, in Jharkhand's Garhwa district, police said on Friday. Two people have been arrested in connection with the incident that happened on Thursday night in Narayanpur village, while a search is on to nab the rest. "The shameful incident happened around 10 pm. Soon after receiving information, a team was sent to the village and it found that around 50 people were present at the spot. Two people were nabbed while the others fled," Garhwa Sadar's Subdivisional Police Officer Brahmin Tutti said. "The police first provided clothes to the women and the man, following which they brought the two accused – Ravi Kumar and Vasudev – to the Sadar police station," he said. The women and the man were stripped and thrashed after two daughters of one Bali Rajwar, a resident of the village, fell sick, police said. Rajwar's family members. along with Vikas Kumar Saw, Bablu Ram, Rajad Paswan, Ravi Kumar Ram and Raju Ram, among others, allegedly stripped the victims, thrashed them and then paraded them throughout the area, as per the case lodged by the police. Some villagers tried to intervene and stop the mob but they were verbally abused and threatened, police said. Narayanpur's ward councilor Sivasagar Das said that he also tried to pacify the mob but no one paid any heed to him. "We have information that around 50 people were involved in the incident and a search is on for them," said Rajiv Kumar, the inspector in-charge of the Sadar police station. "The culprits will not be spared under any circumstances. Those on the run will be arrested soon," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway kicks off Covid Jan Andolan||A campaign to ensure that railway employees and passengers comply with Covid-19 norms during the upcoming festive season was launched by South Eastern Railway on Friday. The railway zone’s employees in its Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions on Friday took a pledge to fight Covid-19 by following protocols, including wearing masks, washing hands frequently and maintaining safe distances, as part of the Jan Andolan. Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, general manager, South Eastern Railway, along with other senior officials and employees participated in the virtual oath-taking ceremony. “The objective of the campaign is to create consciousness among railway employees and passengers to combat Covid-19 and stay protected from the coronavirus,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Posters and banners have been displayed all over the railway zone to create awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour. A concerted action plan, with action items like an awareness drive to reach every railway official and passenger, putting up of banners and posters at prominent railway areas, frequent announcement about maintaining physical distancing, wearing face masks in public places, frequent washing of hands and use of sanitisers, will be undertaken as a part of the campaign. The other initiatives include deployment of Scouts and Guides to spread awareness and involvement of NGOs and other charitable organisations in the campaign which will continue for a month in four divisions of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Fodder scam: HC grants bail to Lalu||RJD chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is convicted in the Rs 970-crore fodder scam cases, was granted bail by Jharkhand High Court on Friday but the septuagenarian will not walk out of prison as yet. The court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh while hearing Lalu’s bail petition through videoconferencing allowed him bail in connection with a scam pertaining to the Chaibasa treasury. The scam in Chaibasa treasury involved misappropriation of Rs 33.67 crore towards purchase of fodder and medicines for cattle. However, Lalu will continue to serve jail term in relation to the Dumka treasury, in which he was awarded a 14-year jail term by a CBI court. In the Chaibasa case, he was sentenced to five years in jail while in the Deoghar treasury case, he got 3.5 years of imprisonment but had procured bail in 2013. He was convicted in a total of six cases related to the fodder scam involving misappropriation of public funds in various treasuries in undivided Bihar. Lalu’s counsel Kapil Sibal, the former Union minister and veteran Supreme Court advocate, during the hearing on Friday pleaded before the court that his client had already spent 30 months in custody, which is half the total sentence, and requested for bail citing his health. The court allowed the bail asking Lalu to deposit a fine of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of Rs 50,000 each. Lalu, who is in custody since January 2018, is currently undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Currently, he has been shifted to Kelly’s Bungalow, the RIMS director’s residence, over concerns of infection in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He was also made to undergo Covid-19 testing at least twice in the recent months after his helpers and security guards tested positive. Ahead of the upcoming Bihar elections, the three-time chief minister will be away from the political action on the ground but is learnt to be calling the shots and taking key decisions going by the number of ticket seekers rushing to Ranchi from Bihar ever since the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the polls. Recently, Jharkhand chief minister and JMM’s working president Hemant Soren too met Lalu at RIMS over a seat-sharing deal between the parties for the Bihar polls, which ultimately failed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Congress to field Rajendra Prasad’s son for Bermo bypolls||Late Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son, Kumar Jaimangal will be the grand old party’s candidate for Bermo, byelection for which is scheduled to be held, along with Dumka, on November 3. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The party’s state election committee after a meeting on October 7 had proposed a panel of names to central leadership. The central leadership has decided on Jaimangal.” He said the nominee would file nominations sometime next week. Congress’s ally, JMM will be contesting from Dumka, for which it had announced Basant Soren, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother, as candidate, last week. Basant will file his nomination on October 12. Opposition BJP is yet to name its candidates. Sources in the saffron camp said that the central leadership is expected to make formal announcement soon. “The central leadership is currently busy with Bihar assembly elections. It will announce names for the two bypolls here anytime now,” said a state BJP leader. Unlike last year’s Assembly elections, the BJP is upbeat after its decades-old ally, AJSU-P, extended support for the coming bypolls. For the ruling grand alliance of the JMM, Congress and RJD, the bypolls will be a litmus test of its popularity since it took charge. The Dumka Assembly seat fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren gave it up and retained Barhait. A byelection is necessary in Bermo since sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May. The JMM announced names of candidates for five seats it is contesting in Bihar. As per a party notification, Elizabeth Soren will fight from Chakai, Ajit Kumar from Jhaja, Anjela Hansda in Katoria, Fulmani Hembrom in Manihari and Ashok Kumar Hansda from Damdaha. After severing ties with the RJD in the context of Bihar elections on October 6, the JMM had announced that it would contest seven seats initially but take a call on more seats in a phased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hospital launches post-Covid care units in steel city||A leading heart hospital on the outskirts of the steel city has launched a post-Covid care clinic to look after patients who, even after recovering from the coronavirus-induced ailment, continue to experience health issues. Brahmananda Narayana Multispecialty Hospital (BNMH), located at Tamolia, will offer the services of specialists to treat patients who continue to suffer from breathing problems or heart and/or neurological problems. The OPD of the post-Covid care clinic would operate Monday to Saturday between 11am and 3pm at the hospital premises and on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between 5pm to 6pm at BNMH City Clinic at Sakchi. The hospital has also issued two numbers, 9708005111 and 9507202020, for appointments. A team of senior and experienced doctors, including physiotherapists, neurologist and general physicians would take care of patients at the post-Covid care centres. The pulmonology department at Brahmanand Narayana Multispeciality Hospital will help patients with respiratory problems like breathlessness on exertion, fatigue, chest tightness/ heaviness, altered sleep habit, loss of appetite, lung fibrosis and respiratory distress. Post-Covid patients with persisting psychological problems, heart issues, generalized weakness will be looked after by cardiologists, physiotherapists, nutritionists and counsellors. Facility director of BNMS Tapani Ghosh said, “The clinic will help reduce the health challenges faced by patients even after recovering from Covid-19 to enable them to recover fully. Patients who need more medical attention will be admitted to the non-Covid ward. Patients can also avail the services through video consultation.” Consultant pulmonologist Dr Jagdish Lohia said recovered patients often visited the hospital complaining of psycho-social stress along with respiratory problems, which they faced due to the re-emergence of flu-like symptoms. “Stigma is still associated with the Covid-19. Many patients again suffer from flu-like symptoms such as fever and cough. The doctors will also counsel such patients.” Brahmananda Narayana Multispecialty Hospital, a unit of renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty's Narayana Health, is a150-bed tertiary care hospital, established in 2008. It caters to patients from Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. Since last month, it has been treating Covid patients at its 20-bed Covid unit on its premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Citizens, notables ask CM to intervene, secure Swamy’s release||Rights activists, intellectuals and citizens, along with the Catholic Church,  came out in support of arrested social worker Stan Swamy on Friday and issued a statement condemning the “unilateral action” of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren, who has so far maintained a deafening silence on the issue, to intervene. Social worker and activist Swamy (82), known for his work for the uplift of tribals, was picked from his residence in Ranchi by NIA in a hush-hush operation for alleged links with Maoists allegedly involved in the violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune December 2017. The statement, endorsed by over 2,000 people from all walks of life, called Swamy’s arrest an unending witch-hunt against the voices of the poor and marginalised. The statement was released to the local media by Jharkhand Jan Adhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of various rights groups, during the day. In the evening, members of the group and citizens held a protest march at Albert Ekka Chowk to demand that the Centre immediately release Stan and close cases against him. Economist Jean Dreze was among the first to condemn the NIA’s high-handedness. “We strongly condemn the arrest of Stan Swamy by NIA in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case,” said the architect of the UPA’s flagship rural job scheme, MGNREGS. “He is a valued and public-spirited citizen and has been working for tribal rights since decades in Jharkhand. We are demanding, to both the state and central governments, to release him.” The state’s political establishment has been surprisingly silent on Swamy’s arrest. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who never loses an opportunity to champion state rights, had not spoken a word about Swamy’s arrest by a central agency, apparently without the knowledge of the state police. The Congress party, a partner in the JMM-led state government, had not issued a statement either. Jharkhand police spokesperson Suman Gupta refused to answer questions on the manner in which Swamy was picked up and whether the state police had been kept in the dark. “You must pose whatever questions you have to NIA and not to us. Since the case is their baby, Jharkhand police can’t give any answers,” he said. Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, issued a statement, appealing to citizens to stand by Swamy in his hour of need. He appealed to the authorities concerned to release the octogenarian immediately.  “We are distressed and troubled by the manner in which such an elderly person has been treated by NIA. A clarification from NIA would be greatly appreciated,” he said. The joint statement issued by the mahasabha noted that Swamy had cooperated with the investigating officers of the NIA when they questioned him at his residence in Bagaicha for over 15 hours on two occasions between 27-30 July and August 6). “Stan has consistently denied any link with extremist leftist forces or Maoists. He had also clearly told the NIA that some so-called extracts, apparently taken from his computer and shown to him by the NIA, were fake and fabricated and that he disowned them. It is deeply worrying that the NIA arrested an 84-year-old with several health ailments during the COVID epidemic and made him travel to Mumbai,” the Mahasabha statement said. It added, “We firmly believe that the Bhima-Koregaon case, being driven by the Modi government, is a baseless fabrication. The central government, in the guise of the Bhima Koregaon case, is trying to build a false narrative of a national Maoist conspiracy against the state that involves these activists. The main objective of the case is to target and harass activists who work for the rights of Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised… The Bhima Koregaon conspiracy case exposes the extent to which the central government is willing to undermine constitutional values and suppress dissent.” Activists also wondered why chief minister Hemant, who in January last year as an Opposition leader during the tenure of the BJP-led state government, had supported Stan, was silent now. Siraj Datta, a member of the mahasabha, questioned how NIA could forcefully pick up an elderly person without a formal warrant, and that too during a pandemic. “He has always cooperated with the investigators. The way he is being treated is inhuman and vindictive. It is beyond our understanding why the state government is silent,” he said. Vasavi Kiro of Indigenous Women India Network maintained that Swamy has been a vocal critic of the BJP government’s attempts to amend land laws, and that he had fought for the implementation of Forest Rights Act, PESA and related laws. “Swamy has been an honest and selfless person. We have the highest regard for his work,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||New rail link connecting Ranchi with Patna, with travel time cut by 2 hours||Work on the 200km Ranchi-Koderma rail stretch via Hazaribagh is running on a fast-track with railway officials confirming a New Year’s Day deadline when trains from the state capital can directly go to Patna, the capital of Bihar, cutting travel time by two hours. Officials said the foundation for this ambitious project was laid in 1999 by then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the initiative of MP Yashwant Sinha, a heavyweight leader and union minister at the time. The Hazaribagh-Koderma stretch was inaugurated by prime minister Narendra Modi on February 20, 2015. He later inaugurated the Barkakana-Hazaribagh link also. At present, the Ranchi-Patna journey takes 13 hours. The 200km-long Ranchi-Hazaribagh-Koderma stretch took 20 years to make, with a budget of Rs.3000 crore. Once completed, trains from Ranchi will not have to go through Bengal to reach Koderma from Bokaro, or Gomoh to reach Patna. They said 90 per cent of the work has been done and they are hopeful of completing the work by December. A senior railway officer said the route was in demand. Once started, it has the potential to become an important line due to its geographical importance. He didn't rule out the possibility of trains coming from Delhi and other places to use this link to go to Ranchi. He said the Koderma station was selected as a destination hub on this stretch. Perhaps the most interesting part of the journey between Ranchi and Ramgarh will be the thrill of three long tunnels amidst greenery and valleys. Two of these tunnels are of 600m long and third one is of 1080m. Goods trains can also take the new link to go to Odisha and other northern states. A railway officer said said last-minute work is going on between the Sanki and Tatisilwai stations. “After inauguration, it will become one of the busiest stretches,” he added. At present, many important trains from Ranchi are taking longer distance routes to reach Koderma via Bengal, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Betla National Park may open gates from October 15||After more than 200 days of shutdown, the Betla National Park of the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR) may open its gates on October 15, although only for tourists within Jharkhand. The park, which used to open on October 1 every year, has been delayed by two weeks due to the coronavirus pandemic. Tourists from other states will not be entertained this time. Deputy director north division of the PTR Kumar Ashish said they are gearing up for the reopening. “We are in touch with wildlife management officials and awaiting a no-objection certificate,” said Ashish, adding that they are hopeful for getting the NoC approved before October 15. With cinema halls opening doors, a national park like Betla will not create an issue, he said. The Kanha Sanctuary has been open to tourists since July. “Tourists from outside Jharkhand will not be entertained here as they do not fit the bill in these times of the pandemic. The mandatory quarantine provision is in practice,” Ashish said. Tourists will be allowed from the 24 districts of Jharkhand only. Even those from the bordering areas of Bengal, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhatisgarh will not be entertained. Sources said there used to be an acute crisis of accommodation for tourists in peak times during the festive season starting with Durga Puja, but with pandemic still raging, everyone in the PTR is waiting with fingers crossed for the inflow of tourists coming from within the state of Jharkhand. “There are around 27 rooms here in Betla including 5 new treehouses, so accommodation of tourists is not going to be a problem,” opined Ashish. He said there will be a 2-hour gap between check-out and check-in at the PTR’s lodgings to keep the rooms perfectly sanitized. The park will be open from sunrise to sunset. A tourist or a group of tourists will have to keep proof of identity without which they may be declared persona non grata, said park sources. There will be a guide assigned to every group, said Ashish. The guide will have to wear a mask, keep a hand sanitiser and maintain and be a proponent social distancing added Ashish. A family can tour the park, but for individual tourists, the upper limit is 4 in one vehicle besides the one guide, the deputy director clarified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||NIA picks up Stan Swamy from Ranchi in stealth operation ||A special NIA court in Mumbai remanded 82-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swamy to judicial custody till October 23 on Friday, a day after his arrest in connection with the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case. The social worker was arrested by the National Investigation Agency  from his Ranchi residence on Thursday evening. He was produced before the special court here on Friday. The court remanded him in judicial custody as the probe agency did not seek his remand. NIA arrested Swamy from his Ranchi home in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in December 2017. He was placed under arrest for his alleged links with the banned CPI(Maoist), NIA officials said. Swamy, who has been questioned twice earlier by Pune Police and the NIA, was taken from his Ranchi residence on Thursday in a cloak-and-dagger operation, leaving the local police and the administration in the dark. Swamy, known for his life-long work for the betterment of tribals, is the 16th person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. Rights activists from across the country have condemned his arrest. In Ranchi, activists are planning to hold a solidarity march later in the day to protest against his detention and the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand Government’s silence on the manner he was picked up. In a video posted hours before his arrest, Swamy said the NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days. "Now they want me to go to Mumbai, which I have said that I won't go," he said, citing the pandemic. The video, posted on YouTube, was recorded two days before his arrest. "I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused," he said. He added that he had asked for questioning through video conference and hoped that better "human sense" would prevail. "...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” Swamy said in the video. He said he was part of the process and, in a way, happy to be so because he was not a “silent spectator”. “I am ready to pay the price whatever be it," Swamy said. NIA officials claimed that investigations established he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with conspirators -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials claimed. They said literature, propaganda material of the CPI(Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad a day before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1200 recoveries against 784 new cases in a day in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 90,000 mark on Thursday after as many as 784 tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. However, the count of Covid recoveries in the state also jumped over 80,000, as over 1200 patients recovered from the infection. As per a daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), East Singhbhum reported a spike in the number of active cases after 233 fresh cases of infection surfaced in the district against 133 recoveries. The number of active cases, however, dropped below 3000 in Ranchi after the district reported 419 recoveries against 247 fresh cases. There were 9,272 active cases in Jharkhand by the time this report was filed. The Covid tally, as per government figures, was 90,486, while the number of recoveries stood at 80,439. As many as 1263 Covid patients recovered on Thursday. Meanwhile, eight more Covid patients including five in Ranchi died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 775. As per figures with NHM, as many as 140 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi so far. The district has reported 21,414 cases of infection till date, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum, which accounts for 313 of the 775 Covid deaths, did not report any casualty on the day. Ramgarh, Palamu and Bokaro districts reported one Covid casualty each on Thursday. The government has so far collected swab samples of 25.43 lakh people in Jharkhand and 25.38 lakh of them tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, health workers collected swab samples of 30,047, and as many as 32,092 including samples collected earlier, were tested on the day. The bulletin also marked Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate at 88.89 per cent against the national average of 85.30 per cent. As per the bulletin, the doubling rate of Covid-19 in the state was 68.23 days against the national doubling rate of 57.95 days. In the past one week, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 1.01 per cent against the national average of 1.17 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Camps for ration cards in Ranchi||Ranchi district administration will organise 33 special ration card application camps in the city on Friday for facilitating inclusion of downtrodden people under the Jharkhand state food security scheme (JSFSS). The move comes in response to the request from civil society organisations. The camps will be held in slums and areas having concentration of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, extremely backward classes, single women, beggars and disabled persons. The state government had earlier declared that it would issue 15 lakh new “green” ration cards to eligible persons for bringing then under JSFSS that would enable them to receive 5 kg of foodgrains per person per month at Re 1 per kg through public distribution system (PDS). A three-member delegation of the state units of Right to Food Campaign and All India People’s Forum, led by economist Jean Dreze, had met Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan on October 5 and requested him to hold such special camps as many eligible people were “likely to be unable to apply without assistance”. Many of those eligible people also did not have Aadhaar, bank account or mobile numbers and even birth or caste certificates required for applying online, the delegation had pointed out. Accordingly, the DC organised those special camps and deputed officials who would receive applications from such people, both online and offline. They would also receive applications from them for issuing birth, caste, residential, disability and income certificates. But the order of the DC’s office did not mention if the applications from those without Aadhaar number would also be accepted. “The district supply officer told us that they would accept application offline even from such applicants without having Aadhaar numbers,” said Swati Narayan of Right to Food Campaign, adding such applicants will have to apply for Aadhaar number so that they get the numbers before verification of application process began. They had also requested the DC to hold special Aadhaar enrolment camps in slum areas where officials with iris scanners can be deputed for the purpose, she further told, adding they would request the DC once again. “Aadhaar number is a big issue that has to be resolved,” said Siraj Dutta of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a joint forum of many activists and organisations. There are many at Malhar Kocha basti near Mousi Bari who do not have Aadhaar numbers and could not even get those because they don't have any paper to prove their dates of birth either, he added. “If the government is serious to provide subsidised foodgrains which these people actually deserve, it must do something to solve this Aadhaar issue,” Dutta further said, adding both the JMM and the Congress promised it in their manifestos before the Assembly elections. While the JMM had said Aadhaar would not be made mandatory for getting ration, the Congress made it clear that no one would be deprived from government benefits like PDS for want of Aadhaar, he reminded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar police officer carries injured man for over 600 metres||Rajiv Kumar, a police officer in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district, carried an injured man on his shoulder for over 600 metres so that he could be put in a jeep and rushed to a health centre on Wednesday morning. Deoghar SP Ashwini Kumar Sinha has praised the officer’s effort and decided to recommend his name to the DGP for an award. Rajiv Kumar, 42, the Rikia police station officer in charge, did not read much into the incident. He said he had responded to a distress call arising from an electrocution in a lane in which a person died. “When I reached the spot, I saw another man writhing in pain with his wife begging to take him for treatment…. I learnt he was also engaged in painting and had fallen from the second floor due to impact of the shock while the body of the other worker (Ravindra Das) was still dangling in the wires. No ambulance could reach the spot. He said: “On the spur of the moment, I picked up the injured man and ran to my jeep which was nearly 600 metres from the site. I felt relieved on Thursday morning when I came to know that man (40-year-old Basuki Das) is stable and would be discharged soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two minor girls found hanging from tree||Two minor girls were found hanging from a tree in a cashew jungle in East Singhbhum's Ghatshila on Wednesday evening.They were 16 and 12 years old. The girls had come out of their houses in Ghagra village on Monday afternoon for cutting grass, but did not return home.Their family members started a search operation in the adjoining areas and had on Tuesday lodged a missing person report with the Barsole thana. On Wednesday evening, both of them were found hanging from the tree, about 500 metres away from the Ghaghra village and about 12 kms away from the Bengal border. The OC of Barsole thana, Jyotilal Rajwar, confirmed the recoveries of two bodies from a tree, but did not give a reason behind their hanging, claiming they are investigating the matter. The senior SP on Thursday evening said they are probing case and said whether it is a case of suicide or murder can be established only after the autopsy report comes. "As the bereaved family members are not able to give any clue to the circumstances leading to the death of the two girls under mysterious conditions, we have to carry out an investigation by talking to the people residing in the Ghaghra village.  We are also depending on the autopsy reports which will unfold the mystery behind the deaths of the minor girls," said the police officer. Relatives of a woman who died at a private nursing home in Koderma on Thursday afternoon blocked the Ranchi-Patna highway alleging doctor's negligience that led to her death. Reena Devi, 22, of Baridih village in Barkatha of Hazaribagh was admitted to Parvati nursing home in Telaiya town and underwent C-section to give birth to twins. After the operation, her condition turned critcal as her haemoglobin went down. Doctors asked relatives to arrange blood for her but she soon died. The relatives said doctors didn't provide the required treatment on time resulting in her death. They went on rampage at the nursing home, from damaging furniture to doors. The state government has decided to take action against Koderma district education officer Alka Jaiswal for going on leave without taking permission from her senior authorities. Alka's responsibilities have been transferred to regional education officer of north Chotanagpur Mithilesh Kumar Sinha. According to Jaiswal's close aides, she was unhappy to take charge of district superintendent of education after anomalies found in recruitment of primary teachers. She went on an indefinite leave as a mark of protest. A senior officer said what Jaiswal did was gross indiscipline and she will have to face stern action. He said instead of going on leave without prior permission, she should have conveyed her problems to department. He said soon someone will also get the charge of deputy superintendent of education as well. Training and Placement Cell of BIT Sindri on Thursday organised a Webinar on 'Right Way to connect to your Alumni & Role of BIT SAA Jamshedpur Chapter' which focused on preparing the students to connect with the esteemed Alumnus of the institute spread across the world. Senior  Manager of Tata Steel, Pawan Ojha addressing over 100 participating students of BIT Sindri threw light on the significance of alumnus  for  institute  development. Ojha exhorted students to develop other qualities along with academics and techical knowledge. He talked about giving a new dimension to his program "Beti Padhao",as per which meritorious students get a chance for training and mentorship. More than 50 Jharia residents led by former councilor of ward Number 37 Anup Sao on Thursday staged a demonstration at Bata More in Dhanbad to protest against the irregular water supply due to the malfunctioning motors of Civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority at Jamadoba based Water Treatment Plant. Sao claimed that five lakh Jharia residents are facing water crisis for the last couple of years due to technical snags in the motors and repeated leakages taking place in the water supply pipelines but no body seems to be bothered about finding a permanent solution to the problem by changing the old motors with new one. A total of 64 patients were discharged on Thursday from different Covid treatment facilities of Dhanbad including 22 from Government Polytechnic Nirsa, 21 from PMCH Cath lab and nine from Sadar Hospital and six each from Regional Hospital of BCCL in Bhuli and SSLNT women's hospital of Dhanbad. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said the discharged patients have been provided medical kits and will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
